- Why settle for just two dimensions? Yeah! When you can have three. A decade ago, the marketing machine behind 3D TV was so strong that even we got caught up in the hype. But after all those years not to mention the millions and millions of dollars spent promoting 3D as seems like no one cares anymore. To the point where if you blinked and missed the craze entirely, you might have never Are you missing out? Did 3D TVs really deserve to die or were they simply by an uncaring industry that's always chasing To imagine what could have been, we tracked down two of the on our staff of highly Was it cool or does the third D stand for &quot;disappointment?&quot; What's never disappointing Are you overdue for a GPU upgrade? Well, it's a great time to purchase an AMD Radeon RX 6,000 series GPU. And you can get the inside from AMD and their partners (bright upbeat music) In the late 2000, 3D was picking up steam again as a cool new innovation, but it's actually really, really old tech. Way back in 1832. Yes, 190 years ago, Sir Charles Wheatstone which used a pair of mirrors taken from two slightly to create the illusion of depth. You might remember these and you've almost certainly Well both of them use but it's a bit of a lonely When the motion picture was created people were eager to try and blend the popular and view masters with movies These iconic red and cyan glasses have become the defacto symbol of 3D, but while they were super Wowsers they significantly degraded the experience of your new fangled technic color movies. Of course, we've come and thanks to light by Polaroid that allowed and full color 3D films would surge back at least three more times. First in the 1950s, &quot;golden age,&quot; again in the '80s. - [Announcer] Jaws 3-D, the - And finally in the 2010s spurred on by your favorite big blue aliens. No, not those ones. These ones. The difference they you could bring the Jake, get over here. - Oh yeah. - I expected an action but that's pretty good. No, oh God! With no obvious downsides then, 3D was suddenly thrust back into nearly every form of entertainment that could fit a 3rd D but how did they bring it to the home where previous attempts failed? To understand Home 3D, we need to first understand commercial 3D. The most common of which is the real D, 3D found in theaters. It works by projecting the image through a polarizing lens that actually alters its in step with 144 frames But wait a second, 144 frames per second. I thought movies are at 24 FPS. Well they are, but for starters, each of your eyes is gonna need so there's 48 frames right there and at that frame rate flicker from the polarization So to create a smoother experience, each frame actually gets shown three times for a shorter period. Each of your eyes gets covered which filters out every other frame giving you that 3D experience. In the home, by contrast though, the two steps of polarizing the light and filtering it out were split resulting in two main active and passive. Representing these two, that we're gonna look at today. First of which is a Sony This is not to be confused This is our active 3D TV. It's 24 inches, 1080p and but that does not mean that content. It was a whole advertising It should be noted that in 3D, it was only able to do 120 Our second representing passive 3D is the LG signature G6 OLED from 2016. This is one of the last and arguably the best 3D TVs made before all manufacturing of 3D It's 65 inches, 4k. It cost a whopping $8,000 and it's HDR peak brightness So it only kind of supports kind of supports HDR. Get subscribed by the way. So you don't miss our Because it uses passive 3D, it comes with some huge advantages. Before we take a look at the king though, let's talk about the peasant. I'm just gonna get all scooch back here. - Oh my God! Oh, move your hand. Is that not immediate? Oh, don't look at the lights. Use your other stick. - I don't even know how to fire. - Use your other stick. - Oh, the stick fires. - This doesn't seem like a game where the 3D really does a whole lot. - I mean, it's cool. - What's better about - Oh, we're gonna talk about that boys. Actually, I guess now's to say that early on, pretty much all 3D TVs used which helped reduce cost and complexity but unfortunately relied on which brought both cost and complexity back into the picture. Like the polarizing lenses built into the movie theater projector, these glasses are powered and of crystals that can rotate is sent through them. When those crystals rotate, from one of your eyes. So if you sync this up with that alternates between the views that you're supposed to see, the left and right image, voila! the brain does its magic, Oh the script says before I try it I gotta gamer up with my WAN hoodie, but I guess we've already - Ittstore.com. - Yeah exactly right. - When the game starts, it - Okay, ah, man, so you keep &quot;Wow this is a perfect time to transition into the next scripted bit.&quot; Fine, let's just do it. (chuckling) The issues with these passive displays and active shatter glasses are many. First up, the powered thus needing to be recharged. They can also suffer from if you block the sync transmitter, that's either on the display or as a separate piece of hardware. And many users complained especially if there's any - Oh, don't look at the lights. - Finally, of course they're expensive. Displays that relied on for their 3D effect would sometimes come with a pair or maybe but if you wanted any more than that, they would run you anywhere Not that you were likely the impressive library for the PlayStation three pales in comparison to its overall library. And notably includes very In a nutshell, PlayStation and cons as in videos High cost, limited game support, reduced image brightness that simply wasn't fast enough to fully separate the stereo images, which led to a lot of as frequent user headaches. Options, oh, this is so cool. - Yeah, I'm gonna try it now? - SimulView. Here we go. - Man you lose so much - They literally block half the light half the time. and then lift the glasses up. - Oh, one other issue is to working in 3D meaning like the subtitles in would appear at a different depth than where you normally had to look. So you had to refocus and then look back. So if you blinked, you could Of course the killer feature in my mind when I heard about the wasn't necessarily stereoscopic gaming, but SimulView. SimulView promised to without splitting the screen. So each Jake and I could being output to see our - Really? - Yeah. I could see that being watch different content from your spouse when you're sitting on the same couch. - Okay, that's exactly One of the most-- - Things I was most excited for was like the kids are with their headphones in. The wife and I are on the same TV. - Yeah, that'd be pretty cool. - Family time, right? - Instead you gotta buy multiple TVs. - Yeah, it's stupid. - Are we playing at the - I think so. - Oh my God we are. - This is so cool though. I never got to try it. I never had a PlayStation and only a handful of but I heard about this and I was like, &quot;Wow how amazing would that be, right?&quot; Like something like Mario Cart? - Yeah. - If you could just fricking display, that'd be amazing. - My head is pounding now. - It's very obvious, right? That the polarization filter isn't perfect and the pixels don't switch fast enough with LCD to completely of the other image. So it can be very unpleasant Because of the hard to ignore downsides of active 3D glasses, this tech ended up pretty So then how does the To find out, we're gonna have and a few price brackets to Holy (beep), if I just close my right eye and Jake closes his - It still works. - The first advantage of passive 3D TVs- - [David] Hold on. - Is that they can be more easily enjoyed with the whole family thanks How cheap you might ask? Well free. If you're willing to be creative this is a pair that from the movie theater We're supposed to try but Jake already got ahead and tried just closing one eye to see half of our kill zone game. And it's like, how well does - Yeah, way better. The brightness isn't crazy, but I can screen peek so easy. - Well, it's cool up. - So wait, we can show Oh, Linus, this looks so cool. - [Linus] I know it does. Here's the thing Jake, I was a 3D nerd but- - Yeah, the problem is that gave me just a splitting headache. Like I wanted to love it- - And the passive stuff, well, it never really got - Yeah. - This came out like in the and this TV was its last spasm and it finally got not good, but great. Okay, here we go. You ready? - [Jake] This doesn't look that 3D to me. - [Linus] I can't tell. - [Jake] I mean, it does kind of look 3D. - [Linus] There's definitely but I don't think that I would call this a very satisfying experience. - Well, we have blue lights. - Yeah, but I really that I think is actually gonna look good and Titanic definitely won't. &quot;Independent Day Resurgence?&quot; I mean, I don't think that Hey roasted, can we and just plug it into the TV? - Oh my God maybe. - That's a thing. That might be a thing Jake. We gave up on trying to play 3D files. We are on our Titanic. Blueray with our Panasonic and we're ready now, right? - Yeah, well- Well wait, is it my control or the- - Yeah, press 3D. Oh wow. - I don't know if this is the movie I would go watch in 3D, like, oh wow the people are coming. They pop out of the corner. - Yeah, this pen's coming right out, wow. - This guy's really in front. - Very 3D. - Like obnoxiously 3D. - And the brightness We've got some better of the actual 3Dness of the content. But in terms of how the TV isn't that amazing? Passive TVs are able to achieve and I mean, it doesn't - No, I don't have a headache. I mean I do have a headache but that's the same headache. - The way that they do this vertically is actually coming right outta the TV. And you can actually see it and you hold it right up to your content. Now on a regular 10 ADP display that would be a bit of a problem because you'd be giving up half of your vertical resolution But because this one is 4k, in the TV itself. So we are getting the full because we have double the resolution. That's part of what makes this TV-- frame smushing or something like that. - What interlacing? - No, no, no. There's term. kind of like an interlaced video frame except that instead of with half of it being shown alternately, we've actually got two full frames, one for each eye utilizing Come try it, David. - [David] Sure. - This is an absolutely - Ah, well why don't we try a movie that might actually use 3D better? - Yeah, &quot;Ocean Predators.&quot; - Oh, there we go. - Hey-- That looks awful. Wow. If you move around, - I'm actually kind of surprised at how well it works from I wanna, let's do an animated one. You figured out a way to play one of the animated ones right? - Oh, I figured out how to play &quot;Doom.&quot; - I don't wanna watch &quot;Avatar,&quot; I wanna watch something - [Jake] &quot;Boss, Baby.&quot; - Hi there. This is a bit of a long shot. Do you guys have any 3D Blueray in stock? You have a huge selection, Found it in the clearance section. It's very popular, 3D blue. - They definitely got some - Yeah, whoa, &quot;Toy Story?' - Yeah, that'd be cool. - [Linus] Oh, this is not 3D. Oh, 3D version included. - Okay but let's pick So I got- (cross talking) - Cloudy with a Chance Meatballs. We got some &quot;Finding Nemo.&quot; - $14, okay. I'm actually excited about this. - &quot;Shrek,&quot; that's what it takes them. - We all saw that I'm buying So I'm using the work card and they're staying at work. It's business - Are you ready? - I'm ready. - You're ready to get Shreked. - [Linus] Okay. - Wow, this is actually- - [Linus] This is awesome! - [Jake] Wow, though, the This is the first one so far that I've been like this actually like kind of adds something. - The thing is when you've and you're trying to focus is a nightmare, right? Because you can only have one and when you're watching it back then if you look and focus your eyes at a closer or a farther away object, it's out of focus. So you're focused on a blurry object. It just doesn't work. - There's still some weirdness like when somebody runs into the frame, it's kind of like jittery. - Yes, man now I want a 3D - Goddammit, man this There's like propaganda before it too. - Woo, here we go. Interesting, they didn't try - Yeah, like in that scene it - Yeah. - I feel like because it kind of masks the 3Dness, like in other content, when there's big color changes between what's in the foreground and what's in the background. This is just whoa. That where buddy was like below the playing field was pretty cool. (bright upbeat music) - Okay- - Switch it to 2D for a second, I wanna see what the difference is like. - Sure. - Oh yeah that's (laughing) - At some point it should be noted that even with a 4k display, you could still be limited to a vertical resolution of 540 lines. Why? It often came down to bandwidth while blue rays could or a resolution that for broadcasters that any push for home 3D would've been dead on arrival. So most 3D is actually at half resolution and then in a single 1920 by 1080 frame. The two main ways they do this are side by side or top bottom, where you either lose half or half of the vertical The image gets sent to the and displayed as a single It's kind of like when but instead of interlacing it's actually from two separate frames that are destined to go truthfully on a quality it still looks pretty good. So why didn't 3D stick around this time? 3D was and continues to be and really easy to mess up. So even with that additional cost, it would often end up looking cheap. Adding insult to injury, the content was expensive to distribute less comfortable for audiences. - (laughs) You can say that again. - And all of this at a higher price. Glasses list 3D displays addressed some of these problems, games and animated films use virtual rather than physical cameras and are therefore much But as 3DS users can attest, they have their own drawbacks and even crummier viewing angles. With all these problems in mind, it's no surprise that by 2016, just six years after being production of 3D TVs by 4k Blueray doesn't support 3D at all, nor do any modern consoles. And as far as we know there are no 3D TV making it effectively dead. There are still niche pockets to my knowledge NVIDIA's can still play old stereo 3D games. And the latest is from, I think 2020. Voodoo apparently still supports 3D and these current model still include robust 3D of 3D blue rays that are But due to the complexity of shooting live action films in 3D many of them have 3D implemented in a way that's just kind of cheap and gimmicky looking So it's in the script. I doubt they sell very well but we know that for a fact, based on having actually I don't know, maybe the new Avatar is gonna kickstart another 3D Renaissance. - I don't know. - They have a kid now and there's water, seems compelling enough to spend 13 years of your life working on, right? - Or maybe you, we can - Right? Or maybe you could be on our sponsor. - Jackery. Jackery makes solar ready designed to improve life on the go by providing that sweet whenever and wherever you need it. Their Explorer 1500 portable power station has enough juice to keep like Jack rabbits. It's huge 1500 watt hour capacity allows up to seven devices to And it only takes four hours So you can keep living large off the grid. So check out the Explorer and get 10% off with - If you like this video, on the looking glass holographic monitor. Another attempt at making but one that actually could