- [Announcer] This program is presented by University of California Television. Like what you learn? Visit our website, or follow us on Facebook and Twitter to keep up with the latest UCTV programs. (upbeat techno music) - I'm going to tell you, tonight, a story. And this story dates back about 30 years. This story has a little bit It has a little bit of biochemistry, a little bit of clinical research, a little bit of public health, a little bit of politics, a The only thing it's missing is sex. (audience laughs) But, well, we can see what By the end of the story I hope I will have debunked the last 30 years of nutrition information in America. And I would very much appreciate it if at the end of the whether or not I was successful or not. Okay? So, in order to get you in the mood, as it were, let's start What do the Atkins Diet and the Japanese Diet have in common? Anybody? Hm? Oh, you have the answers That's right, you have So the Atkins diet, of The Japanese diet's all carb, not fat. They both work, right? So what do they share in common? They both eliminate the sugar, fructose. So, with that, think about and what macro-nutrients you're eating and which ones your not. And then we'll go from there, and I'll try to explain how this all works. So, you've all heard about Here are the numbers. These are the NHANES Everybody knows what that is now. Histograms marching ever This was what was We had so far exceeded and surpassed, this is not even funny. This was from 2003. The reason I show this is not just to show that the obese are getting obeser, of course, that's true, but in fact the entire curve has shifted. We all weigh 25 pounds more today than we did 25 years ago, all of us. Now, it is often said that obesity is the ultimate interaction between genetics and environment. And Doctor Christian Vaisse, who's sitting in the back of the room, will be talking to you next week about which I am also very interested in. But, having said that, our genetic pool did not change in the last 30 years, but, boy oh boy, has our So, tonight, we're gonna talk about the environment rather than genes. Now, in order to talk we need to talk about what is obesity. And, of course, you're all familiar with the basic concept with the which states that the total energy inside a closed system remains constant. Now, in human terms, the of this law is the following. If you eat it, you better burn Now, who here believes that? Oh, come on, you all do. (audience laughs) I used to believe that. I don't anymore. I think that's a mistake. I think that is the biggest mistake. And that is the phenomenon over the course over the next hour. Because I think there's which is much more relevant, Before I get there, of these are the two problems, Two behaviors, gluttony and sloth. After all, you see anybody on the street, &quot;Oh, he's a gluttonous sloth, Tommy Thompson said it on the TV show. &quot;We just eat too damn much.&quot; Well, you know, if that were the case, how did the Japanese do this? Why are they doing bariatric surgery on children at Tokyo Why are the Chinese, why are the Koreans, why are the Australians? I mean, all these countries all suffer now from the same problem. And we're gonna get even There's another way to And that is, if you're gonna store it, that is biochemical forces and we'll talk about what and you expect to burn it, that is normal energy expenditure for Because energy expenditure are the same thing. Things that make your make you feel good. Like ephedrine, it's off the market, coffee for two yours, then Things that make your like starvation, hypothyroidism, And how many calories you burn and how good you feel are synonymous. So, if you're gonna store it, that is an obligate weight gain set up by a biochemical process, and you expect to burn it, that is normal energy expenditure for then you're gonna have to eat it. And now, all of the sudden, the gluttony and the sloth, to a biochemical process, And it's a different way And it also alleviates the obese person from being the perpetrator, Which is how obese people really feel. 'Cause no one chooses to be obese. Certainly, no child chooses to be obese. Oh, you say, &quot;Oh, yeah, sure, &quot;I know some adults who don't care.&quot; You know, Rossini, the famous composer, you know La gazza ladra, He retired at age 37 to a lifetime of gastronomic debauchery. Maybe he chose to be obese. But the kids I take care do not choose to be obese. In fact, this is the exception We have an epidemic of Now, if you wanna say that it's all about diet and exercise, then you So, any hypothesis that you wanna proffer that explains the obesity epidemic, you've got to explain this one too. And this is not just in America, these six month old obese kids, but these are around the world now. So, open your minds?, and let's go and figure out what the real story is. Let's talk about calorie intake, because that's what today is about. We're gonna talk about the energy intake side of the equation. Sure enough, we are all eating more now than we did 20 year ago. Teen boys are eating 275 calories more. American adult males are eating American adult females are No question, we're all eating more. Question is why, how come? 'Cause it's all there? You know what, it was there before. We're all eating more, there's a system in our body, which you've heard about over the last couple Everybody heard of leptin? It's this hormone that tells your brain, &quot;You &quot;I don't need to eat anymore. &quot;I'm done, and I can Well, you know what? If you're eating 187 or than you were 20 years ago, 'Cause if it were, you Whether the food was there or not. So, there's something wrong with our biochemical negative feedback system that normally controls energy balance. And we have to figure out what caused it, and how to reverse it. And that's what tonight is about. But, nonetheless, there are 275 calories we have to account for. So where are they? Are they in the fat? No, they're not in the fat. Five grams, 45 calories In fact, it's all in the carbohydrates. 57 grams 228 calories. We're all eating more carbohydrate. Now, you all know, back int 1982, The American Heart Association, The American Medical Association, and the US Department of Agriculture admonished us to reduce our total fat consumption from 40% to 30%. Everybody remember that? That how Entenmann's fat Remember that? So what happened? We did it, we've done it. 40% down to 30%, and look what's happened to the obesity, metabolic syndrome, non-alcoholic fatty liver stroke prevalence, all jacked way up, as our total fat consumption It ain't the fat, So what is it? Well, it's the carbohydrate. Specifically, which carbohydrate? Well, beverage intake, right? 41% increase in soft drinks, fruitades, whatever you wanna call them. Just remember, down here, one can of soda a day, is 150 calories. Multiply that by 365 days a year, and then divide that by the magic number of 3500 calories per pound, if you eat or drink 3500 calories more than you burn, you That's the first law of That's worth 15 1/2 One soda a day is 15 1/2 pounds per year. Now, you've all heard that before. That's not news to you. The question is how come we don't respond? How come leptin doesn't work? How come we can't stay energy stable. That's what we're gonna get to. So, I call this slide, very specifically, the Coca Cola Conspiracy. Anybody here work for Coke, Pepsi? Okay, good. All right, so, this over here, 1915, the first standardized bottle Anybody remember this bottle? Sure, a lot of you do. I remember this bottle, in Brooklyn, took me on Saturday afternoon down to the local soda shop and every Saturday afternoon I remember it very well. Now, if you drank one of those every day, assuming of course that 'cause after all, only know the recipe, and they're not allowed to fly on the plane at the same time. You know that, okay. Assuming the recipe hasn't changed, if you drank one of those 6 1/2 ounces, that would be worth eight pounds of fat per year. Now, in 1955, after World War II, when sugar became plentiful again, and wasn't being rationed, we have the appearance the first one that was You probably remember that one, as well. Then in 1960, the ever ubiquitous, 12 ounce can, worth 16 And, of course, today, this, over here is the single unit of measure, 20 ounces. Anybody know how many - [Audience Member] 2.5. - 2.5 eight ounce servings, that's right. Anybody know, anybody gets 2.5 eight ounce servings out of that bottle? That's a single serving, right? So that would be worth if you did that every day. And then, of course, over here, we have the 7/11 Big K, Thirst Buster, Big Gulp, whatever you wanna call it, 44 ounces, worth 57 And if that wasn't bad Dr. Dan Hale, at the University tells me that down there they 60 ounces of Coca Cola, a Snickers bar, and a bag of Doritos, all for 99 cents. - [Audience] Oh. - So if you did that every day for a year that would be worth 112 So why do I call it the Well, what's in Coke? Caffeine, good, good, so what's caffeine? It's a mild stimulant, right? It's also a diuretic, right? It makes you pee free water. What else is in Coke? We'll get to the sugar Salt, salt. 55 milligrams of sodium per can. It's like drinking a pizza. So what happens if you take on sodium and lose free water, you get... - [Audience] Thirsty. - Thirstier, right. So, why's there so much sugar in Coke? To hide the salt. When was the last time you had sweet and sour pork? That's half soy sauce, Except the sugar plays you can't even tell it's there. Everybody remember New Coke, 1985? More salt, more caffeine. They knew what they were doing. That's the smoking gun. They know, they know. All right, so, that's why So, are soft drinks the cause of obesity? Well, depends on who you ask. If you ask the scientists for the National Soft Drink Association, they'll tell you there's absolutely no association between sugar If you ask my colleague, remember, I'm Lustig he's Ludwig, he does what I do at Some day we're gonna open up a law firm. (audience laughs) Each additional sugar over a 19 month follow up period in kids increased their BMI by this much in their odds risk ratio That's a prospective study The real deal. If you look at meta-analysis, everybody know what a meta-analysis is? It's a conglomeration of numerous studies subjected to rigorous 88 cross sectional and regressing soft drink consumption against energy intake, body weight, adequate nutrition, all showing And some of these being longitudinal, this came from Kelly I should comment, a that were funded by the beverage industry showed consistently smaller effects than those that were independent. Wonder why. Now, how 'bout the converse? What if you take the soft drinks away? So this was the fizzy drink study from Christ Church England James et al, British Medical Journal, where they went into schools and they took Just like we did here in California. We haven't seen the data yet, but they went and did it for a year. So the prevalence of obesity in the intervention schools stayed absolutely constant, no change. Whereas the prevalence of obesity in the control schools continued to rise over the year. So that's pretty good. So, how 'bout type two diabetes? Are soft drinks the cause Well, this study from JAMA in 2004 looked at the relative risk ratio of all soft drinks, cola, fruit punch, and found a very statistically significant trend of sugared soft drinks, fruitades, et cetera, causing type two diabetes. And you know we've got with type two diabetes as we do with obesity for the same reasons. And this was a sugared risk for type two diabetes Looking here at sugar just the downward arrow shows that there was a significant rise as the number of drinks went up. You can see that here. Whereas orange and grapefruit So, two different studies, in type two diabetes, relative So, what's in soft drinks? Well, in America, it's this stuff, right? High fructose corn syrup. Everybody's heard of it, right? It's been demonized something awful. So much so that the corn refiners industry has launched a mega-campaign to try to absolve high fructose which we'll talk about in a moment. But the bottom line is, this is something we were never exposed to before 1975. And currently we are consuming 63 pounds per person per 63 pounds of high fructose corn syrup. - [Audience Member] That's America? - That's America, yes. Now, what is high fructose corn syrup? Well, you'll see in a minute. It's one glucose, one fructose, we'll talk about those at great length. One of the reasons we use is because it's sweeter. So here's sucrose, this standard table sugar, you and we give that an index So here's high fructose corn syrup, it's actually sweeter, it's about 120. So, you should be able to use less, right? Wrong, we use just as So, here's lab fructose over And they're starting to into some of the soft drinks. They're actually advertising Phew. And that's got a sweetness of 173, so you should be able to They're not. Lactose, down here, milk And glucose, I should It's not particularly get to that at the end, and But anyway, there's why it's also cheaper as I'll show you. So, here's high fructose corn syrup. One glucose, one fructose. Notice the glucose is a six membered ring, the fructose is a five membered ring. They are not the same. Believe me, they're not the same. That's what this whole talk is about is how their not the same. And here's sucrose, and they're just bound together by this ether linkage. We have this enzyme in it kills that bond in two seconds flat, and you absorb it and, basically, sucrose, it's a non issue, it's a wash. They're the same. And they know that they're the same, the soft drink companies Because here are their missives. This comes from the Corn Obesity research shows metabolizes and impacts Indeed it does, I agree. Decent meetings, academic Hunger and satiety profiles energy intakes following ingestion of soft drinks, bottom line, research supported by the American Beverage Institute and the Corn Refiner's Association. They are correct, there is absolutely no difference between high So much so that the Corn in attempt to capture market share, came out with this entire ad campaign. You probably saw it on the back page of the New York Times, it &quot;My hairdresser says &quot;than high fructose corn syrup. &quot;Wow, you get your hair done by a doctor?&quot; I didn't know I could cut hair. If you all wanna see all of them, there are a whole bunch of them. You can go to www.sweetsurprise.com and see how you're being hoodwinked. But indeed, this is true. High fructose corn syrup and They're both equally bad. They're both dangerous, Okay, I said it, poison. My charge before the end of tonight is to demonstrate fructose is a poison, and I will do it, and you will tell me if I was successful. None the less, here's and Public Interest and the Everybody remember last floated his soda tax, last February? Governor Patterson of New And other people are So, why are they saying this? Well, they're saying obesity's a problem, kids are drinking soda, let's tax it. So they're talking about soda I'm here to tell you that it The reason why this is fructose is a poison, it's It has nothing to do with the calories. It's a poison by itself, Nonetheless, I just wanna read you this paragraph here in yellow. &quot;We respectfully urge that the proposal &quot;be revised as soon as possible to reflect &quot;the scientific evidence that demonstrates &quot;no material differences &quot;of high fructose corn syrup and sugar.&quot; I agree. Here's the important sentence. &quot;The real issue is that &quot;of any sugars may lead I agree, that's exactly right. Not may, does, does. So, here's the secular trend in fructose consumption Before we had food processing, we used to get our fructose from and if we did that today, we would consume about 15 grams per day of fructose. Not sugar, fructose. So sugar would be 30 We're just talking about fructose, today. Prior to World War II, we were up to about 16 So, a small increase from the beginning of the century to World War II. Then, in 1977, just as was hitting the market, we had, basically, doubled or 8% of total caloric intake. By 1994 we were up to 55 Remember, if you wanna do So, that's 10.2, so you of our caloric intake, a higher percentage is being accounted for by So, it's not just that we're eating more. We're eating more sugar. And for adolescents today, 12% of total caloric intake. 25% of the adolescents today consume at least 15% of their This is a disaster, an The fat's going down, and we're all getting sick. Now let me show you why. How'd this happen? Why'd it happen? So, this is where the politics comes in. This is the perfect storm, and it was created from that swirled around all at the same time to create this perfect storm. So, the first political wind, everything bad that ever happened in this country started with one man. (audience laughs) And it's still being felt today. So, Richard Nixon, in his food prices were going up I'm gonna show you that on the next slide. And he was worried that this was actually gonna cost him the election. So, he admonished his Earl Rusty Butz, I love that name, to basically take food to make food a non-issue Well, the only way to do So, he was out to find all methods to be able to decrease the price of food. Remember Nixon's war on poverty? We're suffering from it today. That's what this is. Second political wind, the advent of high fructose corn syrup. So, this was invented in in Japan, by a guy named As far as I'm concerned, this stuff is Japan's revenge for World War II, except, of course, that they're suffering from it now, themselves. Like everything, it always And it was introduced to So, what do you think happened to the price of sugar when Here's what happened. So, here's the US producer going up and down, and up and down. This is not good. Stability is at 100%, if at 100%, that's what you Up and down, here's where corn sweeteners entered the market, 1975, 1980. And you can see that since then the price of sugar has remained remarkably constant. And it did so, not just in the US, but also on the international stage. Here's the London price And when you look at between sugar and high you can see that high about half the price. So, in other words, it's cheap. So, high fructose corn syrup is evil. But it's not evil because It's evil because it's economically evil. Because it's so cheap that it's found it's way into everything. It's found it's way into hamburger buns, pretzels, barbecue sauce, and Somebody emailed me the other day and told me they went into and went through every on the shelf, and out of 32 types of bread on the shelf, only one of them did not have high fructose corn syrup in it. So, we are being poisoned by this stuff, and it's been added surreptitiously to all of our food, every processed food. The question is why? Well, you'll see why in a minute. So, the corn refiners like to point out, &quot;Well, you know, it's &quot;As the high fructose :the sugar's gone down. &quot;You know, we're just Well, not exactly, because here's 73 pounds of sugar per year. This is from the Economic Research Service of the US Department of Agriculture. So disappearance data. 73 pounds, up to 95 pounds by 2000. And there's something Anybody wanna tell me what it is? What's missing? Juice, juice is missing. 'Cause juice is sucrose, right, sugar. And juice causes obesity. So this is a study done by Myles Faith, a prospective study in And the number of juice servings per day predicts the change in BMI score per month in these inner city Harlem toddlers. Now, where do these inner city Harlem toddlers get their juice? From what, from where, from whom? From WIC. Anybody heard of WIC? You know what WIC is? Women Infants Children, right? A government entitlement Nixon, to prevent failure to thrive. They did. This is the equal and opposite reaction. So, let's add juice in, here it is. So, most fructose items now we're up to 113 pounds on this graph, and I just heard from Brian Williams, of NBC News, after the that was in the Journal that we are actually up to Each of us. That's what we're up to. 141 pounds of sugar per year. Now, do you think that this might have some detrimental effects on you? Hasn't stopped you, has it? That's the point, it hasn't stopped you. That's why we need to talk about this. So, juice consumption increases the risk for Type 2 diabetes. So this is the relative risk ratio as juice intake goes up, and Showing again, juice consumption, sucrose, obesity, diabetes. Okay, the third political to create this disaster, that thing that happened in 1982, the USDA, the American Hearth Association, the American Medical Association, all telling us we had to Now, why did they tell us that? To stop what? To stop hear disease. Did we? No, we didn't, did we? In fact, it's worked the exact opposite. We've only created more. So, now how did this come to be? Why did they tell us to stop eating fat? Well, in the early 1970s we discovered something in our blood called LDL, low-density lipoproteins. You've heard of that, right? Is it good or bad? - [Audience Member] Bad. - Not so bad, we'll talk about it. In the mid 1970s we learned that dietary fat raised your LDL. So, if dietary fat is A, and LDL is B, we learned that A lead to B. Dietary fat definitely increases your LDL, no argument, it's true. And then, finally, in that LDL correlated with So let's call cardiovascular disease C. So we learned that B lead to C. So, the thought process by some very smart nutritionists, et cetera, the USDA et cetera, said, &quot;Well if A leads to B, and B leads to C &quot;then A must lead to C, This was the logic. Now, any logicians in the room? Anybody see any problems with that logic? Go ahead. (speaking away from microphone) - That's right, the premise is incorrect. And I'll tell you why Because this suggests that But, in fact, only the So, it's not no A, no C, it's no C, no A. So, the logic isn't even right. There's faulty logic here. So, this doesn't work on any level. So, I'm gonna show you But, before I how you why it doesn't work, I'm gonna show you that this was a battle royal back in the 1970s. This was not a simple thing. There were people lined up So, this, over here, is and it was called Pure White and Deadly. It's all about sugar. Written by a British physiologist, nutritionist, endocrinologist, by the name of John Yudkin. Now, I never knew John But, I read this book about a year ago. And without even knowing I was a Yudkin disciple. Every single thing that this man said in 1972 is the God's honest truth. And if you wanna read a true It's not easy to find, And I'm telling you, every single thing this guy said has come to pass. It's astounding, I am in awe of this guy. But on the other side we His name was Ancel Keys. Anybody heard of him? So, Ancel Keys was a very interested in the cause And he performed the first multivariate regression analysis without computers. Now, anybody know what that means? Multivariate regression analysis? So, this is where you and normally you would just but basically, the object is to try to figure out what causes what, and to try to factor out other things and determine what the contribution of various things all at once are to an outcome that you're looking for. So, he was interested in So, what he did was he did this study, along with other people around the world, called the Seven Countries Study. Very famous, front page So, here's the data on So, we have the US, Canada, Australia, England and Wales, Italy, Japan. And here's percent calories and here we have coronary And so you'd say, &quot;Oh, look at that.&quot; I mean, it's very obvious, isn't it. Sure, percent calories from fat correlates very nicely with Except for one little problem. Anybody see it? Japan and Italy? So, how much sugar do they eat? Didn't I tell you the Japanese They never even had it 'til we brought it to them after World War II. Italy, aside from gelato, They got a lot of pasta, there's a lot of glucose, but no fructose. There's no sugar in the Italian diet other than the occasional They're very careful about But, here we got England, you know, we are sugarholics, aren't we? We're also fataholics. So, in fact, the fat So, here's, this is from Keys's own work. Page 262, if you wanna pick And I'm just gonna read you the one paragraph that talks about this. The fact that the incidence rate of coronary heart disease with the average percentage of calories from sucrose in the diet, is explained by the intercorrelation of In other words, donuts. Where ever there was the Because these guys here eat donuts. (audience laughs) Partial correlation analysis show that with saturated fat constant, there was no significant correlation between dietary sucrose and the incidence of coronary heart disease. Okay, when you do a multivariate you have to do it both ways. You have to do holding fat constant showing the sucrose doesn't work, and then you have to hold sucrose constant and who that fat still works. You see that anywhere? He didn't do it, he didn't do it. He didn't do the thing that you need to do to do a multivariate Now, this was done before computers. We can't check the work. He's dead, he died in 2004. So, we're left with a conundrum. Do we believe this? Do we believe this study, because we based 30 years of nutrition and policy in this country on this study. And, as far as I'm as big as the one in the USS Cole, all right, you got it? Everybody, am I debunking, yes, no? Let's keep going. Remember, I told you Well, here's why. Because there really isn't There are two LDLs. Here's one over here, it's called pattern A or large buoyant LDL. So, everybody knows that LDL correlates with cardiovascular I'm not gonna argue that, that is true. But, it's not this one, pattern A LDL. These guys are so light, So, they get carried and they don't even have a chance, because they're so big they don't even get underneath the edge of the endothelial to start the plaque formation process. But, over here we have called pattern B or small dense LDL. You see the difference? These guys are dense. These guys don't float. These guys are small, they get underneath the edge of the surface of the surface of the endothelial cells, and they start the plaque formation. And it's been shown by the dense LDL is the bad guy. Okay, now, when we measure when you do a lipid profile, you measure both of them together, because it's too hard So, when you get an LDL, The neutral one and the bad one. Now, how can you tell whether your LDL is the neutral one or the bad one. What you do is you look at in association with it, tell you which one it is. So here, here's pattern A over here, big large buoyant LDLs, and you'll notice that the triglycerides are That's what you want, you high HDL, 'cause that's You want high good cholesterol. Over here, you have pattern B. And here you have high That's the bad guy, that's 'Cause you're gonna die of a heart attack. No question about it. Triglyceride to HDL cardiovascular disease way Point is, when you measure So, dietary fat raises your large buoyant. What do you think raises your small dense? Carbohydrate. Okay, so here's percent carbohydrate, and here's your pattern B going up. Everybody got it? So what did we do? What did we do in 1982? (speaking away from microphone) What did we do? We went on a high carb diet, which was supposed to be a low fat diet, right? So, here's the low fat craze. Took America and the world by storm. Because the content of low fat home cooked food, that in your house, you can But when you process it, it tastes like cardboard. It tastes like (bleep). So the food companies knew They had to make it palatable? So, how do you make something palatable that has no fat in it? You add the, sugar. So, everybody remember Snackwells? Two grams of fat down, 13 four of them being sugar, Well, we've just shown you that that's the worst thing you could do. And that's what we've done. And we're still doing it, today. So when you find a You admit the mistake We haven't admitted the mistake, and we haven't righted the ship. So, we've our food supply adulterated, contaminated, poisoned, tainted. On purpose, and we've thought the addition of fructose for palatability, especially and also as a ostensibly browning agent, which actually has it's own issues. Because why it browns so well with the sugar in it, actually is what's going on in your arteries. Because that's causing what we call protein glycation and cross linking, which is actually contribution So it works on your steak on the grill, it works in your arteries the same way. And removal of fiber also. Now, why did we remove We, as human beings walking used to consume 100 to 300 We now consume 12. Why? What did we do? We took the fiber out. So, why'd we take the fiber out? It takes too long to cook, takes too long to eat, and shelf life. So, people ask me, &quot;What's Fiberless food. I dare you, other than a salad, I dare you to go to any fast food restaurant and find anything on their menu that they actually have to cook, that has more than one 'Cause there isn't any, Because they take the fiber out, 'cause that way they can freeze it, ship it around the world, and not only is is fast cooking, but it's fast eating, which also causes it's own satiety issues. Bottom line, we have a And then, finally, the last issue was the substitution of transfats, which are clearly a disaster, but those have been going down, because we know that those are a problem. So we've actually gotten not completely, but most. So this is it, this is what we've done over the last 30 years. Now, to the biochemistry. Now, how many of you here About 25%. I am going to show you a lot of reactions in excruciating detail. (audience laughs) If you've studied biochemistry, you will have an anaphylactic reaction. (audience laughs) If you haven't studied biochemistry, you will fall asleep. So, what I'm gonna suggest that you all do is just let me do my at least it works, and Okay? You can do that, right? Can you count the arrows, Okay, you can count the Just let me do my thing, and let me show you why 'Cause what the liver does to fructose is really unique, and you've gotta understand it to understand So, number one, fructose is seven times more likely than glucose to The advanced glycation end-products. The thing that happens on your grill, happens in your arteries You can actually see the color too, the color change too. Fructose does not suppress There's a hormone that called ghrelin you've So, if you preload a and then you let him loose do they eat more, or do they eat less? They eat more. They just took on 150 Reason? 'Cause fructose doesn't suppress the hunger hormone Acute fructose ingestion because there's no receptor for fructose, no transport for fructose on the beta cell that makes insulin, so Well, if the insulin doesn't go up, then leptin doesn't go up, and if leptin doesn't go up, you're brain doesn't see that you ate something. Therefor, you eat more. And finally, I'm gonna show you liver hepatic fructose metabolism is completely different between fructose and glucose, And I'm going to show you, that chronic fructose exposure alone, nothing else, causes this thing we call the metabolic syndrome. Everybody knows what the So, this is the conglomerate of the following different phenomena, obesity, Type 2 diabetes, lipid problems, hypertension, and cardiovascular disease. Those all cluster together, I'm gonna show you how fructose I wanna show you the difference between glucose and fructose in a way that will be glaringly apparent. So, let's consume 120 calories in glucose. Two slices of white bread. What happens to that 120 calories? You eat the 120 calories, 96 or 80% of the total will be used by 80% off the table. Why? Because every cell in Every bacteria can use glucose, every living thing on can use glucose, because That's what we were supposed to eat. 24 of those calories, or So let's watch what happens Here they go. So, the glucose comes in called Glut2, out here, the glucose is gonna stimulate the the insulin's gonna bind to it's receptor, and it's gonna take called IRS-1, insulin That's not important And it's gonna tyrosine phosphorylate it. And it's going to be tyrosine IRS-1, which is now active, that's active. And it's gonna stimulate the second messenger here called AKT. Now what AKT does is, it SRABP1, sterol receptor Don't worry about it. But this is the thing that, ultimately, gets fat mechanics going. So, you 'll see in a minute. So, one of the things that SRABP1 does, is it activates this enzyme which takes glucose to Now, glucose 6-phosphate The only way to get glucose 6-phosphate out of the liver is with hormones. Glucagon or epinephrine, that's So now, the glucose is fixed in the cell, but it's only 24 calories worth, so it's not a big bolus of it. Now, the glucose 6-phosphate almost all of it, is gonna end up going over here to Now, glycagen is the storage Because glycagen's easy with glucagon and epinephrine. So, my question to you, and granted, this is a physiology question, is how much glycogen can your liver store before it gets sick? The answer's any amount. It's unlimited. We have carb loaders who Does it hurt them at all? We have kids with a get the glucose out of the glycagen, called glycagen storage disease type 1A, or von Gierke disease. They got livers down to They're hypoglycemic like all get out 'cause they can't lift the But, they don't go into liver failure. Because glycagen is a non-toxic storage form of glucose in the liver. So, the whole goal of glucose is to replete your glycagen. So, this is good, this Now, a little of that glucose it's gonna get metabolized down to this stuff here, called pyruvate. And the pyruvate is gonna enter your mitochondria, over here. Remember, your mitochondria are the parts of your cell that They're your little factories. They make the stuff that lets you live. Called ATP, ATP, adenosine triphosphate, that's the energy of life, right there. So, the pyruvate comes in, gets converted to something called acetyl-CoA, gets metabolized by this thing called the Krebs cycle, TCA ATP and carbon dioxide So far, so good? Have I snowed anybody yet? You're with me? I snowed one guy back there. (audience laughs) I'm doin' my best, I swear to God, I'm doing my best. Anyway, so this stuff over here, this acetyl-CoA, gets Maybe you won't burn all of it off, and so, some of it may exit as citrate. And the citrate then through a process known And then that citrate by these three enzymes, which are all subservient into this SRABP1. This is ATP citrate lyase acetyl-CoA carboxylase fatty acid synthase. They're not important. The only thing to know is these three enzymes together turn sugar into fat. This is called denovo, meaning new, lipogenesis, fat making. This is denovo lipogenesis. So you take the citrate and you end up with which then gets packaged and you end up with something called VLDL, very low density lipoprotein. Now, anybody heard of that before? Is it good or bad? It's bad, that's bad. VLDL is bad because that's one of the things that causes heart disease. It's also a substrate for obesity. So, you don't wanna make much of this. But the point is, you maybe a half a calorie So, that little Japanese you know, working out in the field, eating rice for the next 90 years, can he die of a heart attack at age 90? Sure. But that's not so bad. If you make it to 90, Because that VLDL coming from glucose. Glucose made a little bitty VLDL. And that serves as a substrate into your fat cell, here triglyceride. In addition, because of the insulin went up in response to the glucose, your brain sees that signal. And it knows that that is supposed to shut off further eating. In other words, hey, I'm busy I don't need lunch. And so, you have a nice between glucose consumption, the liver, the pancreas, and the brain, to keep you in normal negative, yin This is good, this is not dangerous. This is what's supposed to happen. So now, let's talk about Let's talk about my favorite (crowd murmuring) Ethanol. Ethanol is a carbohydrate, isn't it? Here's the structure, it' a carbohydrate. But, we all know that A poison, right. You can wrap your or you can fry your liver, your choice. Depends on how much you Right? Okay. So, we know that ethanol except, of course, a So, we can talk about that But, let's talk about So, here's acute ethanol exposure. CNS depression, tachycardia, myocardial depression, pupillary responses, diuresis, hypoglycemia, you all went to college. (audience laughs) Here's fructose, nothing. It doesn't do any of those. Because the brain doesn't Alcohol gets metabolized in the brain, to cause all of those So, fructose is not an We control ethanol, don't we? We have something called the Bureau of Alcohol We have all sorts of We do all sorts of things to The Nordic countries, all the in attempt to try to set the so as to discourage consumption We have 1500 years of alcohol to draw on, in terms of Got it? Because ethanol is a So, let's consume 120 calories in ethanol. Shot of Makers Mark. Anybody taste it? Yeah, good, okay. So, 24 calories right off the top. The stomach and the called the first pass and kidney, muscle, brain So there goes 20% or 24 96 calories of the 120 Now, how many was it for glucose? It was 24. So, four times the substrate and there's the rub. This is a volume issue. We're gonna show you how. So, the ethanol comes there's not receptor First thing that happens is ethanol gets converted to this guy, Anybody know anything about aldehydes? Like formaldehyde? Right? Are aldehydes good for you or bad for you? They're bad, right? 'Cause what do they do? They can cause cancer, they cross link proteins is what they do. So, if you cross link enough what do you think happens to it? You get something called... Cirrhosis, right exactly. So this guy, over here, is bad. And it generates something Reactive oxygen species And the more alcohol you drink, the more of this stuff you get. So far, so good? So, this is one of the Now the acetaldehyde will come down here to something called acetate. The acetate will enter the mitochondria, just like the pyruvate did before. Will get converted to acetyl-CoA and participate in the TCA cycle, just like before, to generate energy. So that alcoholics don't they got energy, it's They're gonna have a whole lot of citrate. Because they have 96 calories that have to get metabolized. How many calories made it to About half, right? Because most of it went to glycogen. So, we've got a big to show you that we're And so, the big citrate all the way to VLDL by the CRABP1. And so you're gonna get a lot of the LDL. And this is the dyslipodemia Everybody see that? So, the liver's gonna try to export this VLDL out so that it doesn't get sick, because when fat builds up in the liver, that's not good for it. Some of it's gonna exit and those free fatty acids, in the muscle, and you get something called muscle insulin resistance. So insulin resistance, that's a bad thing. That makes your muscles and And can cause all sorts of Some of the acetyl-CoA and will precipitate as a lipid droplet, so there's your alcoholic steatohepatitis. This acetyl-CoA, and this ethanol, and these reactive oxygen species can start this enzyme activated. It's called c-jun n-terminal kinase 1, or JNK1, and it really is JNK1 because it is the bridge between metabolism and inflammation. So, when you generate JNK1, you which I will show you when So let's talk about fructose. Fructose is sweet, we like it a lot. We like it in everything, we like it in our pretzels, So, let's consume 120 calories in sucrose. A glass of orange juice. Everybody got it? So, two slices of white a glass of orange juice, But, three different substrates. Let's see what happens to the fructose. So, number one, the glucose, remember, 'cause sucrose is half so 60 of the calories 12 are gonna make it into the liver, 48 out here for the rest of the body. The same 20/80 split we So far, so good. But all 60 calories of fructose are gonna be metabolized by the liver. Why? Because only the liver So, what do we call it, where when you take in a compound that's and only the liver can metabolize it, and in the process, What do we call that? We call that a... Poison. So, let me show you how it's a poison. So, let's watch the fructose. So, the fructose comes in Before it was Glut2, now it's Glut5 No insulin, remember, 'cause fructose does not stimulate insulin. Fructose, then, gets metabolized called fructokinase, to form something called fructose 1-phosphate. In the process, ATP has to give up one phosphate to ADP 'cause the phosphate had to come from somewhere, Now, before we had 24 calories that had to be phosphorylated. Now we have 72 calories that So, we have three times the substrate, and there's the rub. It's a volume issue, for right now. So, we're gonna lose a lot So there's a scavenger called AMP deaminase 1 to rescue the phosphates off the and it takes ADP down to down to IMP, Inositol monophosphatase, and finally, to the Anybody every heard of uric acid? What is it? It's a waste product. Goes out in your urine. 'Causes what disease? Gout, right. Also causes another disease Let me show you how. Because uric acid, turns out, blocks the enzyme in your blood vessels called endothelial nitric oxide synthase. And that's the enzyme that makes the stuff called nitric oxide, NO. And that is your endogenous That keeps your blood pressure low. So, when you can't make it, So, this just shows that increases gout in adults. So, this is a study showing that fructose consumption increases the risk for gout, showing that uric acid's going up. And this is a study done Stephanie Winn, just published in Journal of Pediatrics, it's not submitted any showing that this is in the adolescents, showing as it goes up, your uric acid goes up. And, not only does your uric acid go up, but here's your sugar sweetened beverages, and here's your systolic And here's a study done by Dan Fige, at the University of Texas San Antonio, where he took obese and he gave them the drug Allopurinol. And Allopurinol is the drug to lower the uric acid. And look what happened Systolic, diastolic, went down. Showing that, in fact, uric acid is an important part of hypertension. We have a hypertension Here it is. It's the sugar. Okay, so, so far we have Let's keep going. The fructose will get metabolized down to pyruvate, the pyruvate will enter the mitochondria throwing off a lot of citrate. And here's a little trick that fructose does that glucose doesn't. 'Cause these to can reform this stuff over here called fructose which can then reform with glyceraldehyde to form this guy, over here, And I get to But I wanna point out this asterisk. That's there to remind That's there to remind me to tell you that this is why the put high fructose corn Because if you are glycogen depleted, in other words, if you just ran a marthon, and you have no glycogen because you burned it all, and you take in a sports drink with high you can replete your glycogen faster than with glucose alone. That's true. So, for elite athletes, a containing sports drink And so, indeed, sports drinks have high fructose corn syrup. The question is who Any elite athletes you know? Who's drinking the sports drinks? The kids, right? Why are they drinking it? Because it's cool, right? 'Cause it's cool and it tastes good. So, before we go on, I just wanna, now, digress for a moment. 1967, University of Everybody remember Gatorade? Okay, 1970, the Florida Gators win the NCAA Championship in football. Gatorade makes a big splash. Okay, big deal. Anybody ever taste the original Gatorade? Yeah? What'd it taste like? Tasted horrible. It tasted like something coming out of you instead (audience laughs) It tasted awful. 1992, Pepsi buys Gatorade, and they say, &quot;How are we gonna market this swill?&quot; So, what did they do? They added the high fructose corn syrup. So, now who drinks it? Fat kids, right? Not even skinny kids, fat kids drink it. Okay, so there's a problem here. Okay, and we're gonna Okay, so xylulose-5-phosphate, if you take a rat, and by making him run on an exercise wheel, and then you re-feed them with starch or with sucrose, the xylulose-5-phosphate goes way up with the sucrose. So you get more xylulose-5-phosphate through this pathway So why do we care about Well, here's why. Because it stimulates this guy, over here, called PP2A, which then activates this transcription factor here, carbohydrate response which then activates what three enzymes? New fat making right, So here's the citrate, And here we've got acetyl-CoA, which then gets packaged to the VLDL, and now you've got the dyslipidemia of obesity of fructose consumption, which has, been known for many years. So, here's normal medical students, if you can call them normal, taking in a glucose load. Notice, almost none of it ends up as fat. Taking in a fructose load, 30% of it ends up as fat. So when you consume fructose, you're not consuming a So everybody talks about a high fat diet. Well, high sugar diet is a high fat diet. That's the point. That's exactly the point. This is a study where they gave acute administration of fructose, and you can see the triglycerides going up compared to the control. Serum triglyceride, right there. Here's normal medical students, again, six days of high fructose feeding. Triglycerides doubled, de novo lipogenesis went up five times higher, which then cause insulin Six days. So, here's the dyslipidemia We're not done. Some of the fat won't just like with ethanol. And now you've got a lipid droplet, so now you've got this So, this is work that we did in our clinic looking at sugar sweetened against the liver enzyme marker ALT, alanine aminotransferase, which And sure enough, here's against ALT, and you can see a nice linear relationship in Caucasians. African Americans, it's and that' a' whole 'nother So, there's the lipid droplet of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis. Some of it will come and populate the muscle, will also tell the insulin to go up higher. Remember that JNK1? So, here's what JNK1 does. So, the acetyl-CoA and the And what JNK1 does is, remember when we used glucose, this IRS and that was good? Remember that? Well, JNK1, what it does, is it's serine phosphorylated IRS-1. And serine IRS-1 is inactive. So now, the insulin can't So, now you have liver That's gonna make the generating higher insulin levels, which raise your blood cause further fat to go into your fat cell. There's your obesity. And finally, our research has shown that the higher the insulin goes, the less well your brain And so there you've got because your brain thinks it's starving. And it's been shown in many different ways that fructose consumption changes the way your brain recognizes energy. All in a negative fashion, so that you, basically, think you're starving. Your brain gets the signal even though your fat cells are generating a signal that says, &quot;Hey, So, this just shows you how it goes. So, the high insulin generates the obesity because this is that, remember the first law of thermodynamics, generating the energy storage as the primary phenomenon, remember, if you're gonna store it, then you're gonna have to eat it. So, here's the store it. Normally, that would make leptin, and the leptin should feed back and turn everything off, but it doesn't, because the insulin gets in the way, and the high fat diet gets in the way. Also, the hyperinsulinemia from acting on that nucleus accumbens, and so you get an increased reward signal. So that continues your appetite, continues more fructose, generating more insulin You generate a vicious and disease, and no stopping. So, here we are, hepatic insulin resistance, dyslipidemia, muscle insulin resistance, obesity, and continued consumption. Looks like metabolic syndrome to me. So, here are the phenomena associated with chronic ethanol exposure. Hematologic disorders, hypertension, cardiac dyslipidemia, pancreatitis, malnutrition, obesity, hepatic dysfunction, that's alcoholic steatohepatitis, fetal alcohol syndrome, and addiction. Here's fructose. Eight out of twelve. Why? 'Cause they do the same thing. 'Cause they metabolize the same way. Because they are the same. They come from the same place, right. How do you make ethanol? Naturally. Right, you ferment sugar. Hasn't changed, 'cause it Because it's basically in exactly the same way, Because sugar and ethanol are the same, every which way you turn. So, here's our clinic intervention. This is what we do in our clinic. It's as simple as you can imagine. We write this on the back of a matchbook. It's just as simple as you can make it. We have four things we teach the kids to do, and the parents. Get rid of every sugared Only water and milk, there is no such thing as a good Eat your carbohydrate with fiber. Why? Because fiber is good. Fiber is supposed to be And we can talk later, if you want, after the cameras turn off, as to why fiber is not Because the government 'Cause then they couldn't Wait 20 minutes for second portions, to get that satiety signal. And finally, buy your screen time minute-for-minute with physical activity. That's the hardest one to do. So, if you play for half an hour, you can watch TV for half an hour. You wanna watch TV for an That one's a hard one, but anyway. We follow our patients every three months. So, here's my question. Does it work? What do you think? Yeah, it works. So, this is BMI z-score It works. But, we were interested and made it didn't work, so we did a multivariate linear regression analysis. The thing that made it not work, sugared beverage consumption. The more sugar beverages the the less well lifestyle for all the reasons I just showed you. So, why is exercise important in obesity. Because it burns calories? Come on. 20 minutes of jogging's You can't do it. Are you joking me? So, why is exercise important? I'll tell you why, here's why. Number one, it improves insulin sensitivity because you're insulin actually works better at your muscle, which then brings your Which is good for you. Number two, it's your It's the single thing that And if you stress reduce, what do you think your appetite does? Goes down, because stress for all sorts of reasons which are beyond the scope of this lecture today. But, we can talk about it in the question period, if you want. And then finally, remember Remember those three nasty enzymes? What if you burned the stuff That's what exercise does, 'cause it makes that TCA cycle run the citrate leaving the mitochondria, so it doesn't get turned into fat, so it doesn't precipitate and cause all the problems you just saw. (speaking away from microphone) That's what they mean by But it has nothing to do That is the stupidest reason that I've every heard of for exercise. You gotta be joking me. You can't do it. I mean one Big Mac and you gotta mountain bike for ten hours. (audience laughs) Are you joking? So, why is fiber important in obesity? So, this is my motto in clinic. When God made the poison, he 'Cause fructose is a poison. I think I've, hopefully, shown you that. But, wherever there's fructose in nature, there's way more fiber. You ever see a piece of sugar cane? It's a stick, right? (audience laughs) You can't even chew the damn thing, right? You gotta suck the stuff out. (sucking) Like that, right? I mean, how many calories you think you're gonna get out of a piece of sugar cane? They actually did studies back in the early 1900s. All of the workers were healthy and lived longer than the sugar executives who got the processed product. How 'bout that, wonder why. So, eat your carbohydrate with fiber, that's why we say that. That includes sugar, Because number one, it limits how much fructose you're gonna take in, and number two, it gives which you needed in the first place. And you get some so that you actually, your So, here's what fiber does. Number one, it reduces the rate of intestinal carbohydrate absorption. Now, sometimes that's bad. I'll tell you when that's bad. Now when that's bad? That's bad when you're 'Cause what happens if you reduce the rate of carbohydrate The bacteria get to it. So, as far as I'm concerned, in life you've got two choices. It's either fat or fart. (audience laughs) It increases the speed of transit of the intestinal contents to the ilium, and that raises this hormone over here called PYY, which goes to your brain and tells you the meal's over. That's your satiety signal. So when you add fiber to your diet, you actually get your because the food moves through faster. And then, finally, it also inhibits the absorption of some free fatty acids all the way to the colon, and then those get chopped up into little called short chain fatty acids, and those actually suppress insulin, as apposed to long chain fatty acids which stimulate insulin. So there are a whole bunch Anybody ever heard of Go home and read up on it on the internet. The Paleolithic Diet. Basically, if you east everything as it came out of the ground you would cure diabetes on a dime. Takes about a week. Because you're getting that 100 to 300 grams of fiber I mentioned before. That's why, 'cause fiber is good for you. And the more, the better. - [Audience Member] Type 2. Type 2, right, Type 2, not Type 1. I stand corrected, Type 2. Now, for some fun. That's the end of the biochemistry. Phew, how'd I do? (audience applauds) I told you I'd get you through it. So, now comes the fun part. The racial innuendos, and The fructosification of America, and, of course, the world. Ready? Another quiz. Can you name the seven foodstuffs at McDonald's that don't have high fructose corn syrup or sucrose? - [Audience Member] Mustard? - (laughs) No, mustard has it. (audience chatter) Oh, come on, come one, the big one. French fries, but they So, they're not so good either. Okay, what else? We'll get to coffee. Hash browns, for the same reason, salt starch and fat. What else, chicken I was shocked. No sucrose or high fructose But, as the Circuit called them, they are still (audience laughs) But, nonetheless, no sucrose, Sausage. Oh, they're terrible, But, I mean, there's but there's not fructose. Sausage, Diet Coke, Coffee, and ice tea, if you don't add the sugar. By the way, the chicken McNuggets, we have a disclaimer, because no one eats the chicken McNuggets And there's a whole bunch in the dipping sauce, right? Okay, good, all right. So, who's really drinking this? We talked about this before. Gatorade AM. So, this is an attempt by Pepsi to capture market share Do you think there are any elite athletes who actually drink this stuff? You gotta be kidding me. Okay, this is for kids, right? So, this really blew my socks off. This was my daughter, when she was in second grade, two years ago, Miriam Lustig, brought these two cartons of milk home for me, and said, &quot;Dad, you're not gonna believe this.&quot; Second grade. So, here's the calories in Berkeley Farms 1% low fat milk, 130 calories, 'cause it's lactose, which is okay. And here's Berkeley 190 calories, 29 grams of sugar, all high fructose corn syrup. It's like a glass of milk plus a half a glass of orange juice. And that's what we're giving to our kids. And do you know what the nutrition department at the SFUSD says? &quot;Well, we have to get our Is that brilliant, or what? I don't know. Now, what about WIC. So, we talked about the 112 pounds of orange juice that the kid What bout WIC? Remember what we started with? We have an epidemic of Remember? So, could this be the reason? So, here's a can of formula. 43.2% corn syrup solids, 10.3% sugar. It's a baby milkshake. Soda, Coca Cola, is 10.5% sucrose. Formula is 10.3% sucrose. Any difference? And there's a huge literature that's now coming of age that shows that the earlier you expose kids to sweet, the more they're gonna crave it later. Plus, there's a new literature that shows the more sugar the pregnant during the pregnancy, the more that gets across the placenta, and actually causes what we call developmental programming, changing the kids adiposity and driving this whole So, we'll close in a few minutes. But, I just wanna point Here, we got a can of Coke. Here we got a can of beer. And I'm not picking on It's any beer you want, okay. So, 150 calories each, no difference in terms of total calories. Percent carbohydrate, so except it's high fructose 3.6% alcohol, here's the breakdown. 75 fructose, 75 glucose for the Coke. 90 alcohol 60 maltose for the beer. Remember, the first pass GI metabolism takes 10% of the alcohol off the table. So, when you actually compute the number of calories hitting the liver, which remember was the big difference between glucose and fructose, remember? 72 versus 24 and started as term of what happens that's bad. Bottom line, no difference. So, we have something called beer belly. Well, welcome to soda belly. 'Cause that's what No ifs ands or buts. That's what it is. Now, you wouldn't think twice about not giving your kid a Budweiser. But, you don't think twice about giving your kid a can of Coke. But, they're the same, in the same dosing, for the same reason, through the same mechanism. Fructose is ethanol without the buzz. Fructose is a carbohydrate. Yes, it is. But fructose is metabolized like a fat. And I've just shown you that 30% of any ingested fructose So when people talk about high no, what they're really talking about is high fructose diets, and that's what Ancel Keys was looking at. So, the corollary to that and around the world too, a low fat diet isn't really a low fat diet. Because the fructose or it's really a high fat diet. That's why our diets don't work. And fructose, just like ethanol, for the same reason, and in the same dosing, is also as toxin. Now, last, what can we do about it? Can we do anything about it? How 'bout the FDA? You think they can do something about it. After all, aren't they Aren't they supposed to regulate what they can put in food? Weren't they supposed to regulate tobacco? Now they are, actually. So, you know, weird things. So, I wanna just show you what the tobacco company thinks of all this. This is actually from the UCSF Legacy Tobacco Documents Library that Stan Glantz runs right across the street. Stan's a good guy, like Stan a lot. And he showed me this. &quot;Under the regulations so this came from an Altria &quot;it is required that additives be safe, &quot;defined as a reasonable certainty &quot;by competent scientists that no harm &quot;will result form the Now, does fructose meet that standard? Well, the FDA says that fructose, high fructose corn syrup, G R A S status, generally Now, where'd that come from? No where. It came from no where. It came from the notion &quot;is natural, it's in Well, tobacco's natural too. But it's not. Ethanol's natural, but it's not. A whole bunch of, you know, Jamaican ackee fruit's It kills you. Keeping on going. &quot;A food shall be deemed to be adulterated &quot;if it bears or contains any poisonous &quot;or deleterious substance which may &quot;render it injurious to health.&quot; Fructose fits that description, right? Uh-uh, but now with the prevention of chronic diseases, even though it's own regulations explicitly postulate the connection between such products and such diseases. In other words, the FDA will only regulate acute toxins, not a chronic toxin. Fructose is a chronic toxin. Acute fructose exposure 'Cause the brain doesn't The liver does. And the liver doesn't get It get's sick after 1000 fructose meals. But, that's how many we eat. So, the FDA isn't touching this. The USDA isn't touching this. Because if the USDA touched That would mean an admission to the world that our food is a problem. So, what to you think that would do? There are three things in this country that we can still sell overseas. Weapons, entertainment, and food. Cars? (laughs) Computers? I don't thinks so. Can anybody think of anything else that another country wants of ours? What? Tobacco, right, tobacco. (laughs) All right, you get the picture. So, the USDA doesn't 'Cause this is bad news. And so, who runs the food pyramid? The USDA. It's the fox in charge of the hen house. Because their job is to sell food. And who's eating it? We are. So, in summary, fructose, and I don't care what the vehicle is, it's irrelevant, sucrose or high fructose corn syrup, I don't care, fructose in the past 30 years, coinciding A calorie is not a calorie. And the dietitians in the country are actually perpetrating this on us. Because the more you think the more you think, well than if you ate less and exercise more, it would work. It doesn't. All of the studies show it doesn't work. Here's why it doesn't work, because a calorie is not a calorie. Fructose is not glucose. We know a calorie is not a calorie. 'Cause there are good fats and bad fats. There's good protein and bad protein. Okay, there's good carbohydrate And glucose is good carbohydrate. Glucose is the energy of life. Fructose is poison. You are not what you eat. You are what you do with what you eat. And what you do with fructose is particularly egregious and dangerous. Hepatic fructose metabolism leads to all the manifestations of Hypertension through de novo lipogenesis, dyslipidemia, hepatic steatosis those three enzymes, the inflammation through JNK1, because of the serine phosphorylation of IRS-1, obesity because to the adiposite, and leptin resistance promoting continuous consumption, basically starving your brain, making you think you need more. Fructose ingestion interferes as we showed in our clinic. The more soft drinks, the less well diet and exercise actually worked. Fructose is a chronic hepatotoxin for the same reason that alcohol is. The only difference is alcohol is metabolized by the brain, Fructose is not metabolized by the brain so you don't get those effects. But everything else it does is the same. But the FDA can't and won't regulate it. It's up to us. I'm standing here today to recruit you. That's a famous saying here &quot;I'm Harvey Milk, and I'm Robert Lustig, and in the war against bad food. And this is what's bad. With that, I wanna thank my colleagues at the UCSF Department of Pediatrics in our Weight Assessment for UCSF Department of and also Department of at UC Berkeley, in particular who is a card carrying PhD biochemist, who vetted all of these pathways that I've shown you today, and looked at this and said, He worked in the stuff for 15 years, and he didn't even realize it So, with that, I'll close. Thanks you. (audience applauds) (upbeat techno music)