All right, we're checking out the more painful my life becomes. It's GTA. Alex apparently still thinks so he's created a whole new challenge. Every time I crash, the vehicle The transformations will get I just can't beat the board anymore. However, he mentioned The challenges will get I'm going to need Let's do this. Do you like bowling? When you're involved, no, Alex, I don't. Oh my God. Alex is the only person a legitimate bowling lane in GTA Oh my God, let me try He's built a script where when I-- Oh God-[chuckles] whenever I get into an accident, roughly one to two seconds afterward, and it goes and then forcibly [sound] Of course, after I get hit, so that I don't go to scroll vehicle in the entire script Although, I'm apparently and so what happens is [chuckles] you can actually hear moving through the vehicle selection in order to put me in a different car. The really scary part is that, Does that count? Yes, apparently, it does-Apparently, all the different sections that I'm going to turn into. See here, Oh, but I can make it around here, so maybe having a big car like this isn't that bad at the moment. I might actually want the big car here I can take some hits. Whoa, Of course, as you would expect-- oh my God-the only way for me to get back to a small vehicle is to reload which means going back to the beginning. Also, all right, that's okay. Real quick, and the bowling balls Look, the balls are almost coming That should just be one car. Yes, okay. After I get hit, I get about, it looks like three seconds I'm going to be going on this level, lot of go-karts. The bowling balls just make 90 degree Whoever's inside the bowling ball driving those things is going to get whiplashed. Oh God. Did that count? Yes. I love how he says crash. [laughs] Oh my God. I love how he says crash, but just rubbing my tire or something like that is enough Oh, I can go under this. That's cool. We're only at the second level I can see an arrow way See it? Oh, [chuckles] oh no. You got to be kidding me. That was possibly the best GTA I thought it hit me at first, but I think it was just Ow. [laughs] Come on. It spawned on top of me. What do you want? Oh, God. Okay, it's fine. I got all this way, and now things All right, so there is a jump so let me just get past all the balls. Not have one spawn directly on me. Then we're going to do a big jump. This car is way too slow. This is an instance Here's the plan. I've been using Redwood for a while, and it can make that little I'm going to go drown now. This thing floats in the water. I hadn't actually made so I wanted to know It's this. I'm in an 18 wheeler right now. Ah, the 18 wheeler's pretty fast. Oh, that's a crash. Yes. Oh my God, I'm in the disco van. How fast is the disco bus? Is this thing fast enough What comes after the disco bus? I might find out in a second. I have no idea. What happened there? Oh, no. [laughs] [sound] [laughs] Oh, this is what's happened to her. You may be saying yourself, &quot;Great. Why are you doing donuts I'm not. This run is looking good. Oh, yes. Well. I didn't fall off. I almost fell off there. Rally truck, go. This is probably It has no traction at all. Oh, wow. It's got good top speed though. Hey. Don't mind me, just doing a full 180. What is this? What is this? Find four hidden numbers, What? All right. There's a ramp here Find four hidden numbers. All right, well, let's activate it. [music] Oh my God. What is happening? What is happening? Why? [laughs] Oh. [laughs] Oh my God, and the firmer wall What did you build here, Alex? It's like a bowling minefield. [screams] [laughs] Oh God. I think what I'm supposed to do here is-- this thing just chases me relentlessly. [screams] Ah, no. [background music] Oh, I just saved me. The transformation saved me. [laughs] I think what I'm supposed to do is use the booster that's being hidden and then, oh, no. Then the booster will allow me but I don't know what it's talking There's no number on the ball. [sound] I'm stuck and I can't get up. Whoa. While I've been stuck though, Look, one of the pins, yes. The one pin all the way Oh, I've managed to get up. That's weird. I assume in this challenge. This is the last vehicle. [sound] Oh, it's so slow. All right, let me see if I can get There is a zero. I just lift the pin up God, this is like a nightmare. Ah the bowling Back to the beginning. I think something is this run is going so well. I haven't gotten into a single crash. I don't know if I can make this jump. [laughs] I can't even make it. That was a perfect run, Alex. I should be rewarded. All right. Basically, I don't need to try If I can do it with this car though, Parkour. Oh, [laughs] I felt my life flash before me there. Oh, big jump. I don't want to get right because it looks like the pins and then the bowling ball does, too. I need three more numbers. We have zero, so now it's slightly worse. That's going to be another vehicle crash. I'm slowly - I can't make this jump with this. Well, maybe I can with the boost. Okay, We have to sit Yes, see? Then, oh, six. Okay, so I saw a six, so 06. That wasn't good. Oh, okay, zero. Yes. you can clearly see the six there. Three. Okay. I saw a three on the left and then a one. Okay, 0631 or 0931. I don't know if that's it. No, but I got all the numbers. Oh, God. I've been trying to line Here we go. Yes, baby. No. 4 million times the charm. There we go. Then, what is this? Oh, it catches the bowling ball, That's actually amazing. That pink bowling ball hounded You have no idea. Okay. What do we got here? 8,3, no. There's two here, 3,6,1,0 or is it a nine? I said six first, None of these other ones are right. Also, I had to mention because it's Alex. Of course, there's a 6,6,6,9. Really? Okay. I've been thinking about this for a while. We're going to choose the wrong one. Mostly I want to know what happens, so I just want to see. I'm going to pick All right, Really? I've been in this position before. Oh yes. That's a good jump. A little rubbing on this side Okay. This time we're going to choose the right one now that I know If you choose the right one, Oh, it just teleports you ahead. We've got a checkpoint. Survive for three minutes. Also, you have to pick I'm guessing of cars that I transform into because it looked like the hauler to transform into in the last one. All right, three minutes. All right, we got a couple of rocket Is this a vehicle rain? [laughs] I have to deal with the rocket launchers and the vehicle rain for three minutes, It's okay, though because I feel and make this work. We're down to 230. Just got to [groans], ah, no. Okay, now, I get the side-by-side. That's nice. In fact, if I keep this around, Now, we're down to two minutes left. That's a hit. Oh, no. That's a hit. Oh, wow. There's an entire jumbo jet. Are you kidding me? Oh, this is Armageddon. Oh, and all the vehicles just stay. No way. Oh, my God, it's just total chaos. We're getting there, though. I don't know how much time is allotted. I think the timer it's only There's an entire gigantic prop-driven No, a door. Whoo. This is a good selection of cars. It's getting to the point The problem is I can't stay keep shooting [groans] I have to mention something My game just crashed because of-- oh, my God-how many vehicles got I go to Alex, I'm like, &quot;Alex, He's like, &quot;Well, yes. The video is every time you crash.&quot; Now, I have to deal with not only Amazing. [screams] Okay, the run is looking good so far. I've got 30 seconds left or something. Yes, 30 seconds left. [groans] Oh, my God, I hit like a scooter. Oh, come on. I did have to survive This is happening. It says zero. Yes. [growls]. Oh, my God, we have a checkpoint. Whoa, this is a slowdown stick. Oh, I'm given a motorcycle here. Okay, that's different. Careful. I've been trying to be careful. If it's not my vehicle crashing, Angry traffic highway. Oh, whoa. Whoa, whoa, whoa. Whoa, really? Does that count? Apparently, it does. Oh, I got a quad. Whoa, wat is going on with Oh, I got a jumping vehicle. However, I crashed immediately Oh, this is a whole new set I got the Batmobile. All right, so I can bust sticks the landing. I'm going to move on this list here with great speed. Oh, it's my truck, like in real life. Ow. I said calm down. What, did he put the traffic up to 11? Also, is everyone barreling toward me? Yes, the traffic isn't trying to avoid me. The traffic is coming toward me. Look at it. Oh, it's heat-seeking traffic. Oh, this is going to be impossible. I have no idea Oh, boy. Oh, this is good, but I'm assuming unless this is the last vehicle It is not. It is not. Oh, what comes after this? Oh, my God. [laughs] When you said eventually is this one of them? Can I just grind my way through this? Oh, everything's exploding. Everything's on fire. My vehicle is burning. [groans] Ow, it's total bedlam. This right here Okay. I need to stay Jesus. The motorcycle to where people don't realize Look, I'm able to get See, now they're starting to turn. Ah, no. Now they're starting to turn Also, what is this? Turn around. Turn around. Why? Oh my God, This one's called Drunk Highway. All right. The motorcycle is the way. Oh, God. Well, so much for the motorcycle. This must be what it feels like to be a sock inside of a washing machine. Imagine being a Floridian weatherman. People would be like, &quot;It looks like fire.&quot; The funny part is, I think I'm literally crashing This is what it's like trying Oh, this is doing really good. Oh, yes. Oh, this is a Matrix Oh, yes. Oh yes, okay. Ooh, [screams] whoa, no. No, the motorcycle lasted for so long. Okay. It's okay, I've got the quad. The quad is still pretty small. Well, I had the quad. In case you were wondering Do you see what's happening right now? This is what happens of the Drunken traffic. Okay. I had the motorcycle for about one second. The Drunken traffic is insane. Just when I finally figured out-- Okay, hold on-I can jump around. Ah, well, so much for that. I was going to say, Just when I had gotten to the point where I understood how the heat-seeking now I have to deal with this. All right, here's the plan. We're just going to let this run. We're going to get through this with the dump truck because I'm almost there. Oh, it's the checkpoint. Oh, it's the checkpoint. It's right there. It's right there. I just have to push I'm at the checkpoint. Oh yes. What is this? Is this a ramp? [laughs] I can't get it with the dump truck. Oh my God, restarting, put me back here. The checkpoint isn't a real checkpoint. It's like a teleport. It's okay, I have a plan Basically, what I did was use the vehicles and get to the side. There's like no invisible wall. I've got this vehicle. Oh my God, what does this turn into next? Oh, the bus. I'm not giving up. Okay. Well, just turned into the truck. This run. Oh yes. Oh, thank God. I was going to say this run, I've got the truck. I think it has enough [sings] Hallelujah. Well, the vehicles got bigger, Anyway, folks, Until next time stay foxy and much love.