You little [ __ ] aunt, I'm here to listen to your music. I'm giving you face, and you dare to ask for money. You go to the street to ask, aunt, who am I? I don't care who you are. This is a bookstore. No one can listen to music for free without giving me money. If you don't buy it, Ticket, I'll call the police. If you do n't do anything, you're fine. I'll sign for you. No one is allowed in. No one is allowed in. You don't buy a ticket. You're a little [ __ ]. You're toasting and you're fined. Why are you doing this? If you're doing this, why are you doing this? Why are you hitting people ? Why are you hitting people ? Why are you fighting? Why are you hitting people? Hitting you is a light blow. Now is not the time. Wait, wait, what are you waiting for? Sister Dahong, don't worry, it's okay. What's going on, Xiaobao? These people didn't buy tickets for listening to the music, and they beat people. Why do you beat people? What the hell, little brat, you dare to stand here and cut this little girl's wound. I think you are impatient to live. Come on, you are so impatient. If you have the guts to fight alone and compete with me, you have become a spirit. Stop fighting. Stop hitting. Stop hitting. Stop hitting. Come on, come on, little bastard. I peeled off your skin, pulled your muscles, and they turned red. What are you going to do? I beg you. You old bastard, you are always trying to be sweet to others. You think Fifth Aunt and I are scared. Brothers, please smash me. It's the fifth aunt who killed this bastard and smashed that little [ __ ] Mei Xueqin's mouth to pieces. Fifth aunt, don't hit her. Stop it. Stop it. What's wrong? Miss Xueqin, little Taohong, go call the police. Don't hit her. Don't hit her. Smash it, don't smash it, stop it, you all, stop it. I said, it's time to do it now. I want to go home for tea and have some leisure time. Why wait, wait, wait, wait, I'll tell you the truth, my aunt will let you go for half a year today. I can't sing, what are you doing? Let me go. Be honest and let me go. What are you going to do? You can't do this. Don't do whatever you want. Do you think you, a stinky singer, will care about your life or death? It's a pity for this pretty little face. If you put this teapot down, your face will definitely be disfigured. She will be looking for teeth all over the floor. She still wants to sing in the future. Go and beg for food on the street with her white face. Five aunts, five aunts, I beg you, I beg you. If we don't want this Tianyan Building , we will give it to you. Liu Changfu, do n't break Xueqin's appearance. At worst, we go to the streets to beg for food and we won't bow to these villains. If Wu Gu has the guts, just do it. Don't blame grandma for being cruel. Please let us go. Five aunts , please let us go. I don't want Changfu. Five aunts, who are you? Even a fool can tell that you are dressed like a soldier. Who accidentally gave birth to you two? Do you think that no one would dare to mess with you wearing this green skin? To be honest, your mouth is too harsh for a man. It's considered dirty, don't talk about it growing on a woman's face. Stop talking nonsense. Where did you come from? You bastards dare to put your hands here to interfere with your aunt's business. The tongue is the smallest organ in the human body, but it can say the biggest words. Not only that, many people's tongues are like sharp swords that can hurt others mercilessly, just like you. Do you know what I would do in this situation? I would like to hear it. I will teach you to speak well. You teach me to speak well. Boss, thank you for your help. After all, this matter has nothing to do with you. Don't get involved with you. I have sent people to call the police. You can leave quickly. No, I just said that I want to teach her how to speak well first. Do you think so? I can't die. Many people want me to die, but I'm still alive. Those who want you to die tonight will be very happy because Akiya and the others will never see you again. I hope you can do it and kill this for me. The bastard is the leader of the family , so I'm going to hit you. I'm going to beat you. I'm going to beat you. Bunny, I'm going to kill you today. It seems like my lessons don't work for you. You know, I hate people the most. Put a gun to my head, but there are always people who do this. Not only will I put a gun to your head, but I will also blow your bunny's head open. I often play a game with others. I don't know if you like it. I just want to put a gun to your head. I like to see your brains flowing out. Why do you have to be so vicious? In fact, this game is very simple. Just guess whether there are bullets in the gun. Put down the gun, otherwise I will kill you. Do you think what you said is meaningful? I, I In other words, I will Do you listen to me? If you don't listen to me, the brothers will swarm you and chop you into pieces. There is something you may not have thought of. Originally, I didn't intend to kill your fifth aunt, but you are clearly irritating me by speaking like this. When I got angry, I lightly pulled the trigger with my finger. In Wu Gu's own words, her brains came out. How do you think Yuan Wencai will reward you after he goes back? No, no, no, no, it's not that you didn't mean it, right? So from now on You, no, you should keep your mouth shut. I have a problem. Whenever I see a lot of people around me, I get irritated. Maybe my hand holding the gun becomes unstable and I subconsciously trigger the trigger. You put the gun down first. We have something to talk about. If you have something to say, talk it out. It turns out you know how to talk well, but some [ __ ] have to put a gun to your head before they can speak human words. Brother, if you want it, just speak, do n't be impulsive. Don't be impulsive. I don't want anything. I just want to play with you. It's a game. The game is to use this gun. There are a total of six bullets in the gun . Five of them are shot. You shoot one and I shoot until the gun goes off. Let's see who dies and who lives. Draw a lottery. Is n't this life-threatening? If you are afraid, I can come here first. After all, this fifth girl followed Yuan Sanye from the Zaba field. Why don't you dare to draw the death lottery? If word spreads that the Triads are in Tianjin Wei, How are you still fooling around? Brother, come on, your fifth aunt and grandma have been fooling around all their lives and have never seen urine. Well, if you have the guts, it's you first, or me first. I'll be good first, kid. Come on, be careful. It's your turn. Let's do it. Okay, kid, I'm disappointed. Come on, it seems like my life should not be cut off. I am getting closer and closer to death. I don't know what it feels like. There are six holes in the wheel chamber and only one bullet. You and I each pulled the trigger twice. Now there is still another chance. The gun goes off. You're done and the gun doesn't go off. I'm afraid my head is going to explode. Even if I turn into a ghost, I won't let you go. To be honest, I'm not even afraid of people. How can I still be afraid of ghosts? God is watching you. This sentence should be given to you. You evil person, God is looking at you. Xueqin, please stop saying a few words. You are afraid that there is nothing more serious than death. What else can they do to us ? If you don't die, I will be the first to behead Mei Xueqin. I'll kill you, Fifth Aunt , Fifth Aunt, that's it. If it's OK, don't be so cruel. Quickly pull the trigger. Once the gun goes off, no one can cut your brains out. Is that okay? God shows up. Good job, Fifth Aunt. Good job, Fifth Aunt. As expected of the whole Tianjin Guard who came from our triad society. Number one, number one, number one. I'm lucky. My luck is pretty good. You kid is going to be unlucky. What kind of world is this? Even God blesses the wicked. From now on, I will never go to the temple to ask for help from God. It's so unreasonable for God to turn to evil people. Don't worry. When this little bastard dies, it will be your turn. Okay, come on and press your fingerprints. Let my aunt see what you are doing. Everyone, everyone is waiting for death. Sorry, I'm sorry. I was so nervous that I accidentally stepped over the chair. I was betting on my life. Are you nervous? Eat carrots and don't worry. What's wrong ? Can your gun still go off? It's almost dawn. Yes, hurry up, hurry up, come on, don't delay, shoot quickly, hurry up, yes, hurry up, this kid's cheating gun has no bullets in the gun, there are no bullets in the gun at all, little bastard, how dare you lie to my aunt, you There are no bullets in the gun. The gun is always in your hand. How could I cheat? Stop doing this. You must have played a trick. Give me the bullets to withdraw. Right, you kid is cheating. You are willing to bet and lose. You guys from the Triads want to win. Shameless, that is, shameless, you cheated, and you asked us to admit that you cheated. What else can you say? This, what's going on? It's really evil. Just now you said you were willing to admit defeat. This is you, Wugu He. I pressed the fingerprints on it with my own hands. From today on, if you Triads dare to go to Tianyan Tower to cause trouble, then it will be a violation of the rules of the world. You can decide what to do. It 's not me, He Wugu, who has the final say. I have to do it. Go back and ask our leader why he wants to be so mean. No problem. Go to Ta Kung Pao tomorrow and publish this document on the front page. See where the Triads put their faces. If they dare to cause trouble again, I will publish the document, brothers. This kid is cheating. Come and grab the paperwork. Come and grab me. The opportunity has come. The more lively the fight, the better . Okay, brothers, grab the paperwork and grab it for me. Hurry up, little bastard. I'll kill you . Stop fighting. Stop it, don't fight it, don't fight it, the police are here. Put it down, put it down, put it down, Squad Leader Hu, you are here. These gangsters came into the venue to listen to books, did n't buy tickets, didn't talk about it, and trashed my place . You see, there is no King's Law. Where do these gangsters dare to come to Jingang Bridge to cause trouble? I'm tired of living. Can you take it away with me? Or is it a big mouth? Who is this? You are not afraid of burning your mouth when you speak. You still dare to speak? You are hiding under the table and pretending that you are a grandma with a big tail. Look at my eyes, which are used to vent my anger. I didn't even recognize the fifth grandma. I thought you were a grown-up kid and didn't recognize your aunt. Look at what you said, I just don't recognize me. My mother also needs to know you, sir. I said Squad Leader Hu, she is the leader of that gang of hooligans. You know nothing. This is the fifth aunt of the powerful Tianjin Wei. My godmother , you are the hooligan. I don't know where these two boys came from. The bastards who dare to beat up your aunt and grandma are the ones who are trashing the bookstore. You are talking nonsense. You are talking nonsense. It is obviously them who are occupying the bookstore. Stop talking nonsense to me. Can such a big person as Fifth Aunt make trouble unreasonably? It must be these two boys who are not the same thing. They are causing trouble here. I can't spare you, are you being unreasonable? I said, where did you steal this military uniform? You look like a grandson , stop talking nonsense, if you want to do something, hurry up. Make trouble, destroy the place, dare to talk harshly, I will take them away. Wait, the ones who caused the trouble are not He Wugu and the triad group Mei Xueqin. I advise you not to toast or eat. You will offend the triad group and the fifth nun. If you say that your book club can't protect you, don't even think about hanging around in Tianjin Wei. If you don't hang around, you won't hang out with Squad Leader Hu. You are the police and you are blatantly helping these gangsters and villains to oppress good people. Do you still have King Dharma King Dharma? Let me tell you in this situation. Third Master Yuan is a good king if you have three acres of land. You are right. My aunt will go back and tell you that Third Master will invite you to Yinglou for dinner some other time. Don't you dare, you don't dare , you are not arresting people. Why are you arresting people? Everyone, please stop. No need to be violent, I'll fight with you , Sixth Brother, then you take the three hall masters and sixty brothers to go in first and see. My Fifth Aunt and I are waiting here. If there is an attack, we will send someone out to report it immediately. We will go immediately for reinforcements. No problem, you're fine. Get out of the car , hurry up, hurry up, keep up, hurry up, remember, you must kill him according to the plan. Don't worry, brothers, come to me. Why is there no one? There is no one named Yun. , Aren't you ruthless? What's wrong? Why didn't you dare to show up when grandpa came? He ran away, escaped, and became a shrinking bastard. Mr. Liu, it doesn't look like there are people in this bookstore. There must be someone living behind this building. Is the person hiding in the yard? It makes sense. Brothers, let me search where the gunshot came from. Where is the gun? Where is the person? Mr. Liu, look at this. Who fired the gun? Where did it come from? Yes, did you see it? Let's do it over there. Kill these bastards, Fifth Sister. Just listen to the gunfire. Don't fight. There aren't many people left alive . Stop shooting. Where did the gun come from? , from over there, not over there , over there, Mr. Liu, Mr. Liu, over here, over here, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, you fart, you fart, you fart, go, monkey monkey, look for me, where can I find someone? Look, I'm dead, you look for it, look for it, everyone, look for it, look for it quickly. You two can go up over there in a moment. You can go up over there, okay. I, okay, over there , let's go. Did you find it ? Nothing. Ghost, there is a ghost, ghost, don't run, don't run , don't run, whoever runs, I will kill him. Come back, there are ghosts. What are you doing? What are you doing? Run away. Have those bastards inside been dealt with? Deal with it. They almost let us go. Didn't it work out just now? Was n't there a lively fight there? They were beating us. We fell down dozens of times without even seeing anyone. What the hell is going on with you bunch of losers? Don't tell me clearly. If you don't believe me, you can take a look at me. If I go in, why would I want you to do that ? Fifth aunt, please stay here and watch the enemy's formation. Me and Lao Liu will go in and take a look at me. I still don't believe it. They can still be invisible . Well done. I'll take care of you here. Leave ten people for me . You can take away the fifth aunt. Jinghao, everyone. Get out of the car. Sixth, don't make any mistakes again this time. Come on, hurry up and follow me into the bookstore. Come on, they must be hiding somewhere in the building and shooting secretly . We can't even see them in the light. Even if they are in the dark, we can't see them. If we find them one by one, we will suffer a big loss. Listen to me, everyone, don't fight in the bookstore. Rush into the bookstore and kill him. Go to the backyard and take away his lair first. See if they can get out. Good idea. Let's go. Brothers, we are over there. Six brothers, retreat quickly, retreat quickly, retreat quickly, retreat quickly, brothers, beat them brothers, they are beating me behind the counter, brothers, retreat into the secret passage, brothers, beat them, beat them to death. Help the bastard if you can't fight. Surrender. Surrender. Stop fighting. Stop fighting. Stop fighting. Surrender. Stop fighting. Surrender. Surrender. Don't fight. Three old men and four young men. Three old men and four young men. Don't shoot . Don't shoot. Do n't shoot. We meet again. Do you think you are powerful because of the large number of people? I don't. Do you feel better without it? Brother Yun, all the children of the world can't kill people without giving a nod. So please show your noble hand. Let the brothers go. Think about it. If it were me, would you let me go? I advise you to keep your mouth shut. As for how to deal with you idiots, that's my business. Tie them up for me. Get up, get up and be honest. What's going on? Why are you silent? Are you talking to me? This brother, this brother has something to say, something to say. Remember first, I'm not your brother. Second, I don't. If I don't want to talk to you anymore and want to survive, just be honest and tie me up. Come on, come on, follow up. Come on, come on. Come on, follow up . Have you protected Tianyan Tower ? Captain Yun ordered that no one be allowed to enter Tianyan Building . Anyone who dares to hold a gun will be immediately arrested and killed. Brother Yun, Brother Gao, Brother Guo, are really resolute. They arrived in less than an hour. Brother, just say a word to me. Two platoons came here without saying a word. I don't know if it's enough. The triad gang will never dare to take action as long as they see the national army here. Brothers, get ready. Brothers, get off the car and we are going in. Tianyan Tower has been taken over by the national army. Who are you? You dare to ask me for my serial number. From today onwards, Tianyan Tower will become a military restricted area. Anyone who dares to trespass will be shot without mercy. Tianyan Tower is obviously a bookstore. Why don't you let us in? Just because you are a member of the Triad. Yes, who are you? My name is Yun Jianming. Yun Jianming, you are Yun Jianming. You can't fake this. Go back and tell Yuan Wencai. Xiao Mahao, Lao Liu and his four men | There are more than ten brothers in my hands and I want them to die. It is easy to take them out and carry the bodies back. Why, one is not enough, let's get another one. Mr. Yun, you are so ruthless. The weather is nice today. Yes, you still can. Are you okay? We'll see you later. Brothers, get in the car, Baozi, selling Baozi. Baozi is here. Tofu Nao, get ready for action. Okay, here comes Xiaobao. Get ready for action. Be careful. What's going on? How does this car drive? Do you know how to drive? Is it okay? I have to go to the hospital | What's up, what's up, you saw the car coming, why did you run? Boss, I'm sorry, I'm worried, what's the matter? You, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay , it's okay You man, don't die. Just don't die. If you have nothing to do, just go. Let's go. Let's go. Don't delay the boss's business. The boss is busy and has nothing to do. Let's all go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Come on, Baozi, come and see how you drive this car. How do you drive this car? Boss , your boss has a punctured tire. Hurry up and replace the spare tire. This is outrageous. This tire is punctured. Prepare to replace the spare tire. Look, the tire is punctured. Do n't worry about the punctured tire. Let me help you guys. Help me move the stall. Okay, boss, don't worry about it yet. Come on, sit here and rest for a while. I'll go get it. Good tool, how about you sit down. You're hooked, tool, come on, come on, come on, don't do anything, don't move the gun or I'll kill him , Uncle Yun, put the gun down, don't move, bro, bro, don't shoot us No grudges in the past, no grudges these days. Put down the gun. Put down the gun. Don't shoot. Shut up and don't move. Otherwise, I will shoot. I said, don't shoot. Don't shoot. Let this boss go. He is a good man. Why? Please don't come here or I'll shoot him. Don't shoot, don't shoot . Let him go. Who will believe you dog spies if we let you go? You just stand there and don't move. Otherwise I'll kill him with one shot. Hello. Well, we are from the detective team. Brother, I'm scared. Boss, are you okay? Thank you, boss. If it weren't for your fault, I would have to leave my briefcase here today. Is it okay? It's okay. It's okay. Didn't you lose anything? No, okay, boss. , I'll leave first , walk slowly, stand still, when will I not be able to see your ugly face? If you let me go, you won't be able to see my ugly face. I 'll shoot you to death. I can't see your ugly face, and I will never see it again. It's impossible for you, the second brother, to be a hero. How can you kill me, an unarmed person ? That's right. You're an unarmed person. Then tell me about Liu Changfu, Liu. Is the boss an unarmed person? Who killed him ? It was a misunderstanding. It was all a misunderstanding. What kind of misunderstanding was it? Was it a misunderstanding that you occupied Tianyan Tower? Or was it a misunderstanding that killed Liu Changfu? Was it a misunderstanding that you were trying to kill Meiqi? I misunderstood you and rushed into the bookstore fully armed . I really want to kill you with one shot. But I am a good person and will not be as cruel as you. Untie her rope. Yuan Wencai is still waiting for the news of your victory. Take the body with you. Go back and give him a message saying that Xiao Mahao, Lao Liu and all of your idiot subordinates are all in the hands of Yun Mou and want Tianyan Tower. Even if he comes, these people will take the bullets of the Triad for me . Yes, yes. I'll definitely give you the message and let her go. Brother Yun, you're the only one here. Why, that's not enough. Please, please come in. The master is waiting for you inside. We'll have a cup of tea later. No. Mr. Yuan is here. Brother Yun, Mr. Yuan, please take a seat. Mr. Yuan, please. If you don't agree to my conditions today, I 'm afraid it will be easier for you to come than for you to go. You have to come in standing and go out sideways. I'd like to see you. Lieutenant, go ahead, do n't be in a hurry, how about holding on steady? Now that you've seen it, I really admire you for being able to laugh at such a time. You're named Yuan. I'm just laughing at you for how you, the Triad Society, have no regard for moral principles. With such treachery and indiscretion, it's no wonder that your subordinates are all those tough-hearted fools who can't achieve great things. I can let you know that these people will leave Tianjin through Nanda Road after killing you. After that, we will spread the wind. It is said that during the meeting, the top leaders of Nanchagu Feilong Gang suddenly killed you and killed you. This matter will not be related to my triad. Are you satisfied with this answer? Gao Neng can come up with such an idea. Isn't it? Idiots are self-righteous idiots. Okay, just let me, this idiot, send you to the west. Kill him for me. Goodbye. Yun Jianming, give me a beating. What the hell is going on? Chase him. If you chase him, I will kill him for sure. Brothers. , I responded to the battalion commander because he ran out of bullets . Hit him and chase him to death. Who doesn't chase him? I'll kill him. He, hurry up, keep up and fight well. Yuan Wencai, this old guy, knows now. We are so powerful. Our battalion commander is really full of courage. There are so many killers that he can kill so fast. Hurry up, brothers. It has been forty minutes. I think Adjutant Sun and the others should be here soon. Sister Linna and the others are here. Alright, Erkui, open the door Erkui Dahong Erkui Erkui Erkui You gang of murderers, you gang of murderers brothers, tie them up for me , who dares to resist? Kill her for me. Do you tie her up or let her go. What are you doing? Let go and don't move. Let go and listen. There seems to be gunshots outside. Don't tell me, I seem to have heard Hongying. Hongying, why are you here? Come on, let go. It's our Master Yuan who used a trick to divert the tiger away from the mountain. The man surnamed Yun was transferred away, and the group of soldiers standing guard in front of the door were also transferred. Now it's an empty city plan. I took the brothers to give him a black tiger to take out his heart. It must be said that our Master Yuan is so resourceful, Xiaoma. , Mr. Liu, our Mr. Yuan also has a chain plan. In the first round of the contest, we can say that we won a complete victory. Yuan Wencai knew this very well, but why did he offer such unreasonable conditions? He knew that I couldn't. Accept, why should we arrange this meeting? You are his biggest enemy. Of course he wants to use this opportunity to get rid of you. People like Yuan Wencai will never be stupid enough to think that we will be defenseless. What do you mean? Yuan Wencai knows that we are. It is absolutely certain that we came prepared, otherwise Yuan Wencai would never have lived to this day, let alone developed such a large force. What on earth do you want to say? We have ignored a fatal problem. This problem will cause us to encounter disaster. I'm afraid what's the problem with what you said? Yuan Wencai's eldest brother Duan Zhihong is the director of the Department of Operations, so what? The Department of Operations can mobilize any unit in the Tianjin garrison, including of course Guo Dalu's 282nd Regiment. What do you mean? Yes, this is a plan to move the tiger out of the mountain. First use the peace talks to transfer us away from Tianyan Tower, and then use Duan Zhihong to transfer Guo Dalu's troops away. If this is really the case, Yanlou will be the barrier that day. Lina , Meiqi, Xueqin and Dahong are all lost. I'm in danger. I said to you, I hope what you said is not true. I hope my judgment is wrong. I said that every time you say this, the result is the opposite. Big brother, I really made you blame me. They all blame me for being too careless. This move to lure the tiger away from the mountain is really vicious . Big brother, what should I do now? The blood of my brothers will not be shed in vain. I must avenge them . No, you won't have this chance. Don't move, don't move. This is called You see, you are right. Just wait and see. I would like to advise you. Grandpa's number is ten times as many as yours and he occupies the commanding heights. Put down your weapons. Otherwise, you will be beaten into a sieve. Put down your weapons. Brother, put down your weapons. Put down your weapons. Put down your weapons. Put down your weapons. Put down your weapons. I Didn't you hear what I said? Everyone put down your weapons. That's right. Tie them up for me. Yes, take them away. Yes, go, go, go quickly. Come on, go, go quickly. This morning, you will tie me up. After a long time, it will become I tied you up. This is really called ten years in Hedong and ten years in Hexi. You never dreamed that you would fall into our hands so quickly, right? Do you know what it is like for a villain to succeed ? You will know it just by looking at your virtue. I really admire you, but you have turned into a polished commander. If you still refuse to accept your softness, you are so rotten and your mouth is not rotten. You are still stubborn. I found that people in your triad group have a common problem. The fifth aunt is like this and so are you. The common problem is not seen. The coffin won't shed tears. Well said. I beg you, let me see the coffin. Yes, I will. Stop talking nonsense. Do you think I have time to talk nonsense with you? Do you know why I didn't tie you up too? Of course, I know that you are really good at it for the house deed of Tianyan Building. You are smart enough, but it is a pity that you used it too late . You are right. Hand over the house deed of Tianyan Building immediately and follow me back to meet our head. Maybe Mr. Yuan sees you as useful and keeps it for you. What's the way to survive? If you don't pay the deed, it's not here. Of course it's in another place. So you've been working hard. Take us to get it. Of course, I'm very happy with this attitude. I like searching, but don't play tricks, otherwise it will blow your mind immediately. I hate it the most when people point guns at me, but there are always people like this. I put a gun to your head. What can you do to me? You know that in life, you will get back whatever you put in. Of course you are no exception. Stop talking nonsense. Come quickly and take them back to the main forum. Tell the boss that I and this guy named Yun will go get the house deed and go back in a while. Mr. Liu, don't worry, get in the car. It 's right here. Your destination is about to arrive. Are you happy? Nonsense, we're about to go in . You're welcome, sit down wherever you want. My patience is limited. If you dare to play tricks on me, I'll shoot you immediately. How could you? I've always been honest. I said your destination is your destination. It must be something. There is no electric light in such a big house. Of course, you, you and me, didn't I just say that you have arrived at your destination? Don't kill me, don't kill me. That's impossible. Don't worry, your boss will come soon. Who are you and the others? Triad idiots. Thank you, these idiots. It seems that there is no need for the two of us to do it together. Indeed, I can kill them in the car. You are testing me to see if I am really helping you. Although it makes some sense, it is a little bit. It's a bit of a villain's heart to judge a gentleman's belly. The reason why I led them here is because I have to go to Mansion No. 6 to ask for your help anyway. I just asked them to drive me here. It will save some energy for two people to do it. It's a good calculation. You came to me for help. Something big must have happened. To put it briefly, the Triads ransacked Tianyan Tower and killed my brother generals Yelena, Meiqi, Mei Xueqin, and Dahong. They all kidnapped them. Yes, according to what I know about you. You shouldn't make such a mistake. I ignored a major issue. I fell into the opponent's plan to lure the tiger away from the mountain. I underestimated the enemy. They kidnapped Miss Ye. Yes, Miss Ye is Mr. Ye's daughter. They dared to kidnap me. They just took the courage of a leopard. I do n't think Yuan Wencai's men knew that they kidnapped Ye Hongkai's daughter. I mean, no matter how powerful Yuan Wencai was ten times more, he would not dare to openly challenge the army. This is also our opportunity. What do you mean, we have to rush back to Tianyan Tower. Let's talk about it on the way to prepare weapons. It's been a good day and we have to work hard again. For people like us, taking risks and working hard is fun. Resting every day is the most difficult thing. You know me, you have been hiding here and there these days, and your whole body is growing fast. I'm so stupid, I'm just trying to find a few unlucky guys to make a profit. I want to make Yuan Wencai regret living in this world. I'm waiting for Tianjin to be liberated. I invite you to come here and listen to books. Will people like me fall into the hands of your Communist Party? If I know what will happen , I am a Communist. Who can tell clearly what will happen to you? It would be great if the Communists were like you. But what if something happens? There are no weapons. Hidden in the cellar in the backyard. Follow me. Someone is Xiao Baoyun. Uncle Xiaobao, Uncle Yun Xiaobao, they didn't catch you. When Yu, the gangster from the Triad, came in, I hid in the magic box and kept hiding in the secret passage below. Linna, Meiqi, Xueqin, and Dahong were three The bad guys from Hehui captured Brother Erkui, Brother Zhang, and Brother Li. They were beaten to death by these beasts. Xiaobao, a man who doesn't cry only bleeds and doesn't shed tears. I promise you that I will definitely avenge Erkui and the others. Uncle Yun, let's hurry up. Go rescue Sister Xueqin and the others. Don't worry, we will definitely rescue them. This little guy is really smart. His name is Xiaobao. He is Xiaobao who performs magic in Tianyan Tower . Do you know where those bad guys from the Triad took them? This is me. I didn't know that after the accident, several groups of Triad killers came and lurked in the bookstore. When you and the uncle of the team came in, I wanted to tell you, but you were already captured by them before I even climbed out. Yun Uncle, how did you escape ? This uncle helped me. Thank you, uncle Xiaobao, you have been hiding in the secret passage. After you were taken away, I heard no sound outside and then I ran out. You just said Tianyan Tower. There are several groups of people here, besides the Triads, who else seems to be the Adjutant Sun that Sister Linna mentioned. He brought many soldiers with him and called Sister Linna's name everywhere, but I don't know if he is serving or not. He is really smart to come out. Ghost, you did the right thing. If you want to save people, you must first know where the Triads hide people. Do n't worry, it will be known soon. It's Gao Jin. I left him outside Tianyan Building to follow the Triads' truck. Come in. How about Double Eagle? The truck drove to the Triad Association on Henan Road. I saw Er Yong being escorted in by them. Uncle Gao and Xiaobao Xiaobao, who you should know, were imprisoned in the Triad Association. In fact, you have known for a long time that the killers of the Triads are still ambushing Tianyan Tower, right? Yes, you can't make the same mistake twice. You deliberately let those idiots take away your men and follow the clues. Not only that, they have other things. I'm here to open the door for my mission to the Triad Club. I'm here to open the door. Please tell me how are you, how are you getting used to living there? Do n't act hypocritically here. You bully the market and do all kinds of evil and disregard human lives. You won't end well. My end is not good. At least he won't be worse than your husband Liu Changfu, right? Yuan, it's easy for you to get Tianyan Tower. But if you want me, Mei Xueqin, to work hard for you, I'll tell you, if you have the guts, just kill me. Do n't say it so cruelly. I believe that you will change your mind after everyone here is dead. Go ahead and have your dream. Just wait. Yun Jianming will definitely come back to you. You may not know it yet. Yun Jianming has fallen into my hands. You are the one who is dreaming, I said, Mei Xueqin, you should have some sense and follow our master obediently , otherwise, I will sell you to a brothel so that you can neither survive nor die. You beasts with human faces and animal hearts, your end is coming soon. Miss Maggie, I really want to tell you these words. You know, we are worried that we will not have the chance to get rid of you again, so you came to our door. You shameless villains, gangsters and eagle dogs who are willing to be spies will harm the people sooner or later. You will reap the consequences if you wait. This day is coming soon , Meiqi, Xueqin, don't talk nonsense to them. Talking to these people is a waste of face and breath for them. What's wrong with this lady? Please speak louder. What's wrong with her? Ye Hongkai's daughter is her. If she goes out and becomes a celebrity, everyone will take notice. What do you think? That girl just now is Ye Hongkai's daughter. Yes, she is Ye Hongkai's daughter, Ye Linna. You see, it's really, really, absolutely correct. She is the one I met at the police station. Miss Ye, the head of the family who arrived, what's wrong? You're such a bastard. Who asked you to arrest Ye Hongkai's daughter? Ye Hongkai, the commander of the 301st Division guarding Tianjin, Ye Hongkai , this, this, which one is Ye Hongkai's daughter? She just sat there and didn't say anything. Brother Duan repeatedly warned him never to touch the Ye family, but now he has stirred up a hornet's nest. Ye Hongkai holds tens of thousands of troops in his hands. What will I do if he knows that his daughter has been kidnapped by us? I don't know she is Ye Hongkai's daughter. If I want to know who kidnapped her, what should I do now? Go, go, go there, or let her go. No, no, no, absolutely not . Let her go. Everything will be made public. Think about it, how could she shut up? Then what should we do? Master Yuan, just stop doing it and kill her so that Ye Hongkai can't find her. When Yun Jianming comes, kill them all. Let's give him a death sentence without any evidence. Ye Hongkai Where can I find it? So far, this is the only feasible way. As long as the person named Yun is escorted, he will do it to me immediately and then take the body to the crematorium in Wuqing and burn it for me. Why hasn't this guy come back to see it? The distance is too far. , basically can't see clearly, there are still four minutes left, you see it, this is Yun Jianming, this is Yun Jianming , [ __ ], shut up, look at the sound, it 's a bomb going off , blowing up, blowing up the boss. Come on, he came and closed the gate and ordered the brothers to guard the south courtyard closely. The head of the house is here. Come quickly, the brothers who are the head of the house. Surround the main house and protect the head of the house . Come, follow me. Come on, come on. You go over there. You go over there. Come on, others follow me. Yuan Wencai lives in the middle part of the south courtyard. The explosion occurred there. You can also confirm this from the direction in which the Triad killer ran. Let me take a look and I will say, your idea really works. Although the hostage has found Yuan Wencai's location, the other party will definitely strengthen the alert and the operation will become more difficult. There will be more people to protect Yuan Wencai and fewer to guard the hostages. Everyone has seen that the triad is a trade-off. After entering the big courtyard, there are hundreds of rooms. The most important thing now is to find out where the hostages are, otherwise all actions will be blind. If you want to do this, you must sneak into the courtyard. I have already thought of a plan. What plan will come? It seems like there is a click, go, look, go, don't shoot, you shout louder so that the whole hospital can hear, spare your life, spare your life, you want to die, of course you want to live, can you let me live? That depends on your performance. Brother He, I will spare your life if you answer the question honestly. Where are the hostages held? How many people are guarding the main room in the North Courtyard? How many forty or fifty people are there? What are the names of the stewards ? How many channels did you use to contact He Hongying? The Sixth Channel is talking to the main forum. The Twelve Channel, you are very obedient. You are very good at taking off the walkie-talkie and hiding him. Hurry up , Brother Congratulations. Congratulations, Brother. I am the patrol team and caught two people in the courtyard of the Central Courtyard. Personally, come here and have a look. Come and see how much damage you have done. This is called treating others the way they are treated, so catch two people. Is this Yun Jianming? We haven't seen you before, so come over and have a look. It's two men . Wait and go. Come and see Hongying. You have a great responsibility in guarding the North Courtyard. You must be extra careful not to let Yun Jianming take advantage of the opportunity . Don't worry. It is the Middle Courtyard that should hide the weapons first. Let's go in and have a look . Let's go. I'll bet on big and I'm also small. Okay, come on, come on, hurry up, place, place your bet, place your bet. After you're done, I'll buy the third team. I'm the general manager of the third team. Team 3, Team 3. I am the Team 3. I am Team 3. I am reporting the situation. Reporting the situation, I am Team 3. Are you seeing everything normal ? The patrols all have walkie-talkies. There are also walkie-talkies in the main room. It looks like they are relying on walkie-talkies. Contact the General Forum to keep track of the situation in the yard. Where did these bumpkins get their walkie-talkies? You forgot, Duan Zhihong is the director of the Operations Department. I see it this way. Let's divide our forces into two groups. Gao Jin and I will scout the South Wing while you scout the North Wing. Where can the person be detained ? Go to the Moon Gate in front. Someone is standing guard. If you pass the Moon Gate, it should be the south courtyard. There is a sentry post. Go up there. Hey, Brother, how are you doing? Nothing happened. Everything is normal. Brothers, the people in Tianyan Building are being detained. In the North Campus, we have a main target named Yun. My eyes widened. If there is any situation, I will fire immediately. He is a good guy. This is really heavily guarded. Judging from his position, Yuan Wencai should be here to command the world's three-in-one five aunts. The fifth aunt is the fifth aunt. It seems that Yuan Wencai is walking here. How about you? Find Yuan Wencai. The south courtyard is Yuan Wencai's main altar. There are dozens of people guarding you in the wings on both sides. The imprisoned people have found you. You can be sure that everyone I heard personally was locked up in the North Courtyard. The leader is a man named He. The janitor calls him Brother He. Okay, great. What do you want to do? I just thought about it. Since they can Use the walkie-talkie to contact people and let's give him a trick. What does the center bloom mean? Come on, hide you, you, you should know who I am. You, you are right. Yun Jianming is right. I will do everything I say. Don't be wrong, otherwise you will be the next one to lose your head. Hello , okay. Do you think it's interesting to take someone else's name? At least it's useful to scare people. I didn't expect Brother Yun to fall into their hands . It seems that God doesn't bless good people. If Yun Jianming If you were really caught by the Triads, why haven't you been brought here yet? That's right. It was morning when Yuan Wencai said this, but it's already evening now. You are not familiar with him. Only I have seen him kill people. It looks really scary, let alone the Triads. These gangsters are the Japanese Yinggu Brigade on the Chongming Ship. So what if they all died in his hands? That explosion outside in the afternoon, do you think it has something to do with him? Maybe Brother He, what are you going to do? You have too many questions. Just remember to do your own thing and don't try to escape, or warn others. You know how powerful I am. If you do this, you will not only die yourself, but also implicate the person who was warned, Wu Gu. I have talked about you a long time ago, saying that you are talking about me, saying that Yun Jianming is not a human, but a ghost. I am Yun Jianming. You can save your life if you cooperate. As long as you understand this, it is enough. Brother He caught me again. Stay two and go, go in, Brother He, Brother He, go in and sit down. Why are you closing the door here? What on earth is going on? What are you still doing? You promised me that you won't kill me. Don't worry, I'm the only one who can speak. I'll take you to a safe place. Dahong, are you okay? What's okay? You're not okay here. Why are you here? Brother Yun. What's going on? Where is Yun Jianming? I'm here. I didn't tell you. , I said he, I don't know much about him. Gao Jin, aren't you with him? Why did you come here? Of course we are here for you. Please stop for me. Why do you still want me? Come here with the surname Yun. Come on, look, the flare master, look here, whoever sent the flare seems to be very close. Brothers, do it on the nearby roof. What is going on? You, you, you, we have already cut the rope. What's the sound? Big brother, big brother, something happened. I don't know where. Thousands of national troops appeared from nowhere and came towards the general altar. It's Ye Hongkai. Come and tell me what's going on. In fact, we already knew it. The Triad killers are ambushing Tianyan Tower. The reason why they plotted this plan is firstly to ask me to track the vehicle escorting the brothers. Secondly, they want to find the place where you are detained and let the brothers protect you. Each of them has a razor blade in their mouth in case of emergency. Then we can save people. I said Gao Jin, why didn't you tell me earlier? He didn't let me tell you because he was afraid that you wouldn't be able to calm down. Who said I couldn't calm down? Why did n't you tell me? Why didn't you tell me why? Beiyuan, Beiyuan, Beiyuan, Beiyuan, where are you? I am Beiyuan. I am He Hongying from Beiyuan. He Hongying brought Yelina to me immediately. Bring her here immediately. Brother He is not here. Brother He is not here. Damn, he goes. I don't know where it is, bastard, I am Yuan Wencai. Immediately bring all the women in the house here and kill everyone else. How is this possible? How could Ye Hongkai understand so quickly? The head of the house, will you? Huiyun Jianming is already here. Otherwise, who sent the signal flare just now? I haven't heard anything in the North Courtyard. The Intermediate Courtyard hasn't reported it yet. The boss, the soldier, rushed into the alley. Where is the shooting? The sound of shooting is like that. It's Beiyuan Beiyuan, Beiyuan, Beiyuan Beiyuan, where are the people? Beiyuan bombs Beiyuan, Beiyuan, Beiyuan Yun Jianming, the head of the house, is Yun Jianming inside, and Ye Hongkai is outside. If he doesn't leave, it will be too late. He can't take care of it now. If there are so many, leave immediately from the secret passage under the water pavilion. Brothers, protect the master and evacuate. Master, go, go quickly. Shoot somewhere quickly. Protect the master and evacuate quickly. Go quickly. The Triad congregation here is listening immediately. Put down your weapons, come out and surrender, otherwise brother, what else can you do, surrender, don't shoot , we surrender, do n't shoot, brother Hong Kai, brother Hong Kai, I just got a call here, I don't know what happened here. I really want to know, hurry up, go, go, hurry up, hurry up, master. All the gangsters from the Triads have been disarmed. What's going on? Why did the 282nd Regiment take action without permission to attack Captain Guo of the Triads? Tell Duan Ting What happened here? Mr. Ye's only daughter, Ms. Linna, was kidnapped in Tianyan Building last night. Tianyan Building. Director Duan knew, no, no, no. You went on to say that it was the three people who kidnapped Miss Linna who got the exact information today. How is this possible? Yuan Wencai is not a person who doesn't understand the rules. How dare he offend Mr. Ye? It's impossible. If you go in and take a look, you will know what happened to Linna's father and father. Last night, the killers of the Triads suddenly rushed into Tianyan Building. He tied us up and threatened to kill our young lady. Don't they know your identity? Of course they know, especially that Wu Gu. We have dealt with him before. Director Duan, the Triad murderer and kidnapper actually kidnapped me. Ye Hong came up at the beginning. This kind of thing should be called bullying. Yes, it is this matter. It is indeed too much. I want to ask Yuan Wencai to find out. I know the relationship between Yuan Wencai and Director Duan of the Triad, but If you still want Ye to tolerate this kind of thing , it will be difficult for Ye to obey Mr. Ye's orders. I am also very angry about Mr. Ye's anger . As for how to deal with it, Director Duan has come to search the general forum. The arrest of Yuan Wencai is over there. Brothers, hurry up, and guard this side. Here, stand up and take your position. Captain Guo enters the room . Brother Wencai, you, you, this is the punishment he deserves . You, you. Who is it? My name is Yun Jianming. You are Yun Jianming. It's me. Why did you tie the explosives to Mr. Yuan's body? What would you do if someone killed your brother, robbed your family property, and tied up your friend? If such a thing happened? Should we resort to legal means? How can it be solved with this method? With these words, you'd better go and tell Yuan Wencai. If he can really use legal means to solve the problem, will I still be here? Will Mr. Ye's daughter be here, my friend? Are you still here? Are n't you ruthless, Yuan? Aren't you evil? Did n't you tell me that as long as the triad society likes it, there is nothing I can't get? Did n't you say that I would die if I didn't sell Tianyan Building to you? What about now? Captain Yun, don't be impulsive, put down the detonator. I only told you one thing. I will make you regret living in this world. What I did When it comes to me, I don't need those five gold bars, I don't need Tianyan Tower, but I want you to die, and I want everyone in Tianjin Guard to know that Yuan Wen, the dignified triad boss, died in my hands. Linna, hurry out. This is between me and Yuan Wencai, and this officer. If you don't want to be buried with Yuan, I advise you to go out too. Captain Yun, don't be impulsive and put down the detonator first. Not only do you have a score to settle with Yuan Wencai. He kidnapped my daughter, and I have to settle the score with him. Mr. Ye, please shut up with me. Yuan, you bully the market, kill people for money, I can't control you, kill people and set fire. Who gave you a protective umbrella? I can't control it, but you kidnapped me. Ye Hong came up. This time, I can't stand by and watch. Here comes the teacher and takes Yuan Wencai away. What's the sound? What's the sound? The show has started. Run, little Mahao. I said, the show will be great. It's wonderful. It's a pity that Yuan Wencai didn't come. Such a tragic way to die.