Anytime when I'm going to kids. I tell them, &quot;you smell money.&quot; By 2027, the waste expected to grow into a There's an entirely management facility instead of burying it. This combustion is known energy recovery because electricity. I wouldn't be surprised if all the rivers around the all the plastics that is If you're going to call you don't want your junkyards. The degradation of an EV biggest questions of the In 2019, the North market reached $208 Strict environmental surge in the amount of expected to expand the By 2027, the waste expected to grow into a Anytime when I'm going to kids, you know, I talk to &quot;yucky, you're going to told them, &quot;you smell the America remains one of the the world, generating 239 every year, about 1,600 person. While some view environment and society, opportunity. It's a profitable industry, but it is right, and I think that private companies that management. Thanks to advancements in support from the seen astonishing recent years, raking in profit. Private solid like Waste Management and shown significant growth They've learned how to be and as they did that, growth occurring in new business formation, consumer engagement, industry, publicly-traded market handily between And underpinning it is a their free cash flow So how exactly are out of garbage and just made? When people think imagine an endless field terrible odor and housing But modern sanitary more nuanced and a lot A modern landfill is a These are extraordinarily They're designed to the environment, and at manage the waste that we half pounds a person per If you walk past the smell, that means they Strict regulations and the changed landfills to sanitary than ever. The Solid Waste Disposal the Resource Conservation dramatically expanded the in managing waste garbage is dropped off now illegal. When waste is brought to are disposed into an open This cell is protected by plastic, known as the harmful liquids from Any liquid from the waste of the landfill and is pipes, gravels, and sand. Meanwhile, above ground compressed within the other compaction covers to protect the pests until the cell Once that happens, either or a final cover is The site is then up to 30 years to ensure environmentally sound. There is the potential for for example over long probably more likely the just going to be subject weathering and different So there's the potential You want to be monitoring there's the potential for Landfills make a majority before the garbage makes trash. Through a tipping landfills charged trucks based on their weight per This fee acts as the landfills across the Tipping fee gets its truck comes in and tips, literally tips up when the trailer through floor. So tipping is it's price per ton, and that income. In 2020, municipal solid average tipping of $53.72 That translates to year in approximate small landfills, and large landfills, just And tipping fees have the past four decades. In 1982, the national $8.07 per ton, or about inflation. That's nearly years. Tipping fees vary the landfill is located. south central region in has the lowest average ton, with some states fee as low as $30.53 per On the other hand, the northeast is almost ton, with states like as high as $85 per ton. There's a list of reasons, is scarcity. So that highest, I would venture extraordinarily dense disposal options. The other difference is western Pennsylvania, formations at very literally go 50 miles The cost of building a Pennsylvania versus Ohio different. While tipping fees make risk-free business, they expensive investment. It can cost about $1.1 to construct, operate and And there are financial met even after the entirely. There was a major happened in the '70s Conservation Recovery landfill that was in had to adhere to D, which is the design lifecycle financial managing and overseeing after it closes. So every business owner, they make money up to the Then even after closure, maintenance fee, which is without making money for That's part of their they need to make money Today, private companies governments to own and landfills across the U.S. In 1988, about 7,900 owned. By 2009, that 1,900. It's now estimated municipal solid waste privately-owned, with the to 90% of permitted Landfills are often owned I think it's because the larger and larger. So the you know, can't exist and the sophistication of So we're tending to see do require a lot of Two private companies, Republic Services, lead sector. Waste management landfills across the Service says it operates 2,627 landfills across Together, the two staggering performance in companies stock prices years. If you take the Great the framework of how to Great Recession, what there's a five-year they did okay. They were, green, matching or market. But the begins in 2014 through They've learned how to be And as they did that, growth occurring in new business formation. consumer engagement, industry. Publicly-traded market handily between And underpinning it is a their free cash flow Some government transitioned to a hybrid Wake County, North owned by the county but Environmental, a private So if you give it fully company will try to go but their main focus will To me, the combination of because that way has landfill company. They will look at only also needs to make sure the environmental environmental cases and is maintained in the Private companies have beyond tipping fees to garbage. Landfill mining of extracting and from older landfills is Certainly, looking at best thing for the It's the best thing for health. Putting metal in absolutely no sense. It's just going to sit in ever and ever. It'll be pretty much going to sit so easy to recover and money and energy and so In 2011, a private scrap with a nonprofit landfill precious metals. In four years, they of metal worth $7.42 But it isn't always a In 2017, the city of landfill mining program start. After realizing worth its $4.56 million According to experts, biggest challenge to make There's virtually no way I money. The commodity such higher levels than Whatever it is you're on. However, some experts can be profitable if done That's because mining can valuable asset of any space. You get new tipping fee, You put the trash back space so as if you build buying new space. So that space gives you a start backfilling. Many they are not reusing the So they are saying, oh, out of mining. Yes, you But if you do the never going to be make money. Modern chemistry has also mined for energy. When trash decays inside methane gas. For decades, regulations suck out this highly of it safely. Landfill gas-to-energy same gas to produce fuel for profit. The landfill gas as low or medium BTU, form of capture the gas it into electricity or Those are good return on According to the U.S. Administration, landfill billion kilowatt hours of That's enough to power heat nearly 540,000 homes I just did a paper where I electricity you can compared to how much produce electricity. And it's like less than contributor to our heavy U.S. But it's, you know, So, you know, it's counts and if you're gas for other reasons, and do that. If you know economic standpoint to But it's also a big gas-to-energy projects to build and operate. While revenue from doesn't quite cover the greatly from generous Many cities went into that because they get the get money from the they are producing the They are converting that The amount you get is you reducing the greenhouse That's why government was carbon credits, reducing the greenhouse the environment. The tipping fee, combined techniques and government transformed the landfill business. It's a profitable industry, but it is right. And I think that private companies that management. Solid waste management expand, as long as there as a resource rather than Because when it comes to is quite literally Waste is not a waste, but Because if you don't don't recycle the paper, paper, what we are going We are going to go and If we don't recycle the go after more bio product If we don't reuse the are going to keep mining World has limited If we don't reuse and talk about circular That will always be a discussion. Right next to a landfill just past a stack rotting garbage, there's of waste management trash instead of burying That crane picks up about each grab, and it's for combustion. This combustion is known energy recovery, because electricity. The intense miles of pipes around the turns a turbine. It also ash, but unlike any methane. 2000degF. Very efficient They can 23 megawatts, three megawatts to facility. Part of what's burned here of waste from big Airlines, Quest Subaru. They're part of a companies and governments You can see there some car This actually comes from that doesn't want to send landfill. Amazon and other retailers to dispose of returns recycle, resell, or It is our absolute last as well as We went to a facility run biggest U.S. energy the process firsthand and like Amazon and parts of embraced burning their U.S. keeps piling it up With returns pouring in like discarded clothes billion pounds of With an estimated return purchases are more likely bought in-store. Yet items to landfills. We wanted to find out how There are a number of recover or are not reasons such as legal reasons or even product And in those cases, we do those items. While Covanta says it returns and Amazon Covanta says about 10% of corporate clients like advertise it's building plants. For us, we want it to be want it to produce the environmentally friendly is we want to do the When a major car says they're zero the reduce, the reuse, left over they send to a waste-to-energy facility. It's the fastest growing because businesses are sustainability, and one of the major elements management. It's a corporate marketing to make energy from this. Well, that always sounds We all need energy and it means is we're But climate experts say process provides a net gases for three reasons. It keeps waste out of more harmful methane. 700,000 tons of metal is each year, reducing the replaces energy that burning fossil fuels. For every ton of garbage ton of CO2 that you would say, burning a fossil When you compare that to legitimate study shows impact of a landfill is waste energy facility. Landfills make up 17% of global warming impact of greater than carbon frame. But the bigger so much waste in the The U.S. is one of the countries in the world, trash generated per Marco Castaldi of the has been working in the years. We produce about 4 pounds And to give you an idea that's, you know, your today, instead of taking wash, you throw it away In Japan, the amount of about half that. While it's indisputable composting are far can go that route. So record 292 million tons Americans each year? More than half is third is recycled and 12% waste-to-energy There are approximately 70 facilities, compared to, landfills. In parts of Europe and flipped. When you look at how much combusted versus of sad. Countries like Japan, on energy recovery far In the EU, waste 1995 to 2019. But critics like Neil Alliance for Incinerator countries have over added intensive process. Denmark now realizes that waste, and if it is going emissions targets, it's waste incineration. Sweden overbuilt waste imports waste from other waste incinerators just shut them down. In the U.S., the first New York in 1895, and by to generate enough Williamsburg Bridge. More than half of U.S. states defined renewable energy source, governments and NGOs greenhouse gas Environmental Protection Thorneloe leads research Is it better for clean burn or bury waste? And it was hands down because you get energy You get metals from it methane. To understand why many and more and more combustion with energy let's take a look at how In that big building is combusted and steam is The steam then goes to a It spins because of the It's sort of like a jet turns the generator that Paul Gilman runs all of Covanta's 40 plus produce enough power for The Stanislaus facility At this facility, we of waste a year for the to really run about This facility also tons of metal each year the waste, like these valuable metals that will into things like aluminum You'd be amazed what garbage. It's everything mattress, but we can go springs out and the like that if it went to the good. Tons of aluminum that's facilities, tons of And instead of extracting okay, that's already been use again. The steam can also be piped up to a mile away buildings. There's a waste-to-energy Minnesota that uses the Twins baseball field, and grass to keep the grass In Paris, 50% of the met, using three Landfills can also methane produced by but far less efficiently. Landfill gas generates U.S. homes per year, homes, powered by far facilities. We recover almost ten given amount of waste landfill. The EPA estimates that for electricity generated, average of just over half dioxide equivalent gases. Landfills emit six times nearly double. You don't see what people dark smoke, because pollution control system Covanta's public data of the stack in U.S. federal standards. That's because Covanta smoke and combusted filtration process with limestone scrubbers stack. The air pollution control present on old-fashioned a lot of people's ire. But today, this facility percent to the county. Dioxin and mercury are emissions that concern point to facilities like which regulators found dioxin it was chicken eggs in the Despite the air pollution monitoring, there are that smoke plume from metals, lead, mercury, And, you know, here in systems and our standards Europe. But other scientists say has come so far in the common toxins have Studies have been done of, say, dioxin that's energy facilities in one fraction of what gets But the incineration a lot of toxic ash. The environmental test our ash on a regular leach out anything like a mercury or cadmium or And happily, we've always In Europe, they separate use the safer bottom ash concrete for road U.S., the fly and bottom together, making it too So it's buried. So behind us is the ash the ash that's come from years it's been in there. There's probably more that we can use. But connotation, I just don't And waste to energy landfills, are infamous disproportionately poor Nobody wants to live next really any waste communities and white the political power to People ask, is it safe? And my immediate answer People ask me, would you My immediate answer is before I knew anything My town that my kids grew one of these facilities. And yet the U.S. has only facilities, compared to The Covanta facility we in California. There's a real question why most of the U.S., for love with our landfills. But it's a fact. It happens that we have a Europe didn't have that It also comes down to the Landfills in the U.S. are big business. While waste-to-energy is the overall waste $208 billion. Landfill companies like Republic Services have since 2015, allowing them keep business up. For a ton of garbage. How much does it cost to And if you send it to a average around the between $50 and $70 per To send it to a waste somewhere between, say, One of the reasons Europe they're imposing anything that would go to But waste-to-energy is the EPA estimating ton of waste. Covanta was before it went private investment firm bought it In fact, incineration is commercial ways to handle waste. So why, Amazon burning their it? If Amazon sends all of its somebody could go to the that would be a And when you burn evidence. And in some scenarios, be the better financial When we think about could be closer. And in waste energy tip fees are with landfill tip fees, restriction on landfill available places to take Another consideration is transporting waste. Sending it to waste energy transport proposition, energy facility. We've halfway across the United because you typically facilities located in the United States, in The reality is both energy far less green than recycling. You're arguing for last We know that the to keep as much material, out of the waste stream. If Amazon returns, or to people at a discount of, then we wouldn't have about whether it's better or burn it. Amazon has indeed been sure more returns are refurbished or working toward a goal of although it wouldn't give lofty promise. It also wouldn't share returns go to energy If you look in nature, Everything is used in And so ideally that's That's the direction that But we're not there yet. And so how can we best materials? Until consumer behavior plants will continue to alternative for big governments like Covanta's most recent through 2027. Would we want to see all Absolutely. But we're not and we're not there So if I can make heat out heat homes, or I can make offset coal that's being far better than that not In Baltimore, Maryland, devices have become local And we have Mr. Trash Wheel, Professor Trash Wheel of the West here in These four wheels are waves, and they're one of systems working to remove Because while the public the massive gyres of oceans, we tend to hear ended up there. I wouldn't be surprised if all the rivers around the all the plastics that is Every year, it's estimated tons of plastic enters much of it originating that lack proper waste And then when it rains, it through this water stream the river, that ends up And waste generation to increase in the years So in 2020, the waste that billion tons. And we're estimating that generating about 3.9 The ultimate solution to on some combination of infrastructure, more less consumption and proper disposal. But in the meantime, companies around the to capture wayward trash Been averaging about 30 trash from the waterways We currently have four deployed in nine rivers. We cleaned a couple of tons of plastic stopped Heavy rains and winds land to the rivers, a income countries, such as Africa, where the generated is never even rural areas. And even when that waste mean it's being properly In those countries. Nearly 40% of waste is more than 90% is just burned. So there's still when waste is collected, more informal dump sites. Waste from these informal into rivers, and middle Philippines, India and contribute the most to have enough money to buy But waste collection behind. So that's why in this see most plastic leakage to be areas in Southeast Central America. Of all the plastic that rivers, nearly 80% is hyper-polluting rivers. That's according to a Ocean Cleanup, the Dutch by then 18 year old Boyan That's a lot more rivers and other researchers had 2017 study had indicated, were the primary The types of rivers that most to river plastic smaller rivers flowing rather than the typical Van Emmerik helped and says that the other the grand majority of actually makes it into So if the goal is to plastic in our even more important to closer to the source, as the ocean after the fact. That's something that Ocean Cleanup, and the Alphamers are all trying Baltimore's googly-eyed which debuted in 2014, efforts to address river Built by Clearwater founder, John Kellett was wheels after years of the Baltimore harbor Comes from land sources. It comes from the the alleys, the highways, washed down the storm creeks and then into the harbor. Containment booms are set river, with rubber skirts below the water surface, bottom. This catches and funnels it towards trash wheel, which is current and attached As the wheel turns, it that lifts trash out and dumpster. The dumpster is on a and when that dumpster is floating barge that we dumpster. Take the full one in, and keep picking The four wheels have 2,000 tons of trash and material like sticks and make up the bulk of the light. But that haul million plastic bottles, containers, and 12.6 Everything is then energy facility. Installing a new wheel. Costs anywhere from and up, depending on waste infrastructure and Operating costs also vary over $100,000 per year. Though it can get pricey, solutions like this are the massive externalities pollution in our waters, life and microplastic drinking water. What we're doing, too, we're dealing with them with it. You can't really doing. So how are you doing things? Three of the wheels are Waterfront Partnership of is owned by the state trash wheels are planned even Panama, where a Verde, has partnered with the fifth wheel in the This project is funded by Initiative and the which together are river cleanup projects So we started the of Wanda a couple of Clearwater Mills, their creator, John Kellett, Panama to help us with Wanda will operate on the As one of the most it sees a much heavier Baltimore's rivers, rains of the season. But Wattenberg is technology. So we are very hopeful big success for our But at the end of the sustainable. We cannot like this running You know, the real is behavioral change way we're consuming The Ocean Cleanup is its efforts to clean the Patch, an endeavor the Boyan Slat, started Ted talk he gave on the Now, though, the company as it's built a series of technologies. Our goal is to to rid the reason why we look at believe it's the fastest way to prevent further emitted to the ocean. The Ocean Cleanup's first called the Interceptor 2019. It's a fully operates much like just on a larger scale. Sitting at the mouth of a onto a conveyor belt and the waste across six hold over 17,000 cubic Where the trash goes country and the has. Some is sorted and in waste to energy landfilled. But since doesn't fit in smaller another solution too. That's why we also called the interceptor Essentially a barrier you river. We have an is a mobile conveyor out the trash from these applied in Jamaica, where narrow and too shallow to interceptor. And for the most severely Ocean Cleanup is solution called the trash in Guatemala. The concept steel fence anchored to the flow of trash during Then, after the water remove the waste. But the onslaught of world's most polluted for version 1.0. The force of the trash was fence failed, now working on a version ready for the next rainy Like Baltimore's trash location dependent, but interceptor up and multi-million dollar philanthropic donations, local governments. Eight ocean cleanup installed in Indonesia, Dominican Republic and in Guatemala is more cleanup devices are one in Los Angeles. Will be about 20 towards beginning of next year, to scale this exponential India-based company version of a river installations in eight barrier is relatively low It's much smaller than fence and not designed flow, but it's still Made of stainless steel floats a couple of feet level. The hydrodynamics and the very simple, but And it's made very with steel chains holding able to withstand the after the rain. Sekhar says his floating trash and rivers with designs that rely on a fail when currents pick instead run over the with it. Eight floating various points along the 2017, at a cost of about first year of operation, about 2,400 tons of The barriers are angled the riverbank where, have been used to pluck cost not factored into But lately, AlphaMERS has as Clearwater Mills and Now we have started with this. One end is the land, and now it's with portable generators. But very soon we will run water. Shaker says the barriers governments and responsibility budgets. Well, in the future, he identify the types of where it originates from. For now, AlphaMERS is straightforward cleanup We like to take the upwards, and artificial learning is a last things. As these various wheels, deployed in more locales become clearer and are best suited to what the magnitude of the more than enough room for space. The goal is not to have a the world, but to solve polluting rivers. And any solves is one river less So the more the merrier. But all these aware that these river the ultimate solution to One of the things we're trash wheels are no addressing the problem where no trash is we don't need to have a Of course, financing, and management around the Casa says that the world about ways to incentivize alike to pay for solutions. There are models where cross-subsidization, you communities pay a bit income communities. We've seen models where volume of waste they waste fees increase over proven. That was very Funding models aside, emphasizes that the first come from the If we don't change our work with communities, alternatives and land, this is not going So we need people to come as a country, with authorities. We need At the end of the day, we need to start with our This is no ordinary Inside are piles of used many of which will electric vehicles after rebuilds the ones they minerals from the rest. It's fantastic that you vehicle, knowing that the battery pack, the in a new battery pack and And that we really want Dozens of electric debut in 2024, and over expected to be on the Tesla, Volvo and GM are leading the way towards any new technology comes If you're going to call you don't want your junkyards. The volume of recycling is There's been billions and venture capital that's The degradation of an EV biggest questions of the Every battery will reach important that these end so they don't end up CNBC explores how used in the future of one Oklahoma company is millions of used battery go. The American EV comparison to operations In 2021, the U.S. accounted for less than registrations, while and Europe came in at When it comes to EV for over 70% of global leaving the U.S. heavily battery minerals. The life cycle of an EV minerals are extracted minerals are used to cell. The critical minerals that include lithium, cobalt, graphite. It has been clear since to lock up the bulk of battery minerals. The company is now in China. Now under President Reduction Act, EV for a tax credit if 40% minerals are sourced free trade partner like This is industrial policy seen in this country for In theory, a certain minerals has to come from The battery, the cell, that has to be done be built in the U.S. Sourcing minerals to keep up with new minds in the U.S. has from local communities environmental and health Recycling and reusing possible long term It's very early stages. We're kind of talking just forming now and stride, at least in the America, until like 2030, start to see more and life, and more and more Both public and private EV production will which means more American enter this space of EV recycling, too. Companies like Redwood American Battery developed processes to batteries. We're building the something we expect to that isn't really at a If they can get the cost materials, the demand because nobody really and nickel more than they There are a number of this for hybrid expect them to expand vehicle batteries. They're correspondingly probably make more money electric vehicle than a Repairing, repurposing and recycling That's what's happening Spiers New Technologies. The number of battery the hundreds. We make and then they go on the taking them apart, them back together, as good or better than And then they go back on for a dealer to need one them out. Dirk Spears is the founder Technologies. His company cycle management of EV By extending its first to mine critical I've been in batteries for my gray hair. We believe electric, and we wanted life of those battery with their life cycle all under one roof on the Spears New Technologies, 2014 with just two In 2021, it was acquired subsidiary of conglomerate Cox other automotive brands Blue Book. The company and offers what it calls use in faulty EV We are like a diner of can come to us for a cup to have a steak or a cup serve all these things. SNT receives batteries dealership or original for example Toyota or It then puts these diagnosis system named Alfred assesses the to determine whether it into a vehicle. To get there, it can be conditions, remanufacture standards, or refurbished factory standards. Otherwise, SNT can life. Usually energy is truly at its end of as a last resort. The results of our process concludes with captured in these large These super sacks contain plastics, aluminum, and black mass, and that critical minerals: aluminum, copper, lithium. In addition to its City, SNT has facilities with plans to expand to It also has operations and plans to open in the soon. But being centrally is key for its business We need to be where our Being bang in the middle We can reach either coast We can ship by air, so if can have a battery pack SNT does not work direct An EV owner brings their dealership, which then serviced. That dealership battery with an stock. If none are in pack from its storage. Meanwhile, SNT works on then stores it to be sent SNT also works with carmakers, which can send repaired. The company over 800,000ft2 of 500,000 of those are for It wouldn't disclose the it's capable of storing, average 15,000 battery month. We get anything from, say, per day, 80%, 90% can be good enough to go back Recycling is maybe 5% to repurposing second life. But those numbers will Repurposed battery packs non-vehicle applications, solar panels and power Because the industry is so squarely focused on life-cycle management for to our operation. Since its inception. SNT says it's serviced and more than 50,000 have or remanufactured. It's recycled 3,000 If you look at the EV Tesla out, we probably market of the non-Tesla So, that's a lot. GM. Ford. Stellantis. Porsche. Volkswagen. Nissan. Toyota. Volvo. We keep adding to And when asked why they most recognizable brands No, they always do -- they stuff. You know, they're And also their, and maybe correct, their payment So I think we owe, the Tesla. They made When I think about the recycling specifically, I competitive space. But at the same time, mismatch of maybe more EV battery recycling than riding this first wave of could be on the road for The lifetime for an EV 12 to 15 years in However, the estimated battery can range years. By 2050, the lithium, and cobalt is 500%, but extending the reduce the need for So could battery business and how now? A couple of years ago, associated with recycling pack. Now it is a If you give me a lithium probably will give you And that's the beauty of The intrinsic value of higher than the cost of The world has a finite necessary for EV to speculate. Could reuse be the future? Absolutely. The circular It's happening right now. It's happening here in Why would you get cobalt from South America if you Oklahoma City? Critical reused and it's already But the volume is still bigger and bigger. I think we will be mining my lifetime. But indeed, get more powerful, cheaper, with luck, we We could get to the point majority of battery from old batteries, but mass on EV penetration There just aren't enough maybe 10 or 20 years from Some critics believe the business could be booming current capacity outpaces a time when most EV reach the end of life. The idea I think that boomed too soon or peaked shortsighted to me. It's important to point industry works on 5 to 7 The cars through 2025 are When we started, everyone and we were, but we made market. We didn't get We didn't have a lot of We always had a focus on and make it profitable, While SNT is one of the like-minded companies Technology are not far ways to domestically We're building in if it's boomed too soon. This is all new. It is an emerging space together how to do it. Some ideas will be be losers. Some winners. Some businesses But progress is happening Iteration is happening