You're going forward through time one you're a time traveler! A bit lame, but real time travel to ride on Time isn't really a thing a direction you can move in. We think our spatial and one time dimensions - smooshed What you experience as time passing and your the time dimension. And this dimension is a left and right, up and down in the space Forward. You only get older, never But this is an illusion. You have far more explain how this actually works without lot of physicists grumpy, so please keep in Ok. So there is a very strange rule: Everything in four dimensional spacetime. Your speed through through time and space. It's impossible for you space dimensions, you are moving through the time You can slow down in the time dimension, by moving you will always move at the speed of light stand still in space - you'd still move through time Photons, light particles, move at the speed of time passing because their speed in that time frozen in place. If you see light on earth, the surface of the sun and then suddenly crashed Remember we are telling a science story here, in it's impossible to truly stand still relative relative to other things IN space. And you photons as we just did. For details check Ok, so everything in the universe but this speed is split between space and time. Which leads to all sorts of wacky things Real and Easy Time Travel When a bus drives past you it's moving a are. So it moves slower through time than you. slower through time relative to you. While this it's very simple. Move faster through space, go faster in time. And if you add another both end up traveling different The story that is usually told to force one of them into a rocket against their the other twin chills on Earth. And because while the other moves slowly on Earth, they the rocket finally gets home, they are space twin is ready to start years of therapy This is the twin paradox and it rules of the universe. If you want to we made a video about it. But in a nutshell you position in time is subjective and only true you could get as far as you want into the future. of the universe or look at the final thing that We should mention that there's Massive objects bend space time, causing time tiny - the gravity of our planet makes time far from any gravitational fields. Hardly If you move into a really strong gravitational you get to the event horizon, the slower time they won't notice it at all - their watch the outside they seem to almost stand still. field and comes back to earth do Ok, so you can time travel to the future by going lame and has literally only downsides except the future. And it makes building a gigantic if we develop the technology to go really super will always mean leaving your home as you knew there is actually a way we could use the rules The Past is a Far Away Land - Let's go there So you always move through spacetime at the space dimension, you slow down in the opening for backwards time travel: The most solid scientific theory we know, does NOT IF you move through the space dimension faster to move through the time dimension with negative relative to the rest of the universe - into the superluminal particles and given them a name: wild properties like getting faster when they lose Finally REAL time travel! Just like with photons, it isn't really possible themselves - it depends on how you move through time, some observers could actually see tachyons means they could be used to directly interact to send messages to your past self and change Maybe with some tachyon powered sci-fi future tech your great-grandparents. Prevent your past self or get eaten by dinosaurs. And create juicy time Oh, what's that? (Short Pause) Right. Sigh... It seems there are things in our universe that of relativity, specifically forbids anything that light, to reach the speed of light. Because and the energy required to reach the speed could gather all the energy of the universe the speed of light. You can get as close It is possible to move at the speed of light, of light. If you move superluminally, you will we don't have the tiniest bit of evidence paper, most scientists think they are not real. So for now it seems that time travel no matter how hard we try. The past is a faraway and movies and our memories, it's locked away. it leaves you with the most important time there exist - and a future that's yours to forge. Luckily, shaping the future is much easier right knowledge and problem-solving obstacles or opportunities lie ahead. Which Brilliant will make you a better thinker and bite-sized lessons on just about anything maths to technology, data analysis, and just minutes a day -- a terrific use On Brilliant, you'll learn through discovery, Scientific Thinking, for example, gets you the ones in this video. And since each course is like an immersive workshop, while building your intuition -- helping kurzgesagt has also partnered with Brilliant to knowledge to the next level. Each one is like letting you further explore the mammalian metabolism or climate science and wherever -- right from whatever device you'd like. To get hands-on with kurzgesagt lessons and AI and programming to math, science, and signing up at Brilliant.org/nutshell. There's anyone signing up through our link will get 20% We found a way to evade the a truly breathtaking time travel adventure. Look, it's the human Era! 12,000 years Absolutely incredible how our ancestors laid Let's go back even further and take humans are only a tiny blip at this scale. Here is the age of the dinosaurs - and going You can now go on your very own time travel Timeline of Complex Life Posters. They are expert Get them both to get the full time travel effect