This video was made possible by CuriosityStream. Watch thousands of high-quality documentaries using the link in the description. It didn't look like any plane that had ever In fact, it really didn't look like it should've But eighty years ago, a new kind of aircraft higher and further. And its visionary designer was convinced that But in just a few short years, these futuristic Every last one destroyed or broken up for In 1941, the United States had some of the Rugged and heavily armed. But loaded with bombs, the furthest they could Which wasn't nearly enough. Because the United States was about to be By the Spring of 1941, Nazi Germany had conquered much of Europe. And Britain looked like it was next. Without access to Allied airfields in Europe, of reaching Nazi Germany. So the Americans would have to build a new One that could fly all the way from North return home. But building the world's first intercontinental Conventional wisdom suggested that the aircraft At least two or three time larger then existing of engines, and a huge reserve of fuel. It would also be relatively slow and its enormous But one pioneering aircraft designer by the On any plane, the engines, tail surfaces, weight, reducing aircraft performance. What if you could eliminate these elements The result would be a shape that maximizes If you could get it to fly, it would make Northrop's idea wasn't as crazy as it sounds. By 1940, he had successfully flown prototypes aircraft could handle just as well as conventional And although Northrop wasn't the first to the concept further than anyone else Northrop promised the Air Force a bomber that heavy bombers, and higher. Making it less vulnerable. And the efficient all wing design would give twice the payload. Impressed with the concept, in 1941 the Air engineers to develop the new bomber in just To make a round trip all the way to Europe, more than 9,000 km. A mission that would keep it airborne for The bomber's crew of nine, along with six Working inside a cockpit, equipment bay and crew cabin Also housed entirely inside the wing were With 28 cylinders and twin turbo-superchargers, ever put into production. Each drove contra-rotating propellers allowing But making a flying wing stable required a Without vertical and horizontal stabilizers, be located on the wing. With the bomber featuring an elevon. Northrop's low drag, high lift flying wing bomb bays capable of holding up ten thousand machine guns to fend off enemy fighters.. Pound-for-pound Northrop's flying wing would And the Air Force had plans to build hundreds When the first prototype was unveiled in April No one had ever seen a plane quite like this. Designated as the XB-35, the bomber's development But it never made it into the War. Although it had been approved for development issues, a shortage of wartime engineers and And when Britain never fell to Nazi Germany, from British airfields, lessoning the need These factors all delayed the XB-35. But the Air Force still felt that Northrop's eager to continue development. By 1946, thirteen pre-production YB-35s were And with post-war aviation developing at breakneck be converted to jet-powered versions to be The prop driven XB-35 made its first flight YB-49 a year later. Both aircraft were to undergo thorough evaluation And as they took to the skies, many were convinced went beyond just military. Fantastic concepts appeared in popular magazines spacious lounges, dining rooms and private Even Northrop illustrated how their bomber equipment cleared to make way for seats and converted into an observation lounge. According to Northrop, flying wings were the Enabling passengers to fly faster, farther, And in comfort that a conventional airliner In 1947, the flying wing seemed to be the And yet, in just a handful of years, every be destroyed or broken up In 1947, Northrop's flying wings looked that the design, originally drawn up in 1941, The XB-35's piston engines were no longer nearly every test flight ended early due to or gearbox failures. After just 19 flights, Northrop abandoned simple single prop design. But this degraded performance to unacceptable And by 1947, it was clear that the jet-powered Retrofitted with eight jets and given trailing be faster and more reliable. But jet engines burned more fuel, cutting the original design. Two bomb bays had to be removed just to make way for more fuel tanks, while other parts of the aircraft could never be fully optimized for Still, Northrop was convinced that his efficient even the latest generation of jet bombers. On June 4th, 1948 the first YB-49 was delivered For Northrop the delivery should've been But it was just the start of an even worse A day after the delivery, a crew of five air been a routine test flight. Captained by Glen Edwards, the crew were among But just 40 minutes into their flight, disaster out of the sky. The aircraft had broken up into pieces tragically Northrop blamed the pilots for pushing the But The Air Force pointed to mysterious handling Despite the tragedy, testing continued with But more odd handling characteristics were uncontrollably. Almost imperceptible to the pilots, it was Northrop had spent years developing an autopilot But the aircraft needed something more. A system that could continually adjust and In an era well before computers, such a system In March of 1950, disaster struck again, when during high speed taxi tests, destroying the By that point, the Air Force had lost interest Because the B-36 had already entered into that XB-35 once promised. The medium-range B-47, a clean sheet jet bomber YB-49. And the legendary B-52 was already on the These newer generation of bombers could carry could only fit smaller weapons from a bygone In one last chance for the flying wing, the a strategic reconnaissance aircraft based But the aircraft was already hopelessly outmatched Incredibly, Northrop's flying wings were too far ahead of their time. And soon, all remaining flying wing airframes Devastated, Jack Northrop left his firm in flying wing. Until 1980, when he was given a glimpse into In 1980, just a year before he passed away, aircraft under development. An enormous flying wing with the exact same The design would make the new bomber virtually more efficiently. Aided by a computerized flight control system in 1941. With tears in his eyes, Northrop supposedly him alive all these years. The Northrop Grumman B-2 Spirit is the world's A bomber that strikes fear into the hearts secrecy. In a few weeks I'll be releasing my next It'll be my 10th exclusive video on Nebula. And some of you might be wondering why are The reality is, it takes weeks to create a There's careful research and writing, animations to license. To make it all worth it, the videos have to I can cover on YouTube. But on Nebula, there's no algorithm. So I can make the videos I want to make. And dive into the curious details that a smarter And it's all possible because tens of thousands CuriosityStream deal. For less than $2 dollars a month, you get favorite creators on Nebula and unlimited on CuriosityStream. A recent CuriosityStream favorite of mine legendary British planes like the Spitfire Support creators on Nebula and get unlimited a month by going to curiositystream.com/mustard you sign up.