If you think you know Detroit, Welcome to Detroit, Michigan. Also known as Detroit Rock City, Motor City, The D, and my personal favourite, Motown. Detroit has weathered a lot of and it's a really exciting time to visit and see how Detroiters are It's called the Motor City for good reason, and not just because it's the It's also home to the first mile of concrete highway, the first four-way, three-colour traffic light, and the world's first urban freeway. Detroit was the last stop on the Underground Railroad before finding freedom across the water in Canada, and the place where Martin Luther King Jr. first gave his immortal I Have a Dream speech in June 1963, before the March on Washington. I have a dream today. Today, Detroit is a city of breathtaking architecture, colourful murals, jazz clubs and restaurants, and the second largest theatre district in the United States, second only to Broadway in New York City. In this video, I'm sharing the I'm going to pull out every pun in my pocket. This city on the move. The city that keeps on rolling. The city that speeds ahead. The city on wheels. The city that can't be stopped. Just keep watching, okay? GET JAZZED The best place for live jazz music The New York Times called it &quot;the place to be&quot; Cliff Bell himself was a fascinating guy because after Prohibition began in 1919, he opened one speakeasy after another until he eventually ended up a wanted man and he was eventually arrested, The club has a long history going back to the 1930s. It did close for about 20 years, and this current incarnation of Cliff Bells Many talented artists have taken the very busy stage here. Alex Harding &amp; Organ Nation are playing tonight. You feel the energy as soon as you and the time flies as fast It's a place that you will EMBRACE YOUR INNER ALLEY CAT I'm sitting in an alleyway in the former and that's where this alleyway gets its name from. It's called the Belt. And this is an alleyway that has and conceptualized by a Detroit-based Everywhere that you look, you see art. There are places to eat. Even the parking lot has art. The Library Street Collective has a gallery here, and you'll instantly recognize it from outside because it looks like a fist has just And they call it the portal. And it's free to go inside and take a look. And next door is the Louis / Buhl &amp; Co. Gallery. And we had the wonderful opportunity and hear about some of the inspiration behind her work. And I feel like an alley is a place by curating it and adding this it's no longer a place that you just walk through. It's a place that you come to. They've made The Belt into a destination. GET TO KNOW THE CITY ON FOOT When it comes to architecture, because there are so many in a range of different styles. And as you're walking around, and seeing little details that you notice especially here in the downtown core. This is the Guardian building. It's an absolute architectural gem in downtown Detroit. It was built in 1928. Inside and outside are equally stunning. My personal favourite is inside. Walk through the doors and It's a blend of art deco and Aztec styles. It feels totally unique. And don't miss the Tiffany clock, one of the only Tiffany clocks still working When it comes to newer buildings, From outside, you'll also see that but make sure that you go inside because they have one of the tallest indoor waterfalls in the world. Other favourite stops are the Athletic Club, which is right near Comerica Stadium, with its amazing sculptures as well as the colourful Downtown Synagogue. You'll find murals big and small One of my personal favourites is a gigantic one of Stevie Wonder outside the It's got to be one of the best places At Grand Circus Park is the as well as the Millennium Bell. The Michigan Soldiers and Sailors Monument commemorates the sailors and soldiers and it contains a time capsule, which is to be opened There's a bronze statue downtown And it really has come to be a symbol for the city. This bronze figure behind me is And you can see in one of his hands human figures that represents family and his other hand that symbolizes the spirit. It's gorgeous. And if you happen to be here at a time when then come down because apparently they take This building over my shoulder is at the corner And this is a very historic and important site because before this particular building was here, Seymour Finney was a local man and Finney Barn and was a really important station who were trying to escape across the river And the barn was a place where until they had a chance to get Whether you join a walking tour I really think that exploring the city by foot is the best way to appreciate BOOGIE DOWN IN HITSVILLE USA This is the Motown Museum. This is where the Motown sound Everyone from Stevie Wonder to everybody who has a song that you love was here. Unfortunately, you are not allowed to film inside but we did take a ton of photos It's such a special experience. You get to see the site where it all started. Berry Gordy, the founder of Motown, once worked and he hated that job. It was not for him. It's not what he was destined for. But on the tour, you learn about how paid huge dividends later in the music All of those hums and taps, the repetition of the assembly line and also the idea that, you know, and it goes through a process and all of these doing different things so in the end He took a similar approach with his artists. Of course, these incredible artists but he helped to mold them all along the way when they first walked through From artist development, teaching them stage presence, how to dress, how to behave. All of those things that led them back through the door and into the world, And you also get to see the apartment You can still see boxes of records to remind you that sometimes they had to pack the records themselves You also get to see the front desk along with...I love this... a chocolate bar machine where they Stevie Wonder. It cost ten cents and a lot of the and would leave dimes right on top of the machine so that he was never without a dime in order to get a Baby Ruth when he And at the end of the tour, you go into Studio A, Hitsville, USA Central. You get to see the piano, the drums, and the place where the producers looking down onto the studio floor and moments in time in history were recorded. And if you look at the floor, you can see tapping their toes, as they recorded this incredible music. And the floor is just worn down over time, which is such a special thing to have in a museum preserved for all of us now to go back and and see. This is a must if you're in Detroit. Even if you're not in Detroit, because this is a piece of history. And I absolutely loved it and I IMMERSE YOURSELF IN AMERICAN INNOVATION This is the Henry Ford Museum of American Innovation. And I first came here as a kid with my family. I have fantastic memories over the years, and I brought Marc back a couple of times, So it's a place that I love. It's a massive space. There are nine acres here. They have over 26 million objects There's about a million 3D objects, and they have about 6% of those millions of objects And they also loan objects all over the world. Fun fact: which is exactly what we did The exhibit of presidential vehicles shows the shifting balance and a president's need to be safe and how that's changed over time. You can see a horse-drawn carriage You can also see the car that President Kennedy when he was assassinated on November 22nd, 1963. This locomotive is the largest object And my favourite is that you can and see what the conductor saw Let's go in. Yeah. The driver actually didn't see much. No. These are very small windows. Wow. It's hard to imagine what it when this was actually on the move. The 1931 Bugatti Royale is the There are only seven in existence This is a flown replica of the plane when they flew it for the very first time. If you look at the floor, you'll see a brass line. And that shows you exactly how far this plane flew. And as you walk along the brass line, you'll see that while they didn't go very far, they made history on that first flight in 1903. This is the chair where Abraham Lincoln when he was assassinated in 1865. In 1955, Rosa Parks made history when she refused to give up her seat What's less well-known is that You can see her seat and even sit in it yourself. The Dymaxion House was the way of the future, and it's one of my favourite VISIT THE #1 ART MUSEUM IN THE USA Where I'm standing was voted the This is the Detroit Institute of Arts. It was founded in 1885. It started out at a smaller location, And this beautiful building that We, however, are standing in a part that is much older. This is one of my favourite parts of the museum We are standing in a tower that was It was purchased, taken apart stone by stone, You can see the beautiful stained glass But you don't want to miss the view of which is absolutely gorgeous. The Detroit Institute of Arts has One of the main attractions here that And it's a space where Diego painted in the 1930s, and they lived here in Detroit for that time. And it's a big part of the Diego-Frida story. Diego Rivera was known for always So if you look up to the men with green faces, because they're working with formaldehyde, you can see Diego in a Bowler The DIA is also home to the They have a fantastic collection, And some of my favourite pictures include portraits by John Singer Sargent. Also, don't miss seeing the Brueghel painting. There's only about 40 in the world, One at the Met in New York and one here in Detroit. KNOCK YOURSELF OUT This is the monument to Joe Louis, the famous heavyweight boxing champion. This arm and fist punching is 24 feet long It weighs over 8000 pounds and it was a gift to the city of Detroit from Sports Illustrated. EXPLORE AFRICAN AMERICAN HISTORY AND CULTURE This is the rotunda of the Charles H. Wright It's the oldest museum of African-American history In 2016, the Smithsonian took that title. For me, the most moving part of the museum It tells the story of people in Africa being brought by boat through And a lot of it is very immersive. So you walk through a darkly lit section where you see the way that people were transported on boats. You hear sounds. It's very confronting. And it continues to chart the story of the slave trade and moving The gentleman is a free man His bid stands at 20 pounds. It tells stories of the Underground Railroad. I'm going to make it plain for you. When I say get, you go. I'll shoot you dead, So make up your mind. Live north or die here. And of course, Detroit was a very important so that's a huge part of it with through the civil rights movement. As you're walking through, you continue the feeling You can see a bar, a barber shop, an appliance store. There's lots of information along the way This museum is a place that everybody should visit. One that I will never forget. I'm so glad that we have the chance to come. TAKE HOME A PIECE OF DETROIT In one of Detroit's revamped alleyways, you find Rebel Nell. It's a local jewelry store and it's a business, And they create jewelry using And I didn't know this before, of course, there's the side that you see on the wall. But the other side reveals and so there's two sides that you can And of course, you can come here to shop but, they also have a really cool opportunity You go through all these remnants and then select exactly the piece that you would like that fits the shape of the jewelry that you've selected. So I was doing a little round gold necklace, so they have a little cutout. You pick exactly the circle, and then they put it into the jewelry-making press and set it up so that you push and pull until it punctures a hole and reveals the piece that's going to become I made jewelry. And I just love the story of its founder, Amy Peterson. Back in 2013, Amy was working and she lived next to a women's shelter. And she got talking to a lot of finding out about some of the And she came up with the idea for a business that would also help the women reenter the workforce. And so Rebel Nell was born and 100% of the women they've hired So not only do you get to support a local business but what an amazing way to take home It truly is one of no other kind. DISCOVER A NEW CHAPTER AT BOOK TOWER For me, one of the architectural jewels of And this gemstone has been freshly buffed and it has been painstakingly and And Architectural Digest actually named it When you walk into the lobby, your eyes are that's three stories tall and has a massive art glass dome. The framework is made of brass and cast iron with 6000 glass panels and 7000 skylight jewels. As you're looking up, you'll notice the plaster ceiling. They actually made molds of the and recreated the intricate patterns Because this was a place that was It was a place where you could easily hide things And there's a fantastic story... then it wouldn't have been, about a woman who had her purse stolen and whoever stole it decided to And as they were going through, they actually found it lodged and were able to track down the woman and return her purse to her She had her wallet, she had and it's just a lovely full circle moment. There's a lot going on here at the Book Tower. There are residences where people actually live full time. There's also an apartment hotel or it's equipped and ready This is actually where we are We have a beautiful room and not just with a full size fridge, washer, dryer, gas stove. You could really cook up a storm in there. I'm standing right now in what's called The Study, which is a working space There's little private pods, there's meeting rooms, nice big open space. They also have a gym with a fantastic view. There's also a bar called Kamper's, named after And it has a great terrace that overlooks some of the There's a French restaurant called Le Supreme, which you can check out our other video because we did enjoy a meal there. You'll also notice in the lobby the huge It's very hard to miss and it has a fantastic story as well because, someone had the presence of mind to save it. Because when a building is not occupied, and the caretaker of the building during that time realized that this was a thing And so he took it down and hid it somewhere, knowing with faith that this building And so it's really special when you look up now If you love history like me, you can and they have a free exhibition here that tells the story, in chapters...pardon the pun, of the building and this Washington Boulevard I love architecture and history, and having the chance to stay here has been amazing. And I have to say that I have fallen in love... and it's now probably my favourite building in Detroit. There's so much change and growth and renewal and just exciting, determined energy And you really just have to come and see it for yourself. Check out our other videos for a meal or a beverage. From Detroit-style pizza to James Beard award-winning pastries, fine dining to Coney Island hot dogs, speakeasies, jazz clubs, and everything in between. I'm sharing some of the best places Please give this video a like if you enjoyed it, Subscribe to our channel for lots more travel adventures and thank you so much for your support. We also post lots of different content over on Instagram, Tik Tok, and Facebook so follow us there for more. And I'd love to hear what you think about Detroit. Where in this video would you most like to visit? Leave a comment, let me know. And also, where should we go next in Detroit? Tell me all of your best tips and recommendations. Thanks again for watching and