Colossal Questions. Is wrestling fake? OK, guys. Let's go beyond the mat once and for all. It's staged. You see, pro wrestlers as they are athletes. They go into matches and what big moves they'll The wrestlers in a good job of making it each other, but tons of coordination for wrestling to look real, have to work together. During the match, wrestlers so they can both make it as possible without And for the biggest it's usually the person puts in all the work, and letting themselves back down to make it look almost superhuman strength. In that way, they're kind of just with a few more So pro wrestling But does that mean it's fake? Well, no, not really. Unlike in movies, there are or crash pads used So while the setup the cuts, bumps, and bruises you That's why pro wrestlers and why they tell you to Just leave it to Is it called soccer or football? Since the sport first where it's called assume that soccer must be an Turns out it comes Even still, most British fans and insist on football. Meanwhile, very few Americans Technically speaking, Both words are correct. You see, it all the year that the English wrote down a set of At the time, the sport was but it wasn't the only type Rugby football was that let players touch the So one of the sports became while the other was Eventually, people just started Association football became But it also sometimes got called and then eventually, soccer. For a while, the alongside football in seemed to care It all meant the same thing. But by the 1980s, stopped saying soccer and the ever-popular sport Meanwhile, across another sport was growing all throughout gridiron football. This version borrowed bits football, mashing them This new version of proved to be quite and people quickly started as football across the country. Because of this, association started using the to differentiate from And by the middle the term soccer was There are other countries Like the US, it's another variation of football creating a need for Canada calls it soccer because of gridiron football. Ireland calls it both have Gaelic football. In Australia, they have a rules football, so they New Zealand, South Africa, use the word, too. So which is it-- Well, it depends but no matter what talking about the same sport. So call it whatever you want. Just don't touch the Is cheerleading a real sport? No matter what you one thing's for sure-- it takes just as much as any other sport. But is that enough to The legal definition of a to five key factors. It must be a physical must be some sort of there needs to be and the purpose must be to compare skills. So far, cheerleading but the fifth key factor The primary purpose of the Since cheerleading's is to support other competition comes second. So by that definition, might not be a sport. So what's the big deal? Does it really matter if Yes, it does. Since it isn't currently cheerleading doesn't to keep athletes safe. At many high schools cheer squads don't get the same or practice space Cheerleading is the of all catastrophic injuries Among all sports, cheerleading after football. If cheerleading was stricter rules and reduce the number of injuries, to better equipment. So in other words, what gets considered a sport. The good news is that according Association, should be considered a sport. For the AMA, it's because of The International took things one step begun the process of as an official Olympic sport. So to all the if you want to help get cheering get cheering, get Fight! Win! Fight! Win! Yeah! Who invented the dab? Let's start with The dab, or dabbing, you've probably seen their head into the while raising their other arm. Most of the time, the dance like after doing something So that's the move, but where Well, in order to track you have to go back to the A rapper by the name has been credited with but it wasn't until 2015 that That year, the move started and it wasn't long During a game on November 15, dabbed in the face after scoring a The Atlanta rappers who invented called Cam Newton the Dab Daddy. From there, it was Kids, celebrities, TV and then everyone's dad all the cool new dance, grown-ups did what take something fun and turn So that's the story of the popularized by an memeified by the internet, So the next question is, If we all work together, I Nah, just kidding. It's never going away. What was the first sport? Before we can go which sport was have to define what According to the is any athletic activity that and/or physical expertise, where against another That means some age-old aren't considered in the ancient days of where it was more a So if we really as an organized, competitive then there is one ancient sport wrestling. That's right, a sport you can to this very day is also likely In fact, the oldest cave almost 15,000-year-old Across the globe, in there's also 9,000-year-old a wrestling match in action Art from ancient also show detailed depictions and holds still used today, and portray Sumo wrestlers. Wrestling is found in the Epic of Gilgamesh, and all sorts of other So safe to say that wrestling since before recorded remained popular around OK. So wrestling just might ever, but why were sports What's the point? And why does just about every Well, we can't but most experts believe as a way to stay prepared to That might explain why so include running, swimming, shooting bows, and of like wrestling or boxing. All of these made for but maybe more importantly, they for anything the ancient So next time you're wrestling and he's caught at least you can take that you're taking part Who invented soccer? It might seem like soccer but it's actually a relatively People have been playing Even the Olympic games are But soccer as we know really existed since the 1800s. It's certainly true that people for thousands of years, like the or the Japanese a kemari, which was kind of like There's also the Roman which was a bit like a rough as well as tons of variations by different cultures During the Middle took form, which was a and became a popular and other parts of Europe. But back then, a bit of a DIY kind of thing, would come up with their with some being decidedly As you might imagine, made it hard for students to play together once since they all grew up playing Not ideal. Clearly, soccer needed clear and in 1863, that That's the year that a clubs around the London to form the Football and agreed on a set of and passed out. These new regulations officially to touch the ball with your This differentiated soccer and allowed anyone the game with the same rules. Now all anyone needed was a and some nets, and It wasn't long before across England, all and became the planet's And you can drop that bit next time you're playing,