Look at this! It's my friend Mario freezing to death and this is so sad to watch! I I want him to be warm and cozy! How fast can this is what we'll be doing today! Hit the Okay, time for the original Super Mario Bros. and we can use to burn our butt with. I thought but alas, they don't, meaning levels up until 1-4 to finally see some look at it! Perfect to burn my Mario butt! And Super Mario : The Lost Levels is next and this so I bet there's gonna be fire very quickly. was very easy to clear! 1-2 was also out of stock for 1-3. I had to enter the castle in 1-4 to and there's also a firebar this time around! Oh Do I use the fire bar? Do I use the lava? I cannot Super Mario Bros. 2 is up and the first world but it doesn't actually contain fire or lava, levels from that world and then after I killed And look at the new enemy type we find in this heck yeah! Those fireballs will definitely warm my Next up is Mario 3, and I'm gonna be for this challenge, because as soon as you'll see a plant that will spit some bum correctly and you will get burned We won't be as lucky with the Gameboy game : two levels will contain no fire and no lava Thankfully, in the pyramids of World 1-3, a new dude! And how does he attack Mario? Well, he will be perfect to get warm! Alright sir, aim Super Mario World starts off with a House" and there's a beautiful fireplace we the background and we cannot interact with it, so this one doesn't count! I played both levels which is a bummer! This level here, pipe down there and if we enter it, some wonderful lovely lava! Yoshi, you Super Mario Land 2 on the gameboy is pretty cool, you can play any world in any order you want. but I ended up going to the Pumpkin Zone. featuring spooky monsters and such, so there's look at what I just found! A spiky angry piranha my butt warmed up! Aaaaannnddd, here we go! Job So I know about many places where I can but I just wanna see if I can do that without castle and the backyard, I just couldn't find Battlefield then! Doesn't seem like there's a shame! Whomp Fortress wasn't any better! Where let me tell you! Not even inside the penguin's because if there's no fire there, I will go see my pal Bowser, who will obviously I checked out the level, and there's nothing and then enter Bowser's lair! After falling down, Look at this beautiful fire spitting machine! It's Ok, time for a vacation in Delfino Plaza! how much water there is. Is there going to be I looked for some fire in that area, but there get arrested and now that I am back in Delfino Wait a minute! What's that in the background? Let's swim there and... wait what? Only smoke? then! So I remember the secret pipe next to that runs around. After doing a very precise and then entered the pipe! Alright, where is that Being warm all the time! Come on man, share the selfish dude because there's some fire right It's time for New Super Mario Bros. on DS and fire. 1-1 doesn't feature any. Neither does 1-2 or no fire here! I even hoped Bowser Junior would too nice! He's just running around. Junior, what actually had to play all the way through World 1 Can't believe it took that long! Poor Mario was Is there fire in space? Hmm... well we'll know with intro stage, Bowser will appear with his airship the ground! There's fire all over the place during back? Let's see. Well, the fire is nowhere to be Anyways, I did get hit by those flaming balls and they don't even warm me up, which means I sucks! A'ight, let's beat this stage and get the Egg Galaxy looking for some lovely fire. There was I had to defeat, so there's that! I then fed this third star in this galaxy had some real potential! need to reach my boy King Kaliente! There we go, Okay, New Super Mario Bros. Wii is next and I have a feeling this one will also force which is a bit annoying. Hopefully we'll find we won't find it in 1-1. There's nothing that it's just a cold cave and I don't like that! In not like he can burn Mario... but this plant here Super Mario Galaxy 2 is next and how long will sure, we're gonna have to collect a bunch of we're gonna have to get 7 stars in order to Flotilla is looking real promising, so let's that can warm up that Mario butt! Well, it didn't spinning in a circle there. This is exactly Super Mario 3D Land is up and this which is a bit of a shame, but thankfully, just by I have a feeling we'll find some fire there! guess what? It's also inside of the level, waiting Yo, it's new Super Mario Bros. 3... no wait it's game... meh, whatever! Once again, 1-1 and 1-2 same grass level followed by the underground cave there's no fire-spitting plants this time around, again, this one doesn't feature lava or fire... but way cooler than Junior from New Super Mario Bros. meaning we can touch it and burn our butt! Heck Hey look! Another New Super Mario Bros. game, all of these games, the first level is full of and, as expected, none of these levels feature tower was next and I hoped for this one to boom boom the mad lad doesn't have any special let's just destroy the guy! The next level but what's even cooler is that plant here that You know what, I think Luigi also needs to Luigi U now! 1-1 and 1-2 are still super us today. The thing is, 1-Fortress is featuring so much fire! Like, you can pick what? I'm choosing THIS place! I'm gonna Super Mario 3D World is next and the first grass and other nonsensical stuff we don't care underground level, but then I realized that, just torches and that is actually pretty useful! Hey, it's Super Mario Maker time and we're hopefully getting warm super quickly! Obviously, useful to us. And well, the second one named But the third sample stage is called "Castle" tell this one will be pretty good! After walking down there! I'm gonna get warmed by both in People, get your phone because it's time for Super the first level is a classic grassy one and both these don't feature fire. but that doesn't help us out. Now, 1-Castle, a lovely castle filled to the brim Time for Super Mario Odyssey and the first world Well there's certainly some black smoke, even standing in the smoke itself doesn't provide that's pretty lame! Thankfully, at the top of on top of it and we can use those to warm up our Super Mario Maker 2 is next and it's time the jobs Mr. Toad here gives us. The first it mostly featured some grassy things. The but nothing that can warm me up. The but I'm gonna be honest, I have high hopes in Sun". The sun is a very hot thing. It's about this thing will warm me up well! Let me just Time for the very fun Bowser's Fury, a bonus game does feature a lot of rain at first, which is my pal Bowser will come in clutch and will All I have to do now is to find the best one and Final stop of the day : Super Mario Bros. Wonder, The intro level obviously doesn't contain any "Welcome to the flower Kingdom" certainly "Piranha Plants on Parade" features a crap ton of which is a tragedy! Why don't they want to help us but once again, nothing helpful for us! I had to play this game for quite a while before many different levels, and yet, none actually hopes for the castle level, but it was also super Junior decided to be my savior for this quest Oh my gosh, thank you so much for warming There you go, I hope you enjoyed warming screen for more funny challenges like this