Transcriber: Anna Sobota I was supposed to be dead right now. At least according to the statistcs Almost on this day, two years ago, when I was sitting in a doctor's office just a few minutes away from here, a day that changed my life forever. This was me. I was living my best life at that time, I had plans on starting my own family, I had a blooming career, working a job that I loved, and I had also started another business and I felt motivated to keep Life was finally falling into place. I also coached group training late nights, early mornings, and I went to the gym every day As you can imagine, and I had no plans to slow down or pause. I loved the intensity and drive, I felt like nothing could stop me. I felt immortal. But little did I know that life Even though I was living a great life, I came to realize I was, however, I was always on the go, always thriving to get better, always planned ahead. I was never really satisfied with the now, and I did put a lot of my own self-worth in all different parts of life. For me, life was a constant race and I expected myself to win, and excel at everything that I did. During this high on life period, I had been dealing with an annoying cough for about a year. But apart from the cough, I felt great, so I didn't think much of it. I thought it could be some kind because steaming my voice a lot pushing people to their maximum or some kind of asthma or similar. But my cough got worse and my family So for six months I went through a series of different to find out what was causing it. PET scans, spirometry, And finally, I got a letter home that I had a doctor's appointment. So at last I was about to get some clarity and this was March 2020. I still remember this day I was sitting in a cold and bright and I remember feeling quite calm because I felt strong, I felt healthy. So, I mean, how serious could it be? My family was not allowed at the hospital so it was just me and my doctor and I still remember the exact words "We found a huge tumour and you're going to have to go through but also to remove Time froze. The Earth just stood still in that moment. I had trouble taking in But that wasn't all of it, he also told me that I had lung cancer, in fact, incurable lung cancer, a metastatic lung cancer and that there was nothing they could do to cure or save my life. He told me my prognosis was bad we didn't even know I was in shock. I could barely think, breathe or even react. After a while, my doctors words sank in and I was devastated. I couldn't stop crying, My doctor tried to calm me down, Just the thought of my limited was just unbearable to handle. Was this it? Was this all I have got? I mean, I wasn't finished living. It felt like my life had just begun. Later that afternoon, I had to pick up to call my family, and that was probably one of the hardest And I was enrolled as a palliative care patient that day, which means life prolonging treatment I was a former elite athlete never smoked a cigarette in my life, and I was 32 years old. After breaking down some days, not even making it out of bed, I made a decision for myself. I could either continue leading to my inevitable death or I could choose to live and more love and light, while I was still here. I chose the latter. So once I made that decision, and it has been the most difficult that I ever had to go through. But at the same time, the best years that I ever had. And I've been through but above all, mentally. So from that day, I started and I started working on my inner self. I continued to work on my fitness; I went to the gym 4 to 5 times a week, focusing on heavy lifting, and I kept a strict and healthy diet: no sugar, junk food, and I had tons of vegetables every day and broccoli and zucchini with turmeric Through meditation and great tools but most of all, I started to change on the inside. I started focusing on possibilities I found ways to turn and I learned how I could be instead of being the victim of a disease. My bad days turned to good, and later on, great. I learned to rest in my wholeness, and to be okay with what life And I learned how to be how to be thankful for every day. And I learned to love myself, fully, without having to perform or achieve. And I came to realize that the only way one can fully succeed in life is to live it to the fullest. And that the biggest misconception When all we ever had or will have is now, this moment, right here, and realizing how to be here, present in all parts of life, that's how you really win. No one can control what happens in life, what challenges we might face no matter how detailed our plan is, but we can always choose I would like you to ask yourselves this: How do you live your life today? Would you change anything if you found out that you had If the answer is yes, what are you waiting for? There's rarely a good time to make big changes in life. For what we all know So go out and live with your heart full of love, Tell your children you Be nice to yourself and dare to love yourself and dare to choose the life and work towards that. As of this day, I tried everything there is and at the moment I am enrolled and I've been given, what they call And what I've come to realize is that even though it still says I'm not afraid anymore. My love for life is so much stronger I'm not struggling, fighting, surviving. I'm alive. Living. And to be totally frank, I don't know what my medical treatment I don't know for how long I will live. I don't know if it's one year, but then again, none of us do. I was supposed to be dead right now. But I'm not. I am 100% alive. I'm standing here in front of you, my heart is beating fast my one lung is breathing. I can laugh, love, and I get to experience every sensation I get to experience this moment with you. Right here. Right now. And the important thing is not the important thing is how we choose while we are still here. So I will leave you with this: Don't wait any more, not for a second. The time is now, so go out and live it. Thank you. (Applause)