Our planet is a living planet, and the only functioning climate system and active plate But all that moving and shaking makes the home, and natural disasters are an unfortunate that calls our blue marble home. Evolving about 100,000 years ago, modern man an eye of the earth's history, and while we've to ever rock the planet, we've faced our share Hello and welcome to another episode of The a the worst natural disasters in human history. 10. With humans first settling large river valleys, throughout human history. Yet few floods ever matched the devastation the span of middle China in 1931. Preceded by an abnormally heavy monsoon season just prior to the flood, China was alternatively This sudden rainfall led to the Yangtze, Yellow, central China, killing millions of people Famous as the deadliest flood of the twentieth estimated 3.7 to 4 million people. 9. Egypt/Syria Earthquake of 1202 The deadliest earthquake in recorded history, by a megaquake that led to a cascading cycle then famine from devastated crops. Thought to have been caused by a geologic a tsunami which led to extreme flooding. All in all, the string of disasters left over 8. North Korea's Arduous March North Korea has a long history of re-branding were more devastating than the Arduous March Nearly half a decade in length, the Arduous exasperated by a series of natural disasters. With its roots in ineffective government and the Soviet union, natural disasters intensified to over 500,000 deaths. Recently North Korea has warned its citizens the world may soon see a repeat of one of 7. Great Bengal famine of 1770 Often at the whim of a precocious mother nature, Ruled by the British East India Company at struck territories in modern West Bengal, A shortfall of crops in 1768 was a precursor out of the ordinary. However, after the failure of the annual South-East and crops failed across the region. Initial reports of starvation were largely starvation struck in 1770. A series of disease outbreaks and mismanagement 10 million deaths among the native population. 6. Chinese Drought of 1876 Drought inevitably leads to famine, and no China in 1876. A three year drought brought on by failure the nation, leading to between 9 to 13 million Perhaps feeling guilty over their historical actually organized a global relief effort who established the Shangdon Famine Relief Richard kept a detailed diary of the catastrophe of their own houses, selling wives and daughters being boiled and eaten. 5. 1918 Flu Pandemic Disease is one of the humanity's oldest foes, flu. Yet taking hold amidst the destruction brought be the deadliest in history, infecting 500 50 million of them. Yet the strain of flu responsible was no more instead became deadly by ravaging a world of war casualty hospitals, and poor nutrition- First observed in Europe, its unknown where its way around the world. In America alone it dropped the life expectancy 4. 1887 Yellow River Flood China is home to some of the world's mightiest catastrophic floods in history. Due to the elevated nature of the Yellow River, it above the plains that surround it, it is a fact well known by local Chinese who for with artificial dikes. Yet in 1887 after days of extremely heavy flooding large portions of eastern China and The initial floods left 2 million people homeless, led to the death of an estimated 900,000 people. 3. 1556 Shaanxi Earthquake Drought, famine, and floods- it seems China of the worst. One of the deadliest earthquakes on record, morning of January 23rd during the Ming dynasty. An area 520 miles (840 kilometers) wide was estimated 830,000 people died. With 60% of the region's populating dying the total cost of the earthquake is all but 2. 1970 Bhola Cyclone It seems Asia is a rather unkind place to for the moment. Striking East Pakistan and India's West Bengal is one of the worst storms the region has history. Due to a severely inadequate early warning estimated to be as high as 500,000. Sadly, just after a duo of destructive cyclones the Americans for assistance in developing evacuate. After a detailed study and subsequent report of America's National Hurricane Center, it did not carry out most of the recommendations toll. 1. 576 Earthquake of Antioch Striking ancient Syria, the earthquake of empire and all but completely leveled the The earthquake struck without warning on a and killed an estimated quarter of a million Based on the severity of the destruction, between a category 8 and 9 on the Mercalli The survivors of the initial earthquake then the remaining standing buildings, nearly wiping Emperor Justin the 1st was reportedly so devastated the church in Constantinople without any of God. A massive relief and rebuilding effort would would forever be haunted by the death of 250,000 For as long as we remain on this earth humanity disasters. Yet modern improvements in warning and alerting nations to coordinate relief efforts has seen Despite this though its certain that humanity bubbling supervolcanoes slumbering under Italy worst natural disaster in history may not Perhaps even as early as tomorrow... What is the worst natural disaster you've Have you ever been in a natural disaster? Let us know in the comments. Also, be sure to check out our other video Thanks for watching, and as always, please