Welcome to Good Mythical More. We are going to explore wrestling costume. Wrassling. Wrassling! That's right. And, uh. Which way should we go? Okay. All right. Okay. I'm gonna pick them back up. Let's freeze frame. ((Dramatic Music)) Oh, man, it smells. Describe it, in a British accent It smells a little bit like, has been inside of here. Someone who's been Someone who's been munching on Does it smell like Does it smell like Like maybe one thing A bunghole! Yep. A bunghole! And another thing. Is the coochie coo! Ah, yes! Okay, this is. It is warm in here. I'm very loud to how loud I am to you. Stevie, how loud is I? ((Laughing)) - [Stevie] You're good. You're good. I say, keep the masks on What are you trying to say? I don't know if Mikayla but I know that I was. So I think that's You're smelling almonds finished chewing some. ((Laughing)) Yeah. Okay, let's take a look What if I went out and walked You probably, the and begin talking. Maybe, maybe some, there'd from inside of a house You'd get on TikTok. That's how, hey, that's Yeah, it is. But then, you know, people my face is covered. Oh, they'll know. Cause of my dogs? Yep. Everybody recognizes your this famous show, Link. Christy texted me right you know, I brought Jade I don't ask questions. But I didn't bring Jasper in. And, Christy texted having a very difficult time - [Rhett] Oh, really? What is he saying? He's, he's whimpering a looking for her everywhere. He doesn't know that Well, he knows that she's that's why he's looking. - [Rhett] But why is he Yeah, he thinks. He thinks she's In the house. Yeah, that's right, She's gonna come home with ((Laughing)) Maybe she'll be rewashed, What happened to you? Oh, okay. Alright, so. Let's start with, I don't Let's start with Goldust. Now. I like how the D, I didn't realize that. Goldust. Gold, us. My, my suggestion here is know about this wrestler out only judging the outfit. You're not judging the name. You're not judging the judging the, the outfit. This is a cool outfit, dude. This is, this is I mean, I'm getting a little You want to take a break Just mouth out? Or full face out? Just to take a little break. I was just making the he's hot in this thing. Isn't that Dusty Rhodes son? Oh! - [Carney] That's right. Goldust is Dusty I, they look. - [Carney] Cody Rhodes brother. Who rode? - [Carney] Cody Rhodes. Okay. - [Carney] WWE wrestler. And didn't, there was He looks like it. He was Goldust and he Is that true? Well, he got. - [Carney] Cody Rhodes didn't like Stardust. There was, oh, so it was He didn't wanna be Stardust. This is like, it, throwback to. This is cool. A little bit of a luchador even though it's, it's face paint? Yeah, it's face paint. Hold on, There's a patch of looks like real paint. It's a mohawk. Yeah. Cause, it's a, it's a. It's paint. But it's only on the Like, that's a He had a dinky mohawk. I mean, the dude made a really order to complete his costume. I think that's commitment. This is number one. Number one so far. This is number one so far. Let's go with Mankind. Mankind now, did what, with Mankind? That he? He's not, he's, he has escaped from a, a treatment Yeah. He's not, he's not the Right. He. But he apparently He needs to be under team of professionals. And he's not, he's wrestling. So, he's still got his He is a businessman. His sock puppet. And he has a sock puppet. Is he just a Mormon He's a Mormon in, a two year mission. Right. Like, he's been In a very difficult location. Carney, what are Because this seems a - [Carney] Yeah, I don't know what He, he was, it was Mick Foley had This was personas, Yes. - [Carney] This was his most It's giving Party City. Yeah. - [Carney] Giving Party City. Yep. Sorry, but it is. Yeah, right. Not working for us. I'm gonna, I'm gonna, I'm Do that again. - [Carney] That thing on his hand is put it in people's mouths to, Oh, really? Did it have chloroform on it? - [Carney] Oh, maybe. Maybe he was eating almonds. Or maybe he just whispered, your mouth, pass out. Fall asleep. Pass out. Yeah, they usually work that And next we have I like that, Link. That was good. No, only, only, - [Rhett] So far. - [Link] So far. My prediction is that Jake - [Link] When the time is right. Yep. But you heard it here first. These are the These are like, an 80's. They came up in like, not even like the NWA, the National But then I'm, I'm sure they I got them a little bit These guys are cool. The Bushwhackers? No, these are pre I know they are, but I'm Look, Road Warriors had to, Bushwhackers could whack As it should be. Right, Carney? We're asking Carney He's a, he's an expert. He's really, he's - [Carney] Yeah, what you said is right. These guys. I'm sympathetic to a duo. This is, I know what's the other one? Hawk and the other one. Spider? No. There's a spider And I thought there was a I'm wrong but. - [Carney] There was a you're thinking of though, Hawk and Animal. Great names for You know, they go out on They have. But really, it's Yeah. Let's just be real about this. These are football And they would have different It's definitely But you had to take this You know, I don't think to wrestle, did he? Yeah, he did. - [Carney] No, he wore that. He wrestled in that. He wore the whole Lycra - [Carney] He was so sweaty at Oh gosh. Well, okay, how If you take it off. He's winning. That's how we award it. Okay. I don't have anything I'm gonna take this off for a What it's doing to your hair? I don't know what it's I've been punished enough. For tying with you. Yeah, I might get, I little forehead, forehead crinkle. Gotta get rid of that. Okay. Check out this guy. The Boogeyman. Now, he's new to me. I'm sorry. I appreciate the fact. ((Laughing)) Boogeyman is new to you? I don't know about A lot of people spell always. That's a bogey man. That always gets to me. Cause that is a bogey man. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Why do they do that? It's, it's, the Boogeyman, He's got two O's. Carney, you're gonna have Is that, good, great, I mean. - [Carney] He came along fallow creative era of WWE stuff against the wall and, like, and he pops up still from really likes the Boogeyman. So, he's got a clock, he's comes to haunt your dreams. - [Carney] That was his thing, yeah. Yeah. You know, that's, that's - [Carney] He would eat worms, and Oh! Oh, really? You can't see that in the know if that's technically Because he gets So he has hair, he has that has a bunch of hair. That's cool. - [Rhett] He's pretty scary. - [Link] I do like that. He looks amazing. - [Rhett] He's pretty scary. - [Link] I mean, he's committed. If you, if you went to Halloween and had to walk thing and this guy popped You've really You've done it this year. You're gonna, if we have a Boogeyman going Interestingly, interesting is holding strong at Really hard for, you I mean, look at this. I mean, this can't win. It's not creative enough. - [Link] It's pretty. - [Rhett] It's too simple. - [Link] Alright, alright. We can readjust Let's go with, let's Woo! Ric Flair! Ric Flair. - [Rhett] His costume was a robe. - [Link] I mean his persona, it his delivery and his. - [Rhett] It was his personality. - [Link] His personality. So he, nature boy, I mean to be a nature boy? I actually never Does that mean He doesn't seem like the type I don't think he Maybe glamp. It is kind of amazing of your quintessential wrestler. I'm just here to wrestle. It's a little bit of a Kurt Yeah. He was just a wrestler as the, like, USA vibe, because Yeah. But, Ric Flair is like the I think that's where He's old school braggadocio. He doesn't need But I don't think it was And so. But the robe was effortless. It's definitely For sure, yeah. We're not crazy. I think it might be better The Road Warriors, they made it themselves, They elevated, Football pads. What about this jerk? Doink the Clown? Is this a Simpsons character? What's going on here? Krusty's brother? Well, this is the worst Why? Why? Why you say that? Take a gander at it. Well, he. He bought it somewhere. Yeah, this is. It's awful. This is purchased. It's awful. I think it's worse Like, I could go become Doink Do you know what I'm saying? Just by going to Yep, we're gonna Now, was Doink - [Carney] He did have a sort of, He was supposed to be And this was like in the everybody was like a plumber, Like, this was, yeah. A repo man. So, so he, it was a, he I mean, he was head to toe. Well. I don't know, we're Yeah. Just because we can see his gonna give him extra points. Stevie, have you ever sat - [Stevie] Never. Never? Cassie's not into wrestling? - [Stevie] No. Interesting. Seems like she would be. We should do that. We should do that sometime. Your house or mine. - [Stevie] I'm not really a, I don't wanna offend, know how to offend. So, I'm not even gonna. You already are, I think. - [Stevie] Yeah, I think so. Alright. Okay. What do you think Alright, this is, if you the best wrestling costumes immediately atop of my list. Randy Savage, I mean, It the, he was way, he was this like fluorescent Oh gosh, it's so great. It's very, like, When he really He always was like neon and kept going and kept going. He was the macho man. You know what I'm saying? Like, when you hear nature consistent with nature boy. This is consistent with macho. Cause when you think Yellow hat. Sunglasses. Yeah. You know, machos, machos with all the podcasts. About how to be a macho man. You know? That's true. Nobody's wearing they will be soon. Christy's favorite And I don't know why, because he treated Miss Elizabeth? He wouldn't, I mean, We're talking about his costume. The whole bit was he We're not talking about Like, he wouldn't Well, why'd you have Cause I was about to Yeah, but we're just It was a bit though. It was, you know. He was so macho. We don't know what their I'm sure they had a real behind the scenes. You think they were I don't know. Were they actually - [Carney] I just realized that we've all It's actually, if you look Oh, yeah. Savange. Yeah, sorry. This is a different guy. Yeah. Randy Savange. What is Savange? Is that a scent? I've got a couple of This is my Savange shirt. I mean, it's so flashy. Can we put it number one, man? Come on, let's stick it The tassels are so long. - [Rhett] That's a costume, dude. - [Link] That is it, man. - [Rhett] It's better than Goldust. ((Laughing)) It's better, man. I think they When Randy Savage, like, hair, you know what came off? - Goldust. Alright. I just took, the fact that Goldust was in just have a problem with that. I think, okay. He was Dusty's son. Well, I mean, you got. There's nothing wrong with it. There's some great You're right, you're The Undertaker. Look at that dude. - [Rhett] Great persona. Great persona. What about the costume? - [Link] Black leather, wide Heavy, heavy eyeliner. - [Rhett] I like the fact that he was Well, at first, wasn't - [Carney] Yeah, when he debuted he Opera look to him, but they See, Carney, he knows it all. He knows it all. You should go on Jeopardy! that's just about wrestling. - [Carney] Yeah, I'd have to beat the ((Laughing)) Wrestling Jeopardy! What does his? What does his belly say? B.S.M. Pride. B.D.S.M. pride? ((Laughing)) Is it a real tattoo? Or is it a costume tattoo? I think it's real. Got that long hair, It's a good, it's It's a good costume. But it's not, I wouldn't funeral home and see somebody If I saw that, I wouldn't I would think maybe stripper? You know what I'm saying? Yeah. Yeah. And I do feel like I Undertaker for Halloween. I mean. But he was not. All you need is Yeah, well. And maybe a body. I can get that too at Party City. Yeah, yeah. Get a front piece. I can get a front I mean. It doesn't, I'm trying You know, the more I think manager looked more like Like the funeral funeral home director, was the Grave Digger, but Right, so he couldn't, I think he looked more like. - [Carney] Do you remember one of No. - [Carney] Paul Bearer. Paul Bearer! Yes! Dang, I wish he was up here. Paul, is a name. And Bearer, yeah. Yeah. Which is a last name. I'm not gonna put him as high You think he's just a? It, doesn't make as much sense. I'll buy that. He's above Ric Flair, - [Link] Yeah. - [Rhett] Mankind and Doink are - [Link] Right. And of course, Randy Savange. Best wrestling There you have it, y'all. With Goldust coming I think he's still trying - [Rhett] Celebrate the Mythical with first degree monthly February 5th through 9th. Visit MythicalSociety.com