Hey, Vsauce. Michael here. When you call customer service and hear this &quot;to ensure quality service your call may be monitored or recorded&quot;, Over the last year the Marchex Institute recorded phone conversations Americans made to businesses in the United States. Turns out, people from Ohio were the most likely to use curse words - the 'A' word, Washington state residents were But what makes a word bad? Oh, be careful because etymologically speaking even the word 'bad' can be considered a bad word. It began in old English as a derogatory term for an effeminate man. in public in 1986, 1997 and 2006 were essentially the same. the top two - the 'F' word and the 'S' word. Slate's brilliant Lexicon Valley podcast purported that these 10 words makeup about 0.7% of the average English speakers daily vocabulary, which means socially unacceptable words are used almost as often as socially descriptive words. 1% of the words we say everyday. When a bad word is bleeped, it is covered with a 1 kilohertz sine wave, which sounds like this. Son of a ... By the way, the symbols and a bad word have a name. They were named by Mort Walker in his seminal &quot;The Lexicon of Comicana.&quot; them show stuff, they don't hide stuff. Why the need to hide bad words, especially if we all pretty much know what's being said? are bad. Steven Pinker in his excellent lecture five types of swearing. on purpose. to hurt others. Using words to insult, humiliate, objectify or marginalise disfavoured people. Now, if that this disfavoured person is God, we're talking about supernatural swearing, which was particularly taboo in Victorian times. It was believed that casually or vainly referring to God would physically injure God himself, literally. So, at the time people were like &quot;Zounds!&quot; and &quot;Gadzooks!&quot;, which originally meant &quot;God's Wounds!&quot; and &quot;God's Hooks!&quot;, referring to the nails driven through the hands of Jesus. Historically, swear words often afraid of, things we perceived as dangerous, stronger than us and mercurial. Such as death, disease and infirmity, sex and sexually transmitted diseases, germy, gross effluvia. Words for those gross things became gross uncouth to speak. But not all words for gross things are socially unacceptable, which brings us to Pinker's second type of swearing - emphatic swearing. Emphatic swearing is where the becomes quite practical. really want to convey that your current social conduct, you can use them. Dysphemism. A euphemism is kind, acceptable word unpleasant while simultaneously letting everyone know you totally get that it's unpleasant and want to respect that. For instance, if you want to be You might say 'defecate'. If, on the other hand, how unpleasant the experience was, dysphemisms can help out a lot. It wasn't a bag of canine defecation you found on your front porch, it was a s*** bag of hot dog s***. but they have different levels of very helpful. It means word choice allows us to not only refer to things in the real world but also to how we feel about them. If both these words had the same level we might even have to find new, badder language currently has to express emotion, repulsion and disgust. But when it comes to two words with different levels of social acceptance, good and which one's bad? use today are the result of class differences. In medieval England, the lower-class Saxons spoke a Germanic tongue while the upper-class Normans spoke a language related to French and Latin. English, as we know it today, of their differences. from them we get animal names. The upper class only ate the animals, which is where come from. Today's swear words are similar. Latin, whereas the less classy s*** is Germanic. There's also idiomatic swearing, where nothing is being emphasized. No dysphemism is meant; swearing that shows an atmosphere is casual. Bad words can be used, we're all cool. Cathartic swearing is a bit different. It gives us &quot;lalochezia,&quot; the medical term for the relief swearing provides when you're in pain. In the brain, swearing seems to involve different regions which may explain why people with struggle to comprehend or construct spoken words but yet are fluent at swearing. Or why people with coprolalia control normal language just fine, but involuntarily utter profanity, an obscene words. It turns out swearing may be centralized in the limbic system, along with the motions. noises when in pain or threat to startle or intimidate attackers, or to let others know what's going on. In humans, bad words are great for this purpose. Their taboo-ness makes them special. so they are great alarms. Swearing is changing. frequently. Of the seven words, George television. Today, every second 22 of them are sent out on Twitter. So, what will swearing look like in the future? It probably won't go away altogether, it's too useful. But the words we don't like will likely change. History has shown that as disease supernatural more personal, words related to them and more common; are increasingly unpleasant. Perhaps, in the future, spurt not by runaway political correctness but by wider knowledge, words like &quot;schizo&quot;, &quot;mental&quot;, &quot;aspy&quot;, or even &quot;depressed&quot; will take the square stage. Or as John McWhorter ventured, between opportunity and disadvantage will become more taboo. Salt of the Earth, trash, chav, pikey, urban as a pejorative. When McKay Hatch started a &quot;No Cussing Club&quot; at his school, his campaign became the insults for being lame or anti-free speech. On his book, he literally subtitled his own name &quot;the most cyberbullied kid in the world.&quot; People care about this stuff. to tell us what we can and cannot say or is it a safety seal, ensuring certain quotidian bluntness like every other word? Or is that badness of bad words a boundary, a moving boundary of we reject - sometimes arbitrary, sometimes irrational, but always moving moving forward? Crime and inequality have existed ever since they could. But when N.W.A released a word in the title, &quot;F*** the Police&quot;, a statement against the song. up until then and since, about a work of art. Bad words have power. If you wanna push for change you'll need something to push. If everything's fine, nothing's cool. So, bad words are the precipitate of a larger reaction - the process of us slowly becoming what we want to become. That's some deep s***. And as always, thanks for watching.