Over 65% of the world's desalination In the UAE, the Jebel Ali Power expanded to 2.2 million cubic meters of That is more than 880 Olympic Over in Saudi Arabia, there is the a power and water cogeneration plant. Built for over $7 billion, it can produce 1 The monstrous scale of this freshwater production the more I feel like they should not ## Water in the Gulf The countries of the Gulf Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Bahrain, and Oman - are some of The region has suffered from water scarcity Saudi Arabia, and Qatar have less than 100 To compare, the average household of four uses And what little surface water these countries the water in Saudi Arabia's largest surface lake So much of it is contaminated with heavy metals. In such situations, people drill for groundwater. is already quite intense. Continued extraction subsidence. And only about 10% of Moreover, these countries' populations are 1995 to 56.4 million in 2021. Which is roughly Births are slowing down right now, but fertility Moreover, the GCC is one of the most of the population resides in an urban city and With that, water demand is on the rise, including fruits and fodder for animals consumes up to National security-linked self sufficiency food Considering these challenges, the GCC countries see desalination as the best way to ## Desalination in the Gulf Jeddah is a large city in Saudi Arabia. It has long been a gateway and travel making it very densely packed. The city gets but does border the salty Red Sea. The city had long drawn water from two with the population booming, the city the United Kingdom in 1907. This machine - locally named the &quot;Kendassa&quot; evaporating and re-condensing seawater. It years before being replaced with two The 1920s marked many of the first including a big one on the country-island This upsurge in global desalination capacity booming oil industry. But it was World War with the United States the technology leader. After the War, the Middle East nations first to explore this technology for Kuwait installed the first by Westinghouse - capable of making about Later in 1966, Saudi Arabia established a Water Desalination office within the It was led by the Prince Muhammed Al-Faisal made a previous appearance promised a feasibility study on towing The idea didn't quite work, but I This office later became the Saline and was recently renamed to the it is singlehandedly responsible for 22% Starting in the second half of the 1970s, North Africa countries including Today, Saudi Arabia and the United of desalinated water amongst Saudi Arabia produced 2.9 million cubic ## Thermal MSF There are two major desalination Virtually all of the mega-sized water fabs of the The dominant being Multi-Stage Flash, or If you recall, the boiling point of water surrounding pressure. At sea level, But if you take that pot of water up to goes down to about 93 degrees Celsius. That is This is MSF's operating principle. Prior systems evaporated seawater by raising this was done by running hot steam But engineers soon discovered a problem. Over insulating the seawater outside This salt formation is referred to as and it hurts the evaporation rate enough to necessitate a lengthy cleaning process MSF turns things on its head. We evaporate but by also lowering the pressure. Here As the name indicates, an MSF plant Each stage has two sections inside it - a We send heated seawater into the flash the low pressure causes a portion of After exiting the flash chamber, the steam is piped through a de-mister The now-saltier liquid brine is moved That pure water vapor is then condensed with seawater. The vapor releases heat into those The heat helps warm up brine or seawater. plant's overall efficiency, cutting Each stage inside the MSF plant has varying goes through each stage, flashing off each time. The biggest MSF plants have up to 40 stages ## Salt Scaling and Fouling The primary design concern with Over time, calcium and magnesium salts and reduce the efficiency of the heat transfer. To First, they maintain a top brine temperature seawater with a de-carbonation step Second, they add scale inhibitor chemicals used in fracking, these chemicals attach impeding their growth. It works are consequences for brine And finally, they do limited washing. square plants to do some cleaning without release a bunch of sponge balls into the ## MSF Upsides There is little expectation abandon MSF completely in the near future. Why? Because it is simple and can process huge amounts in the Elon Musk school of industrial There are no moving parts other than conventional pipes, which minimizes potential leaks and damage robust and reliable than its competitors. Many The MSF plant's stages are also modular, capacity by connecting or disconnecting stages. And finally, pre-treating the water can take in the worst quality surrounding seawater and eventually turn it into ## Downsides Well, there is one big thing. MSF Estimates vary depending on assumptions. 10 to 25 kilowatt hours or even higher to This is taking into account both heat and is heat, but we need some mechanical You can try to blunt this burden by pairing station and using their byproduct heat cuts energy consumption by about 50% But even so, the energy requirements can get cogeneration plants consumed 1.5 million barrels Things have improved since then, thanks to an it is likely that without the GCC countries' these massive MSF plants would not be economical. ## Reverse Osmosis Seawater Reverse Osmosis or SWRO is the In this method, we use pressure to push The salt gets caught in the filter and what Since we do not heat up the water, there it far less energy intensive: cubic meter of water - which is just Energy is the single most significant this reason, after 2000, every country desalination plant - has largely So despite the fact that the world's MSF itself has less than 20% market share of world being by far the leader, with over 60%. This is There are other upsides with SWRO. renewable energy source like solar. economical system is far smaller than MSF, for towns and cities. In other The major downside of large-scale Reverse a lot more about the seawater going into salts and decomposed material or So we pre-treat the water before it goes into the filters, but also add chlorine or anti-coagulants. the water source location, and can add up to ## Reverse Osmosis in the GCC usage rate of reverse osmosis because Saudi Arabia built their first ever Reverse though apparently mostly as a demonstration unit. MSF methods will continue to dominate spent on these installations But as cost and environmental pressures GCC countries like Saudi Arabia have explored more RO-only and hybrid RO-thermal systems In 2022, the Saudi Water and Electricity big reverse osmosis plants It has a capacity of 450,000 making it one of the biggest of Saudi Arabia's recent privatization moves in these trends towards more sustainable ## Brine that both Thermal and Membrane For every two cubic meters of freshwater produced, cubic meters of freshwater means having to After processing, the remaining brine comes very seawater. Oftentimes, it has other things and the aforementioned anti-scalant chemicals. Brine disposal is challenging. Other than energy, factors in desalination - likely adding anywhere What can you do with the brine? The options are groundwater. Dump it at the shoreline or deep even with substantial seawater How about extracting and selling the but it is not yet economically viable. And what about the other chemicals Environmental issues associated with desalination common to both SWRO and MSF methods, and water demands expand and more desalination This leads to our concluding issue. ## Conclusion The majestic MSF mega-water fabs awe and wonder. But I also have to admit Not that desalination must be abolished. impractical. We must acknowledge the fact that 30+ times the amount of freshwater they have. But we must try to break down the GCC countries' water systems. 50% is concentrated in just five plants. 60% It's not just uneconomical and environmentally Imagine annihilating half of a country's A technology transition away from MSF towards bringing water supplies far closer to where people consume them. It is better for the