Honest Faith Written by Charles H. Spurgeon Preface over all things, and men move about like Egypt's this mist would lift! The best we can hope for is that the cloud may leave a dew behind to nourish The paragraphs of this little book are not convince an opponent but to assist a friend. How thus far may be of helpful interest to some other will assist some true heart to say &quot;he fought his fail him, for the prevalent skepticisms are but A great poet let fall the expression &quot;honest Modern unbelief is so short of the quality that season, it has advertised itself as HONEST Feeble as our voice may be, we Let Us Live of human life is not its end but its beginning. but our opening years produce the future. At the of thought that arrives too late for any practical so frequent in departing moments, should have fasted and wore sackcloth, while the child was God for the child; and David fasted, and went in, But he wisely foresaw the uselessness of lamenting from the earth, and washed, and anointed into the house of the LORD, and worshipped: then they set bread before him, and he did eat (2 he said, Can I bring him back again? - one of It may be a serious business to take the cold iron still and see the hot bar grow cold. Brother, How Shall We Live? there's the rub. Not that it is a question to me you, my reader, I word it so for your sake. In Here are hammers - light, bright, and many. See smith over yonder says he knows nothing about is always inventing fine things. &quot;At least,&quot; but I believe they might better be called but they are old rogues.&quot; The smith swings makes the sparks fly and the iron yield. &quot;There,&quot; good friend, he is only a blacksmith unreasonably fond of old things. Are these who are fascinated by novelties? We think not. Faith Has Wrought Wonders men of strong convictions fashion the world upon emboldens him to put forth all his energy. In the Paul brings forth an honor roll of faith's to celebrate a victory) to their memory. Abel, Enoch, Noah, Abraham; and the sculptured stopped the mouths of lions, quenched the eulogist of faith comes to a pause, it is not What shall I more say? for the time would and of Samson, and of Jephthae; of David also, What Has Doubt Achieved? has ever been raised to the honor of unbelief? of skepticism yet appear? If so, what will obtained promises are not products of doubt much suffering to obtain a better resurrection, the eulogist of doubt would have to be content What hospitals or orphanages has doubt erected? sustained? What fallen women or profligate Sing, muse! If such a theme, so dark, so wrong, The Milton of this subject may turn out Elegy as mute and inglorious.4 Scripture: 7:16). What are the precious results of new-fashioned unbelief? We hear the shouts Great is Diana of the Ephesians (Acts results of the advanced criticism that is so Doubt Is Sterile and sterile. It inhibits man to nobler things the human mind. It is by no means a principle force it has is subversive and not constructive. smash is not one to which an ordinary man may What if some religious notions are mere fancy, after all to be good at breaking up the ornaments rejoice to be rid of what they call rubbish, it fabrics; the genius required is similar to that Our ambition lies in a higher region; we would to honorable and useful lives, we seek a positive who prefer to do so may doubt, and doubt, and is to find truth and believe it - that it may the audacity to preach a doctrine of &quot;doubt and but &quot;believe and live&quot; is the essence of Self-Reliance and a Better Reliance and in a certain sense with due surroundings, it is a considerable force in the world. He his own mind hesitates, trembles, falters, and his disappointment. The self-reliant individual perseveres, and succeeds; his assurance of A man believes in his own ability, and he gradually convinces others that his self-conceit has sometimes acted forcefully, of valor. The essence of the matter is that importance in accomplishing our objectives, and and every case. We choose faith then, rather than It is better to trust in the LORD than Reliance on God - Our Chosen Life Principle how much more can God-reliance! This latter more sure, and more praiseworthy. Our own powers tethered and unable to go beyond our limit. But therefore, he who makes it his trust has a others. For all ends which he may wisely pursue, he may draw upon All-sufficiency. Scripture: My earth (Psalm 121:2). The greatest Power must in that power is immutable, we may depend upon it as to place our reliance where it may increase from This Reliance Works for Good are admirable. Setting out in life with a sincere will not make him vain, for he will give the honor an entire defeat while depending upon the divine His failure would involve more dishonor upon God perish from too great a faith in God. It is clear of faith in the living God is beneficial. for us that which is most worth living for, we all look that way. It is reasonable that a man Some of us are so assured of the excellence of are content to turn all the future risks of an We deliberately say, My soul, wait thou only upon Skepticism - No Great Achievement to doubt. A man of moderate ability or learning demands knowledge, for it is an intelligent but infidelity is not required to give defiant demeanor and a blustering tone answer the present trend of unbelief is to know nothing, Great is the glory of knowing nothing! lack of knowledge: because thou hast rejected A man may glide into agnosticism insensibly and alive - alive to conflict and watchfulness. Those to make considerable advances towards manliness Shall we prefer doubt because it is so readily if we have to dive like pearl-fishers? That our life rule according to the spirit within ignoble way of the many but will aspire to the Faith in the Unseen our confidence to the region of our senses is an substance of things hoped for, the evidence of or heard, or tasted the greatest of known forces. of the giants are all invisible. The earth is grasp. He . . . hangeth the earth upon nothing the more completely a force can be understood Take an illustration from daily life: the of a poor man if he can count his flocks. The by the artisan every hour of the day if their never seen his millions, and the evidence that bills in which he places unquestionable hardly be very rich and actually see his wealth. and that force must be to a large extent This surely can be no difficulty to a depend in some circumstances upon forces circumstances rest ourselves upon the eternal practice of trusting in a higher power will prove dull level of materialism. Won't the habit preparation for death, which so many assume is blind man as well off in the darkness as those his way in the dark makes him the better off. sight fails, we shall be the more ready for This much is certain - if we follow God by faith, absence and his actual invisibility. As the dog so is he who follows in the way of obedience by for his faith supplies him with a more certain which are seen, but at the things which are not but the things which are not seen God Can Be Known by some that God cannot be known. Those who observable facts, and therefore they are bound God cannot be known. Since they confess to know if we leave them out of our consideration. being - in fact, the highest intelligence; for in profound thought and knowledge. Scripture: That for God hath shewed it unto them. For the of the world are clearly seen, being even his eternal power and Godhead; so that Lord Bacon said, &quot;I had rather believe all that this universal frame is without a mind.&quot; a measure that we are prepared to trust him. He confidence than all the things that he has made. itself known - as strange as fire that did not find it hard to believe in the eternal, solitary Faith in God Permitted question that answers both itself and this: What is to forbid it? Such confidence must be it is according to the need of the one and the can discover the faintest trace of a reason God's Existence Not Taken for Granted Certainly not. We believe it to be a fact not diseased with criticism but honestly rational, worker, a design necessitates a designer, a we were in a desert with Scottish explorer Mungo God was there. Or for that matter, the sand under to prove that fact. But dwelling on a fair island, many proofs of the Godhead as there are objects This, of course, is called a mere his Latin word makes no difference to If more proofs were offered, they would no doubt but contemptuous expressions are no replies to is better than twenty faulty ones, and if that The French savants, en route for Egypt, but his astute intellect was not led astray. the stars he demanded, &quot;Who made all these?&quot; and the firmament sheweth his handywork. Day unto knowledge. There is no speech nor language, Doubt Logically Carried Out but a short way to run to finish its legitimate can give better proof of his mental being than Let him try. He claims that his own consciousness may be very good evidence to himself, but rational man attempt to use it in that way. demonstrates that I am.&quot; Precisely so, and God's comes, &quot;But you see me work, and you don't see you work; your body is not yourself; your true purposes through your external frame, and we see is out of sight. It is a mystery of mysteries should be able to operate upon matter. matter is a secret which no mortal has of your soul to another man except by the If then you stretch your wings for a flight the ultima Thule (distant unknown region; Doubt whether you doubt; doubt whether there be to be doubted. A thorough-going agnostic he should not in fact be too confident that No Soul benefit his audience, but one person came to him of no use to me. I do not believe that I have imaginary hereafter; I shall die like a dog.&quot; I have evidently failed by misunderstanding. but I prepared the message under the notion known that there were creatures present who had provided a good supply of bones for them.&quot; What more gentle dealing than playful sarcasm views of themselves? Assuredly no soul needs own inability to help us and tacitly admit &quot;There is no such thing as light,&quot; cries one, &quot;for any argument in this? No, the blind gentleman is can have no weight. Soulless beings may hold what interesting as curiosities, but they cannot God in the Sphere of Our Life a dreamy dependence upon a faraway and inactive behalf of those who trust him, and it is hinted stoop to the petty cares of men and women. our doors and in our chambers - yes, in our bodies but he is busy in the room where his child The ordinary talk is about the operations gentleman who has used the term looks around and says that everybody knows what nature is. &quot;Why,&quot; says he, &quot;it is easy enough. Nature that the real worker is God himself, and any be found. The movements around us are laws do nothing. They are neither more nor less Creator's working. But he himself does the working all around us. Scripture: I will praise marvellous are thy works; and that my The Great God Answers Faith upon God on the grounds of our insignificance, little for God. The wonders of the microscope are we may not set a boundary on the Lord in He can and will show his divine skill in a Witnesses are alive who testify to the them that trust him. Any man may also put the and it is remarkable that none have in his character why God should not there are many reasons why he should. At any to put it to the test and to let the experiment In the day of my trouble I will call upon Why God Is Not Relied On Doesn't it seem peculiar that so few men should to God in faith? Why is this? The severe moralist no desire to lead lives that are connected to and holiness as God's energy would work in them. true of us. Virtue is so admirable that we cannot power moves us towards goodness is one of its Scripture: Whatsoever things are true, whatsoever whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things if there be any virtue, and if there be any We Shouldn't Be Despondent to goodness as they are despondent or hopeless to remember that despondency is unwarranted when should enter, for God can raise the most polluted Scripture: He stretcheth out the north over the He bindeth up the waters in his thick clouds; and the face of his throne, and spreadeth his cloud until the day and night come to an end. The his reproof. He divideth the sea with his power, proud. By his spirit he hath garnished the serpent. Lo, these are parts of his ways: but how of his power who can understand? (Job 26:7-14) because we do not wish to be pure; it confidence in his power to elevate us because and a characteristic of a good being is that he and his power governs the world of the mind as united in God concerning the object of our desire Therefore, we may fly to him with a cheerful Further Causes of Unbelief even when they refuse to rely upon God. They have self-sufficiency. He who has never seen his own if he is aided therein by flatterers. may readily form a high opinion of his own wisdom - a plant of rapid growth. Scripture: worshipped and served the creature more than the This is one of the worst enemies of faith. He who talk about faith in God; he relegates that lowly His self-restraint is perfect; his judgment beautiful is fully developed. He is a self-made &quot;Tut - the man is a fool!&quot; Quick and sensible observations of the charitable are sorrowfully Professing themselves to be wise, they became now communes, are not such grand, self-governing passions may betray us, that our reason may and that our surroundings may thwart us. the Strong for strength and cast our folly upon not expect imitators among the vainglorious, The Sneer they are not born in good men's bosoms, and most They break no bones, and men of backbone smile terrible weapons of war, and the dread of them When faith in God is sneered at, the exhibition of imbecility. To trust a quack is excused, but question their own wisdom laugh to scorn those who it ought to be easy for a man with common for believing his Creator? That is to despise the and to assail a truism - as well as ridicule and learning, or despise an engineer for for depending upon the return of the harvest. pay attention to the jeers of the foolish; but I had as lief not be as live to be More Knowledge of God Desirable trust in God, his faith must largely depend upon and hearing by the word of God (Romans 10:17). It Unknown. The variety and breadth of our knowledge matters that a narrow knowledge would exclude from in creation might well cause us to rely upon be exerted on our behalf. But what if there is a may reasonably cause us to depend upon the divine that goodness to withhold itself. A conscientious knowledge of God is confined to his greatness, awkward condition, for we have not yet met with uneasiness of which we are painfully conscious. we ought to be, we need to know far more of God if How Is More to Be Known? that the more we know of God, the easier The quality of goodness so exceeds in the known But how is more knowledge to be obtained? Perhaps. But it would be a far more effectual us and be his own expositor. No man can be can God. God's universe is so immense that if it it would be too vast for our mental grasp. How The works of God are too many for us to know wisdom that they would reveal? If they were as they are infinitely various, our capacity is superiority should make an abstract for us and God Revealing Himself for the intelligent creature to trust in his that he gain more knowledge of the Creator isn't it reasonable to suppose that the wise and creatures to know him? At least so far as may prayed, That the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, of wisdom and revelation in the knowledge of him: that ye may know what is the hope of his of his inheritance in the saints, And what us-ward who believe (Ephesians 1:17-19). his subjects that a king should be personally monarch shutting himself up entirely from public the glory of God does not need man's observation; selfish in seeking to be known. But since man's it is not unreasonable to hope that One known. The manifestation of God in his works of or food is abundantly sufficient and more animals. But for intelligent minds there must be or faith under many forms would be impossible, Such a forsaking of the work of his own hands Revelation in Words communication between one mind and another. It is, means of communication and converse with men in and a light unto my path (Psalm 119:105). more accurate and more permanent; hence, it is in God communicates with finite men, it should be preserved in writing. Divine writings do not, order of God's procedure; the announcement of surprise, nor do we see in the notion of A mind entirely locked up in itself could hardly is pretty sure to communicate, and it seems the Most High God would also converse with other subordinate, especially upon a topic so needful The entrance of thy words giveth light, it 119:130). One does not expect to hear the qualities of a great worker are such that may expect the Creator to be communicative. for he may happen to be deaf and dumb; but he The Book Should Be Examined a rumor floating about respectable society that of his own character, thoughts, and will, an would speedily and with great care examine the O how I love thy law! it is my meditation all our fathers, which claims to be the Word of God, wise and righteous men that we cannot speak of its All scripture is given by inspiration for reproof, for correction, for instruction in throughly furnished unto all good works (2 Timothy and it has been reverently received Effects of the Book has produced in the nations that have given it are far advanced in comparison to those who give ahead of those who are not acquainted with it. own day to the most savage people is beyond all that the South Sea Islands have been lifted out of We have not yet heard of any other book producing our attention by the undeniable results of its times. It is very easy to discover people reading this Book and easier still to their comfort under all circumstances, and the priceless food of their spirits. by their readers, but we have never yet met such frequent enthusiasm and such devoted of one which answers so many and such diverse Seeing for One's Self man should read the Bible for himself. Scripture: that needeth not to be ashamed, rightly dividing book that professes to be the revelation of God's to others - whoever they may be. Secondhand a personal investigation is far more satisfactory dismisses the whole matter with a final verdict probably not as cultured a being as he professes helpful in the pursuit of truth. Does our wisdom He that answereth a matter before he heareth it, Nature demands attention, hard and persevering, the Word of God certainly deserves as reverent the Scriptures be studied thoroughly? Even as care. It is typical of a wise man to calmly and cherished by so many masterminds. The voice that read) was no sound of folly. To take up and read Reading That the Book Deserves secondhand criticisms and turn the Bible for that is not fair to any author subjects. A book which masterminds have Scripture: If thou wilt receive my words, So that thou incline thine ear unto wisdom, and criest after knowledge, and liftest up thy voice and searchest for her as for hid treasures; and find the knowledge of God. For the knowledge and understanding. (Proverbs 2:1-6) power; a man would have to be willfully wicked to This Book has more thought in it than Their counter-thought is only Bible truth its origin to the Book it assails. It is certain that those who love this Book general rule, those who rail against it have More Than Reading Needed the material universe can be discerned by the of its secrets no man can ascertain, because experiment is needed. The chemist, for if he does not engage in tests and analyses. mere reading in the pursuit of truth. The Lord depart out of thy mouth; but thou shalt meditate do according to all that is written therein: for thou shalt have good success (Joshua 1:8). experience, we shall be prepared to perform or Christian teachers everywhere tell us that the experience, and that statement is not different and the crucible. To be able to trust God we must revelation. Given the revelation, it requires us If there is a truth to be known, we wish to we would receive it; if there is a perfect Style of the Bible at the Gospel of John would be met by such words was with God, and the Word was God (John 1:1). If would be struck with the sublime simplicity of the There is a case on record of an instantaneous of these wondrous words. We need not wonder why. let the volume fall open as if by chance, and majesty of style. It is unique. Although the many were written by some forty or more authors, and yet the style of the entire volume the unity of tone should be so eminently We venture to say the Bible style is singularly be impossible for any man to compose a supplement or even write another epistle. The fabrication palming it off upon readers of the Scriptures. and some of them have nearly succeeded. to force apocryphal books upon her with far been able to dispose of forgeries of Shakespeare. would have prevented the crime of adding vile New Testaments. The attempt itself must forever impostor's imitating that style of perfect We cannot imagine a mere man speaking after the has yet spoken in the style of the Holy Spirit. wide difference between any apocryphal or an inspired psalmist, prophet, or apostle. the Avesta of Zoroaster, and the Koran of the Word of God is ridiculous. Max M ller tells full of primeval wisdom and religious enthusiasm, will be disappointed on consulting these volumes.&quot; mistaken for the stately verse of Milton, or instructed mind to be the utterance of God. nor bombastic, yet it has a quiet, this sets the Bible altogether apart from other being fettered by conventionalities, it is as free same harmonies. It is varied - joyous, accusatory, it remains in every phase true to its own style - Fullness of the Book the Bible is its singular fullness. It as most books are in regard to thought, but The Book of God is clearly the god of books, &quot;In this little book is contained We search the world for truth; we cull From graven stone and written scroll, And, weary seekers of the best, To find that all the sages said Two intellectuals held a brief discussion as to if they were shut up and only had the choice months. The first made a sensible selection when for that great author's works are brimming with think the second man gave an unanswerable reason &quot;you do not believe in it!&quot; believe in it or not, it is no end of a book.&quot; of a book.&quot; Its range of subjects is boundless, depth of thought and height of expression are It is a million times magnified Bodleian of of the most concentrated kind.7 The Scripture has and it is the actual material of books to an stores of what we may call mother of thought. and crucified for all these centuries, it still rather than ending it. Jesus proclaimed, Heaven not pass away (Mark 13:31). When the world sixth form of its school, the sacred volume will handbook when the newborn Hebrew nation spelled Test the Bible and let its undesigned coincidences be thoroughly some readers prefer the observation of Let the Book be tried by ancient records and where it would have surely failed had it been for its frequent testing by historical records. fresh inscriptions and monumental sculptures the surface, they cry out as witnesses for a slab have been welcomed from any mound or or the prophets, but as yet the sacred record has and the flower thereof falleth away: but the word More recently, certain bitter biblical opponents supposed blunders. The work has been carried out a high power, but the result is nil. Reading with of the objections, the arrogance of the objector, It would be easy to refute the charges laid but it is an endless work when men do Influence As an Excellent Test believers alone are able to describe. Has it flattered their conceit, lowered their or discouraged their hopes of better things? their Father and their Friend, and his methods of They are enabled to trust him in their struggles their faith abundantly justified. Day by day, are true and that they are accompanied with power. Book is omniscient and omnipresent, it knows all about us and tells us our secret secret springs known only to him who fashioned the watched the fouling of its machinery so closely and he speaks as only such an observer could do. our fears - not the shallow wants and dreads necessities of a mind ready to despair through is a salvation for men doing business on great is a guiding star to minds encompassed with the truth, if you did not come from God, where did gladly would we dream again or die in our sleep! our inner life, and we cannot but bear witness the beginning: and every one of thy righteous The Sinless One Scripture is in its portrait of the perfect Man. his enemies are unable to find a fault in him, world have we such another portrait of a man; it such another man. Jesus is unique; he is original divergence from the straight line of integrity. few relationships and therefore few tests, but he men, coming into a relationship with the world in inculcating a system far surpassing any Above all, he is the crowning edifice of a death for his enemies. Scripture: For [God] hath that we might be made the righteousness did this portrait come from if the man never no imperfect mind could have invented the Science and the Book As One his Word and that in his works, there can be no the other, but the revelation must be harmonious. interpretation of the Word, there may be great the Book have sometimes missed its meaning; we of such men who are called scripturists. No, their Bible, devout persons have been unwise unnatural light in order to make the Book Herein lies their weakness. If they had always and had steadfastly adhered to its meaning, they would have been wise; and as professed that the old Book is right would have become which is committed to thy trust, avoiding profane falsely so called: Which some professing have Scientific Statements Not Infallible of nature and have despised the Word certainly demand a revision of Scripture interpretation history of philosophy, from the beginning Each generation of learned men has been eminently and there is every probability that much of doctrine will be entirely upset in a few years' foolishness with God. For it is written, He taketh The Lord knoweth the thoughts of the wise, When we remember that one association of is no such thing as mind, and that another has is no such thing as matter, we are led to ask the Little Is Settled in Science powerful and others weak, but there is not yet strong to demonstrate any one system of science of Bacon no doubt yields the nearest approach to beyond question, for no man of science knows all from what he knows may be upset by equally The time over which scientific observations is only as a watch in the night compared with the but a drop in the bucket compared with it may turn out, in a thousand instances, that were ever dreamed of in the most accurate these good people have done their best, than to prove us all dunces and themselves Where Alteration Is Easiest or allowing that it may be mistaken upon mundane former process of amending science, which is effort is required to change its fashion to For ever, O LORD, thy word is settled in heaven. thou hast established the earth, From the first doctor in the school of science but also almost unavoidable from the limitation Even the interpreters of Scripture have been though certain of these have gone to grievous position. If it ever comes to a matter of decision science, we shall unhesitatingly cry, Let God No Remarkable Difficulty we see no considerable difficulty. Scripture may with known facts. Interpreted in an intelligent with nature and Providence as words can show with may describe in words a scene which is depicted opposite page. The two forms of instruction may be the reader who fails to see the illustration observer who only notices the sketch and neglects typography might quarrel with the enthusiast might equally retort upon the reader. But if author would more surely be understood. Let him him that observes nature attend to revelation, Anchorage and Roothold of Faith as God's own revelation of himself, the mind has gain. A safe resting place is an urgent need men have tried to rest in an infallible church or earnest brothers, one became a papist and another haven, if either of these can be called a haven. all in an infallible revelation. Drifting about a roothold is essential, and here then is ours. strikes, little can be known of the anchorage be discovered by the test of experience. Havens of Scripture; myriads are growing and witness is assuring, but our own experience Down goes the anchor; the Sin Disturbs Faith as God's revelation of himself, we now know could have otherwise known and especially upon (for which we are most grateful, for our upward that we are not quite beginning life, for though maybe not as we might desire to have done. which we cannot look upon with dignity, but and reaching forth unto those things which prize of the high calling (Philippians 3:13-14). are sorry that there should be any worse than we of vice, but into the whirlpool of indifference and we suspect that our best might not have this divinely inspired Book addresses the which the guilty can be purged of their defilement Here then we shall learn how the imperfect offender may venture to trust in him whom he has such knowledge and to the possibilities Prayer Suggested bursts upon a devout man, he is led to address God may be, and this comes of very proper and natural based upon the faith which is found within the knowledge by revealing himself through a book, and difficult point that might have hindered This done, we should set about reading that for help in our understanding that we may our will that we may obey its precepts. It behooves us to handle such a gift after but to be put to most earnest, immediate, and life as well as instruct us in the next. It must future day of death, but we must ask God to make our daily tutor in the art of shunning evil and a young man cleanse his way? by taking heed Removal of the Great Obstacle to Faith our past and the tendency to wrongdoing it is most explicit as to God's way of removing Scripture we see a wise and gracious method for divine justice. The atonement offered by the Lord God, is an eminently satisfactory solution to the the universal Ruler, must do right and must not, evil works will bring evil as its consequence. wish to have this beneficial law abolished for our stand, come what may. Scripture: For the wages of through Jesus Christ our Lord (Romans 6:23). of conceivable evils. Sin linked with reward or of the great principle of righteousness, which Scripture proposes no abolition of law or plan of substitution. The offended Judge bears in rebel man. He assumes human nature, that in his He bears the burden of human transgression, The chastisement of our peace was upon him, and The whole transaction of substitution, and rising into resurrection and ascension, for it surpasses all invention; it is the fact of the sacrifice of himself by the Son of God carries and works a peace only to be conceived by those accepted, we ourselves are accepted of the Lord. who knew no sin; that we might be made the God's Method of Mercy satisfies a dim but true decision of humanity unanimous in all races. Even the unenlightened committed are swiftly avenged. As a rule, man does more enlightened mind is not content without result of sacrifice; such explanation is given The vicarious death of the Son of God, when believer that he feels as much at ease as if the redeemed us from the curse of the law, being made the divine victim, the law is so vindicated that than if its full punishment had been exacted. upon sound principles to which conscience gives atonement that is the marvel of eternity, the believer than Samson had reason to be afraid Faith's Earliest Work revealed in Christ Jesus, the mind is overwhelmed gift of the great propitiation, and it is moved such a sacrifice. But, herein is love, not that we to be the propitiation for our sins (1 John 4:10). the like of which the heart has never known. In felt in sin is dried up and utterly evaporated. leaps forth a newborn passion for righteousness, becomes a motivating force for a higher life, the joy and the hope which abound within him. The the fuller the rest and the more intense To trust God is now an instinct, and to rely as we read his cheering words, Ye believe Faith Delights in a Plain Gospel is as plain as a pikestaff10. If it had been it would have been obscure and philosophical. and the undeveloped, and therefore it must be what of thy words giveth light; it giveth understanding the gospel does not lend itself to quackery! one might suppose the gospel to be an exclusive to amuse themselves with whenever they might glad to find the gospel in the Scriptures perfect doctrine that has saved millions already, and will save myriads when all its superfine Sometimes faith has great need of patience a system that is in grand operation and these objectors raise an outcry against the sun? Faith's Discovery for a while, she asks herself the question, &quot;Where The answer that she receives from the Book and of God (Colossians 2:12). The Holy Spirit so vivid, so potent, and so much above the a new source of reliance is opened up. The upon my nature, and as he is unchangeable, Thereupon reliance on God enters a fertile honey. The holy alliance is an actual fact. The have come to Christ; and herein is love. The and herein is love. The Holy Spirit has and herein is love. The believing heart is it has reached an unexpected nearness to him; it desired to rely upon. That same Spirit, who is in a Sanctifier, an inward and effectual different from what it had ever threatened the Book has become a revelation within the and is provided with a strength that his most Radical Change of Faith Christ for complete salvation and being assured under a new master principle. Scripture: If old things are passed away; behold, all 5:17). Before he knew he was redeemed by his every budding virtue had self for its was just or generous, and praised God benefiting himself. How little real virtue could Yet from that motive, the worker could not be the Lord could lift him beyond the need of seeking noble and benevolent from pure love of God and he should look mainly to his own safety; of unselfish virtue. But when the man's best set above all hazards, he looks beyond himself selfishness but by gratitude. He sees himself as nevertheless I live; yet not I, but Christ in the flesh I live by the faith of the Son me (Galatians 2:20). This is a grand uplifting of No mere animalism will ever understand a My God, I love thee; not because Nor because those who love thee not Thou, O my Jesus, thou didst me For me didst bear the nails and spear, And griefs and torments numberless, Yea, death itself, and all for one Then why, O Blessed Jesus Christ, Not for the hope of winning heaven, In grateful love we have a fulcrum for the strong enough to produce works any that can come from the slavish dread of Faith and the Nature of Christ approaches correctness without seeing in his one practical faith has its most ample help in that blended but not confused. Jesus sympathizes with excellence finds himself, for he also was in all (Hebrews 4:15). Jesus knows the difficulties that for he felt sickness and pain, poverty and hunger, temptation taken you but such as is common to man: tempted above that ye are able; but will with ye may be able to bear it (1 Corinthians 10:13). suitable assistance, to have an unlimited power The advantage is not less in the other direction, intense relationship and affection. He our suffering nature but is also as wise as our faults as he is gentle to bear with our but united with the divine nature it lifts us up to our comfort but also to our betterment, Could faith believe in a being more helpful to our noblest longings? to such likeness to our Creator as it Enthusiasm for the Person of Jesus Jesus is intensely personal and enthusiastic. his sufferings, his perfections, and his There is more force in the love of an actual of doctrines however important they may produced daring deeds which no philosophy Christ Jesus, inspires his followers with and an irrepressible enthusiasm which supplies It is no small aid to our noblest ambition to Faith in the Life of Christ on Earth Lord Jesus Christ, the more we are filled with photograph of his countenance, taken from or even meditating upon any one of them, we not at all remarkable, for almost every man acknowledged the singular excellence of the life so perfect that all men, except certain blinded have bowed before its glory and regarded it In Scripture this is set before us as an of being imitated. Better still, it is set forth to be conformed as God's great work is done. I also am of Christ (1 Corinthians 11:1). To have and to have a capable Helper who will enable us towards a life of virtue. Faith in this Exemplar, in our life battle. To aspire to such a perfect is to be already saved in principle. It is a be like Jesus. Every selfish wretch may but to be saved from selfishness into the renewed in heart are pining for, and Faith in the Principles of Christ's Life Lord Jesus, which was complete and entire beyond that preeminence of glory which he now enjoys. also in Christ Jesus: Who, being in the form of But made himself of no reputation, and and was made in the likeness of men: And being and became obedient unto death, even the He is above all things because he stooped honor that he laid aside his glory and His glory in the hearts of his redeemed is upon himself the form of a servant, and even died No secondary motive deteriorated the yet the denial of himself has turned to his and knowing that in this case one rule holds good manner of service, however menial, and it consents lose one's life for truth's sake and love's sake Mark 8:35 tells us that Jesus said, Whosoever will lose his life for my sake and the gospel's, the is the surest road to glory and immortality. from a passion which is of all things the Jesus Never Doubts follower. A grand advantage to the life of faith whole story of his life, from his childhood to his men - the best, the firmest, the most learned, questioning and their dark hours of mistrust, but Knowing the Father, being wholly conformed to the eternal power, he never gropes in darkness light. In the hour of his enemies' triumph and even unto death, but never mistrustful there never lurked the slightest fear as to the though all his disciples forsook him and fled. captain is worth many battalions. Looking up into commander-in-chief, the waverer grows steadfast, Christ had doubted, the common Christian might of the battle never staggered, it is not ours to Jesus would not have been without it; had it been suffered it; and had it been a process needed for become a partaker in it with the rest of the reverence for skepticism; we judge that it is not that the less we have to do with it the better. Faith and Its Early Misgivings ends with our full confidence in God as he is apt to come upon us unaware. Are they not Great Unseen is not natural to the animal part of way of signs and wonders. It is a common thing for even David prayed, Have mercy upon The strangeness and greatness of his feeling in the spiritual youth; his memory may cause him to tremble. But let him hold and the darkness will pass from over his soul. it easier to trust as belief becomes a habit, faith of afflicted Job when he said, Though he Faith Must Not Be Mixed are aiming at a noble life to mix up their faith aid to faith, they are apt to buttress the Rock will prove to be a great source of confusion. If The Highest Power includes every other, and the living God is as absurd as it is insulting. promised way? Then I am to believe that he will worse. If it is God who is believed, he cannot the same credit at one time as at another. True, lies upon the faithfulness of God, and until that If we believe not, yet he abideth faithful: Imagine that the purpose is to be achieved by with the condition of the other. But if the then a reduction of confidence cannot be of decay. Faith in God must be unadulterated. allowed to shift the ground of our trust. We is exalted to be a Prince and a Savior, whose The Believer As a Missionary for himself will be hopeful for his friends and in doing good. Many have failed to save others saving them. A genuine Christian loses hope for that had power with his own mind may influence Pope or the Grand Turk if he had the opportunity, first who offered himself. For God hath committed are ambassadors for Christ, as though God did be ye reconciled to God (2 Corinthians 5:19-20). have no concern for the soul of your neighbor, it Faith, Not Fancy and not for what he is not. We may confidently but never contrary to it. To dream that God will not faith but fanaticism. Faith can only stand honor his own justice, mercy, wisdom, and power he will fulfill his promises, and when faith To believe that God will give us what he has never a promise implied or revealed is folly. Though it would be nonetheless a vain old simpleton if the promises and unveilings of Scripture but when unrestrained credence catches and expects answers to be realized, the for surprise. It is ours to believe but we are not to waste a grain of precious Advanced Thought all that God may teach us from his Word. We have the depths! We are to grow in heavenly and in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus advance upon another in such knowledge. But which weakens faith. It is certain that from the advanced at all, it was in a backward direction. away from truth for several centuries. It is starting on another such digressive period. a dogma out of a certain preacher's statement that of His Holy Word.&quot;11 But without denying it, prophecy. If it meant that apostles, confessors, revelation, that holy men of former years were and that Puritans and the like are all to be old light, then we believe the statement God has not left these nineteen centuries without Bible that can only be opened by a succession the boasters who are the apostles of &quot;modern truth of the gospel was purposely involved in due time develop it. Under their management falling into contempt. Yet we must daily wait oracles reveal to us the progressive theology. of heaven, while these pretenders are proving that Faith for Every Day ways are one. His laws for earth are in the same as God made it, is not in conflict with and sacred things is imaginary and mischievous. for earth as well as for heaven, for the body as man to confine his faith in God to certain doubt him when it comes to his immediate We are taught by our Great Master to pray and the same prayer includes the petition, Give confide to heaven the greater cares and leave the the door of the house to a watchman but keep an is trifling? There exists no such thing to a wise pray with ceasing. In every thing give thanks: for No, we must have a present, house-keeping, strength is only available on great occasions, we inapplicable. The just shall live by faith (Romans but an everyday suit. Comprehensive, it is a principle that those who are perpetually As the cherubic sword turned every way to the soul from the advance of enemies; let them Faith Works not to the tribe of Lazzaroni.12 To leave all is more the accompaniment of despair than of soil, the farmer sows it; assured of victory, the the mariner puts to sea. We cannot believe more. Faith never regards it as advantageous to of common life bores the Alps, unites the seas, When that same principle exercises itself upon habits, conquers passions, rises to self-denial, we accomplish most. Like the valve that regulates advance, increases or decreases the spiritual God. Thus, it becomes most important that we not abundantly. The rule of the kingdom is, According Faith Waits see an effect following a cause in every instance, hurry. In nature, the more precious operations a night is admirable, but there are nobler things To produce a certain condition, preceding a June garden, filled with many colored flowers, April and the fitful changes of May. What then? and promise as her solace and security against behind the shifting scenery of the visible, God works as he pleases. He does not explain The most noxious elements may appear to be of a furnace may rise in the process, but the moment in the formation of things would doubt ignorance, but the believing man refrains from and he sees the good that will come in until it is ripe. Hurry and worry, fret but rest and quiet, force and prudence, For the LORD shall be thy confidence, and shall Faith Sings She marches to battle with a psalm. She suffers the fires. She passes out of the world to the notes of a dirge. She thrusts out the wailers and enters the room, having none with her but Does doubt compose sonnets or chant hosannas? the Poet calls &quot;bitter notes.&quot; Let her go and Faith Magnifies Prayer God at all times so he may keep up his fellowship but a dialogue; not an introspection, but [our] help (Psalm 121:1). There is a relief in and faith feels this abundantly, casting all your 5:7); but there is more than this in prayer. When but the need is not fulfilled, then the just as it was relied upon before to go with when that will is not in accordance with the mind an unbelief that did not rely upon God's judgment the highest good, and that any petitions which are ours already by love's gift, and prayer is the with God. Thus, the believer has a sense of Faith Enjoys the Eternal Harmonies delight in all his works. We are out of gear and then all the creatures enter into a league of Father's house, everything communes with us of creation is the work of the Lord, and nothing hills break forth before us into singing, and It was no wonder that a great saint called the of our Maker's creation. Instead of being loose fabric of the divine Architect and are in accord delight in nature than the intelligent friend of its inmost secret is laid bare to him. &quot;Nature God.&quot;14 He perceives God's hand everywhere, One spirit - His thorns with bleeding brows The scientist talks of natural laws, and (Ten Commandments); but to the believer all all for the King's sake. He sees no holiness every place to him is hallowed, for the mountain basin a baptistery, the the harvest a sacrament, the thunder a hymn, universe with Deity by revealing that unbounded A Stay-by truth of the gospel has been called into question, night under the starry vault of heaven, look up, thy ways, thy laws, thy service! For thou he concluded that the gospel, which has brought must be true. Unconsciously the mind judges as if instinct is true. That which makes a man pure must A Further Help one bowed his knee and prayed out of a full heart and asking for grace personally to promote it. who without cause have done him wrong. He pleaded Rising from his knees, he has another weapon at into this condition of pure, heartfelt love must and the logic of it may not be acceptable to is good evidence and in many ways better than any the one works into the hands of the other. Truth Gloriously True facts, they are tremendously true and demand does not deal with trifles. Let men take heed Furthermore, the believer rejoices that is an inheritance of inconceivable magnificence. worthy of immortals; yes, worthy of God himself. for passion fit for the temple of the Faith and the End and faith clings to this promise. He said, And again, and receive you unto myself; that where I faith hopes that it may be so soon fulfilled that of small consequence, since all the blessings of If the Lord should come speedily so that we do not so that we die, we shall be raised incorruptible. mystery; We shall not all sleep, but we shall an eye, at the last trump: for the trumpet shall and we shall be changed (1 Corinthians 15:51-52). Wherefore whether we sleep or wake is a matter For to me to live is Christ and to die is gain Finally a dying man repent of his faith in God or of have been clouded with myriads of regrets, or too-complete, or too-continuous confidence in Fathers and grandfathers have passed this way they loved us too well to have implored us to confidence. Their dying testimony commands seeing we also are compassed about with so great a and the sin which doth so easily beset us, is set before us, Looking unto Jesus the author Thus, let time and eternity bring what they faithful Creator. for ever and ever. Charles H. Spurgeon - A Brief Biography 1834, in Kelvedon, Essex, England. He was one of died in infancy). His father and grandfather to economic difficulties, eighteen-month-old who helped teach Charles the ways of God. at the pictures in Pilgrim's Progress and Charles did not have much of a formal read much throughout his life though, Even with godly parents and grandparents, young until he was fifteen years old that he was born but when a heavy snowstorm prevented him little Primitive Methodist chapel. Though there the preacher spoke from Isaiah 45:22: Look the earth. Charles Spurgeon's eyes were He began attending a Baptist church and teaching and then when he was sixteen years old, he in Cambridge. The church soon grew to over at the age of nineteen, moved on to become the The church grew from a few hundred attenders to the church, but still needed more room to Tabernacle was built in London in 1861, seating the simple message of the cross, and thereby Word preached in the power of the Holy Spirit. Thompson. They had twin boys, Charles and Thomas. even amidst the difficulties and troubles that They helped each other spiritually, and often Richard Baxter, and other Puritan writers. but he stood firmly on the Scriptures, and believed in and preached on the sovereignty holiness, salvation through Jesus Christ alone, of God. He spoke against worldliness and Roman Catholicism, ritualism, and modernism. was known as the &quot;Down-Grade Controversy.&quot; Charles were &quot;down-grading&quot; the faith by compromising with that some pastors were denying the inspiration and the truth of the Bible in other areas, such as condemned were not happy about this, and Spurgeon Despite some difficulties, Spurgeon became known started a pastors' college, opened an orphanage, had a book fund for pastors who Charles Spurgeon remains one of the most published each week (even in the newspapers), and then the the end of the year. The first six volumes, from while the next fifty-seven volumes, from 1861-1917 his death), are known as The Metropolitan magazine-type publication called The Sword including Lectures to My Students, All of Grace, John Ploughman's Talks, The Soul Winner, Words the Bank of Faith, Morning and Evening, some commentaries, such as his twenty-year Charles Spurgeon often preached ten times a people during his lifetime. He usually preached an outline. He read about six books each week. Progress through more than one hundred times. of more than 12,000 books. However, the Bible Spurgeon was able to do what he did in the his own advice - he met with God every morning communion with God throughout the day. rheumatism, and some depression, among other to recuperate and rest. He preached his final 1891, and died in France on January He was buried in Norwood Cemetery in London. to God. His sermons and writings continue This has been Honest Faith, Written by Charles H. Spurgeon. Copyright (c) 2019 by Aneko Press