&gt;&gt; Hello, I'm a pastor. And even though my whole life My granddad was in ministry. I heard a lot a lot of wonderful teaching Oh, man, I heard it. But nobody ever taught me what And when I got the thought attacks Thoughts of fear, tormenting thoughts to the point I got to the point I couldn't sleep at night. I lived with constant headaches, And in desperation, one day all by myself in my home, you've got to come I'm losing my mind. See, I'd seen my grandmother die I'd seen my aunt die from a mental institution. And these thoughts were You're next. You're going to lose Just go ahead and get rid and don't go through And in desperation, I said, And that day, as I was laying I sensed a presence, and I saw feet and sandals, I thought somebody and I get up on my hands and I raised up my head, and there I looked His eyes were like His hair touched his shoulders. His smile was so kind, And he looked at me what would you And I said, Lord Jesus, they're killing me. He said to me, Eddie, I told you thoughts were like vapors. They have no power. And immediately my mind when I was praying, why am I going through this? And I heard in my spirit I didn't know I had no idea that that was And I just kicked it out, But that day, the Lord said And then he did something He reached down I can almost feel the pressure He reached down to the side the only way I can explain it is a banner. On the banner you are demon possessed, that satan had been You say, why? I don't know why I thought that. That thought and I got to the point And he said, That's what the banner took that banner and he blew it And then he reached down again and pulled out another banner. And on this one, it says, because satan had planted I had been entertaining and couldn't get rid God does not love you the banner said. And the Lord And it disappeared And then he looked at me there's your problem. And he looked to the corner. I looked and I saw two At that time years ago, I knew nothing about demons. But that day I knew Those were two devils. And I looked to the corner and when they saw Jesus looking They were huddled in the corner. I could see the hair on their And the Lord Jesus said, And then he disappeared. Several weeks passed. The thought still but the thoughts Finally, one day at my desk, I just thought, And the thought hit me. Give up, just give up. And I thought, you know, My grandmother My father has struggled Maybe it just runs I'm sure I can go to heaven. And I heard these words That's not me telling you you're a victim. And immediately I realized Now, he wasn't accusing me. Now he was starting to stop fighting And I said, I am not a victim. I felt myself I know it sounds incredible, but I felt myself I remember saying, oh, like I was falling And the next thing I knew, Oh, the splendor, the colors, People ask me No, I was breathing love. People live And the Lord Jesus He still his hair his robe, it glistened. It wasn't white. It glistened. I love you. And he hugged me. I felt I felt love And then he started I said, Lord Jesus, I don't want to go back. You must go back for your wife I said, But I don't want to. But you must go And he pointed and there full of army cots. I didn't know what that meant, I'm sitting back at my desk, and within days people and showing up We're struggling in our mind. We're struggling Can you help us? We're dealing with anxiety. And that moment I realized That's why my ministry, to help those who are is doing what it's doing today. Maybe you can't Maybe a thought, or an image, or a memory I want to tell you, the Lord He loves you. He appeared to me And then he's taught me that the answer demonic, accusatory thoughts You might not have but you got the word And the word of God is a sword. It's more powerful than any So can I pray with you today? that the spirit of God and give you a sense Let's pray. Lord Jesus. I pray for those watching me A tsunami has been unleashed and they're having I pray, Father, and the spirit of power And I break that stronghold. I break that torment in the name And I speak peace to your spirit in Jesus' name. Amen. You can win this battle. Enjoy the peace and the in His name.