Translator: Helena Bowen I did everything I was supposed to do. I got good grades in high school, I went to a good college, I climbed the career ladder. On paper I had it all. I was making $70,000 a year I was working for the federal government. I had health care, I had benefits, You literally can't get fired Trust me, there are people that should. (Laughter) My parents were impressed, my boss told me I was doing a great job. I would go to Happy Hour and tell everyone to the Director of Global Operations and everyone thought that was so cool. They asked for my business card. I got to sit in on meetings Everything was perfect about my job except for one tiny, How did I know I was miserable? Every single morning when I'd feel a shooting pain I felt this pain when I was brushing my teeth, when I was getting dressed when I was taking the bus down to work, when I rode up the elevator up to my desk, when my boss would invite me to meetings and when my boss would email me The pain was so bad Shingles in a nerve disease not 20-somethings. (Laughter) This was the pain of confusion. It was the pain of climbing and realizing that I was nowhere. I was somewhere I didn't want to be. I was stuck in a quarter-life crisis. I was spending a lot of time on Facebook comparing myself So there was my friend and I was like, And there was my friend and I was like, &quot;Maybe I should And there was my friend and I was like, even though I'm an awful driver (Laughter) And so there was a buddy of mine, from one of the top law schools he got this amazing job making well over six figures, and there he is traveling getting engaged at sunset And I'm like &quot;Man! He's got this amazing job, he's at Macchu Picchu, I can't even get a date (Laughter) I'm a goner! It was only when I met other young people that I was able to turn my quarter-life So this talk is going to teach you that can help anyone or help you avoid your quarter-life crisis So the first lesson I learned: find believers. Surround yourself with people because I used to come home in D.C. and I'd be like &quot;Dan, I hate my job, I want to move across the country, I've always wanted to live there, I want to start being creative, I want to I want to support young people And Dan would look at me, stare, and say &quot;Smiley, suck it up.&quot; (Laughter) &quot;Everyone hates their job, And I was like, &quot;Man! I was 28 at the time I didn't want to spend But you know what? The majority of the world thinks like Dan. 70% of Americans 70%! One fifth of those people they're actively undermining They're literally getting paid to mess things up (Laughter) And this is a shame. It's a shame because millions of people not showing up fully for themselves, or the world at large. So then I met believers. I went to a leadership program that bring together 20-somethings social entrepreneurship, The program was called StartingBloc I met people like Debbie. Debbie was starting GoldieBlox, a toy company that teaches I met people like Ted. Ted started MoneyThink, that teaches financial literacy I met people like Tom. Tom started Rising Tide Car Wash, with his father, So I met these believers you want to leave D.C., start writing, start supporting You have to do that, Because a crazy thing happens you find accountability. Normally in the real world, you tell someone you're going to &quot;Yeah dude, you said that six months ago. Everyone's going to quit their job. You tell someone you're writing a book: &quot;Everyone's writing a book, Not when you tell believers, because when you tell believers I told my buddy Evan that I was going And you know what he asked me? When are you going to have And he texted me every single week Have you had the talk with your boss yet? I'd be in meeting with senior officials getting texts and calls &quot;Stop calling me, But you know what? The only reason I did have the only reason I did quit my job, I did move across the country the only reason I did write a book, the only reason I started supporting and the only reason is because people like Evan Because when you find believers, (Applause) Thank you. (Applause) People like Debbie and Ted and Tom weren't They weren't talking about getting featured in TechCrunch They were talking about making the world more innovative, They were talking about and their skills to empower people Because the success symbol isn't climbing the career ladder, So we're not the &quot;me me me&quot; generation. 50% of millennials, would take a pay cut to find work 90% of millennials Despite unprecedented levels our generation wants to work with purpose. So how do you actually find Well, the second lesson I learned is that you have to stop and start pursuing I went back and interviewed my friend, the corporate lawyer was married, got engaged at Machu Picchu. I was like &quot;Man, you got a great job, What's the secret?&quot; And you know what he told me? He told me that after hundreds of thousands and now making all this money that he was miserable and that he was going back to become a high school Right? (Applause) Which is great for him, What's the lesson? Nobody knows what they're doing. The grass is always greener. Instead of comparing yourself to others, instead of comparing yourself start figuring out Don't climb the career ladder to nowhere; So why are you here? What do you want to do for others? How can you align with the impact you want in a way that supports You know what the beautiful thing The beautiful thing about alignment? There is no one answer. No two peoples' definitions are the same. I don't know what's right for you. I'm still trying to figure out Now, Debbie, she started GoldieBlox as one of the only female engineering Ted started MoneyThink he realized he had a lot that his peers simply didn't have. And Tom started Rising Tide Car Wash because he saw how hard it was because his own brother has autism. So they had a personal Meaning is personal, Not your parents, not your boss, What makes you tick? Why are you here? How will you create your own path? The third lesson I learned is You have to start hustling with intention, A lot of people like to call 'the lazy generation.' It's like, are you kidding me? Lazy? I've been working and I still owe Sally Mae So Sally Mae if I ever see you (Laughter) Debbie, and Ted and Tom they were working 40, 50, 60 hours a week Now why would you want to automate Why would you want to automate something These people weren't automating, They were working hard I was working four different jobs because I had to pay rent A lot of people hear my story &quot;I got to quit my job tomorrow, That's not my message, A lot of you may have but what you might not know is she had a full time job She was working as the marketing director She stayed on at that job for nine months Why? First of all, she knew she was so she needed to save money, but second of all, she felt like she was Rather than pay a lot of money to go and learning invaluable skills in she knew she would be able when she left and started her own company. So you don't have to As a matter of fact, I'll tell the story of my friend Bernat. So I met this crazy guy once I'm biking home and suddenly He's like, &quot;Hey man, I'm like, &quot;I don't know, He keeps biking alongside and is like, &quot;Hey, I just got here from Spain, I'm like, &quot;I don't know you, He's like, &quot;I just moved from Barcelona, I've had six interviews this week. If I don't get a job I need a work visa There's not many jobs in Spain, And I was like, &quot;Actually, my best friend it's a beautiful city, He said, &quot;What are you working on?&quot; He goes, &quot;Do you have a cover designer?&quot; So I go home, I check out his website and I was like, &quot;Wow, this guy He's pretty kick-ass, he's awesome.&quot; So I was like, &quot;Hey Bernat, And then I posted on Facebook, Bernat from Barcelona, I know a lot of people in startups, Five minutes later He's like, &quot;My friends there's three of them, they could use a designer.&quot; So Bernat meets with he gets hired as their lead designer, He's super excited, he texts me, And I'm like &quot;Thank you, man, So it goes by, he helps me and then about six or seven months later He's like, &quot;Smiley, I'm taking you I was like, awesome, I want to We went out to dinner and I said, Why are you taking me out? I have some money, but we can split the check or something.&quot; And he goes, &quot;You know the company I was like, &quot;Yeah.&quot; They had just been acquired (Gasps). Right? It's a small team, like four he was one of the first people He was thanking me and I'm like, You know why? Because Bernat made the ask. He talked to a random stranger on a bike in a country that he's not even from. He made the ask. So do not let being a beginner Take a risk, sign up for the class, launch a crowdfunding campaign. (Cheers) (Applause) Thank you. (Applause) Start the blog, build People will support you Now this isn't about finding because I don't think I think I've already had which is not that old, I swear. But I am saying if you stop comparing and if you hustle to pursue you will change your life, and you will change the world. (Applause) People like Debbie and Ted They're the only reason and not sitting at home worrying about what all my friends the corporate lawyer that doesn't even Because when you pursue meaningful work, You insure that the workforce empowering girls to become engineers, teaching financial literacy employing people with disabilities, and ensuring that every single person reaches their full potential. (Applause) So you can call us idealistic, you can certainly call me idealistic, (Laughter) but we are not the &quot;me me me&quot; generation. We are the purpose generation, and we will be engaged with (Applause) The challenges facing our generation They're too serious or too serious to only We can't be stuck in a high school crisis, a quarter-life crisis, We can't climb The stakes are too damn high. Thank you. (Applause).