*SLAPS RULER* *SLAPS RULER HARDER* *SLAPS RULER EVEN HARDER* *SLAPS RULER EVEN MORE HARD* He's back Welcome To baldi's basics the field trip demo now. Apparently they have updated this and to add the three new characters We've got two that have already been in the previous games But apparently Baldy got a new friend and I kind of find the Zzeh I kind of want to find out who it is and going little field trip With the man Baldy what's good dudes? Let's see what's going down. So we've got points going up as Normal, I forgot I'd literally forgotten how to play this game collect as many sticks as you can I'm just looking for new characters to be honest Also, you can drop sticks. I'm gonna try that real quick Cuz if I press R can I drop them like right next to the fire? Nope they just disappear whoops who's out there? Who's out there? Are we looking for three new characters? They used to be zero in this woods, and I think I might have just failed already. No, no, no, no Oh no, why am I looking- I forgot how loud that is I was staring your bellybutton like this for way too long. It made me uncomfortable Oh! Who is that? is That? What is this? This these were not in it before what is this it says no, is that just like a no entry sign is that all I said is literally just a no! Wait hold on a wait I Went past it. I actually went past it. I am gonna die here, but I just want to see these new characters What is that? What is that what is that!!?? No, no, no. No. No, it's a sock. It's a sock what are you!? The sock comes back. It's art and crafts. Oh welcome back dude! You were always my least favorite to be honest That's one character a single character If you go past the boundaries, he said there's three so that that's one down two to go one of them is an old-school character and one of them is new let's grab five sticks and Let's get back. Let's try playing properly this time and see what happens Hey Wow!!!!!!!!!!!!! (mimicking Baldy) It's Annoying how slow you go when you're carrying more than one stick Like I think when you get to four it properly slows you down. Oh Geez, where these are the characters, huh? I Saw you I saw you behind the tree you're there. I See you come out of there Come out with your hands up. I'm telling you right now come out What happensif I walk past him. He's definitely there Look, he's turning around! He's there! He's literally (he says as he dies of laughter) Is this not the bully? Hey! Okay Okay, I'm trying to I'm trying to process this so the bully was hiding behind the tree but we couldn't interact with him What on earth was that a mouse a wolf what? Baldi: Lets go camping ^.^ There's his stupid arm! What are you doing your potato are you kidding me? No He's moving He's moving up behind me That's so freaky that creeped me out. I didn't like that way. Where's the fire? I've lost it No, no, no, no, no, no, no stay away Stay away. The Firefly is crickets, whatever they're called. They're winding down which means we could potentially die It's definitely moving what happens if we stay with our back turn to him So weird stop it stop it right now. What is he gonna do? is he uh Im so confused you're just gonna keep moving around them bothering me is that literally all you do stop!! Stop following me. I Keep forgetting you can just turn around inthis game So I want to find out what the other thing was as well mouse wolf. I think it's got to be a there it is They like they're working together. Is he making it go down faster? He is! Bully bully and mouse are working together. What is going on? Lets go camping!!, your fingers look like twigs Okay, we're taking this seriously now I am taking no nonsense from balds baldster and his friends We've got six sticks and I'm gonna bump that up to seven. You know, how much score that's gonna get me. That's right 23,000!!! Didn't actually think it was gonna be that much, but you know what? I'm a pro at this now. Bring your weirdest friends to the camping party. I dare you ):3 There he is! There is no Get away from me Scare him away scare them away. Heh. Heh, so if you're not near the fire, he's gonna come down and make your job even harder Not sure how fair that is. But um, this game's never been fair has it How do you even come up with this nonsense a beheaded wolf that has a stretched head? Madness, and if you go out of bounds the sock comes and gets you and teleports you straight back to Baldy just like he does In the normal games and you you are not a very good tree. What an insult Kapow. Yeah, I'm gonna win this one I didn't even care. I'm winning. I've only got 74 seconds to go and I'm gonna win this I don't think the bully actually does anything But I guess we're about to find out. Oh man. I got mega score mega score, you hear that bully Does he keep does he keep changing trees as well? You freaking me out. This should be enough four thousand five hundred. Get out of my forest. I'm running out stick locations This isn't good. Forty-two thousand points. I feel like this might be my best performance yet. I forgot about that I forgot about the wolf forgot about the wolf if he's gonna come down. I am gonna be so mad I'm gonna punch him straight in the nose 99 score watch out. I wish I could stop this stop give up. You're not a tree. I need some close sticks I'm gonna have to go for these ones Oh No Ten seconds ten seconds ten seconds. I just need two one. Come on - go go back Don't you let that wolf touch that fire. I'm going for three. I'm feeling brave today We did it. Yes I get a B soda a cassette tape and a bar of chocolate I have That was so worth it so worth it and they've got a fire bonus as well My school was like 40 always 50,000 and what is that face on the left? I mean, come on buddy. Come on so that was the The adventures of Baldy in his forest. I think there's just two days at the time of uploading this video of the Kickstarter left I have back to the game. It's so close to being back So if you have any pennies left go and check that out in the description below. I love this game I knew you guys absolutely loved this game as well So check it out or just play around in the demo and see what else the wolf does I like these added other stuff in as well. That's very cool. So guys I hope you enjoyed this video If you did, please leave a like let me greatly appreciate it subscribe if you're brand new and I'll see you next time. Bye!