Hi there. Growing older isn't what When you think about it, you think and your grandparents' generation. They were very different I remember looking at my mum's friends and into a state of crimpoline and quietness. We didn't really have the role We expect to have a But in those days, women in fade out of the public eye. Let me know what you remember about your I'd love to see. I'd like to introduce you today to two the way I looked at growing older. And I'm hoping that they're But first, let's take a look at how At the beginning of the 20th had adulthood, and old age. And adulthood started at the age school leaving age was raised to 14. So, at the age of 14, children were They were economic units In 1904, the psychologist G. Stanley Hall identified a period stress, and he called it adolescence. This is a new developmental stage made possible by societal changes. And of course, that really came to we started calling these young people This was more of a marketing thing than But it definitely came into the, that we then have four life stages. Childhood, adulthood. No. Childhood. Adolescence, Adulthood, and Old Age. Thing is, now, in the 21st At the turn of the century, expectancy for a woman was 50. And with an average life expectancy time for old age, was there? In 2021, in the UK, and it's similar it's 80 for a woman and 78 for a man. So think about that. If you're 60 now, you could And if you're 45, you're actually coaster that we call life. Great, isn't it? Now we're talking about lifespan here, going to cover that in another video Let's carry on looking at our longer work in the same way, do we? And we retire later, if at all. Here in the UK, when I started working, state pension, and a man retired men and women, 65, not so long ago. But now, as it stands, they keep pushing more, so that by the time I retire, We now have a culture, don't we, where we not unusual to go and keep yourself fit. In fact, it's expected that you will. When I was a kid, don't know about you never saw anybody jogging. You know, they would have been cat-called! It just wasn't something that you saw. And our expectations as a So, what percentage of Midlife is no more than a And Chip Conley is one of the people with gerontologist Barbara Waxman. Barbara Waxman has identified like adolescence in reverse. If you think about it, when we go up and down, all over the place, and But I actually think it's midlife it's not just about hormones. As somebody pointed out in the men go through these changes too. Emotionally, psychologically, Once we hit midwife life, not when we When we hit midlife, we start And where do I want to go? And am I happy? And if I'm not happy, Well, Barbara Waxman identified this new life So if adolescence prepares Middlescence preparing us for? And this is where Chip Conley comes in. He is an entrepreneur, and he founded the where he has a curriculum for midlifers And I really urge you to watch his TED put the links down in the notes below. So Chip identified new life I'm talking about him as if I I've read so much of his stuff, and You know, you start to feel as if If he's watching this, hi Chip! Apart from childhood, We still have childhood, although it's The next stage is the emerging adult. And this is our late It's the time where we're full of and really discover who we are. I have a grandchild who's Oh, it's so lovely. And I do vaguely remember it myself. I don't know about you. From that, from our 20s into our mid 40s, Now this is a stage which is a time So it's when we create careers and ladder, or we're making families, buying stuff that makes us feel as And then there's middlessence, what of transition&quot;, where we enter a I love that analogy. I don't know about you, but midlife And definitely there was this something was coming, that life was I'd love to know, once again, Do you relate to the idea of being in a Finally, we move into This is a period of wisdom, a period So wisdom, he says, is now at a premium What are wisdom workers? Well, it's you, if you're over of a responsibility, isn't it? I'm sure you've felt that feeling there's no vehicle in society for me what I've learned through my life. These are our skills now. So rather than that thrusting, push, ladder or whatever path you took in your of intuition and values based thinking. We have the ability to we've lived through so much. Wisdom is not something that's So we need to work with young people both sets of skills. So the younger people coming in who we can learn so much from them. And then of course there's your, there's are not, which who are in full flow. And then there's us with our experience interaction to humanize a company. And together we make a whole. Working together, we make And this is the shame of it, that so because the new ones coming in are the vigor and the energy of youth. And so many companies forget that considered energy of older workers. Chip Conley says, 20th century In the 21st century, And I think that's really Together, we're stronger. If you've found any value in this video, just so we can get it out to more people. See you in the next video.