From our archives, The Billy Graham Classics. Now tonight I want you to the 22nd chapter of And I want to speak &quot;A Cure for Heart Trouble.&quot; &quot;Then one of them, &quot;asked him a question, &quot;Master, which is the great &quot;And Jesus said unto him, &quot;Thou shalt love &quot;with all thy heart and with all &quot;This is the first and &quot;and the second is like unto it, &quot;Thou shalt love &quot;On these two commandments hang Think of it. All the law and all the prophets I want to give you so you can memorize it. It's Matthew 22 and 37, 38, And it's no mistake He did it deliberately. He listed the heart first. Love the Lord thy God and all thy soul and all thy strength. You know, here in Syracuse, as you enter the city on I-690 there's a huge billboard the heart of New York State and I believe it is. It's the heart of New York State and President Roosevelt, and elder Roosevelt were associated worldwide And Bernard Baruch, who was and advisor to six presidents and one of the most brilliant and a friend to me, once was asked by &quot;If my head says one thing which should I follow?&quot; And Bernard Baruch said &quot;Follow your heart.&quot; You see, your heart is You know, if you think your physical heart, it beats a hundred thousand It contracts four thousand times Our blood weighs about and all of it passes through In Proverbs 23:7 &quot;As a man thinketh in his heart, And the heart is used Considered far more It's the seat of our emotions. As boys I remember we used or on the side of some barn our girlfriends name and Valentine's Day is and the symbol is a heart. When we become frightened we put our hands It's the center of our emotions. When we salute the flag, like we did the other day when they were saluting the flag and singing the we put our hands Or saying some of we put our hands The heart is also The Bible says, &quot;The fool hath &quot;in his heart, there is no God.&quot; And the scripture says &quot;Keep thy heart &quot;for out of it are The heart is the seat of belief Christ said, &quot;For out of the &quot;and murders and adulteries &quot;and thefts and false witnesses But you have something and I have something Our hearts are diseased by You see heart is also The Bible says your heart Think of it, your body is going but your heart, your soul, A thousand years from tonight When God looks at man, he doesn't look at the kind of clothes he wears, The Bible says out of the heart or an oriental person or out of the heart are And no physician on earth We're all alike The Bible says, &quot;Man looks on &quot;but God looks And in the scriptures the symbol of the entire person. When Steven of Colona fell into and they asked him &quot;Wherein now is Steven placed his hand &quot;Here is my fortress.&quot; Helen Keller who was blind &quot;The best and most wonderful &quot;cannot be seen or touched You see, the heart has come the moral, spiritual and It's the seat of a person's and extremely important. And the question I want &quot;Is your heart right?&quot; Is your heart right, Because if it's not right with You're not going to heaven Our hearts have to be right. I do not ask about I don't ask about or your financial status I'm asking about your heart. What about your heart? Dig deep into your heart tonight How are you toward God? Are you right with God? The Bible says, and before you can prepare your heart has to be right and your heart has to be Now what does the Bible teach The Bible teaches that They're sinful. Mine is, yours is. We're born with it It's passed on from And the Bible says, that our hearts are Proverbs 6:18, &quot;A heart that What do you imagine? What are your fantasies? What do you fantasize about? And then secondly, the Bible says. The heart is and deceitful. Jeremiah 17:9, &quot;The heart is deceitful &quot;and desperately wicked. &quot;Who can know it?&quot; That's your heart. That's what the Bible thinks That's what God thinks about The Bible says the heart is far &quot;This people draweth nigh &quot;and honoreth me &quot;but their heart is How many of us go to church How many of us go to church How many of us outwardly live but our heart is far from God? We don't have in which He's in our hearts and we think about Him and He's close to us, but He should be. And we're not bearing in the fruit of the Spirit which is and gentleness, faithfulness. And then the Bible says that our Mark 7, Jesus said, &quot;For within, out of the heart Evil thoughts come Adultery. You might commit adultery but it starts in the heart And fornications, and murders and wickedness and deceit, blasphemy, pride All these things the Bible said, So, the most important thing in is to be sure that and that you have been forgiven And how many today have I'm sometimes absolutely amazed and their ignorance comes they don't know God. They don't know the Bible. They don't know God's plan and so they make because their heart is dark, and Satan has blinded And many times, I've talked to many people who but they know God and they know more about what's than those people with You see, there's something wrong that we don't recognize in Our world is secular. Our world doesn't want to take or that man is made his heart is made in God's image and without God it's dark. You see, the devil darkens Sin darkens Sin paralyzes our will. Dulls the conscience And then the Bible says &quot;Take heed, brethren, &quot;lest there be any among you &quot;in departing from Hebrews, the third chapter. And then our hearts are blind. Ephesians 4, &quot;Having the understanding &quot;being alienated from &quot;through the ignorance &quot;because of the blindness Our hearts are blind. Would you like to have by the Spirit of God? You that are watching can pick up that telephone and call that number and there's a counselor standing about how you can have because He promises a new heart to all of those who put and you can do it right now. What a wonderful thing. And then the Bible says The heart is deceitful Think of it. Above all things It deceives you. It deceives other people. And then in Psalm 101 it says &quot;Him that hath a high look &quot;I'll not recognize,&quot; says God. Then the Bible says &quot;But this people hath a &quot;They're revolted and gone.&quot; The Bible says that We think of other things And anything that than you do of God It may that box in that we call television. And you spend than you do More time thinking about what than you do in the Bible. And sometimes I have to and confess that And I say, &quot;O God, cleanse me &quot;I've spent too much time in &quot;I should have been reading &quot;and spending time in prayer &quot;and people in other parts &quot;where there's so much hunger &quot;and so much homelessness And then the Bible says &quot;And I will take the stony heart The Bible says our hearts are That's your heart. That's what the Bible says. That's how God diagnoses You go to a cardiologist and he puts instruments on you, gives you a stress test or you take a cardiogram I remember the first time at the Mayo Clinic I was little bit nervous and I lay there and there were several doctors, &quot;When are you going and put that die in my heart,&quot; because they had He said, it's already in. Look up there. I didn't even know it And I'd been told by people, and they had me The Bible also says that You see, Pharaoh, I was watching a little bit of the other night They had it running on And, uhm, how In Exodus 7 it says, &quot;And the Lord said unto Moses, &quot;Pharaoh's heart is hard. &quot;He refuses to let God sent ten plagues to soften and he promised every time he'd let the people of Israel They were slaves in Egypt. But he didn't do it. He broke his promise every time and he hardened his heart. And let me tell you something. The Bible says, &quot;being often reproved, &quot;shall suddenly be cut off In other words, there will come that you harden your heart There will be no more chance Because, you see, when you it builds a little ring and the Holy Spirit may speak but your heart will be harder. It will be like Pharaoh's heart getting harder and harder until when God speaks to you, you can no longer hear Him. What about you? Is your heart right? God takes our heart out Think of the Almighty God &quot;Every way of a man is right &quot;but the Lord pondereth Proverbs 21:2. The scripture says, &quot;Behold we know it not; &quot;doth not he that pondereth &quot;and he that keepeth thy soul, &quot;doeth he not know it &quot;and shall not he render &quot;according to his works?&quot; He knows your heart. He studies it. You can't fool him. You can't hide. He knows all the secrets. How do you stand before God? Is your heart right with God? Then the Bible says and tries the heart. What do you mean Well, He weighs your heart He weighs it by He weighs it by the great law He weighs it by He weighs it by on the way we ought to live. He weighs your heart. How much do you weigh? But there's something else. All the way through the blood of Jesus Christ. Somebody said don't you think too much about blood. Some have called it There is a lot about But the Bibles says there is no forgiveness of sins. If Jesus Christ had not died and shed his blood for you there's no way you could It means that his heart bled and it is only through that we can be forgiven. And then the Bible says God prepares the heart He prepares your heart. Your heart's already been this meeting tonight. He prepares for the many The Bible says the preparations of the heart Many of the experiences that was God preparing you. The Bible says Acts 16:14 Whose heart the Lord openeth. How wonderful for God to prepare Then he enlightens. The eyes of your understanding Without the enlightenment, the opening and preparation no one could receive Christ. You see, salvation is We receive but its all of God. He's the one who gave He's the one who sent He's the one that made it to come here tonight so you can receive him And the Bible says that God says an old heart You have to have a new one and God doesn't &quot;A new heart also &quot;and a new spirit &quot; I will take away the stony &quot;and I will give you God says a new heart What about you? Have you received You say, Now Billy, I've been confirmed, and I try to live I don't succeed, And I try to get to Sunday and I go to church, or I watch on television And we think that's enough. But it's not enough. Oh yes, you may be born again at the moment of confirmation but many of you need to reconfirm You need to come to the Lord &quot;Lord, I haven't kept &quot;I want to re-confirm them. &quot;I want to re-dedicate my life &quot;at confirmation or what was Many people like that. Thousands of people. Whether you're It makes no difference. A little Sunday school girl which of the beatitudes She said pure in heart. They asked why. She said, because I would possess that are spoken of If your heart is right, the rest of you is Christ changed He said, &quot;A good man out of bringeth forth good things and an evil man out brings forth evil things. Christ said, except a man is he cannot see How do you receive him? First, you must repent of sin. You have to say to God, &quot;O Lord, I've sinned. &quot;I'm sorry. &quot;I'm willing to change That's repentance. I'm willing. Notice, you can't God has to help you And then you receive him When I stepped up the other night I didn't stomp it, check it, to see if it had been built I had faith in the people When you sat in that seat and feel it to see You believed in the people That's the same kind of faith Faith in Christ. Not in anything else and what he did and at the resurrection when God raised him I'm going to ask you to do it as we saw last night more than I'm going to ask you to get up From up there in the top gallery it will take an extra minute And all of you down here and in the choir. You may be a leader Last night we even had But you may want to make I'm going to ask you to make &quot;Lord, I want a new heart. &quot;I want to leave here &quot;I want to walk Jesus said there are two roads. There's the narrow You're on one or the other. Which one are you on? Young people, older people, I'm going to ask you to come Why do I do it publicly? When Jesus died on the cross, He died publicly in your place and God laid on Him Publicly. He said, if you're not willing to acknowledge Me publicly I'll not acknowledge you before Something about coming that he requires. And it also psychologically And then you must follow him It's not just This is the beginning of that's going to be in which your trusting him. You're willing and deny self You're willing to look and the needs of the world I'm going to ask you to get up And after you've all come, I'm going to say a word to you, and have a prayer with you and give you some literature to And if you're with your friends or you've come in a group, they'll wait, but you get up We're only going to keep you Just get up and come Hundreds of you that There's a little voice inside You come tonight. From here, up there God has spoken Get up and come. Just as I am, But that thy blood, O Lamb of God, You can make that decision Just as these many hundreds in Syracuse, New York. The number on your screen to call for spiritual help so, make that call now. It could be the most important We're in the Carrier Dome, this beautiful magnificent in Syracuse, New York and what a wonderful part of And tonight, as you can see, there've been hundreds of people make their commitment to Christ or to renew their vows to Christ and you need to that are watching. You may be in you may be in Make your commitment He'll come into your heart. And if you will, and call that number there's a counselor standing by to say a word to you May God help you to make God bless you. There's still time to make your personal decision Special friends are waiting and to pray with you. Just call the number If the line is busy, and call again We'll be here as long as If you just prayed that prayer or if you have any questions about a relationship why don't you just call There'll be someone there and answer those questions. And remember, If you would like to commit Please call us right now That's 1-877-772-4559. Or you can write to us at Billy Graham 1 Billy Graham Parkway Department C Charlotte, North Carolina 28201 Or you can contact us on the web We'll get the same helps to you that we give to everyone On behalf of Franklin Graham and the Billy Graham Thank you for watching and thank you for your prayers. (Franklin Graham) We still have to reach a lost and dying world with the truth of God's love. It's not too late. We've got an opportunity to tell others What are you going