(upbeat music) - So, this is the Rabbit R1. And it's another AI in a box, So this thing here, it has a lot in common for better or for worse. But it's also supposed to that are supposed to Supposed to, anyway. And we have to talk about it. (letters clicking) So, stop me if this sounds but check this out. This is a virtual assistant in a box. But it's a different box. This one is not wearable. It's a thing you have in your pocket, like a smartphone. I'd say it's about the size But it's this lightweight plastic cube, designed by Teenage Engineering. And boy, do people love some And it's super... I mean, you can tell exactly This thing is very recognizable. The thing has one button That's the one you press and And then instead of a projector, it actually does have And instead of built-in cellular, it has a SIM card tray right alongside that USB Type-C port for charging. I'd say it does seem to send basically every single request to it does feel significantly quicker to answer questions Now, that is a very, but it's consistent, it's How far away is the moon? - [AI Voice] The average distance between Earth and the Moon is approximately 384,400 kilometers. - You can connect or turn the built-in speaker But it also shows you on the screen, right underneath and the time in the battery. Matter of fact, it basically always shows this bouncing rabbit all the time. It's how you know it's awake. You hit that button Or it would do that automatically Then hit the button again to wake it up. Boom, just the rabbit And then to get to settings, there's no button to press for that. There's no gesture on You just shake it like an Etch A Sketch. And as long as you do that, then from there you can scroll up and down with this scroll wheel, That's how you get around the UI. So, the other two things it has are the scroll wheel So the scroll wheel for instead of the screen is... I'll get to why it's odd in a second. But then of course, the AI and so you can use vision about what it sees. So we've seen this before. With this one, you and then press and hold to ask. I don't know. What type of plant is this? - [AI Voice] Taking a look now. The plant in the image appears also known as a Swiss cheese plant. This is a type of tropical native to southern Mexico The large glossy green - As a reviewer testing this thing, I just feel like that DJ where I'm just pointing at stuff, like, &quot;Okay, what is this? And what is this?&quot; - And what is this? - [Speaker] Those are - [DJ Khaled] And what is this? - [Speaker] Berries and seeds. - [DJ Khaled] And perhaps what is this? - [Speaker] Water. - But I've also, I've just with a really long email on it, and asked it for a summary, and it just reads an instantly It's done that with articles too. I think that's pretty cool. But yeah, it's just a... It's an AI in a box. It's best at just answering questions. (text clicking) So yeah, this thing is And this list is gonna Somehow, the battery life is It has a thousand million and it's brutally bad. Like it's already bad enough when you're carrying around alongside your smartphone, but when this one can sit in and the battery just visibly is draining and dies in like four hours... Then you have to charge and it's still dead when Like, it's just exhausting. Also, it took 45 minutes from zero to a hundred. And it's also just straight up missing a ton of what I would Like it can't set it can't record videos, can't send emails, there's There's just a lot of an assistant to do... Not here. And of course, being an AI assistant, it also does still hallucinate, and confidently answer questions wrong. Like my baseline of asking a question that I know the answer to, and then getting the wrong Which is one of the So this device was designed And they're really leaning into that. Like that's why... I mean, it's this bright friendly looking device, I But yeah, they really love And this scroll wheel but it's actually really First of all, it protrudes as you can see. Which looks kinda cool. But that means if it was really sensitive, that it would actually scroll on a table or something. So they've dialed down the so it's actually super slow. Like there's a surprising required to go down one And then there's no haptic to help you feel it out. So fine, okay, you can get used to that. You use the button to select... But then you've also noticed, there's no back button So to go back up a level, you have to scroll all every single time. That also gets annoying. And then to change brightness or volume, you actually need two hands. So you just go into brightness to select, and you hold the button with one hand, and then scroll the scroll wheel with the other hand to adjust brightness. Which, yeah, you can't It works, so you can learn it's this quirky UI it's got going on. But I feel like a lot of if this was a touch screen. So what if I told you and they just don't really let you use it for almost anything? Like moving through these if I could just tap Going back after a long if I could just flip scroll and hit back. But you can't. The only thing you can is basically typing on the So with terminal enabled, a keyboard pops up, and and get text answers. Which is great. And you can move between It's kind of a neat feature, I guess. But why can't we use the touch Is it just them trying like a smartphone? Maybe. Probably. (text clicking) So, okay, what's the point? Why does this thing exist? If it's so similar to the other one that was also so bad, And really, there's two things that I think they're that set it apart from the other one. That should, in the words of - But I don't think MKBHD will say this is the worst device (people laughing) - Which, low bar, but okay. Those two things are the price tag, and the large action model. So the Humane Pin was so because it costs as much as a phone. It was $700 with a $24 to not turn into a brick. It's just insane. So, this one right here costs So, you know, okay, that But also, you can tell it's $200. First of all, you will to get it to work on cellular. So while there is no to keep the device working, that is still a fee you're to get data outside of wifi. But then, okay, the unboxing experience is extremely minimal. It comes in a single cardboard box with a cassette tape that doubles as a stand, but there's literally nothing else. No charging brick, no no paper instruction And then the R1 itself is made of plastic. Not to say that it's not built well. You know, there's no flexing or creaking or anything like that. But it's definitely plastic. The camera, very basic. The speaker, very cheap. You know, it's a low end The same one that's in which is like $150 phone. Hardly any battery, as we learned. And no fancy fast charging And it comes in one color, Like this ridiculously I'm not even joking, in this YouTube video on your screen, it's gonna be the best I can do with my own color correction. But it's legitimately hard to photograph. Like the phone camera doesn't really turn saturation up high enough to really represent it It's the brightest orange thing you've ever seen in your Now, if you want something than the neon orange, channel sponsor dbrand actually I've got this black camo looking one here, and now the orange bits that show through are kind of like more accent But fun fact, dbrand also ahead of the release to make sure screen protectors for this thing were also available on launch day. So, that includes mine. If you wanna check it out, screen protectors or skins for the R1, you can hit up the link below. But yes, speaking of the screen, this is a 2.9 inch diagonal TFT screen, with no auto brightness. So, yeah, I think you get the idea. (letters clicking) So you know how the Well, this thing also has no apps. But the other thing that they're hoping will separate it from the other stuff, is what they're calling So you know, large language the language that we use. So it's an AI that can and process it, and turn And that's how we interact with it. So a large action model is and then process it, and That's the theory. So it's basically going to like a human would, based on what you tell it to do. Now, importantly, this where you know, a company to have some sort of a so that they work together. Because an API can be a or not give all the features, I mean, there's lots of good reasons why they don't wanna rely on an API. So what this is supposed to be doing, is just going in and using essentially with like Think of it as like a virtual agent. Honestly, I think it's a really cool idea. I think it's a really, really cool idea. You know, large language with all their data, to talk back to us just like humans would, and some are very convincing. So a large action model, in theory, should be able to use just like a human would. From Spotify to Twitter, to whatever else. It's already good enough at like a play button or a buy So with enough training With enough training data, But the thing is, they don't have a ton So as of right now, they have Four. They have this online portal where you can log into Spotify, Uber, DoorDash and Midjourney. So the Rabbit can talk to these four apps, and has a UI on the screen for doing so in the exact way that we're theorizing. So it'll play Spotify songs. Like I can ask it for a song, and it'll try to play the right one, and it'll show you any info to confirm or refine the But even now, they kinda work. Like, I've already had issues with it playing the wrong song. I've also seen other with the DoorDash app which is even more frustrating. I can't imagine how messing up would be. It definitely seems like it And that's just for Now, Rabbit says they have 800 different apps trained already, but they just haven't so it's not available on the Rabbit yet. And so that's still in the works. Now they've also theoretically started working on something where essentially it can recognize what type of app it is, and then build a UI for it But that's also still theoretical, and also on the roadmap And then if there's another app or service that you want your like something for work, or something super niche they've talked about Which is basically having do what you want it to do and then it learns from what you did, and can then repeat your Unfortunately, you can probably already see where this is going, Teach Mode is also not This is something they're still working on vetting and finishing. And so that's just later So as of right now, this device has none of that stuff, just the four kind of half working apps that we went over at the beginning. What are we doing here? (letters clicking) Okay, I'm gonna try not but I feel like we need that a lot of these tech companies are developing tech kinda backwards. Like they're delivering that it actually makes them Like, it feels like it used to just be, make the thing, and then put it on sale. Now it's like put it on sale, and then deliver the half-baked thing, and then iterate and make it better, and hopefully with enough and it's what we promised way back when we first started selling it. And then this whole period And it's across all kinds We've seen this with gaming. Like huge studios are delivering &quot;Oh, you know, it's an alpha version. There will be updates.&quot; But meanwhile, it's a full price AAA game that's just gotten an unacceptable number of bugs and issues. It's also happening with cars. And vehicles getting announced, and then delivering with where you just don't get that you paid for. And they're eventually coming soon, with a software update. You know, smartphones, obviously, we've been seeing this for years, but it does seem like now more than ever, there's at least one feature, one major feature of that gets announced, but that's not coming And now these AI based of this horrible trend where, the thing that you get at the beginning is like borderline nonfunctional compared to all the promises and all the things that it's But you still pay full which is what makes it so crazy. And that sucks not only obviously for the people buying it at but also for reviewing Like, how do you assess a product where the version of what's what it could be is amazing, but the version that's being Like, how do you connect those dots? Do you even connect those dots? Are you supposed to give them I don't know. What are we even doing here? I mean, I guess on one hand, it is good that tech products, these things can get better and the thing you buy That's all great. That didn't used to be true, and that's beautiful and everything. But on the other hand, it's just, the other side of that coin, is some very unfinished and I just feel like it's gonna get worse before it gets better. (letters clicking) So, let me just say, I am personally very excited by the idea of a super that can do everything that That's my dream. I want that to happen. And I'm interested that are approaching it from different angles. And hopefully, we'll get there eventually. But this is also so clearly going to take a lot of time and effort and also a lot of data. Like, I've said this already I'm pretty sure, which is a everything about you, whether Like it needs to know your preferences, and your location, and what you're doing, And every single little thing. It's so much data. So as for the Rabbit... I think that's why they focused Like, this stuff is all a tough sell, because you're taking a gamble on what the product could be someday. But for the Pin, you have to on the chance that it Like that's a lot of money. But for this cute little thing, 200 bucks. Feels like a much easier A much easier pill to swallow, to just take a gamble on it. And on the off chance it in a couple of years, it'll You know, on the chance are super useful. Or you know, even though you maybe the Teach Mode lets it do something with a single button press that you could never dream of before, then it could be totally worth it. The whole situation reminds me kind of... If you look back at the beginning of when Tesla started shipping cars with all the autopilot stuff. They were selling cars, and they got popular for other reasons. It was a good electric and a good charging network. And then people started this autopilot stuff, and Tesla starts collecting millions of miles and hours of data, from how it works in the real world. And so all of that data and get the head start that they need, on trying to make the So the Rabbit, I'm sure, would like to use their price advantage, and get as many of them out into the real world as possible, into people's hands, so they can start beta testing, and having it trained and getting good at a variety of tasks. But the Rabbit's problem is, it doesn't have like the other reason why people would get it anyway today. So it's like a kind of So if you want my advice, Buy the product based on what it is today, and not what it's promised And with this category, that's the hardest thing to keep in mind. 'Cause the promise is so big. But that's still my advice. And I guess we still also have yet to see what big companies like Google and Apple are gonna try to do in this So, with all of that, we'll see. Thanks for watching. Catch you in the next one. Peace. (mellow music fades)