From 1890 to 2010, around 3% of all U.S. that didn't work, hangings where the victim and electric chair visits Willie Francis was one of the 84 people execution. His words at the start of into the agony experienced by death row but what he experienced was just a At just 16 years old, Willie was convicted pharmacist in Louisiana. In 1944, Thomas had by with nobody getting to the bottom of who teenage boy who used to work at the pharmacy. Willie was sentenced to death, and for the Nicknamed Gruesome Gertie, the chair that severe. Now living in a museum for all of the wooden back and little in the way of comfort. Why there is an element of artistry to it. It's by but it is not simply a large wooden board designed it and chose how it should look. that no one would get splinters from it. Even The two men appointed to set up the chair their inebriated state, they had made Willie, of course, didn't know this as he but as the executioner flipped the switch, &quot;It felt like a hundred and a thousand and my left leg felt like somebody was feel my arms jumping at my sides ... I knock the chair over ... I think I must have 'Take it off! Take it off!' I know that was Willie shouldn't have been able to through the victims are upwards of 2,000 victims can do but spasm and burn, yet The needles and pin pricks all over his seem to fall short of the pain you'd The executioners shut the chair off, and his lawyer could do little to help his fate. of 'cruel and unusual punishment,' and tried once and thus had fulfilled his sentence, Much to everyone's surprise, however, Willie it. He didn't want to go through another trial to go to meet the Lord with his "Sunday pants and So to the main question, what does it feel like attempt like Willie Francis's first execution; at his second execution. Brace yourself; it's Put yourself in Willie Francis's shoes, and let's walk you through step by The first thing happens before you go to the guards, and one of them will shave you. Any chopped off and then shaved down to the this part gently. If you ask nicely, they but we probably wouldn't recommend keeping It's not just your head hair, either. Some clean shaven, and for others, it will be your you can see why that is. The points they've will connect. These are the points where the If you are still able to stand through the waves over and take your seat. If you don't do it leather straps all over the chair that the guards place. You brace yourself for the cool metal Instead something wet and squishy head and small of your back. A couple important that the executioners get this then the chair will short-circuit before it's then there will be too much resistance, and sponges may even catch fire, which has happened The last thing they'll do is put a blindfold the room. Standing on the other side the executioner will flip the switch. Instantaneously, around 2,000 volts course so strong that you immediately lose hands clench around the arms of the and your limbs thrash against the restraints so bones. Your body is quite literally trying to likely vomit, and there will probably be blood Every nerve in your body is suddenly overwhelmed relies on electricity to work and uses it With electricity flooding every inch of Unfortunately, the electric chair This first wave of electricity will last for will shut it off and allow the doctors to themselves will need to wait before they they check the victim's heart. If and another round of electricity is administered. For anyone observing these later increasingly more disturbing to watch. of a botched execution by an electric chair. or the legs. For others, their blood causing intense bruising and swelling, as In some cases, the victims survive for a for a lot longer. One woman was still alive 24 Morticians who carry out an autopsy on the truly horrific. They have to wait for the which can take a while, depending The parts of the body where the electrodes all the way down to the bone, leaving smoldering electric chair is designed to kill instantly by not always work. The secondary kill method, which organs until they are no longer functional. Many die from this secondary method. If you cut you may well find that the brain resting in does not lose consciousness quickly enough, they feels like to slowly have their brain The electric chair was intended to be safer and but many have grown to see it as being most states in the US no longer use the electric the only places that still reserve execution are the U.S. states of Alabama, Electrocution is also authorized in Florida For the most part, states have tried to cocktail of chemicals administered into death killing somebody. While many claim that before they feel any pain, there are Now check out 50 insane facts about the CIA