If you ask investors to name the greatest that they'll bring up the name Jesse Livermore Livermore is a true legend in the world of prodigy with an uncanny ability to trade stocks, He is quoted every day on trading floors around According to Amazon, Reminiscences of a Stock on the life and experiences of Jesse Livermore investment book ever written. Newly hired traders at investment banks and before starting their first day at work. It might surprise you to hear that the story &quot;Reminiscences of a Stock Operator,&quot; does Let's dig a little deeper today, to uncover the man - exploring the untold chapters that Reminiscences is a great book - I've probably It's filled with wisdom about market psychology, most importantly) learning from your own mistakes. The book warns about market manipulation, on tips from others. Livermore's life was unfortunately filled financial swings, struggled with mental health success, and a lonely existence. Despite achieving significant wealth at times Livermore faced multiple bankruptcies and personal life. The culmination of his tragic narrative came own life. Livermore's story serves as both a testament about the emotional toll that the stock market enduring fascination with his life and legacy. Before we go any further let me quickly tell Brew.As regular viewers know, I'm a big is an amazing way to get up to speed with Instead of aimlessly browsing social media, It's a totally free daily newsletter, delivered They get you up to speed on business, finance, morning. It's become one of my favorite news sources, They have had some great content on the Boeing Over 4 million professionals already read less than 10 seconds to sign up, so there's Go to Morningbrew.com forward slash Patrick to sign up. From the winter of 1928 till the early spring bull market. The more the market rose, the more stocks He borrowed money using his trading profits the rising stock market. The type of stocks that had historically traded trading at 40-60 times earnings, and Livermore He was already a very wealthy man, and the The public had arrived in the market in full Livermore) borrowing money to buy stocks. The high-tech stocks of the day - radio companies leading the charge upwards. By the summer of 1929 Livermore - unlike and began making a list of the hottest stocks His instincts told him the market had topped, the timing was not yet right. In the early summer he took a few small, short rose - proving him wrong. In late summer his short positions began working He watched the prices change on the chalk a crew of chalk board boys wearing headphones They worked away in silence updating prices to time that only Livermore understood. Livermore had told his friends that he could way a conductor could read sheet music and building to a wild crescendo like you might Livermore had been building this huge short different brokers to hide his tracks. On October 24th the storm that had been building The market fell 11% at the opening bell as hit the exchange floor. The biggest stocks of the day were being dumped known a rising market. RCA, which had recently traded at 110 dollars a share. By noon more than eight million shares of on the exchange had been shattered. The ticker tape machines in brokerage offices with the volume were and running hours behind. Most investors had absolutely no idea what after the market had closed. The next day, the market rose slightly. Newspaper headlines announced that New York decline and that Richard Whitney, the vice twenty million dollars' worth of stock expressing On Monday the 28th, the Dow Jones fell 12.8% - the market fell an additional 11.7%. The stock market had lost more than a third An entire years' worth of stock market gains The crash which preceded the great depression, bystanders, haunting the memories of an entire his greatest period of trading ever. He later told his friends that he had taken money, and that while he had become fabulously and empty inside. Livermore barely left his office during the to his house in Long Island, he was shocked Paintings had been taken from the walls, the jewelry was missing from the safe, and most to be found. He and his driver searched the massive house servants' quarters. His wife had tears in her eyes, as she knew the nation's biggest investors were ruined. She knew that Jesse had been under a lot of and because she hadn't heard from him in She had instructed the servants to hide as be lost in the bankruptcy that was sure to Livermore explained that while things had for the better. The Livermore's were now wealthy beyond Jesse Livermore made a hundred million dollars to around 1.8 billion dollars today, he was in the world. Things had not started out like this for Jesse He was born in Shrewsbury Massachusetts in His father lost his farm when Jesse was a to his grandparents home while his father in Acton Massachusetts. Jesse was said to be a quiet, bookish boy he was three and a half years old. He excelled at mathematics at school and managed in just one year. Jesse ran away from home with his mother's took him out of school so that he could help His mother knew that he wasn't cut out for on his way with all of the money she'd saved It came to around five dollars. According to his biographer, he repaid her the equivalent of thirty-six thousand dollars He said that paying off his debts was ingrained he always tried to do his whole life long, Livermore had gone to Boston and found a job Boston based brokerage firm. He would have known nothing of the stock market business he passed once he arrived in the Someone just happened to be out sick that to help out. Prices would come through to the office on often by a customer. The chalk board boys would write the prices constantly updating them throughout the day. Livermore found himself in his element at and brokers, hearing the news about big companies on how money was made and lost. Livermore was fascinated to see that the price reflected what the brokers, customers or newspapers of stock traders seemed to act randomly and Working on the chalkboard he grew fascinated to notice that the price usually moved before He felt that there might be repeating patterns filled with his observations and theories. He kept detailed notes on which of his ideas It is claimed that he had a great memory and data which he would write out in his notebook data searching for patterns in the way market Livermore initially began collecting this because he was interested in markets and how He was also interested in the psychology of by the way they passed tips and rumors along At the time he believed that you needed to Paine Weber - to participate in markets. A few months into his job however, during boy, introduced him to the less reputable A "bucket shop" was like a cross between The bucket shops dealt in small, even single-share premium over the price on the exchange. Boston had ten or twelve of these bucket shops which were owned by Arnold Rothstein the notorious For those with small accounts, who couldn't brokerage firms, bucket shops were the only The bucket shops didn't buy and sell the like the brokerage firms did, instead they rise or fall. Customers were just betting on price changes, It felt a lot like buying shares, but the entirely on the ticker tape quotes which were of the exchange. Bucket shops would allow their customers to of leverage. Customers often put up as little as 1% of the bucket shop would usually just take the Traders could bet on a share price and a betting be cashed in at any time. The bet would stay in place as long as the but if a customer bought using full margin more, the bet would be wiped out and the house The house tended to win more than half of There were also all sorts of dirty tricks If a bucket shop knew that a lot of their they would often enter a big sell trade on tape to fall just enough to exhaust their Such activity would be illegal today but there Livermore decided to test out his trading about prices were right. He placed his first trade at the age of 15, for $5 before quickly selling them making At least that is the story that is told. Livermore was quickly making more money trading his job and took up trading full time. By the age of 16 Livermore is said to have dollars in today's money trading in the bucket The bucket shops thrived because anyone who only the losers who enjoyed gambling and fast One by one the bucket shops began to ban Livermore He began wearing disguises so that he could making massive trades - even with a false Around this time, he got the nickname "the with him for life due to his youthful appearance He quickly found himself banned from every The fact that these businesses were owned a lot of risk, and it quickly became obvious Livermore travelled to bucket shops around age of 20 decided to move to New York City - The New York Stock Exchange. Livermore arrived in New York City in 1897. He had a sizeable stake to trade for a man losses - down about 75% from his peak in He said that he didn't blame the markets His belief was that the market was always He used to say that a trader getting angry angry at a pack of cards. Instead of grumbling, he studied his mistakes When Livermore arrived in New York, he met marry within a few weeks of meeting. He was well liked by the other traders in a long streak of losses such that he wiped broker money. He asked his new wife to pawn some of the so that he could pay off his debts and start She was having none of that, took the jewelry Livermore had to take some time off to reflect He worked out that his winning approach only horribly once the trades were going to the There were a few reasons for this. At the bucket shops he was able to buy and tape, while on the exchange the market price his fills. To make things worse, his big trades were he bought and when he sold stocks. Another big factor was that in the bucket closed out when a stock price moved enough on the exchange, his losses could really mount Livermore had two big problems to solve. He needed to work out a new system for trading and he needed enough money to start trading He borrowed $1000 from the broker, who he Louis to trade in bucket shops where he was After four days he had been banned from every money to pay off his debts and had $3,800 He found a bucket shop in Hoboken on his way he managed to turn that $3,800 into $10,000. He returned to New York somewhat humbled and handle the slippage of trading actual stocks Livermore spent months going through the detailed to better understand his mistakes. He later told his sons that the only way you torturous process of examining each and every Livermore decided that there were numerous and he acknowledged that he would likely fall was to avoid repeating the same mistakes too Livermore worked out that he had been trading bid ask spreads had been making his brokers With his new approach he would need to trade bigger moves. He had made mistakes taking stock market tips Why would anyone be offering him valuable on that information and keep all of the profits Not only would he no longer listen to other to himself too, there was no benefit in telling In Livermore's new system he would focus thinking about individual stocks. He would aim to follow the line of least resistance. There was no point in shorting the worst stocks to rise. Why sail into the wind? He acknowledged that he would often be wrong approach to trading where he would build positions If it was too easy to buy a stock it meant If the market wasn't moving as he expected, should close out his position. Now, on the other hand, if the market moved and he should increase his size. Many of these ideas have been incorporated to this day - with varying degrees of success. In 1901, the stock market was in a frenzy, had experienced. He turned his ten thousand dollar stake into trade in Northern Pacific stock. Over the next few years Livermore stuck to The improvements all came from his process He lived a good life, during that period trading and having fun when he felt he had no edge Taking time off when there were no obvious system. In 1906 he went and broke all of his rules Livermore was on a break in Atlantic City a brokerage house with a friend to see what He noticed that the market was unusually strong, to buy stocks. For some reason - which he could never explain involves selling borrowed stock which he hoped This is a risky trading strategy that seeks Union Pacific was the stock he chose to sell the trade he doubled down and sold even more. By the end of the day, he had such a big short cut his vacation short, return to New York, and apply his full focus to his trading. He was using a lot of leverage and didn't As Livermore was sleeping in New York, with his trading rules the earth under San Fransisco The San Francisco earthquake of 1906 was felt and inland as far as central Nevada. Not only did buildings collapse, but fires several days. The event is remembered today as the deadliest The next morning the market fell only a few Livermore went to his broker, negotiated more On the third day, the market eventually reacted Union Pacific was one of the hardest hit stocks profit that day, the equivalent of eight and It is very hard to know what to make of a So much is made of Livermore's trading systems wins of his entire career appears to have This story highlights the difficulty of evaluating between luck and judgement. Livermore never claimed to have predicted of his rules on this trade, it's not obvious People do love stories like this, as they who appears to almost have a magic like ability The real take away here, is possibly that way. Livermore went on to cover his short position Pacific stock, feeling that it had fallen His old friend EF Hutton, whose firm Livermore in and called Livermore to warn him that the him, knowing that there was more bad news Livermore thanked Hutton for the information The next day Union Pacific announced a ten Livermore was not angry or upset at Hutton, his education. He had listened to a tip, and it had cost With that trade out of the way, he took a only returning to New York in 1907. When he returned, he noticed a lot of weakness once again, right before the panic of 1907. The panic of 1907 was a major economic collapse the San Francisco earthquake a year earlier few months ago. The earthquake in San Francisco and the subsequent of gold from the United States. This was a big problem as the dollar was backed contraction in the money supply. The weak and fragmented US banking system and overexpansion of credit in the stock and ripe for instability. A failed attempt by a group of speculators Copper Company led to a series of bank runs Trust Company in October 1907. The banks were almost entirely out of cash didn't yet exist, meaning that there was Brokerage firms were going bust and the only at 100 -150% interest. The US financial system was in meltdown, Livermore involved selling more and more stock short Not only were the banks and brokers failing, cash, and if they couldn't quickly raise As the market fell, Livermore had his best in a single day- around thirty-three million With no central bank to fall back on, leading in and put their own money on the line to JP Morgan was a man who Livermore hugely admired. Morgan is said to have sent a messenger to no more stock - for the good of the markets Livermore agreed that it was the best course and began covering his short positions right His buying supported the markets and was noticed What a life - he is reported to have later age of 30, and at the age of 31 sharing power Taking a few points out of stocks in the bucket these big waves had made him a fortune. Livermore really started living the high life He bought a 200ft steam yacht The Anita Venetian luxuriously outfitted private railcar that on Riverside Drive in New York. He kept a suite of rooms at the famous breakers with Edward Bradley, the notorious gambler running illegal casino in the history of the Livermore loved beautiful women, and the newspapers was seen out with, often dancers from the In 1908 Livermore began trading commodities, He claimed to know nothing whatsoever about purely based on price action. On two occasions, Livermore cornered the Chicago The first time was when he saw that one of had failed to corner the cotton market and The liquidation of Percy's trades had caused Livermore noticed the opportunity and bought His aggressive buying pushed the price back in a large and illiquid trade. He knew that exiting his position would weigh manipulation tactic called "painting the him with exit liquidity. Day after day he threw big buy orders at the The closing price was what made it into the He hoped the high prices being printed in that this would hopefully lead to a buying His plan was to unload his position into the As the price was moving higher and higher, that read "July Cotton Cornered by Livermore." He later claimed that it was not him who had caused the price of cotton to soar as soon exit his position at a tidy profit. After some success trading commodities, Livermore - the recently bankrupted Cotton King at in Palm Beach. The two men became fast friends and over time markets to Livermore and convinced him to that he had collected through a network of on crop conditions. Thomas taught Livermore everything that was the crop, the names of the big planters and processing. Livermore loved how everything worked, but was useless, as the market prices already and instead moved based on forward looking about. He felt that all he needed to know was there had no value and were quite possibly misinformation Thomas was said to be a great talker and it under his spell. He reasoned that Thomas was more often right be something valuable missing from his style Despite his best instincts warning him to Thomas in the trade. No sooner had the pair bought than Cotton Instead of taking a quick loss, as his system to support the price by buying more. Livermore lost ninety percent of the fortune to $300,000 by the time he walked away. The episode burned into his memory and explains markets with friends and would ask people Bernard Baruch, one of the great traders of Street" had a very similar policy, he was "Please don't tell me anything that is I don't want my judgment affected by anything Livermore had to sell his Yacht, and his New He needed money, and he needed it fast. He traded furiously to make back his losses, money he needed right away. Livermore wiped himself out and found himself He suffered a complete emotional breakdown The more he studied his trades the more disgusted It was 1910 and he entered the new decade Livermore is reported to have later told his to pay your bills is one of the most prolific Livermore went from broker to broker over some of them to give him a line of credit He felt weighed down by his debts, and believed hung over him. He finally gave up and filed for bankruptcy stock market was closed due to the outbreak Livermore is said to have visited his creditors explain his actions and to promise them he are reported to have refused to file their not sure how true that is... When the markets eventually reopened and with began trading again in much smaller size than In 1917 he made what he described as one of he stopped at the offices of each of his creditors Livermore was 40 years old at this point and Once he regained some of his wealth he locked where he could only receive interest but never that he would never be poor again. Around this time Livermore met Dorothy Wendt, the creator of the Ziegfield Follies, the clad women, carrying ostrich feather fans Girls with fans on staircases was a big thing Less than a year later Livermore rushed through she had walked out on him eighteen years earlier, He gave Nettie everything she asked for in money he couldn't make back in the markets. A year later he married Dorothy who was 18 now time to settle down and start a family. In 1919 his first son Jesse Livermore junior in 1922. The book Reminisces of a Stock Operator by disguised biography of Jesse Livermore which Livermore moved out of New York City that on Long Island sound. It had 29 rooms and 12 bathrooms, there was in barber to shave Livermore and trim his Dorothy filled the home with the finest antique Dorothy loved parties and organized them as Livermore loved that he never had to organize be restricted to the weekend when the markets Dorothy had one of the staff brew beer in years and would set out in a convoy of Jesse's to all of their neighbors. By all reports, Dorothy was a lot of fun. Livermore had gained a passion for collecting course built on the property. He, Dorothy and their two kids would compete He is said to have kept over 400 guns on the For now, Jesse and Dorothy were living the York, Jesse kept a yacht moored outside for city to trade the markets in his chauffeur His chauffeur regularly tipped all of the and the city (which were manually operated Rolls Royce coming they gave him a green signal. This was possibly the happiest period of Livermore's would learn that in life just like in markets As Livermore's wealth grew, he began to a plot to kidnap his children was foiled by could happen deeply distressed Jesse and Dorothy. In 1927, the Livermore's suffered a home Billy - aided by Livermore's ex chauffeur at gunpoint, making off with $100,000 in jewelry. These events left Livermore depressed and ones. Dorothy at first appeared to take the whole into leaving some of her favorite jewelry so that the children wouldn't be woken up. Despite her calm demeanor at the time, Dorothy's a noticeable problem to those around her at Jesse's trading in the 1929 crash catapulted the country had fallen into an economic depression. He hated how he was villainized in the press. Dorothy's drinking and spending was getting At one point she fired all of the house staff that the children would learn to speak French. This was reversed a week later when neither hired staff. She is said to have bought a cow, which she have fresh milk in his coffee. This turned out to be less of a convenience The Livermore children were having difficulty provide a great example. He reportedly told his son that he wouldn't have a secretary to do jobs like that for He was constantly cheating on Dorothy with in apartments in New York and some of these made her drinking worse. In 1932 Dorothy asked for quick divorce and signed. She got four million dollars, the house and Jesse married Harriet Metz a year later. This was Harriet's fifth marriage, all four which may have been a bit of a red flag... Dorothy moved to California with her new husband mostly abandoning the grand home in New York. She was terrible with money, as she had married as freely as she had wanted to. She occasionally returned to New York and and rugs at Evermore. At one point the foundation on the waterfront and rather than have the house repaired, she of furniture so that it would sit level. The furniture in the house had been considered in the United States at the time, and was When her property taxes came due on the home, to auction the property. The house, furnishings and Rolls Royce limousines a half million dollars were sold at auction Dorothy squandered her divorce settlement On May 30th 1933 Congress passed the Securities year later in 1934. The new rules outlawed many of the tricks The details of how he lost the huge fortune are not clear, but in 1934 he declared bankruptcy dollars and debts of two and a half million He was suspended as a member of the Chicago There were a number of lawsuits against him, he had kept in New York - that didn't He was said to be in a deep depression at with friends. On Thanksgiving Day 1935 Jesse Livermore Junior to have downed a quart of whiskey at one of Dorothy - who was also drunk told him that He fetched a shotgun from the small guesthouse said "here - go ahead and shoot me - I One of the party guests took the gun away son arguing in another room. A few moments later a shot rang out in the Guests walked into the room to find Jesse On the floor beside him his mother was clutching He dared me to.&quot; An ambulance took Jesse Junior to the hospital Jesse Jr. narrowly survived, and Dorothy was her lawyers argument that she had been so for her actions. Jesse Livermore never made back his fortune. It seems that his trading strategies no longer depressed showing little interest in anything. He possibly lived off the income from the his wife's wealth. In 1940 he published a book called "how very well, as public interest in the stock On November 27th 1940, Livermore and his wife The house photographer asked if he could take "No problem", Livermore is alleged to will take of me. Tomorrow I'm going away for a long long His wife is reported to have appeared confused The next day he stopped for a cocktail at then walked into the cloakroom and shot himself An eight page suicide note addressed to his He was 63 years old. In 1941 his estate was settled. It was valued at ten thousand dollars in assets There was no mention of the trust fund that Jesse Livermore junior - his son - went violence, womanizing and gambling. He committed suicide in 1976 while out on police officer. His son Jesse Livermore III also died by suicide Jesse Livermore's other son Paul went on He died in 2002 at the age of 79. There are many lessons that we can take from some bad, but most people know his story from was partially fiction and written in 1923, tragedies that would follow. Livermore led a truly amazing life, transforming of the wealthiest men in the world, entirely His book "how to trade in Stocks" is in it to better understand how Livermore thought I would caution people not to follow his rules data with todays technologies, and I'm sure be following someone else's rules blindly It is worth noting that he did make himself just as fast as he made it, some of his biggest against his stated trading rules. In researching this piece I relied on three to in the video description and to a lesser is well worth a read. I also relied on some online news archives I realize that this is probably an unusually it to the end - you might not be up for really enjoy the video I made on the panic Do check out our sponsor Morning Brew using to you again soon bye.