The Game of Life and How to Play It by The Game. but it is not a battle, it is a game. played successfully without the knowledge Testaments give the rules of the game with it was a great game of Giving and Receiving. reap.&quot; This means that whatever man sends what he gives, he will receive. if he gives love, he will receive love; if he he lies he will be lied to; if he cheats he will faculty plays a leading part in the game of life. diligence, for out of it are the issues This means that what man images, sooner know of a man who feared a certain disease. It but he pictured it continually and read and he died, the victim of distorted imagination. we must train the imaging faculty. A person with brings into his life &quot;every righteous desire perfect self-expression, his highest ideals. of The Mind, &quot;and it is ever cutting, cutting, day later he meets his own creations in his outer man must understand the workings of his There are three departments of the mind, the The subconscious, is simply power, without and it does what it is directed to Whatever man feels deeply or images clearly, and carried out in minutest detail. always &quot;made believe&quot; she was a widow. She black veil, and people thought she was very man with whom she was deeply in love. In a short veil for many years. The picture of herself as a and in due time worked itself out, The conscious mind has been It is the human mind and sees life as it sickness, poverty and limitation of every The superconscious mind is the God Mind within In it, is the &quot;perfect pattern&quot; for there is a Divine Design for each person. no one else can fill, something you There is a perfect picture of this in the across the conscious as an unattainable In reality it is man's true destiny (or Infinite Intelligence which is within himself. true destinies and are striving for things and would only bring failure For example: A woman came to me and asked a certain man with whom she was very I replied that this would be a violation of word for the right man, the &quot;divine selection,&quot; I added, &quot;If A. B. is the right man you will receive his equivalent.&quot; She saw A. friendship. One evening she called, and said, seemed so wonderful to me.&quot; I replied, &quot;Maybe he right one.&quot; Soon after that, she met another man she was his ideal. In fact, he said all the things She remarked, &quot;It was quite uncanny.&quot; and lost all interest in A. B. A right idea was substituted for a wrong one, Jesus Christ said, &quot;Seek ye first the and all these things shall be added unto The Kingdom is the realm of right Jesus Christ taught that man's words life. &quot;By your words ye are justified Many people have brought disaster For example: A woman once asked me why her life she had a home, was surrounded by beautiful she had often tired of the management &quot;I'm sick and tired of things--I wish I lived in a trunk.&quot; She had spoken herself into a trunk. The often joke themselves into unhappy experiences. of money, joked continually about In a few years she was almost destitute, with a picture of lack and limitation. situation of lack may be changed to one of plenty. day for a &quot;treatment&quot; for prosperity. She She said she possessed just eight dollars the eight dollars and multiply them as Jesus for He taught that every man had the power to She said, &quot;What shall I do next?&quot; to do anything, or to go anywhere?&quot; Intuition It is man's unerring guide, and I will deal The woman replied: &quot;I don't know--I seem to have for carfare.&quot; Her home was in a distant and the reasoning mind (or intellect) would have money.&quot; I replied, &quot;Then go home--never violate &quot;Infinite Spirit open the way for great abundance that belongs to her by divine right.&quot; I told home immediately. In calling on a woman one day, Through this friend, she received thousands of to me often, &quot;Tell people about the woman who There is always plenty on man's pathway; but through desire, faith or the spoken that man must make the first move. seek, and ye shall find, knock, and it In the Scriptures we read: Infinite Intelligence, God, is ever ready to Every desire, uttered or unexpressed, having a wish suddenly fulfilled. seen many beautiful rose-trees in the florists' instant saw it mentally being carried in the door. thanked my friend the following day, and She replied, &quot;I didn't send you The man had mixed the order, and sent me a law in action, and I had to have a rose-tree. ideals and every desire of his heart, but doubt every desire will be instantly fulfilled. chapter the scientific reason for this and how man's only enemy--fear of lack, fear of failure, insecurity on some plane. Jesus Christ said: (Mat. 8:26.) So we can see we must substitute it is faith in evil instead of good. clearly one's good and to obliterate all mental the subconscious mind with a realization of great success, told me he had suddenly erased a sign which hung in a room. He saw printed, in probably never happen.&quot; These words were stamped now a firm conviction that only good can come In the following chapter I will deal with subconscious mind. It is man's faithful it the right orders. Man has ever a silent Every thought, every word is impressed upon is like a singer making a record on the Every note and tone of the singer's voice it is registered also. So let us break all the records of our lives which we do not wish Speak these words aloud, &quot;I now smash and demolish (by my spoken word) They shall return to the dust-heap of their vain imaginings. I now make my perfect records Wealth, Love and perfect self-Expression.&quot; In the following chapters, I will show how man Any man who does not know the power &quot;Death and Life are in the power of the tongue.&quot; The Law Of Prosperity. and thou shalt have plenty of silver.&quot; through the scriptures is that God is man's supply all that belongs to him by divine right. He must, Isaiah said, &quot;My word shall not return unto it is sent.&quot; We know now, that words and ever moulding man's body and affairs. said she was to be sued on the fifteenth of the of getting the money and was in despair. and that there is a supply for every demand. woman would receive three thousand dollars at the have perfect faith, and act her perfect faith. She called me on the 'phone I replied, &quot;It is Saturday, so they won't thereby showing perfect faith that you will her to keep up her courage. When I joined her at a Order an expensive luncheon, act as if you have &quot;All things whatsoever ye ask in prayer, as if you had already received. &quot;The next morning with her during the day. I said &quot;No, you are In the evening she 'phoned again, greatly excited sitting in my room this morning, when the doorbell The maid however, looked out the window and said, So I said, 'Call him back. I would like to when he heard the maid's voice, and he came back. was leaving he said, 'Oh, by I told him I needed the money, and he three thousand dollars the first of the month.' What shall I do? I won't receive it till it tomorrow.&quot; I said, &quot;I'll keep on 'treating.'&quot; she has received the money on the invisible morning her cousin called her up and said, &quot;Come money.&quot; That afternoon, she had three thousand checks as rapidly as her excitement would permit. he will get the situation he has prepared for. the word that a certain debt would be wiped out. say to the man when he did not pay his should have seen himself paying the debt. in the bible, relating to the three kings their men and horses. They consulted the prophet &quot;Thus saith the Lord--Ye shall not yet make this valley full of ditches.&quot; asked for, when there isn't the For example: A woman found it necessary to look a great shortage of apartments in New York. and her friends were sorry for her and store your furniture and live in a hotel.&quot; I'm a superman, and I'll get an apartment.&quot; open the way for the right apartment.&quot; She knew was &quot;unconditioned,&quot; working on the spiritual She had contemplated buying new blankets, when mind, suggested, &quot;Don't buy the blankets, and you will have no use for them.&quot; She promptly buying the blankets!&quot; So she prepared for the She found one in a miraculous way, and over two hundred other applicants. It is needless to say that the ditches filled to over-flowing. (Read, II Kings.) is no easy matter for the average person. The subconscious. They are the &quot;army of the aliens&quot; it is so often, &quot;darkest before the dawn.&quot; by tormenting thoughts. of high spiritual truth one challenges and &quot;error is exposed&quot; to be put out. affirmations of truth repeatedly, and rejoice &quot;Before ye call I shall answer.&quot; This means that awaiting his recognition. what he sees himself receiving. that they could have all the land they could see. within his own mental vision. Every great work, manifestation through holding to the vision, comes apparent failure and discouragement. &quot;Promised Land,&quot; were afraid to go in, for they like grasshoppers. &quot;And there we saw the giants This is almost every man's experience. is undisturbed by appearance, and rejoices he holds to his vision and gives thanks that Jesus Christ gave a wonderful example of there are yet four months and then cometh the eyes and look on the fields; for they are ripe &quot;world of matter&quot; and he saw clearly the fourth perfect and complete in Divine Mind. So end and demand the manifestation of that which he love, supply, self-expression, home or friends. in Divine Mind (man's own superconscious mind) and A man came to me asking for treatments for within a certain time, fifty-thousand dollars when he came to me in despair. No one wanted to refused a loan. I replied: &quot;I suppose you lost power. You can control any situation if you first &quot;and I will treat.&quot; My treatment was: &quot;You are connected with the bank. Let the divine idea come are talking about an impossibility. Tomorrow is won't get me there until ten, and the time limit too late.&quot; I replied, &quot;God doesn't need any time possible.&quot; I added, &quot;I don't know anything about &quot;It all sounds fine when I sit here listening to in a distant city, and I did not hear from him were right. I raised the money, and will never I saw him a few weeks later, and I said, &quot;What after all.&quot; He replied &quot;My train was late, twelve. I walked into the bank quietly and they gave it to me without a question.&quot; allotted to him, and Infinite Spirit man could never have demonstrated alone. vision. This is what one man can do for another. &quot;If two of you shall agree on earth as it shall be done for them of my Father his own affairs and becomes doubtful and fearful. health, or prosperity, and never wavers, It is much easier to &quot;demonstrate&quot; so a person should not hesitate to ask A keen observer of life once said, &quot;no man can Such is the power of the vision, and many or sister, or a friend who &quot;believed in him&quot; and The Power Of The Word. and by thy words thou shalt be condemned.&quot; becomes very careful of his conversation. He has that they do &quot;not return void.&quot; Through his spoken I knew a man who said, &quot;I always miss a car. His daughter said: &quot;I always catch a there.&quot; This occurred for years. Each had made a success. This is the psychology of superstitions. but man's spoken word and belief that it will subconscious mind, and attracts a &quot;lucky &quot;work&quot; when man has advanced spiritually and knows away &quot;graven images.&quot; For example: Two men in several months, when suddenly everything &quot;went and I found, instead of making their affirmations they had each bought a &quot;lucky monkey.&quot; I said: &quot;Oh instead of God.&quot; &quot;Put away the lucky monkeys has power to forgive or neutralize his mistakes. coalhole, and all went well again. This does not &quot;lucky&quot; ornament or horse-shoe about the house, it is the one and only power, God, and that the I was with a friend, one day, who was she picked up a horseshoe. Immediately, she was her the horseshoe in order to keep up her courage. thing that could have registered in her and she ultimately made a wonderful point clear that the men previously mentioned were recognized the power back of the horseshoe. to get out of a belief that a certain thing disappointment invariably followed. I found subconscious, was by asserting, &quot;There are not two there are no disappointments, and this thing means and happy surprises commenced coming my way. her to walk under a ladder. I said, &quot;If you in two powers, Good and Evil, instead of one. As unless man makes the false of evil for himself. and that there is no power or reality in evil, she went to her bank. She wished to open her box ladder on her pathway. It was impossible to reach quailed with fear and turned back. She could not reached the street, my words rang in her ears and big moment in her life, for ladders had held her the vault, and the ladder was no longer there! thing he is afraid to do, he does not have to. which is so little understood. contains genius and magic. Face a situation it falls away of its own weight. attracted the ladder on the woman's Thus the invisible forces are ever working for though he does not know it. Owing to the he begins to attract. People who continually After man knows the truth, he cannot be I have a friend who often says on the fine old-fashioned chat.&quot; This &quot;old-fashioned a thousand destructive words, the principal I reply: &quot;No, I thank you, I've had they are too expensive, but I will be glad to have not what we don't want.&quot; There is an old saying purposes, to &quot;heal, bless or prosper.&quot; What man wishes for another, he is wishing for himself. If a man wishes someone &quot;bad luck,&quot; he he wishes to aid someone to success, he The body may be renewed and transformed and disease be completely wiped out of the disease has a mental correspondence, and in order The soul is the subconscious mind, and In the twenty-third psalm, we read: &quot;He restoreth soul, must be restored with the right ideas, and soul and the spirit, or the subconscious and the subconscious is flooded with the perfect one. &quot;I and the Father are one.&quot; That is, he is the man made in God's likeness and image all created things, his mind, body and affairs. unhappiness come from the violation of the law &quot;Love one another,&quot; and in the Game of For example: A woman I know, had, for years doctors told her it was incurable, and she was in would soon have to give up her profession, however, procured a good engagement, and on the flattering notices from the critics, and was notice of dismissal. A man in the cast had been sent away. She felt hatred and resentment taking &quot;Oh God don't let me hate that man.&quot; That She said, &quot;I soon came into a very deep silence. and with the whole world. I continued this for found I was healed completely of the skin she had fulfilled the law, (&quot;for love is the came from subconscious resentment) was wiped out. as critical, inharmonious thoughts cause unnatural False growths are caused by jealousy, hatred, caused by a mind not at ease. I said once, in my matter with you?' we might just as well say, is the most prolific cause of disease. It the eye-sight. In its train are endless ills. was ill from having eaten a poisoned oyster. I poisoned the oyster. What's the matter with you?&quot; quarrelled with nineteen people and had become so Any inharmony on the external, indicates there is Man's only enemies are within himself. own household.&quot; Personality is one as this planet is taking its initiation in love. towards man.&quot; The enlightened man, therefore, His work is with himself, to send out and the marvelous thing is, that if one blesses A man came to me asking to &quot;treat&quot; for success in appeared on the scene with what he proclaimed, I said, &quot;First of all, we must wipe out all and that the divine idea must come out of the sold, by the right man, to the right man.&quot; And I that man. Bless him all day, and be willing not to So he went to the meeting, fearless and said the outcome was very remarkable. The other without the slightest difficulty. &quot;But I say unto do good to them that hate you, and pray for them Good-will produces a great aura of and &quot;No weapon that is formed against him good-will destroy the enemies within one's self, &quot;There is peace on earth for The Law Of Nonresistance. but overcome evil with good.&quot; an absolutely nonresistant person. element, because it is perfectly nonresistant. Jesus Christ said, &quot;Resist not evil,&quot; therefore nothing to resist. Evil has a belief in two powers, good and evil. Eve ate of &quot;Maya the Tree of Illusion,&quot; and Therefore, evil is a false law man has made for sleep means, that man's soul has been hypnotized etc.) which is carnal or mortal thought, and We have read in a preceding chapter, and whatever he feels deeply, good or bad, body and affairs show forth what he has been the poor man, poverty, the rich man, wealth. attract illness, when it is too I answer that children are sensitive and and often outpicture the fears of their parents. run your subconscious mind yourself, Mothers often, unconsciously, attract by continually holding them in thoughts For example: A friend asked a woman if her little &quot;not yet!&quot; This implied that she was expecting for what she did not want for herself and child. in right thinking, the man who sends out only fear, cannot be touched or influenced by he could then receive only good thoughts, as Resistance is Hell, for it places A metaphysician once gave me a wonderful recipe is the acme of nonresistance. He gave it in this and of course, they had many names. Now I no but I give every event the same name. If I have a Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost!&quot; founded on nonresistance. Through his spoken For example: A woman who required money, was thrown continually in a business-way, talked lack and limitation and she commenced to and blamed him for her failure. She knew in first feel that she had received--a feeling It dawned upon her, one day, that she was powers instead of one. So she blessed the man and &quot;As there is only one power, God, this man is here not seem to be there for). Soon after that she a service rendered, several thousand dollars, harmoniously from her life. Make the statement, good,&quot; for all men are God in manifestation, to serve the divine plan of his life. his ammunition.&quot; His arrows will This law is true of nations as well send love and good-will to every inhabitant, Man can only get the right idea of nonresistance, often said: &quot;I don't want to be a door-mat.&quot; I no one will ever be able to walk over you.&quot; awaiting an important telephone call. I no out-going calls myself, reasoning that it Instead of saying, &quot;Divine ideas never conflict, to Infinite Intelligence to arrange, I commenced not God's and remained tense and anxious. and I glanced at the 'phone and found the and the 'phone was disconnected. My anxiety, fear eclipse of the telephone. Realizing what I had I baptized it &quot;success,&quot; and affirmed, &quot;I cannot I am under grace, and not under law.&quot; to notify the Company to reconnect. proprietor left his customers and attended to the and two minutes later, I received a very the one I had been awaiting. So long as man resists a situation, runs away from it, it will run after him. and she replied, &quot;How true that is! I was unhappy and domineering; so I ran away and was married--but like my mother, and I had the same situation to That means, agree that the adverse and it falls away of its own weight. &quot;None of The inharmonious situation comes from When there is, in him, no emotional it fades away forever, from his pathway. People have said to me, &quot;Give treatments to change give treatments to change you; when you change, One of my students was in the habit of lying. I she would be lied to. She replied, &quot;I don't One day she was speaking on the 'phone to a turned to me and said, &quot;I don't trust him, you lie yourself, so someone has to lie to you, you want the truth from.&quot; Some time after that, I questioned: &quot;What cured you?&quot; a woman who lied worse than I did!&quot; by seeing them in others. ourselves reflected in our associates. method and a violation of spiritual law. time.&quot; &quot;Now is the day of Salvation.&quot; turned into a pillar of salt. and the future. Man should bless the past, and bless the future, knowing it has in store For example: A woman came to me, complaining gifts. She said, &quot;Last year was so different; and this year I have scarcely a cent.&quot; money while you are pathetic and live and get ready to give Christmas presents. Dig your &quot;I know what to do! I will buy some tinsel twine, &quot;Do that, and the presents will come and This too, was showing financial fearlessness &quot;Keep every cent you have, as you She bought the seals, paper and twine, and a few hundred dollars. Buying the seals and twine had opened the way for the manifestation of the money. Man must live suspended in the moment. Such is the salutation of the Dawn.&quot; his leads, taking advantage of every opportunity. Spirit, don't let me miss a trick,&quot; and something most necessary to begin the day with right words. For example: this day! Today is a day of completion; I give miracle and wonders shall never cease.&quot; wonders and miracles come into his life. &quot;Look with wonder at that which is before so I repeated again and again, &quot;Look At about noon, a large sum of money, was given me, In a following chapter, I will give affirmations one should never use an affirmation unless it is consciousness, and often an affirmative For example: The following &quot;I have a wonderful work, in a wonderful way, I gave the first two lines to one of my It made a most powerful statement, as there should and a rhyme sinks easily into the subconscious. receive wonderful work in a wonderful way, Another student, a business man, took it, He repeated, &quot;I have a wonderful business, in for wonderful pay.&quot; That afternoon he made a had been no activity in his affairs for months. completely &quot;cover the ground.&quot; who was in great need, and made a demand but was never paid anything. She now knows to It is man's divine right to &quot;His barns should be full, and his cup should and when man breaks down the barriers the Golden Age will be his, and every The Law Of Karma And The Law Of Forgiveness. of Life is a game of boomerangs. Man's thoughts, with astounding accuracy. which is Sanskrit for &quot;Comeback.&quot; &quot;Whatsoever For example: A friend told me this story &quot;I make all my Karma on my aunt, whatever I irritable at home, and one day, said to dinner. 'No more talk, I wish to eat in peace.'&quot; with whom I wished to make a great impression. 'No more talk, I wish to eat in peace!'&quot; so her Karma returns much more quickly The more man knows, the more he is responsible Law, which he does not practice, suffers Lord (law) is the beginning of wisdom.&quot; If passages in the Bible much clearer. saith the Lord&quot; (law). It is the law sees man perfect, &quot;created in his own image,&quot; This is the perfect idea of man, registered for man can only be what he sees himself to be, &quot;Nothing ever happens without an Man sees first his failure or success, visibility from the scenes set in his own mother picturing disease for her child, Jesus Christ said, &quot;And ye shall know the So, we see freedom (from all knowledge--a knowledge of Spiritual Law. law obeys man when he obeys the law. The law of servant. When handled ignorantly, it becomes For example: A woman with a strong personal to an acquaintance, and she often made mental the course of time, the man died and she moved into the knowledge of Spiritual Law, she said to man's death?&quot; I replied: &quot;Yes, your desire was so your Karmic debt. Your husband, whom you loved a white elephant on your hands for years.&quot; been affected by her thoughts had he been but they were both under Karmic law. The woman the house), &quot;Infinite Intelligence, give me the house which is mine by divine right.&quot; satisfaction and brought good to all. The divine Desire is a tremendous force, and must be In demonstrating, the most important Man should always demand only To go back to the illustration: Had the woman is mine, I cannot lose it, if it is not, give to move out, harmoniously (had it been the would have been substituted. Anything forced is always &quot;ill-got,&quot; and has &quot;ever bad success.&quot; and the curious thing is, man always relinquish personal will, thereby enabling &quot;Stand ye still and see the For example: A woman came to me in great take a very hazardous trip, and She said she had used every argument, had and forbidden her to go, but the daughter became to the mother, &quot;You are forcing your personal will and your fear of the trip is only attracting &quot;Let go, and take your mental hands off; put it this situation in the hands of Infinite Love I bless it and no longer resist, but if it it is now dissolved and dissipated.&quot; A day &quot;Mother, I have given up the trip,&quot; and the It is learning to &quot;stand still,&quot; which seems with this law in the chapter on nonresistance. which came in the most curious way. received a counterfeit twenty-dollar bill, given for, she said, &quot;The people at the bank I replied, &quot;Let us analyze the situation and a few moments and exclaimed: &quot;I know it, I sent So the law had sent her some stage money, I said, &quot;Now we will call on the law of Christianity is founded upon the law of the curse of the Karmic law, and the and Salvation from all inharmonious conditions. of forgiveness and give thanks that she is under twenty dollars which is hers by divine right.&quot; them, fearlessly, that it was She obeyed, and to her surprise, they treating her most courteously. power to &quot;rub out his mistakes.&quot; Man cannot If he desires riches, he must For example: A woman came to me asking much interest in her household affairs, I said to her, &quot;If you wish to be rich, you are orderly--and order is heaven's first rich with a burnt match in the pincushion.&quot; immediately, putting her house in straightened out bureau drawers, cleaned rugs, gift from a relative. The woman, herself, became by being ever watchful of the external and Many people are in ignorance of the fact that hoarding and saving invariably lead to loss. and there is that withholdeth more than For example: I knew a man who wanted to buy various shops, but there was none he wanted. He he was shown one, the salesman said was manager would sell him for five-hundred His financial possessions amounted to about would have said, &quot;You can't afford to spend very intuitive and never reasoned. &quot;If I get this coat, I'll make a ton of About a month later, he received The coat made him feel so rich, it linked him he would not have received the commission. If man ignores these leadings to spend or to uninteresting or unhappy way. on Thanksgiving Day, she informed her family that had the money, but decided to save it. room and took from the bureau drawer the The law always stands back of the man For example: One of my students was shopping with which she told him she could not afford to buy. and not recognizing God as her supply! picked up, in the street, the exact Man's supply is inexhaustible and unfailing when demonstration. &quot;According to your faith be it unto the evidence of things not see--&quot;for faith pictures are dissolved and dissipated, and &quot;in Jesus Christ brought the good news (the the law of Karma--and that that law transcends or forgiveness. It is the law which frees man consequence. &quot;Under grace, and not under law.&quot; he has not sown; the gifts of God are simply is his.&quot; This continued state of bliss awaits the In the world thought there is &quot;Be of good cheer; I have overcome the world.&quot; death. He saw their absolute unreality and death itself, the last enemy, be overcome. that death could be overcome by conviction of eternal youth and eternal life. direction, carries out orders without questioning. (the Christ or God within man) the &quot;resurrection Man would no longer throw off his body in death, sung by Walt Whitman, for Christianity is founded Casting The Burden. When man knows his own powers and the workings and quick way to impress the subconscious with the Truth will not bring results. easiest way is in &quot;casting the burden.&quot; He said, &quot;The only thing which gives anything and if a boulder could be taken high above the and that is what Jesus Christ meant when he He had overcome the world vibration, and where there is only perfection, He said: &quot;Come to me all ye that labor rest.&quot; &quot;Take my yoke upon you, for my We are also told in the fifty-fifth Psalm, to in the Bible state that the battle is God's still&quot; and see the Salvation of the Lord. mind (or Christ within) is the department which We see, therefore, that man violates law adverse thought or condition, and this thought It seems almost impossible to make any headway or reasoning mind, as the reasoning mind (the and filled with doubts and fears. to cast the burden upon the superconscious mind or dissolved into its &quot;native nothingness.&quot; &quot;made light&quot; upon the Christ within, &quot;I cast this burden of lack on the Christ The belief in lack was her burden, and as she of plenty, an avalanche of supply was the result. Another example: One of my students had been her studio for it until she had moved out the wanted to keep the old piano, but knew of as the new piano was to be sent immediately; in She said it came to her to repeat, &quot;I cast this A few moments later, her 'phone rang, rent her old piano, and it was moved out, I knew a woman, whose burden was resentment. on the Christ within, and I go free, to be superconscious, flooded the subconscious with resentment had held her in a state of torment The statement should be made over and over and or audibly, with quietness but determination. We must wind ourselves up with spoken words. a little while, one seems to see clearly. while in the throes of carnal mind. Doubts and runs riot, attracting disaster and disease. &quot;I cast this burden on the Christ and with it a feeling of relief, and sooner be it health, happiness or supply. explain the &quot;darkness before the dawn.&quot; I referred before the big demonstration &quot;everything clouds the consciousness. It means that out and fears of the ages. These old derelicts of the It is then, that man should clap his cymbals, like even though he seems surrounded by disease). The student continued, &quot;How long &quot;until one can see in the dark,&quot; and &quot;casting In order to impress the subconscious, &quot;Faith without works is dead.&quot; In these chapters Jesus Christ showed active faith sit down on the ground,&quot; before he gave I will give another example showing how necessary over which man passes to his Promised Land. separated from her husband, whom she loved and would not communicate with her in any way. denied the appearance of separation. She made this therefore, I cannot be separated from the love She showed active faith by arranging a thereby impressing the subconscious with a but she never wavered, and one day he walked in. music. Music has a fourth dimensional imprisonment. It makes wonderful things I have a friend who uses her victrola, perfect harmony and releases the imagination. affirmations. The rhythm and harmony forth with tremendous power. not to despise the &quot;day of small things.&quot; come &quot;signs of land.&quot; he saw birds and twigs which showed him land but often the student mistakes it for the For example: A woman had &quot;spoken the word&quot; friend gave her a dish which was old and cracked. of dishes, and all I got was a cracked plate.&quot; It shows your dishes are coming--look long afterwards the dishes came. impresses the subconscious. If one makes he is successful, in &quot;due time he will reap.&quot; ye be converted, and become as little children, For example: I know of a woman who was very poor, a small amount of money from rich friends, and to be careful and saving. Regardless of earnings on a hat, or make someone a gift, and were always centered on beautiful clothes and She lived in the world of the wondrous, and only a rich man, and the rings and things became &quot;Divine Selection,&quot; but opulence had to manifest There is no peace or happiness for man, until Fear is misdirected energy and must be Jesus Christ said, &quot;Why are ye fearful, are possible to him that believeth.&quot; &quot;How can I get rid of fear?&quot; to the thing you are afraid of.&quot; Walk up to the lion, and he will I have shown in previous chapters, how the spent money fearlessly, showing faith that Many of my students have come out of the bondage through losing all fear of letting money go truth that God is the Giver and the Gift; he is one with the Gift. A splendid statement Man has so long separated himself from his good and lack, that sometimes, it takes dynamite to and the dynamite is a big situation. how the individual was freed from Man should watch himself hourly to detect &quot;Choose ye this day whom we Perhaps one's fear is of personality. Then do them cheerfully, and they will either prove disappear harmoniously from one's pathway. Then one should be fearless and undisturbed in One can only contract germs while vibrating men down to the level of the germ. Of course, the as all thought must objectify. Germs do not exist are the product of man's &quot;vain imagination.&quot; will come when he realizes there is no power and the fourth dimensional world, the &quot;World of &quot;And I saw a new heaven, and a new earth--and there neither shall there be any more pain; Love. Every man on this planet is taking his initiation that ye love one another.&quot; Ouspensky states, phenomenon,&quot; and opens to man the fourth Real love is selfless and free from fear. It without demanding any return. Its joy is in the and the strongest magnetic force in the universe. it does not need to seek or demand. Scarcely love. Man is selfish, tyrannical or fearful he loves. Jealousy is the worst enemy of love, one attracted to another, and invariably these For example: A woman came to me in deep distress. and said he never intended to marry her. and said she hoped he would suffer &quot;How could he leave me when I loved him so much?&quot; hating him,&quot; and added, &quot;You can never receive you will receive a perfect love. Perfect yourself demanding nothing in return, do not criticise She replied, &quot;No, I won't bless &quot;Well,&quot; I said, &quot;that is not real love.&quot; will return to you, either from this man or divine selection, you will not want him. the love which belongs to you by divine right.&quot; the same, but she was working conscientiously with by his cruelty, he will cease to be cruel, as Then I told her of a brotherhood in India, who used these words: &quot;I salute the Divinity in and in the wild animals in the jungle, and in every living thing. I said, &quot;Salute the divine self only. I see you as God sees you, She found she was becoming more poised, and and she always called him &quot;The Cap.&quot; &quot;God bless the Cap wherever he is.&quot; and when you have become a 'complete circle,' and have his love, or attract its equivalent.&quot; a telephone, so was out of touch with received a letter saying, &quot;We are married.&quot; call. My first words were, &quot;What happened?&quot; woke up and all suffering had ceased. I marry him. We were married in about a week, There is an old saying: &quot;No man is your enemy, no So one should become impersonal and and soon he would learn his lessons and be free. which every man, sooner or later, must learn. it is the result of violation of able to rouse themselves from their &quot;soul they usually become selfish, and automatically suffers loss through lack of appreciation. she said often, &quot;I don't care anything about being I'm simply not interested in married life.&quot; she had a husband. She only thought of him when was in love with another woman, and left. I replied, &quot;It is exactly what you didn't care anything about being married, so She said, &quot;Oh yes, I see. People get what She soon became in perfect and knew they were both much happier apart. and ceases to be an inspiration to her early relationship and is restless and unhappy. wife was interested in the &quot;Science of Numbers,&quot; very favorable, for he said, &quot;My wife says I'll I replied, &quot;I don't care what your number and we will demand the success planned for you by that Infinite Intelligence.&quot; and a year or two later, he achieved a a success in business unless he loves his love (of his art) is his greatest work. The No man can attract money if he despises it. &quot;Money means nothing to me, and I have This is the reason so many artists are poor. I remember hearing one artist say of he has money in the bank.&quot; separates man from his supply; he must be in Money is God in manifestation, as freedom always kept in circulation and put to right uses. This does not mean that man should not have barns of the righteous man shall be full.&quot; It if an occasion arises, when money is necessary. he opens the way for more to come in, for God This is the spiritual attitude towards money We see an example of hoarding in the won five thousand dollars in a lottery, but let her husband suffer and starve, and She loved the money itself and put it was murdered and the money taken from her. is the root of all evil.&quot; Money in itself, is good hoarded and saved, or considered more and disaster, and the loss of the money itself. for God is love, and God is supply; follow the vanishes, or man is separated from it. rich woman, who hoarded her income. bought and bought and bought things for herself. asked her how many she possessed. She replied, carefully wrapped in tissue paper. Had she used but she was violating &quot;the law of use.&quot; Her and jewels which never saw the light. paralyzed from holding on to things, and looking after her affairs and her wealth So man, in ignorance of the law, All disease, all unhappiness, come from boomerangs of hate, resentment and criticism, seems almost a lost art, but the man with the regained, for without it, he has &quot;become For example: I had a student who came to me, of resentment. After a while, she arrived at but that one woman kept her busy. Little and one day, all resentment was wiped out. can't understand how I feel! The woman being furious I was loving and kind, and she No one can understand the Love and good-will are invaluable in business. her employer. She said she was cold and critical &quot;Well,&quot; I replied, &quot;Salute the Divinity She said &quot;I can't; she's a marble woman.&quot; sculptor who asked for a certain piece of marble. 'because there is an angel in the marble,' and She said, &quot;Very well, I'll try it.&quot; &quot;I did what you told me to, and now the woman People are sometimes filled with an unkindness, perhaps years ago. its effect can be neutralized by doing &quot;This one thing I do, forgetting those unto those things which are before.&quot; the cells of the body, and poison A woman said to me in deep sorrow, &quot;Treat makes me so irritable with the members of I was asked to treat a woman who was mourning and separation, and affirmed that God The woman gained her poise at once, but sent word was &quot;so happy, it wasn't respectable.&quot; to its griefs and regrets. bragging of her troubles, so, of course, The old idea was if a woman did not worry Now, we know that mother-fear is responsible come into the lives of children. disease or situation feared, and these Happy is the mother who can say sincerely, that therefore, that he is divinely protected. in the night, feeling her brother was in great she commenced making statements of Truth, saying, always in his right place, therefore, my brother The next day she found that her brother in a mine, but had miraculously escaped. and every man should know that the thing he loves and abides under the shadow of the Almighty.&quot; any plague come nigh thy dwelling.&quot; that feareth is not made perfect in love,&quot; Intuition Or Guidance. He shall direct thy paths.&quot; accomplishment for the man who knows the power By the word he starts in action unseen forces It is, therefore, of the utmost importance carefully selects the affirmation he He knows that God is his supply, that there is word releases this supply. Man must make the first move. &quot;Draw nigh I have often been asked just I reply: &quot;Speak the word and then definite lead.&quot; Demand the lead, saying, let me know if there is anything for me to do.&quot; a chance remark from someone, or a passage in a startling in their exactness. For example: A woman &quot;Infinite Spirit, open the way for my immediate reach me, in great avalanches of abundance.&quot; let me know if there is anything for me to do.&quot; friend&quot; (who had helped her spiritually) who said, &quot;Wait and get another lead, before a woman who said to her, &quot;I gave someone a as it would be for you to give someone a hundred.&quot; she was right in giving the hundred dollars. for shortly after that, a large sum of Giving opens the way for receiving. In one should give. Tithing or giving one-tenth and is sure to bring increase. Many of the richest never known it to fail as an investment. blessed and multiplied. But the gift or tithe for &quot;God loveth a cheerful giver.&quot; Bills should forth fearlessly and with a blessing. of money. It is his to obey, and his spoken Man, himself, limits his supply by his limited realization of wealth, but is afraid to act. as in the case of the man who A woman came to me asking me to &quot;speak &quot;Infinite Spirit, open the way for this woman's ask for the right position, the as it is the only one that will give satisfaction. and that it would manifest quickly. Very soon, she and one in Palm Beach, and she did not know which The time was almost up and was still undecided, this morning, I could smell Palm Beach.&quot; She had I replied: &quot;Well, if you can it is certainly your lead.&quot; She accepted the one's lead comes at an unexpected time. when I suddenly felt a strong urge to go The reasoning mind resisted, arguing, However, I had learned not to reason, so I and there was certainly nothing there that woman I had thought of often, and who was in So often, one goes for one Intuition is a spiritual faculty and does A person often receives a lead during may seem quite irrelevant, but some In the class, one day, I was treating that each came to me afterwards, and said: &quot;While you were of storage and get an apartment.&quot; The woman had in getting a home of her own, her health would which is a congestion, has come from having congestion in the body. You have violated the So I gave thanks that &quot;Divine order was People little dream of how their affairs react for every disease. A person might receive his body being a perfect idea in Divine Mind, and, his destructive thinking, hoarding, hating, Jesus Christ knew that all sickness came from sin, and sin no more, lest a worse thing come upon him. washed whiter than snow, for permanent healing; for the &quot;correspondence.&quot; not lest ye also be condemned.&quot; Many people have attracted disease and What man condemns in others, For example: A friend came to me in anger and another woman. She condemned the other woman, and and had no right to accept his attentions.&quot; and be through with the situation, otherwise, She was deaf to my words, and a interested in a married man, herself. criticises or condemns, and may expect a shock. In order to overcome it, make the statement, I make right decisions, quickly.&quot; and soon one finds himself awake and alert, I have found it destructive to look to the plane of many minds and not &quot;The One Mind.&quot; a target for destructive forces. The psychic and is on the &quot;plane of opposites.&quot; He The science of numbers and keep man down on the mental (or mortal) plane, I know of a man who should have been dead, years and a leader of one of the biggest movements It takes a very strong mind to neutralize a &quot;Every false prophecy shall come to naught; shall be dissolved and dissipated, However, if any good message has ever been harbor and expect it, and it will manifest Man's will should be used to back the universal It is God's will to give every man, and man's will should be used to hold The prodigal son said: &quot;I will It is, indeed, often an effort of the mortal thinking. It is so much easier, for so faith is an effort of the will. he recognizes that any external inharmony If he stumbles or falls, he may know he One day, a student was walking along the street saying, mentally, &quot;That woman is the most three boy scouts rushed around the corner and the boy scouts, but immediately called on divinity&quot; in the woman. Wisdom's way are ways When one has made his demands upon surprises. Everything may seem to be going For example: A woman was told that there she could not lose anything which belonged or she would receive its equivalent. two thousand dollars. She had loaned the but the relative had died, leaving no mention of and as she had no written statement of the so she determined to deny the loss, and collect Universal. She had to begin by forgiving close the doors of this wonderful bank. loss in Divine Mind, therefore, I cannot lose the right. &quot;As one door shuts another door opens.&quot; for sale; and in the lease was a clause, stating be required to move out within ninety days. raised the rent. Again, injustice was on her She blessed the landlord, and said, &quot;As I'll be that much richer, for God is my supply.&quot; but by some divine mistake, the ninety the landlord had an opportunity to sell the house. the tenants held possession for another year. two hundred dollars if he would vacate. Several woman. A month or two passed, and the agent &quot;Will you break your lease for the sum of fifteen comes the two thousand dollars.&quot; She remembered all act together if anything more is said about These friends said: &quot;Well, if they have offered two thousand.&quot; So she received a check for two It was certainly a remarkable working of the opening the way for her demonstration. man takes his spiritual stand, he collects all &quot;I will restore to you the The locusts are the doubts, fears, These adverse thoughts, alone, rob man; and no man takes away from himself, but himself.&quot; the truth,&quot; and he can only prove God by bringing &quot;Prove me now herewith, saith the Lord of hosts, and pour out a blessing, that there Perfect Self-Expression Or The Divine Design. nor change the tide of destiny.&quot; There is a place which he is to fill and no which no one else can do; it is his destiny! Mind, awaiting man's recognition. As the imaging for man to see the idea, before it can manifest. Divine Design of his life. conception of what it is, for there is, possibly, His demand should be: &quot;Infinite Spirit, open the let the genius within me now be released; The perfect plan includes health, wealth, love of life, which brings perfect happiness. When one taking place in his life, for nearly every I know, in one woman's case, it was as but readjustments came quickly, and new and Perfect self-expression will never be labor; seem almost like play. The student knows, also, the supply needed for his perfect Many a genius has struggled for years with and faith, would have released For example: After the class, one day, He said: &quot;I have just seven cents in the for I have faith in the power of your spoken perfect self-expression and prosperity.&quot; again until a year later. He came with a roll of yellow bills in his pocket. He a position offered me in a distant city, and am A woman's perfect self-expression a perfect mother, a perfect home-maker and Demand definite leads, and the way One should not visualize or force a mental to come into his conscious mind, he will receive making some great accomplishment. This is the The thing man seeks is seeking Parents should never force careers and professions Truth, the Divine Plan could be spoken A prenatal treatment should be: &quot;Let the let the Divine Design of his mind, throughout his life, throughout eternity.&quot; not man's pattern, is the command we and the Bible is a book dealing with telling man how to release his soul The battles described are pictures of man waging be they of his own household.&quot; Every man who slays Goliath (mortal thinking) So man must be careful that he is not the his talent. There is a terrible penalty Often fear stands between man and his perfect many a genius. This may be overcome by the then loses all self-consciousness, and feels Intelligence to express Itself through. and confident; for he feels that it is A young boy came often to my class with word&quot; for his coming examinations at school. with Infinite Intelligence. I know everything I knowledge of history, but was not sure of his &quot;I spoke the word for my arithmetic, and passed depend on myself for history, and got a very poor &quot;too sure of himself,&quot; which means he is trusting Another one of my students gave me an example of visiting many countries, where she was ignorant and protection every minute, and her affairs was never delayed nor lost! Accommodations and she had perfect service wherever she went. she felt God was no longer necessary, so Everything went wrong, her trunks delayed, amid the habit of &quot;practicing the Presence of God&quot; nothing is too small or too great. may be the turning point in a man's life. simmering in a tea kettle, saw a steamboat! keep back his demonstration, through He pins his faith to one channel only, and to come, which brings things to a standstill. Infinite Intelligence. Like all Power, a nonresistant engine or instrument to work Over and over again, man is told to but to-morrow go out against them, for the Lord this battle; set yourselves, stand ye still, We see this in the incidents of the two the landlord when she became nonresistant man's love &quot;after all suffering had ceased.&quot; for it gives God-Power a chance to rush through Poised, he thinks clearly, and makes &quot;right Anger blurs the visions, poisons the and causes wrong decision leading to failure. as its reaction is so harmful. The sin has a much broader meaning than in the old He finds that fear and worry are and through distorted mental pictures, bring drive out these enemies (from the subconscious Maeterlinck says, that &quot;Man is God afraid.&quot; Man can only vanquish fear by walking up to the army prepared to meet the enemy, singing &quot;Praise found their enemies had destroyed each For example: A woman asked a friend to deliver to give the message, as the reasoning mind don't give that message.&quot; for she had given her promise. At last, and call on the law of divine protection. She message. She opened her mouth to speak it, when made it unnecessary to give the message, as the As she was willing to do it, she was not obliged The student often delays his incompletion. He should make this statement: therefore, my demonstration is completed. health.&quot; Whatever he demands are perfect ideas &quot;under grace in a perfect way.&quot; He gives thanks he active preparation for receiving on the visible. demonstration. She came to me and I replied: &quot;Perhaps, you are in the and the subconscious has gotten into the habit of She said, &quot;You are right. I often &quot;I'll go home and finish something it will be symbolic of my demonstration.&quot; was soon completed. Shortly after, the Her husband was paid his salary twice that and they sent word to keep it. receive, for God creates His own channels! has several talents, how is he to know which one &quot;Infinite Spirit, give me a definite lead, show me which talent I am to make use of now.&quot; line of work, and be fully equipped, with &quot;I am fully equipped for the Divine Plan of my Some people are cheerful givers, but bad or some negative reason, thereby blocking eventually with little or nothing. For example: had a gift offered her of several thousand did not need it. Shortly after that, her finances that amount. Man should receive gracefully the ye have given, freely ye shall receive. and receiving, and though man should give without not accept the returns which come to him; for all A thought of lack should For example: When the man gave me the he cannot afford to give me that.&quot; I saw him rich was this thought which brought it. If one has and take even a postage stamp if it is given The Lord loveth a cheerful receiver, I have often been asked why one man is born Where there is an effect there is always This question is answered through through many births and deaths, until He is drawn back to the earth plane his Karmic debts, or to &quot;fulfill his destiny.&quot; in his subconscious mind, in his past life, of of disease and poverty. Man manifests, on any However, birth and death are man-made the Adamic fall in consciousness through spiritual man, is birthless and deathless! He in the beginning, he is now, and ever shall be!&quot; of Karma, sin and death, and manifests the man comes through fulfilling his destiny, bringing His lord will say unto him: &quot;Well thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will enter thou into the joy of Denials And Affirmations. and it shall be established unto thee.&quot; life is already an accomplished fact in divine or spoken word, so he must be careful to decree for often, he decrees, through his It is, therefore, of the utmost importance, as stated in a previous chapter. position or any other good thing, make For example: &quot;Infinite Spirit, open the my right position. I give thanks it now The latter part of the statement is most demanded a thousand dollars. Her daughter was indemnity, so it did not come in a &quot;perfect way.&quot; &quot;Infinite Spirit, I give thanks that the one is now released, and reaches me As one grows in a financial consciousness, he which are his by divine right, reach It is impossible for man to release for one is bound by the limited expectancies expectancies in order to receive in a larger way. example: A student made the demand for six hundred heard afterwards, that he came very near receiving six hundred, as the result of his spoken word. is a matter of consciousness. The French have a walking along a road when he met a traveler, I see you are poor. Take this gold nugget, The man was overjoyed at his good fortune, found work and became so prosperous that and he became a very rich man. One day he met a &quot;My good friend, I will give you this gold for life.&quot; The mendicant took the nugget, had it the first man became rich through feeling Every man has within himself a gold nugget; which brings riches into his life. In making that is, he declares he has already Continually affirming establishes It would not be necessary to make an affirmation should not plead or supplicate, but give &quot;The desert shall rejoice and blossom as the desert (state of consciousness) opens the form of command and demand, &quot;Give us this day we forgive our debtors,&quot; and ends in praise, &quot;For forever. Amen.&quot; &quot;Concerning the works of my hands, praise and thanksgiving. The student's that &quot;with God all things are possible.&quot; but a little more difficult when confronted with woman to demonstrate a large sum of money something to get a realization (for realization She was walking through a department store, when She felt the &quot;pull&quot; towards it. The thought came. letters containing large cheques.&quot; which the reasoning mind would have called an she had a flash of a picture of herself and in a few weeks, she received the money. The Many stories are told of the power of For example: A man was spending the night in nailed down, and in the middle of the night he the window. He could not open it, so he smashed fresh air, and had a wonderful night's sleep. glass of a bookcase and the window had He had supplied himself with oxygen, When a student starts out to demonstrate, man who wavers think that he shall A student once made this wonderful statement, I put my foot down, and I say: Father, but more!&quot; So man should never compromise: &quot;Having difficult time of demonstrating. The temptation &quot;He also serves who only stands and waits.&quot; hour because man then lets and Infinite Intelligence has a chance to work. and his impatient desires, long For example: A woman asked me why it was she We found she often said to herself and others glasses.&quot; So her impatient desire was have demanded was perfect eye-sight, but what the impatient desire to be rid of her glasses; Two attitudes of mind cause loss: depreciation, her husband, or fear of loss, which makes When a student is able to let go he will have instantaneous manifestation. day and her umbrella was blown inside-out. She was never met and she did not wish to make her first not throw it away, as it did not belong to her. So charge of this umbrella, I don't know what to do.&quot; do you want your umbrella mended?&quot; She replied, &quot;Indeed, I do.&quot; while she went into the house to pay her call, So there is always an umbrella mender at hand, situation) in God's Hands. a denial with an affirmation. one night to treat a man whom I had never seen. &quot;I deny this appearance of disease. It is unreal, this man is a perfect idea in Divine Mind, There is no time or space, in Divine Mind, destination and does not &quot;return void.&quot; I found that the result was instantaneous. visualizing and visioning. Visualizing is a conscious mind; visioning is a spiritual process, The student should train his mind to receive the &quot;divine pictures,&quot; through definite leads. God desires for me,&quot; his false desires fade from given him by the Master Architect, the God the limitation of the reasoning mind, and is wealth, love and perfect self-expression. Many bungalow when he should be building a palace. (through the reasoning mind) he brings it to a should act only through intuition, or definite Trust also in him, and he will bring it to pass.&quot; manner. For example: A student stated a hundred dollars by the following day. It be met. I &quot;spoke the word,&quot; declaring Spirit was That evening she 'phoned me of the miracle. She safety-deposit box at the bank to examine and at the bottom of the box, was a new and said she knew she had never put it there, It may have been a materialization, as Jesus Man will reach the stage where his &quot;word is made ripe with the harvest,&quot; will manifest immediately, There is a tremendous power alone in the Manifest. He said, &quot;Whatsoever ye ask the The power of this name raises the student into all astral and psychic influences, and as God Himself is unconditioned and absolute.&quot; the words, &quot;In the name of Jesus Christ.&quot; and the Christ within each man The Christ within, is his own fourth dimensional This is the self which has never failed, never never died. It is the &quot;resurrection and the life&quot; the Son,&quot; means, that God, the Universal, becomes the Christ in man; and the Holy Ghost, the Trinity of Father, Son and Holy Ghost. Thinker is an artist and is careful to paint only and he paints these pictures with having perfect faith that there is no power manifest in his life the ideal made real. thinking) to bring his heaven upon his earth, The simple rules are fearless May each reader be now freed from that thing standing between him and his own, and &quot;know the destiny, to bring into manifestation the Love and Perfect Self-Expression.&quot; &quot;Be ye Denials And Affirmations. God is my unfailing supply, and large under grace, in perfect ways. Every plan my Father in heaven has not and the Divine Idea now comes to pass. Only that which is true of God is true For Faith. ... with my good, for God is both the Giver and the For Right Conditions. ... and dissipates every wrong condition in my most powerful chemical in the universe, and For Health. ... my consciousness with health, and every For the Eyesight. ... I see with the eyes of spirit. I see clearly the see clearly the perfect plan. I am divinely sensitive to my intuitive For the Hearing. ... ears of spirit. I am nonresistant and am willing For Right Work. ... In a perfect way; For perfect pay. I cast this burden on the