At-home baking? Supply chain issues? Costco's All-American chocolate cake has disappeared petitioned to bring it back. Why did Costco eliminate this popular item? Keep watching to find out. 2020 was a difficult year, and you can add to our laundry list of complaints. Actually, according to Numerator's Sweet Treat were up in 2020 as we turned to comforting But the All-American Chocolate Cake wasn't It was a massive cake, made for parties. And, you guessed it, there were far fewer In fact, research reported via the New York comfortable attending virtual events last Think of that impact in terms of birthday Holiday celebrations took a hit, too. Just 27% of Americans planned to celebrate in 2020, according to a survey requested by For many Christmas was canceled, too. All missed occasions for us and the All-American Next on our list of potential reasons for have the entire phenomenon of pandemic baking. With so much time at home, people everywhere Sales of baking-related products like baking flour was flying off the shelves faster than &quot;People are coping with self-isolation by The benefits to pandemic baking were three-fold: often nostalgic and comforting to eat, and, those baked creations away can be rewarding &quot;That's the loaf I'm about to put into the So, people everywhere started going all-in All great developments for the newly-minted story's hero -- the All-American Chocolate Not only did Costco discontinue its All-American in a Facebook post that it would no longer cakes. &quot;There's another big change at Costco that Costco's half-sheet cakes were a blank slate people for just $19.99 -- perfect for weddings, affordable yet crowd-pleasing option. Costco's half-sheet cakes likely met their Chocolate Cake: fewer occasions where we needed favoriting tiny cakes over massive ones. Costco now instead offers 10-inch round cakes layers are more in line with serving the smaller While the chocolate version is similar to with chocolate mousse instead of fudge. While fans on Reddit give it mixed reviews, As many companies have, Costco was navigating Chocolate Cake disappeared in 2020. According to its Chief Financial Officer, was struggling to keep products like sanitizing and making more room for these highly sought-after that weren't as in-demand. Costco wasn't the only retailer to streamline inventory, increase sales, and cut expenses These impacts were felt across the industry made inevitably involved food products that items like paper towels. &quot;And you can't find lumber to build a new Well, you can't find products to stock the find holiday gifts-&quot; Let's not forget that Costco discontinued pandemic. So there is always a possibility that the the way of the dinosaurs without any help In fact, roundups of all the amazing Costco are a pretty frequent occurrence. Thankfully, there's a way you can tell if get the ax. As explained by Reader's Digest, items that will have an asterisk in the upper right corner So, if you see one of these asterisks on a without, clear out a space in the pantry and You might be thinking 2020 was the definitive in a surprising and welcome twist, it would gotten their way after all -- or a version Earlier this year, Costco put a smile on faces All-American Chocolate Cake in a smaller -- but These mini cakes are made with the same chocolate that made the original version of the All-American so many years. And, while the standard size All-American available in packs of six for just $7.99. So far, the miniature All-American Chocolate fans. Each one is a bit larger than a cupcake, making great solution for socially distanced gatherings their germs to themselves. Check out one of our newest videos right here! Plus, even more Mashed videos about your favorite Subscribe to our YouTube channel and hit the