THE SCIENCE OF GETTING RICH BY W. D. not philosophical; a practical manual, not the men and women whose most pressing need and philosophize afterward. It is for those the means, nor the opportunity to go but who want results and who are willing to take without going into all the processes by It is expected that the reader will take just as he would take statements concerning promulgated by a Marconi or an Edison; that he will prove their truth by acting upon them who does this will certainly get rich; for the failure is impossible. For the benefit, however, theories and so secure a logical basis for The monistic theory of the universe--the that one Substance manifests itself material world--is of Hindu origin, and the thought of the western world for two the Oriental philosophies, and of those of Hegel, and Emerson. The reader who would advised to read Hegel and Emerson; and he very excellent pamphlet published by J. J. Brown, He may also find some help in a series of published in Nautilus (Holyoke, Mass. ) during "What is Truth? " In writing this book I have and simplicity of style, so that all might was deduced from the conclusions of philosophy; it test of practical experiment; it works. If you read the writings of the authors mentioned of their philosophies in actual practice, read CHAPTER 1. THE RIGHT TO BE RICH. Whatever may that it is not possible to live a really complete rise to his greatest possible height in talent or for to unfold the soul and to develop and he cannot have these things Man develops in mind, soul, and body by organized that man must have money in order the basis of all advancement for man must of all life is development; and everything the development it is capable of attaining. the free and unrestricted use of all the things spiritual, and physical unfoldment; or, In this book, I shall not speak of riches in a to be satisfied or contented with a little. No capable of using and enjoying more. The purpose of and every man should have all that can contribute life; to be content with less is sinful. The man life he is capable of living is rich; and no man Life has advanced so far, and become so complex, a great amount of wealth in order to live in a person naturally wants to become all that he innate possibilities is inherent in human nature; Success in life is becoming what you want to be; use of things, and you can have the free use them. To understand the science of getting rich There is nothing wrong in wanting to get rich. a richer, fuller, and more abundant life; and not desire to live more abundantly is abnormal, enough to buy all he wants is abnormal. we live for the body, we live for the mind, and or holier than the other; all are alike mind, or soul--can live fully if either of the It is not right or noble to live only for the live for the intellect and deny body and soul. We of living for the body and denying both mind complete expression of all that man can give forth no man can be really happy or satisfied unless and unless the same is true of his mind and his or function not performed, Desire is possibility seeking expression, live fully in body without good food, and without freedom from excessive toil. his physical life. He cannot live fully in without opportunity for travel and companionship. To live fully in mind and must surround himself with all the objects appreciating. To live fully in soul, man must have Man's highest happiness is found in the bestowal natural and spontaneous expression in giving. The as a husband or father, as a citizen, or as a finds full life for his body, develops his mind, importance to him that he should be rich. It is if you are a normal man or woman you cannot should give your best attention to the Science necessary of all studies. If you neglect this to God, and to humanity; for you can service than to make the most of yourself. RICH. There is a Science of getting like algebra or arithmetic. There are certain once these laws are learned and obeyed by any The ownership of money and property comes as those who do things in this Certain Way, whether who do not do things in this Certain Way, no remain poor. It is a natural law that like causes any man or woman who learns to do things in That the above statement is true is shown by the of environment, for, if it were, all the people the people of one city would all be rich, or the inhabitants of one state would roll would be in poverty. But everywhere we in the same environment, and often engaged in same locality, and in the same business, and it shows that getting rich is not, Some environments may be more favorable business are in the same neighborhood, it indicates that getting rich is the result the ability to do things in this Certain Way for many people who have great talent little talent get rich. Studying the people who lot in all respects, having no greater It is evident that they do not get rich because men have not, but because they happen to do the result of saving, or "thrift"; while free spenders often get rich. Nor is getting for two men in the same business often and one gets rich while the other remains poor we must come to the conclusion that getting rich If getting rich is the result of doing things produce like effects, then any man or woman and the whole matter is brought within the domain whether this Certain Way may not be so difficult be true, as we have seen, so far as natural and blockheads get rich; intellectually brilliant physically strong people get rich, Some degree of ability to think and but in so far as natural ability is concerned, understand these words can certainly get rich. environment. Location counts for something; and expect to do successful business. Getting and of being where there are people to deal in the way you want to deal, so much the better. If anybody else in your town can get rich, so get rich, so can you. Again, it is not a matter of People get rich in every business, and in every same vocation remain in poverty. It is true that and which is congenial to you; and if you you will do best in a business which Also, you will do best in a business which is do better in a warm climate than in Greenland, the Northwest than in Florida, where there are no getting rich is not dependent upon your but upon your learning to do things in a Certain else in your locality is getting rich in the it is because you are not doing things in the No one is prevented from getting rich by the increase becomes more easy and rapid; and does not need to consider how to if you begin to do things in the Certain Way to have capital. The getting of capital and it is a part of the result which invariably You may be the poorest man on the continent, and influence, nor resources; but if you begin to do get rich, for like causes must produce like capital; if you are in the wrong business, are in the wrong location, you can go to the right present business and in your present location to CHAPTER 3. IS OPPORTUNITY MONOPOLIZED? has been taken away from him; because and have put a fence around it. You may be shut but there are other channels open to you to get control of any of the great railroad But the electric railway business is still for enterprise; and it will be but transportation through the air and in all its branches will give employment to of people. Why not turn your attention to instead of competing with J. J. Hill and It is quite true that if you are a workman in little chance of becoming the owner of the plant you will commence to act in a Certain Way, you you can buy a farm of from ten to forty of foodstuffs. There is great opportunity small tracts of land and cultivate the same You may say that it is impossible for you to get is not impossible, and that you can certainly get At different periods the tide of opportunity sets the Whole, and the particular stage of social in America, it is setting toward agriculture and opportunity is open before the farmer in his line It is open before the business man who supplies the factory worker; and before the professional the one who serves the working class. There is go with the tide, instead of trying to swim as individuals or as a class, are not deprived of by their masters; they are not being "ground" As a class, they are where they are because If the workers of America chose to do so, they Belgium and other countries, and establish great they could elect men of their own class to office, co-operative industries; and in a few years industrial field. The working class may become do things in a Certain Way; the law of wealth is they must learn; and they will remain where they The individual worker, however, is not held down class; he can follow the tide of opportunity to is kept in poverty by a shortness in the supply A palace as large as the capitol at Washington building material in the United States alone; and produce wool, cotton, linen, and silk enough Solomon was arrayed in all his glory; together The visible supply is practically inexhaustible; Everything you see on earth is made from one proceed. New forms are constantly being made, assumed by One Thing. There is no limit to the The universe is made out of it; but it was not through, and between the forms of the with the Original Substance; with the Formless Ten thousand times as much as has been made might exhausted the supply of universal raw material. or because there is not enough to go around. the supply will never run short. Original and is constantly producing more forms. When more will be produced; when the soil is for clothing will no longer grow upon it, it When all the gold and silver if man is still in such a stage of social more will be produced from the Formless. The it will not let him be without any good the race as a whole is always abundantly rich, not follow the Certain Way of doing things which is intelligent; it is stuff which thinks. It is It is the natural and inherent impulse nature of intelligence to enlarge itself, and of find fuller expression. The universe of forms throwing itself into form in order to express Living Presence, always moving inherently Nature is formed for the advancement of life; For this cause, everything which can possibly there can be no lack unless God is to You are not kept poor by lack in the shall demonstrate a little farther on that are at the command of the man or woman CHAPTER 4. THE FIRST PRINCIPLE IN THE SCIENCE which can produce tangible riches from the things are made is a substance which thinks, and form. Original Substance moves according to in nature is the visible expression As the Formless Stuff thinks of a form, it it makes that motion. That is the way all which is part of a thought universe. The thought Substance, and the Thinking Stuff moving of systems of planets, and maintains that form. and moves according to the thought. Holding the it takes the form of these bodies, Thinking the form of a slow-growing and produces the tree, though centuries may the Formless seems to move according to the thought of an oak tree does not cause the does start in motion the forces which will produce Every thought of form, held in thinking but always, or at least generally, along lines The thought of a house of a certain construction, might not cause the instant formation of of creative energies already working in trade in the speedy building of the house. And if the creative energy could work, then the house without waiting for the slow processes thought of form can be impressed causing the creation of the form. Man is a All the forms that man fashions with his hands a thing until he has thought that thing. And so work of his hands; he has applied manual labor to those already existing. He has never thought impressing his thoughts upon Formless Substance. from the forms of nature, and makes an image of made little or no effort to co-operate with " He has not dreamed that he can "do what he modifies existing forms by manual labor; whether he may not produce things from thoughts to it. We propose to prove that he may and to show how. As our first step, we must lay assert that there is one original formless stuff, All the seemingly many elements are but different found in organic and inorganic nature are but And this stuff is thinking stuff; a thought held in thinking substance, produces shapes. Man is if man can communicate his thought to original or formation, of the thing he thinks thinking stuff from which all things are permeates, penetrates, and fills A thought, in this substance, produces the thing in his thought, and, by impressing his thought thinks about to be created. It may be asked if into details, I answer that I can do so, both the phenomena of form and thought, I come to forward from this thinking substance, I come to he thinks about. And by experiment, I find the If one man who reads this book gets rich evidence in support of my claim; but if every that is positive proof until some one goes true until the process fails; and this process what this book tells him to do will get rich. in a Certain Way; and in order to do so, men A man's way of doing things is the direct To do things in the way you want to do them, the way you want to think; this is the first want to think is to think TRUTH, regardless and inherent power to think what he wants to do so than it does to think the thoughts according to appearances is easy; to think and requires the expenditure of more power than There is no labor from which most people shrink thought; it is the hardest work in the world. to appearances. Every appearance in the visible the mind which observes it; and this can only be To look upon the appearance of disease will and ultimately in your body, unless which is that there is no disease; it is only To look upon the appearances of poverty will unless you hold to the truth that there is health when surrounded by the appearances the midst of appearances of poverty, requires a MASTER MIND. He can conquer fate; he can acquired by getting hold of the basic fact fact is that there is one Thinking Substance, Then we must grasp the truth that every and that man can so impress his to take form and become visible things. When for we know that we can create what we want and can become what we want to be. As a first three fundamental statements given previously I repeat them here:-- There is a thinking stuff in its original state, permeates, penetrates, A thought, in this substance, produces Man can form things in his thought, and, by can cause the thing he thinks about to be created. universe than this monistic one; and you must and has become your habitual thought. Read fix every word upon your memory, firmly believe what they say. If a doubt Do not listen to arguments against this where a contrary concept of things is taught or teach a different idea; if you get mixed up in Do not ask why these things are true, nor take them on trust. The science of getting rich CHAPTER 5. INCREASING LIFE. You must get rid is a Deity whose will it is that you should be you in poverty. The Intelligent Substance in All and lives in you, is a consciously Living It must have the natural and inherent desire life. Every living thing must continually seek in the mere act of living, must increase springs into activity, and in the act life, by living, multiplies itself. It if it continues to be at all. Intelligence is Every thought we think makes it necessary for continually expanding. Every fact we learn knowledge is continually increasing. Every talent cultivate another talent; we are subject which ever drives us on to know more, to do do more, and be more we must have more; and do, and become, only by using things. The desire for riches is simply the capacity for the effort of an unexpressed possibility to come causes desire. That which makes you want more grow; it is Life, seeking fuller expression. this inherent law of all life; it is permeated under the necessity of creating things. The One wants you to have all the things you can use. It He wants you to get rich because he can express things to use in giving him expression. He can of the means of life. The universe desires Nature is friendly to your plans. Everything this is true. It is essential, however, that that is in All . You must want real life, Life is the performance of function; and performs every function, physical, mental, without excess in any. You do not want for the gratification of animal desires; every physical function is a part of life, and no the body a normal and healthful expression. mental pleasures, to get knowledge, to gratify All these are a legitimate part of life, but the alone will only have a partial life, and he will to get rich solely for the good of others, to to experience the joys of philanthropy only a part of life; and they are no You want to get rich in order that you may do these things; in order that you may surround feed your mind, and develop your intellect; in and be able to play a good part in helping extreme altruism is no better and both are mistakes. Get rid of the idea that and that you can secure his favor by doing What he wants is that you should make the most and you can help others more by making the can make the most of yourself only by getting should give your first and best thought to the that the desire of Substance is for all, and it cannot be made to work for less life seeking riches and life. Intelligent but it will not take things away from You must get rid of the thought of competition. already created. You do not have to take anything bargains. You do not have to cheat, or to take for you for less than he earns. You do not have it with wishful eyes; no man has anything of which what he has away from him. You are to become a what you want, but in such a way that when you get I am aware that there are men by proceeding in direct opposition to and may add a word of explanation here. Men do so sometimes purely by their extraordinary sometimes they unconsciously relate themselves to the general racial upbuilding through industrial , have been the unconscious agents of the and organizing productive industry; and in the increased life for all. Their day is nearly over; be succeeded by the agents of the multitude, who multi-millionaires are like the monster reptiles part in the evolutionary process, but the same And it is well to bear in mind that a record of the private lives of most of this most abject and wretched of the poor. Riches satisfactory and permanent; they are yours if you are to become rich in a scientific and competitive thought. You must never think Just as soon as you begin to think that all by bankers and others, and that you must exert and so on; in that moment you drop into the creation is gone for the time being; and what movements you have already instituted. of dollars' worth of gold in the mountains of that if there were not, more would be created KNOW that the money you need will come, to be led to the discovery of new gold mines look always at the limitless riches in Formless as fast as you can receive and use them. Nobody, you from getting what is yours. So never allow building spots will be taken before you get ready about the trusts and combines, and get anxious for Never get afraid that you will lose what you want cannot possibly happen; you are not seeking you are causing what you want to and the supply is without limits. There is a thinking stuff from which all things permeates, penetrates, and fills the interspaces produces the thing that is imaged by the by impressing his thought upon formless substance, CHAPTER 6. HOW RICHES COME TO YOU. When I say I do not mean that you do not or that you are above the necessity for I mean that you will not need to deal to get something for nothing, but can give You cannot give every man more in cash market him more in use value than the cash value of the material in this book may not be worth the money it bring you thousands of dollars, you have they have given you a great use value for a small one of the great artists, which, in any civilized it to Baffin Bay, and by "salesmanship" induce an I have really wronged him, for he has no use it will not add to his life. But suppose then he has made a good bargain. He has use and much food; it will add to his life in every the competitive to the creative plane, you can and if you are selling any man anything which he gives you in exchange, you can afford to stop And if you are in a business which once. Give every man more in use value then you are adding to the life of the world people working for you, you must take from them but you can so organize your business that advancement , and so that each employee who day. You can make your business do for your You can so conduct your business that it will be take the trouble may climb to riches himself; and not your fault. And finally, because you are to Substance which permeates all your environment, it the atmosphere and come into being before your I do not mean to tell you that you are to impress Substance until the machine is formed without But if you want a sewing machine, hold the certainty that it is being made, or is on its have the most absolute and unquestioning never think of it, or speak of it, in any other already yours. It will be brought to you acting upon the minds of men. If you live in Texas or Japan to engage in some transaction which the whole matter will be as much to Do not forget for a moment that the in all, communicating with all, and can influence life and better living has caused the creation it can cause the creation of millions more, and faith, and by acting in a Certain Way. You can and it is just as certain that you can have and which you will use for the advancement You need not hesitate about asking largely; the kingdom," said Jesus. Original Substance and wants you to have all that you can or will If you fix upon your consciousness the fact of riches is one with the desire of Omnipotence invincible. Once I saw a little boy sitting at of the keys; and I saw that he was grieved and I asked him the cause of his vexation, and but I can't make my hands go right. " The music containing all the possibilities of was seeking expression through the child. God, enjoy things through humanity. He is saying, to play divine harmonies, to paint glorious eyes to see my beauties, tongues to tell mighty All that there is of possibility God wants those who can play music to have pianos to cultivate their talents to the fullest extent; able to surround themselves with beautiful to have every opportunity to travel and observe; beautifully clothed, and those who can appreciate these things because it is Himself that enjoys and sing, and enjoy beauty, and proclaim truth, "It is God that worketh in you to will and to do," Infinite, seeking to express Himself in you as at the piano. So you need not hesitate to ask the desires of God. This is a difficult point with that poverty and self-sacrifice are pleasing to a necessity of nature. They have the idea that can make, and that the majority of men must stay They hold to so much of this erroneous thought they try not to want more than a very modest comfortable. I recall now the case of one student picture of the things he desired, so that the Formless Substance. He was a very poor man, what he earned from day to day; and he could So, after thinking the matter over, he a new rug for the floor of his best room, house during the cold weather. Following he obtained these things in a few months; and enough. He went through the house in which he would like to make in it; he mentally until it was complete in his mind as his ideal Holding the whole picture in his mind, and moving toward what he wanted; and he owns form of his mental image. And now, with still things. It has been unto him according to his CHAPTER 7. GRATITUDE. The illustrations given reader the fact that the first step toward wants to the Formless Substance. This is so it becomes necessary to relate yourself to To secure this harmonious relation is a matter give some space to its discussion here, and give will be certain to bring you into perfect of mental adjustment and atonement can be you believe that there is one Intelligent second, you believe that this Substance and third, you relate yourself to It by Many people who order their lives rightly in lack of gratitude. Having received one connect them with Him by failing to make that the nearer we live to the source of and it is easy also to understand that the touch with God than the one which never The more gratefully we fix our minds on the more good things we will receive, and the reason simply is that the mental attitude with the source from which the blessings come. brings your whole mind into closer harmony consider it well, and you will see you already have have come to you along Gratitude will lead your mind out and it will keep you in close harmony falling into competitive thought. Gratitude and prevent you from falling into the error of that would be fatal to your hopes. There is a Law you should observe the law, if you are to get the natural principle that action and reaction The grateful outreaching of your mind liberation or expenditure of force; it cannot and the reaction is an instantaneous and He will draw nigh unto you. " That is a gratitude is strong and constant, the reaction in the movement of the things you want will be always Jesus took; how He always seems to be saying, " You cannot exercise much power without you connected with Power. But the value getting you more blessings in the future. dissatisfied thought regarding things mind to dwell with dissatisfaction upon ground. You fix attention upon the common, the and your mind takes the form of these things. images to the Formless, and the common, the To permit your mind to dwell upon the inferior with inferior things. On the other hand, to yourself with the best, and to become the us into the image of that to which we give and thinking substance always takes the grateful mind is constantly fixed upon the it takes the form or character of the best, and gratitude. The grateful mind continually expects The reaction of gratitude upon one's own mind grateful thanksgiving increases faith. He who a living faith; and without a living faith as we shall see in the following to cultivate the habit of being grateful and to give thanks continuously. And because you should include all things in your or talking about the shortcomings or wrong Their organization of the world all you get really comes to you because of if it were not for politicians we should fall greatly lessened. God has worked a long where we are in industry and government, There is not the least doubt that He will captains of industry, and politicians as soon as they are all very good. Remember that they are along which your riches will come to you, and be harmonious relations with the good in everything, CHAPTER 8. THINKING IN THE CERTAIN WAY. the story of the man who formed a mental idea of the initial step toward getting mental picture of what you want; you cannot You must have it before you can give it; and many they have themselves only a vague and misty or to become. It is not enough that you should with"; everybody has that desire. It is not enough live more, etc. Everybody has those desires also. friend, you would not send the letters of construct the message for himself; nor would You would send a coherent sentence; one impress your wants upon Substance, remember you must know what you want, and be or start the creative power into action, desires. Go over your desires just as the see just what you want, and get a clear mental get it. That clear mental picture you must have the port toward which he is sailing the ship; You must no more lose sight of of the compass. It is not necessary nor to set apart special times for prayer and nor to do occult stunts of any but all you need is to know what you want, and in your thoughts. Spend as much of your leisure but no one needs to take exercises to concentrate the things you do not really care about which And unless you really want to get rich, so your thoughts directed to the purpose as the it will hardly be worth while for you to this book. The methods herein set forth are enough to overcome mental laziness and the love definite you make your picture, then, and all its delightful details, the stronger your the easier it will be to hold your mind Something more is necessary, however, than merely you are only a dreamer, and will have Behind your clear vision must to bring it out in tangible expression. And and unwavering FAITH that the thing is already to take possession of it. Live in the new you physically. In the mental realm, enter at "Whatsoever things ye ask for when ye pray, have them," said Jesus. See the things you want see yourself as owning and using them. Make use when they are your tangible possessions. clear and distinct, and then take the Mental that picture. Take possession of it, in mind, Hold to this mental ownership; do not waver And remember what was said in a preceding chapter time as you expect to be when it has taken form. which as yet he owns only in imagination, has creation of whatsoever he wants. You do not need is not necessary to tell God about it every day. Jesus to His pupils, "for your Father knoweth that " Your part is to intelligently formulate your life, and to get these desires arranged into a Desire upon the Formless Substance, which has the You do not make this impression by repeating vision with unshakable PURPOSE to attain it, The answer to prayer is not according but according to your faith while you are working. You cannot impress the mind of God by having what you want, and then forgetting Him during by having special hours to go into your closet your mind until the hour of prayer comes again. especially upon yourself, in clarifying but it is not your oral petitions which get do not need a "sweet hour of prayer"; " And by prayer I mean holding steadily to your into solid form, and the faith that you are doing matter turns on receiving, once you have clearly it is well to make an oral statement, addressing moment you must, in mind, receive what you ask ride in the automobile; go on the journey, and and speak of all the things you have asked Imagine an environment, and a financial and live all the time in that imaginary however, that you do not do this as a mere that the imaginary is being realized, and to the and purpose in the use of the imagination which dreamer. And having learned this fact, it is here CHAPTER 9. HOW TO USE THE WILL. To set you do not try to apply your will power to right to do so, anyway. It is wrong to in order to get them to do what you wish done. mental power as it is to coerce them by physical force to do things for you reduces means accomplishes exactly the same thing; the from people by physical force is robbery, then there is no difference in principle. You have no even "for his own good"; for you The science of getting rich does not require in any way whatsoever. There is not the any attempt to use your will upon others do not need to apply your will to things, That would simply be trying to coerce as well as irreverent. You do not have to than you have to use your will power to make power to conquer an unfriendly deity, or to make Substance is friendly to you, and is more anxious To get rich, you need only to use your will power then you must use your will to compel yourself legitimate use of the will in getting yourself to the right course. Use your will Certain Way. Do not try to project your will, to "act" on things or people. Keep your mind at Use your mind to form a mental image of with faith and purpose; and use your will The more steady and continuous your faith and because you will make only POSITIVE not neutralize or offset them by negative held with faith and purpose, is taken to great distances,--throughout As this impression spreads, all things are set every inanimate thing, and the things yet being that which you want. All force begins begin to move toward you. The minds of people, necessary to the fulfilling of your desires; and check all this by starting a negative impression as certain to start a movement away from you as It is by not understanding this that most people rich make their failure. Every hour and moment every hour you spend in worry, every hour sets a current away from you in Substance. All the promises are unto them how insistent Jesus was upon this point of Since belief is all important, it behooves you to shaped to a very great extent by the things you should command your attention. And here the will determine upon what things your attention shall make a study of poverty. Things are not brought Health is never to be attained by studying righteousness is not to be promoted by and no one ever got rich by studying poverty and disease has increased disease; religion as a as a study of poverty will fill the world with do not investigate it, or concern yourself you have nothing to do with them. Do not spend your time in charitable work, or perpetuate the wretchedness it aims to eradicate. unkind, and refuse to hear the cry of need; any of the conventional ways. Put poverty behind and "make good. " Get rich; that is the best the mental image which is to make you rich if Do not read books or papers which give tenement dwellers, of the horrors of child labor, mind with gloomy images of want and suffering. You these things; and the wide-spread knowledge poverty. What tends to do away with poverty is not but getting pictures of wealth into the minds in their misery when you refuse to allow your Poverty can be done away with, not by increasing poverty, but by increasing the number of poor poor do not need charity; they need inspiration. them alive in their wretchedness, or gives them an two; but inspiration will cause them to rise out demonstrate to them that they can become The only way in which poverty will ever be large and constantly increasing number of people must be taught to become rich by creation, rich by competition throws down behind him the but every man who gets rich by creation and inspires them to do so. You are not showing when you refuse to pity poverty, see poverty, or to listen to those who do talk about it. Use of poverty, and to keep it fixed with faith CHAPTER 10. FURTHER USE OF THE WILL. You wealth if you are constantly turning whether they be external or imaginary. Do not if you have had them; do not think of them at or the hardships of your early life; to do any of the poor for the time being, and it will certainly "Let the dead bury their dead," as Jesus said. Put poverty and all things that pertain You have accepted a certain theory of the universe of happiness on its being correct; and what can Do not read religious books which tell you that read the writings of muck-rakers and pessimistic the devil. The world is not going to the devil; True, there may be a good many things in existing use of studying them when they are certainly tends to check their passing and keep them with are being removed by evolutionary growth, when the evolutionary growth as far as your part of it conditions in certain countries, sections, your own chances by considering them. You should Think of the riches the world is coming into, and bear in mind that the only way in which you rich yourself through the creative method--not to riches; ignore poverty. Whenever you think and speak of them as those who to be congratulated rather than pitied. Then and begin to search for the way out. Because and mind and thought to riches, it does not To become really rich is the noblest aim you can the competitive plane, the struggle to get rich but when we come into the creative mind, all way of greatness and soul unfoldment, of service all is made possible by the use of you will find that the attainment of it those who are emancipated from financial care-free existence and follow hygienic Moral and spiritual greatness is possible only for existence; and only those who are becoming from the degrading influences of competition. remember that love flourishes best where and freedom from corrupting influences; and attained by the exercise of creative You can aim at nothing so great or and you must fix your attention upon your mental may tend to dim or obscure the vision. You must you must see beneath all seemingly wrong forward toward fuller expression and more there is no such thing as poverty; that in poverty because they are ignorant of and these can best be taught by showing them the Others are poor because, while they feel that indolent to put forth the mental effort necessary very best thing you can do is to arouse their from being rightly rich. Others still are poor they have become so swamped and lost in the that they do not know which road to take. They For these, again, the very best thing to person and practice; an ounce of theorizing. The very best thing you can do yourself. You can serve God and man in no more if you get rich by the creative method, and We assert that this book gives in detail the and if that is true, you do not need to This may sound narrow and egotistical, but of computation in mathematics than by addition, no other method is possible. There can be but one only one way to think scientifically, and that direct and simple route to the goal. No man "system" than the one set forth herein; it has commence on this, lay all others aside; Read this book every day; keep it with you; other "systems" and theories. If you do, you and wavering in your thought; and then you will and become rich, you may study other systems as that you have gained what you want, do not read be the authors mentioned in the Preface. And read news; those in harmony with your picture. Also, Do not dabble in Theosophy, Spiritualism, or dead still live, and are near; but if they are, the spirits of the dead may be, they have their and we have no right to interfere with them. whether they can help us, or whether we have any the dead and the hereafter alone, and solve your the occult, you will start mental cross-currents Now, this and the preceding chapters have brought There is a thinking stuff from which all things permeates, penetrates, and fills the interspaces produces the thing that is imaged by the by impressing his thought upon formless substance, In order to do this, man must pass from he must form a clear mental picture of the his thoughts with the fixed PURPOSE to get that he does get what he wants, closing his mind dim his vision, or quench his faith. And in he must live and act in a Certain Way. Thought is the creative power, or the impelling thinking in a Certain Way will bring riches to paying no attention to personal action. That is metaphysical thinkers meet shipwreck--the failure not yet reached the stage of development, in which man can create directly from Formless work of human hands; man must not only think, but By thought you can cause the gold in the hearts but it will not mine itself, refine itself, along the roads seeking its way into your pocket. men's affairs will be so ordered that some one business transactions will be so directed that so arrange your own business affairs that you Your thought makes all things, animate and but your personal activity must be such want when it reaches you. You are not you must give every man more in use value than thought consists in forming a clear and distinct the purpose to get what you want; and in realizing Do not try to "project" your thought in any it go out and do things for you; that is wasted sanity. The action of thought in getting rich your faith and purpose positively impress your SAME DESIRE FOR MORE LIFE THAT YOU HAVE; and this forces at work IN AND THROUGH THEIR REGULAR It is not your part to guide or supervise the is to retain your vision, stick to your purpose, must act in a Certain Way, so that you can so that you can meet the things you have in places as they arrive. You can readily see they will be in the hands of other men, you can only get what is yours by Your pocketbook is not going to be transformed full of money without effort on your part. This is right here, where thought and personal action consciously or unconsciously, set the creative of their desires, but who remain poor because thing they want when it comes. By thought, by action you receive it. Whatever your action You cannot act in the past, and it your mental vision that you dismiss the past for the future is not here yet. And you cannot contingency until that contingency has arrived. the right environment now, do not think that you business or environment. And do not spend time in in possible future emergencies; have faith in your If you act in the present with your mind on a divided mind, and will not be effective. Put your creative impulse to Original Substance, and you will never get them. Act now. There is be any time but now. If you are ever to begin to you must begin now. And your action, whatever business or employment, and must be upon the You cannot act where you are not; you cannot act are going to be; you can act only where you are. well done or ill done; do to-day's work well. Do be plenty of time to do that when you get to to act on people or things that are out of your before you act; get a change of environment in which you are now, as to cause yourself Hold with faith and purpose the vision of yourself present environment with all your heart, and with spend any time in day dreaming or castle building; NOW. Do not cast about seeking some new thing to to perform as a first step toward getting at least for some time to come, will be those you are to begin now to perform these actions in If you are engaged in some business, and feel wait until you get into the right business before down and lament because you are misplaced. No man right place, and no man ever became so involved in right business. Hold the vision of yourself in the and the faith that you will get into it, and are Use your present business as the means of environment as the means of getting into a if held with faith and purpose, will cause the and your action, if performed in the Certain Way, will cause you to move toward the business. and feel that you must change places in order thought into space and rely upon it to get you Hold the vision of yourself in the job you want, you have, and you will certainly get the job creative force in motion to bring it toward you, own environment to move you toward the place you statement to our syllabus:-- There is a thinking in its original state, permeates, penetrates, and in this substance, produces the Man can form things in his thought, and, by can cause the thing he thinks about to be created. competitive to the creative mind; he must form and hold this picture in his thoughts with and the unwavering FAITH that he does get may tend to shake his purpose, dim his vision, wants when it comes, man must act NOW upon the CHAPTER 12. EFFICIENT ACTION. You must use and begin to do what you can do where can do where you are. You can advance only and no man is larger than his present place to that place. The world is advanced only by If no man quite filled his present place, you everything. Those who do not quite fill their government, commerce, and industry; they must The progress of the world is retarded only by they belong to a former age and a lower stage degeneration. No society could advance social evolution is guided by the law of physical evolution is caused by excess of life. When an in the functions of its own plane, it and a new species is originated. species had there not been organisms The law is exactly the same for you; your getting your own affairs. Every day is either a successful days which get you what you want. If every day is day is a success, you cannot fail to get rich. and you do not do it, you have failed in so far as be more disastrous than you imagine. You cannot you do not know the workings of all the forces Much may be depending on your doing some simple door of opportunity to very great possibilities. Supreme Intelligence is making for you in your neglect or failure to do some small thing may every day, ALL that can be done that day. There above that you must take into account. You are business in the effort to do the greatest possible You are not to try to do to-morrow's work to-day, the number of things you do, but the EFFICIENCY in itself, either a success or a failure. inefficient. Every inefficient act is a failure, acts, your whole life will be a failure. if all your acts are inefficient ones. On the in itself, and if every act of your life is an The cause of failure is doing too many things in in an efficient manner. You will see that it is any inefficient acts, and if you do a sufficient If, now, it is possible for you to make each getting of riches is reduced to an exact science, question whether you can make each separate act a You can make each act a success, because All Power Power is at your service; and to make each act Every action is either strong or weak; and the Certain Way which will make you rich. Every your vision while you are doing it, and putting it. It is at this point that the people fail They use the power of mind in one place and at another time. So their acts are not successful But if All Power goes into every act, no matter itself; and as in the nature of things every your progress toward what you want, and will become increasingly rapid. Remember that Since the desire for more life is inherent in all life more things attach themselves to him, and every day, all that you can do that day, In saying that you must hold your vision while commonplace, I do not mean to say that it distinctly to its smallest details. It should imagination on the details of your vision, and to your memory. If you wish speedy results, spend By continuous contemplation you will even to the smallest details, so firmly fixed to the mind of Formless Substance, that in refer to the picture to stimulate your faith put forth. Contemplate your picture in your full of it that you can grasp it instantly. You that the mere thought of it will call forth Let us again repeat our syllabus, and by slightly point we have now reached. There is a thinking in its original state, permeates, penetrates, A thought, in this substance, produces Man can form things in his thought, and, by can cause the thing he thinks about to be created. In order to do this, man must pass from he must form a clear mental picture of the all that can be done each day, doing each CHAPTER 13. GETTING INTO THE RIGHT BUSINESS. depends for one thing upon your possessing in a that business. Without good musical faculty without well-developed mechanical faculties no one trades; without tact and the commercial faculties possess in a well-developed state the faculties insure getting rich. There are musicians who have are blacksmiths, carpenters, and so on who have rich; and there are merchants with good faculties The different faculties are tools; it is essential that the tools should be used in the Right a good plane, and so on, and build a handsome same tools and set to work to duplicate the He does not know how to use good tools in a mind are the tools with which you must do the work you to succeed if you get into a business for Generally speaking, you will do best in that the one for which you are naturally "best fitted. also. No man should regard his vocation as being was born. You can get rich in ANY business, for develop that talent; it merely means that you instead of confining yourself to the It will be EASIER for you to succeed in talents in a well-developed state; but you CAN rudimentary talent, and there is no talent of will get rich most easily in point of effort, but you will get rich most satisfactorily if you want to do is life; and there is no real to be forever doing something which we do not And it is certain that you can do what you you have within you the power which can do it. to play music is the power which can play music invent mechanical devices is the mechanical talent no power, either developed or undeveloped, to do a and where there is strong desire to do a to do it is strong, and only requires to All things else being equal, it is best to best developed talent; but if you have a strong you should select that work as the ultimate end and it is your right and privilege to will be most congenial and pleasant. You are and should not do it except as a means to bring If there are past mistakes whose consequences environment, you may be obliged for some but you can make the doing of it pleasant by to come to the doing of what you want to do. If do not act too hastily in trying to generally, to change business Do not be afraid to make a sudden and radical and you feel after careful consideration that it or radical action when you are in doubt as to on the creative plane; and there is no lack of mind you will understand that you never need to the thing you want to do; there is enough for all. will be opened for you a little farther on; there Fall back on the contemplation of your vision, and in times of doubt and indecision, cultivate the vision of what you want, and in earnest will bring your mind into such close relationship when you do act. There is a mind which knows all unity with this mind by faith and the purpose Mistakes come from acting hastily, or in forgetfulness of the Right Motive, which go on in the Certain Way, opportunities and you will need to be very steady in your with the All Mind by reverent gratitude. Do all but do it without haste, worry, or fear. Go as in the moment you begin to hurry you cease to back upon the old plane again. Whenever you find on the mental image of the thing you want, and The exercise of GRATITUDE will never fail to CHAPTER 14. THE IMPRESSION OF INCREASE. your actions for the present must be those now engaged. You can get into the business business you are already established in; And in so far as your business consists in dealing the key-thought of all your efforts must of increase. Increase is what all men and the Formless Intelligence within them, seeking inherent in all nature; it is the fundamental are based on the desire for increase; people are more luxury, more beauty, more knowledge, more Every living thing is under this necessity of life ceases, dissolution and death set and hence he is forever seeking more. This law the parable of the talents; only those who shall be taken away even that which he hath. an evil or a reprehensible thing; it is it is aspiration. And because it is all men and women are attracted to him who In following the Certain Way as described in increase for yourself, and you are giving it to from which increase is given off to all. Be sure man, woman, and child with whom you come in even if it be only the selling of put into it the thought of increase, and make sure Convey the impression of advancement with receive the impression that you are an Advancing Even to the people whom you meet in a social way, do not try to sell anything, give the thought holding the unshakable faith that you, yourself, faith inspire, fill, and permeate every action. that you are an advancing personality, and Feel that you are getting rich, and that conferring benefits on all. Do not boast or brag true faith is never boastful. Wherever you find doubtful and afraid. Simply feel the faith, let every act and tone and look express the that you are already rich. Words will not be they will feel the sense of increase when in your You must so impress others that they you they will get increase for themselves. than the cash value you are taking from and let everybody know it; and you will have they are given increase; and the Supreme, which will move toward you men and women who have rapidly, and you will be surprised at the You will be able from day to day to make and to go on into a more congenial vocation you must never lose sight of your vision of get what you want. Let me here give you another of the insidious temptation to seek for power unformed or partially developed mind over others. The desire to rule for selfish For countless ages kings and lords have drenched their dominions; this not to seek more life for the main motive in the business and industrial dollars, and lay waste the lives and hearts of others. Commercial kings, like political kings, this desire for mastery the moving impulse Read the twenty-third chapter of Matthew, and to be called "Master," to sit in the high places, the backs of the less fortunate; and note how He seeking for the Common Good to which He calls seek for authority, to become a "master," to herd, to impress others by lavish display, over others is the competitive mind; and the In order to master your environment and your should rule over your fellow men; and indeed, high places, you begin to be conquered by fate a matter of chance and speculation. Beware of the principle of creative action can be the late "Golden Rule" Jones of Toledo: "What CHAPTER 15. THE ADVANCING MAN. What I have the professional man and the wage-earner as to No matter whether you are a physician, a teacher, to others and make them sensible of the fact, get rich. The physician who holds the vision and who works toward the complete realization as described in former chapters, will come that he will be phenomenally successful; No one has a greater opportunity to carry the practitioner of medicine; it does not matter for the principle of healing is common to all Advancing Man in medicine, who holds to a and who obeys the laws of faith, purpose, he undertakes, no matter what remedies he may out for the clergyman who can teach his He who masters the details of the science of being well, of being great, and of winning love, will never lack for a congregation. This is the of life, and men will hear it gladly, and will to them. What is now needed is a demonstration preachers who can not only tell us how, but We need the preacher who will himself to teach us how to attain to these things; and loyal following. The same is true of with the faith and purpose of the advancing any teacher who has this faith and purpose can it to them if it is part of his own life preacher, and physician is true of the lawyer, everybody. The combined mental and personal action Every man and woman who follows these and to the letter, will get rich. The law of the its operation as the law of gravitation; getting find this as true of his case as of any of the chance to get rich because you are working where where wages are small and the cost mental vision of what you want, and Do all the work you can do, every day, and do each put the power of success, and the purpose But do not do this merely with the idea in the hope that he, or those above you, it is not likely that they will do so. The his place to the very best of his ability, and and it is not to the employer's interest is. To secure advancement, something more is The man who is certain to advance is the has a clear concept of what he wants to be; who and who is determined to BE what he wants to place with a view to pleasing your employer; the faith and purpose of increase during work Hold it in such a way that every person who fellow workman, or social acquaintance, will so that every one will get the sense Men will be attracted to you, and if there is no you will very soon see an opportunity to take to present opportunity to the Advancing Man help helping you, if you act in a Certain There is nothing in your circumstances or you down. If you cannot get rich working for the and if you begin to move in the Certain Way, you steel trust and get on to the farm or wherever employees would enter upon the Certain Way, it would have to give its workingmen Nobody has to work for a trust; the trusts can so long as there are men who are too ignorant or too intellectually slothful to practice and your faith and purpose will make you quick Such opportunities will speedily come, for the will bring them before you. Do not wait for when an opportunity to be more than you are now take it. It will be the first There is no such thing possible in this universe living the advancing life. It is inherent in the be for him and work together for his good; thinks in the Certain Way. So let wage-earning and enter with confidence upon the course CHAPTER 16. SOME CAUTIONS, AND CONCLUDING idea that there is an exact science of getting of wealth is limited, they will insist that changed before even any considerable number is not true. It is true that existing but this is because the masses do not think and move forward as suggested in this book, neither all systems must be modified to If the people have the Advancing Mind, have the with the fixed purpose to become rich, nothing enter upon the Certain Way at any time, and under any considerable number of individuals do so under so modified as to open the way for others. The the worse for others; the more who get rich The economic salvation of the masses a large number of people to practice the and become rich. These will show others the way, the faith that it can be attained, and with the it is enough to know that neither the government competitive system of industry can keep you from plane of thought you will rise above all these But remember that your thought must you are never for an instant to be betrayed or into acting on the moral level of competition. correct yourself instantly; for when you the co-operation of the Mind of the Whole. Do will meet possible emergencies in the future, your actions to-day. You are concerned with doing and not with emergencies which may arise Do not concern yourself with questions as to upon your business horizon, unless you can see in order to avoid them. No matter how tremendous find that if you go on in the Certain Way it will through, or around it will appear. No possible or woman who is proceeding to get rich along obeys the law can fail to get rich, any more than Give no anxious thought to possible disasters, of circumstances; it is time enough themselves before you in the immediate present, with it the wherewithal for its overcoming. your affairs, or of anything else in a admit the possibility of failure, or speak in Never speak of the times as being hard, or Times may be hard and business doubtful but they can never be so for you; you can create are having hard times and poor business, Train yourself to think of and to look upon which is growing; and to regard seeming evil Always speak in terms of advancement; and to deny your faith is to lose it. You may expect to have a certain thing at a this will appear to you like failure. But if you is only apparent. Go on in the certain way, and something so much better that you will see that A student of this science had set his mind on seemed to him at the time to be very desirable, When the crucial time came, the thing failed if some unseen influence had been working on the contrary, he thanked God that his desire grateful mind. In a few weeks an opportunity so made the first deal on any account; and he had prevented him from losing the greater That is the way every seeming failure will work purpose, have gratitude, and do, every day, all in a successful manner. When you make a failure, keep on, and a larger thing than you were seeking will not fail because you lack the necessary I have directed, you will develop all the talent It is not within the scope of this book to but it is as certain and simple as the process of for fear that when you come to any certain place and when you come to that place, the ability Ability which enabled the untaught Lincoln to do by a single man is open to you; you may draw in meeting the responsibilities which are laid Make it your constant companion until you it. While you are getting firmly established most recreations and pleasures; and to stay away are advanced in lectures or sermons. Do not or get into arguments upon the matter. Do very in the Preface. Spend most of your leisure cultivating gratitude, and in reading this book. of getting rich; and you will find all the CHAPTER 17. SUMMARY OF THE SCIENCE OF GETTING all things are made, and which, in its and fills the interspaces of the universe. A that is imaged by the thought. Man can form thought upon formless substance can cause In order to do this, man must pass from otherwise he cannot be in harmony which is always creative and never competitive in Formless Substance by entertaining a lively bestows upon him. Gratitude unifies the mind of man's thoughts are received by the Formless. Man himself with the Formless Intelligence through Man must form a clear and definite mental or to become; and he must hold this mental image the Supreme that all his desires are granted spend his leisure hours in contemplating his reality is being given to him. Too much stress contemplation of the mental image, coupled with process by which the impression is given to the The creative energy works through the and of the industrial and social order. will surely be brought to the man who and whose faith does not waver. What he wants trade and commerce. In order to receive his own and this activity can only consist in more than the Purpose to get rich through the realization all that can be done that day, taking care He must give to every man a use value so that each transaction makes for more Thought that the impression of Increase will contact. The men and women who practice the and the riches they receive will be in exact the fixity of their purpose, the steadiness of