&quot;Spot, can you come over here and say hi?&quot; &quot;Oh my god&quot; &quot;Hello! Wow, the instinct to pet it is... strong.&quot; You might think that you already know Maybe you saw this video of it opening a door, or this one of it dragging a truck, or any of the many videos of it dancing. Spot got a job! These robot dogs are fire departments and factories, defunct nuclear police departments. You might already be starting if you're not they're starting to affect your We're going to put Spot to the test to show how our future could be better with robot dogs... &quot;Spot!&quot; &quot;Spot&quot; &quot;Spot...&quot; &quot;Omnidirectional robot&quot; &quot;Can be used in a variety of situations...&quot; &quot;Several police departments are trying them out...&quot; &quot;A ton of people are amazed by it...&quot; &quot;That was very cool.&quot; &quot;Robot dog was sent to Chernobyl...&quot; &quot;And there's a lot of people who think this is terrifying&quot; &quot;This four-legged robot dog....&quot; &quot;Spot has &quot;They haven't seen machines move like this before&quot; &quot;Woah! That's a whole different situation!&quot; [Whistles for robot dog] Spot is Boston Dynamics flagship consumer the cousin to Atlas, the humanoid I'm still sorry! But this robot is just for research. This are shelling out anywhere from $75 to $300,000 what exactly? Well, if you list out some of the you'll start to see a pattern: At the Purina dog air leaks. On an oil rig in the Gulf of Mexico, In the ancient ruins of Pompeii, Spot is inspecting in the remains of the Fukushima nuclear power levels and for safety. I've started thinking the Inspector Gadget song... Duh nah nah nah nah Inspector Spot! [Cough] Where were we? Some of Inspector Spot's jobs are better with more constant or incredibly boring. So it makes sense that a as opposed to a robot on wheels? Well its jobs then why not a humanoid robot? Well, right now to coordinate than six. Basically, dogs are But you can't just hire Inspector air leaks.&quot; Currently, Spot needs a step-by-step You have to drive it manually through a specific This includes the ability to improvise to achieve avoid things like new obstacles. And there's on an obstacle course... Takin' my dog to the park! It's gonna Okay, what I'm going to do right now is I'm deals with that. So I'm seeing what Spot is seeing... rocks. And this really shows the difference what it's doing because I've asked it end of these rocks,&quot; but it's figuring You got it, bud! By the way, while I'm teaching this Spot mission that someone taught it days ago. It's lot like playing my Nintendo Switch. And while things don't always go as planned... May I try to do things that might &quot;Um!&quot; &quot;Yeah you can like go over the rocks and stuff, &quot;Okay!&quot; &quot;You got it!&quot; I can see it looking around at the camera... Hey! I'm not trying to make it fall anymore... Sorry!! If there is ever a robot uprising in the future, Okay, I'm gonna self-right it... Wow! Okay! I feel proud of it... The missions that we gave our Spot are can do much more on the job. For example, Spot the ability to identify a person lying down. and happens on someone who's gotten electrocuted. help. Spot is incredibly robust and it's built What Spot can do depends on what and there are a bunch of options. a set of cameras to see the world. two in the front, here. It's got one on each side, Yep! Spot's got eyes in it's butt. Then, depending on the job that you want So, thermal camera, acoustic sensor, get around some Lidar, all that good stuff.&quot; Awesome. Spot, but the one that I really wanted to see was they demo-ed: Spot can open doors! You might it in person was like something out of a sci-fi Can it go through the door it just opened? ... Whaaaaat! That was very cool. See, this is why Spot is so fascinating. robots can't. It's figuratively opening doors to just as well as we can. &quot;This type of a robot is areas that haven't been, there's been no humans power plant, Spot used an arm to open doors and plus cameras and lights to show people what it was often being manually driven with automated help controlled in a similar way in 2021 for example hiding in a building after shooting someone over was being piloted by these police officers and &quot;Spot's a platform and you can put all different kinds of of these sensing or computation payloads. There's are actually developing on Spot and building to this whole story. That idea, that robot dogs as new capabilities on top of, which means people uses of this technology, for better... and for worse. are lots of videos online of people buying robot they want on top. Spot's ancestors, early quadruped US military. They were hoping for a robotic pack but it was way too loud. As four-legged robot tech got and other companies like Ghost Robotics are now in 2020 the Air Force partnered with ghosts to notably though not carrying weapons. Still, to imagine especially if you've seen Black Mirror. no general purpose robots like Spot should be should commit to that too. I asked them about that. with robots and we believe that all robotics these pledges to keep robots improving our quality agree on what the purpose of robot dogs is. And about what other jobs Spot should have. For firefighters or police into dangerous areas? Would Spots can identify a person having a health crisis, matter if they're collecting video? Does it matter I am genuinely not sure how we should use robot But after spending a day with these robots, it's our lives better. They already are: double-checking we can't. More long-term, we're likely to combine watch what happens when Boston Dynamics adds where Spot robots rest and recharge is our first point think that robots with legs will feel to us like and kind of terrifying but completely normal with robot dogs isn't guaranteed. If this up to all of us to decide how it fits into our a new friend who reminded me: some things never Inspector Spot! This episode is part of Huge If True, which is show about technology and video and you want to support us, the if you want to see our episode with