As with all of the Samadhi meditations There's nothing to figure out with the recognize what the mind is already doing, unconscious activities as they become The purpose of meditation 1 &amp; 2 in this specific skills needed for meditation. concentration, and the ability to reaction. If in your meditation you're able to nonreactive to whatever arises for more yourself directly experiencing prana or change underlying the mind and senses. Samadhi is the transcending of opposites- Samadhi is the transcending of the male and female, conscious and and out-breath, and of individual and God. The separation is an illusion created by self or limited mind. The less the mind more we experience reality as it is disentangled from the mind and its uninterruptedly towards the meditation and comes to stillness. The understanding of this process of It must be experienced. You realize or which you always have been but which has of consciousness and thought. The mind mystery of our true nature, the mystery Samadhi is with the limited egoic mind person what color is. Your mind can't simply a reducing valve or limiting physical reality in a certain way. It is is the creation of physical reality. The mind's existence is not a problem. On the contrary the error or aberration of human perception is that we identify This illusion that we are the limited The yogic teachings say that to realize object until it disappears- until you Subject-object duality collapses. Observe the expansion and contraction of No more breather and no more breath. take hours days weeks or years of depending on where you are on your Samadhi is not about the determination of It's about higher will it's about activity completely- to let go of In quantum physics a photon or light it's observed, and it behaves like a wave Similarly the breath is more wave-like observer begins to disappear. Even if we feel like we're allowing the deep unconscious aspects of the self For example there may be a contraction heart may be closed the chest area. You may be energetically third eye area where your inner energy The unconscious can manifest in many ways in the body these unconscious elements conscious. controlling the breath then there is Prana or inner energy is your inner aliveness- what you experience when the mind and senses are non-clinging; not discriminating any idea of It is counterproductive to try to make your mind. or energy inside of you because the keep the egoic self active. As we have said all along, simply let resistance to whatever arises. Observe exercising. Penetrate into its sensations as an invitation or doorway Meditation is nothing but a letting go controlling self. The mind does not servant to the true self that is beyond Not my will but divine will be done. To meditate is an act of love- to your being. Start by being okay with what is in this Just sit. Sitting is just happening. There is a Observe the natural breath. The breath simply is. Breathing is happen. This pulsation of expansion It's as real as it gets in this moment. Observe what is. Allow what is. Now with a wide or panoramic awareness aspects of the breath as you can. Such air going in and out of your nostrils or Notice if your breath is deep or shallow. Notice if your in-breath is long or your Notice if your in-breath is short or Notice the gap or pause Notice the gap or pause Note as many particular aspects of the without letting the mind get involved. In the gaps between the in and out breathe is coming from. Are you taking a Are you breathing or are you being Don't hold the question what these words point towards within As your breath expands in and out be contours and forms of the waves of Like a wave forming and dissolving on ocean- without labeling, without Your breath is literally reaching every the field of change to expand to include If you start to get lost observing the observing the narrow breath at any time. Feel the field of change washing over through the body into the deepest thoughts and sensations. As you observed the whole body breathing resistance anywhere in the body. Simply control. The letting go happens by itself simply sensations arise. Just observe with Do not judge any sensation is. Don't try to control the meditation Now as you observe, let go of any idea or breath is. let go of the label knowing what the breath is. No the phenomena of expansion and level of awareness that you can. You are taking in more phenomena, being taken in by the body, which is mind. We want to keep our whole awareness phenomena at the root level of awareness. You keep your awareness on sensation discriminating, without labeling and Do not miss any sensation or any Be aware of any new sensation or quality in particular. with the mind. Observe reality as it is. Penetrate deeper. Surrender deeper. Always be aware, always be surrendering. Your attention should be like an a container onto the meditation object. The hindrances may arise. Penetrate them, consciousness. Keep your awareness sharp. The experience of the inner energy should be vivid and alive. Don't try to have a still mind because Stay within the field of change. Just stillness reveals itself. With practice the sensations become a change, and they lose their individual The one thing that does not change is Who is aware of that? Any pain any emotion any bliss or any indistinguishable- simply as changing constantly changing pulse of expansion The Sanskrit term for this constantly changing energy is Annica. Your ability to remain aware of Annica may come and go. The moment-by-moment capacity for Even if your equanimity comes and goes with what is.