&quot;Hi, I'm Jason Teteak. I help people overcome their fear of public and today I'm going to show you how to captivate your presentation. Here's how I'm going to do it.&quot; &quot;I'm going to show you 5 steps to deliver If you're watching this, you probably already critical to advance your career, but did you stop listening to your presentation within there's something in it for them? The problem is that most people don't know give a great presentation, and overcome their What am I going to do? Hi Jim. How's it going? I'm freaking out about this big presentation Well did you write out your opener and practice No. No? Why not? I'm terrified and I don't even know where Trust me, I've been in that situation before So to help you out, I'm going to show you opener every time. Let's start off with step number one, which One of the biggest mistakes people make when Here's the key: It's not whether you're nervous, The first thing you need to do is stand STILL. Don't move. Don't pace, and keep your hands at your sides. This is the most calm and confident stance need of your audience which is to feel safe. Now you can introduce yourself and say &quot;Hi, When you do this, bring your inflection down Instead of: &quot;Hi, my name is Jason Teteak?&quot; Say: &quot;Hi, my name is Jason Teteak.&quot; See the difference? Now we move on to step 2, which is Give Your This is where many presenters make the mistake experience. They say something like &quot;I'm a presentation years.&quot; Yet, your audience wants to know: &quot;What can They need to know who you are, why you're and what you have to offer them. For example, I might say &quot;I help people overcome amazing presentations.&quot; What would that look like for you? To figure this out, you need a short elevator It looks like this: &quot;You know how some people Well I offer this solution.&quot; The solution you offer is how you help people. For me, it was: &quot;You know how some people hard time getting their message across in Well, I help them overcome their fear of public What's your credentials statement? You'll be amazed at the effect this has on Step 3 is to &quot;Deliver Your Hook.&quot; My hook for this video presentation might you how to captivate your audience within When you do this, you have to get your audience How do you get them to feel? You have 3 choices. You can get them to feel more happy, more Look at my hook. I said &quot;I'm going to show you how to captivate your presentation.&quot; When you captivate your audience within the feel happier because they are listening to look like an expert, and you'll feel more about your presentation the night before. Here's the practical for you. For your presentation, write down the words rest with something that's going to create audience. Here's the rule. You can't tell them WHAT they're going to want it. Your hook has to be something that gets them to give them. Take a moment right now and write down WHY more happy, successful or free in their life. And now we move on to step number 4, which I recommend you use a PowerPoint for this like this. The purpose of this step is to show your audience things they get to &quot;take away&quot; and use tomorrow Don't read the slide. They're adults. They can read. Instead, just give them a moment to read it what you'll be doing. You do this by mentioning the number of takeaways goal of your presentation. Here's what it looks like: &quot;I'm going to show you 5 steps to deliver What would this look like for you? The last step is Step 5 Give a Credible Statement. You can do this by giving relevant or compelling Remember how I did this at the beginning of I said, &quot;You probably already know that delivering your career, but did you know that research to your presentation within the first 10 minutes in it for them?&quot; When you do this within the first 2 minutes to trust you. Without bragging, your listeners start to about&quot; Done. When I put those 5 steps together, it sounds &quot;Hi, I'm Jason Teteak. I help people overcome their fear of public and today I'm going to show you how to captivate your presentation. Here's how I'm going to do it.&quot; &quot;I'm going to show you 5 steps to deliver &quot;You probably already know that delivering your career, but did you know that research to your presentation within the first 10 minutes in it for them?&quot; Wow! Do you see how powerful that is? Those are the 5 steps to deliver a killer I know this is a lot of information for you For that reason, I put together some free the end of this video. You'll not only learn how to give a killer techniques you need to nail your entire presentation. To get your free training, all you need to link below in the description. So go on, get your free training and click I hope you enjoyed this video and if you did, the thumbs up button, and subscribing to my This is Jason Teteak from ruletheroom.com, a killer opener every time you give a presentation.