Businesses are kind of humans can get sick from can't. People are going in to reasons than they were When you had the time off collecting the the time to find other There's always going to It just might not be for the way it was Quiet quitting is part of story. Telecommuting all comes One of the biggest work at home is turning Americans are reassessing according to an August More than half of they plan to look for a year. 56% of respondents hours and remote work And while some people entirely, job security top concerns for It's time to find to be better for my stable, something that I have to go to work and to, you know, am I going Or is he not going to be In August 2021, almost quit their job. The year high of 2.9%. Working women have faced juggling childcare and their careers. We're all able to take a year and spend more time really question the at work. A number of decision: I need to make I need to. I need to Dubbed the Great of workers has left and created hiring So what does the workforce mean for and what steps should your job? U.S. workers are leaving their In August 2021, almost handed in their 971,000 people working hospitality industry, restaurants. Another 1.3 off or discharged by Jessica Thomas is one of She spent nine years in in northern New Jersey With cases surging and out, the bar where she its doors in the spring without a job and a But also in that working, you're not So there are no sick time. There's no health Uncertain when her job of three found herself unemployment benefits. Her husband, Derrick, faced a similar dilemma. A lot of people took the the time off and you collecting unemployment, ind other careers. I didn't hear anything think it was a day okay, we're reopening. There was no So for me that kind of out of that industry. In August 2021, the and food service quits, layoffs and 8.3% from 6.7% the month And while the pandemic to employment overall, impacted working 2021, there were 18.5 mothers living with their actively working, 8% On the advice of her applied for a job at the Jersey, home to the East When I went in, the said, You know, you're And I said, No, no, I'm He goes, No, no, the testing is the other I said, No, no, I'm here longshore woman. In Jessica's new job as a helped load and unload electronics, apparel and around the world. One day I drove 1700 We got there at 7 a.m.. We got done at five. And you drive the car go back up, drive the done. Nobody leaves complete. Her new job also gave her the pay of her previous with benefits ranging health insurance. And according to a May not alone. Almost half they are rethinking the the future. More than retrain for a new career opportunity. I feel like I'm always my life, balancing with stuff. My relationship Every day, it's like, do this? How are we this? According to an August third of workers at companies said they are the coming year. Younger likely to uproot their workers, particularly productivity and time plan to switch jobs in According to one are three solutions to situation. For starters, big difference. The easiest and least for you and your company already have. So I would encourage I would call a job with their manager and This 40% not so much. What can we do? And that could be just cut back to three becomes a smaller job. Volunteering or a side way to cultivate new industries. Another of months, you can stop, something else. And job that is mentally or poor work life balance opportunities, that may look for a new job. But before quitting, Ma advises to take a situation and find out your lifestyle. And then once you know say that your expenses And to be able to fund $80,000. Then you can the roles, what are the industries that pay that It might be roles in a you're in, or maybe industry for a while and While searching for a new say it's easier to find have one, and it also position to negotiate Leaving on good terms is Even though you may think this company again, a would be leaving on the So maybe you leave that back at some point in The U.S. has seen a quit their jobs. But resignations? Several Anthony Klotz, associate at Texas A&amp;M University. For starters, the to take a hard look at reevaluate their But as a result of the did during the pandemic, of them would plan life that. Sometimes those involve a job change, because of how central lives, it would change. Working from home was According to Klotz, a worked remotely at the have been unwilling to I think what we're employees who worked could be more of could in the office, and felt like there was less microaggressions. wear the clothes that way they want. Burnout and mental health According to one survey, become even more culture, and the personal life has workers at large U.S. companies said they had and personal life 45% said they felt at all times. There were lots of at all time highs for is a pretty clear quitting their jobs. Increased economic to the rise of According to an August Economics, Americans trillion during the While about 70% of that wealthiest 20% of the economic uncertainty people to delay their 2021. My sense is early People taking a break their own sabbatical is And that's supported by year in the last 35 household debt actually Businesses across the are struggling to find there were 10.4 million country. According to a of small business owners competent people to hire nearly a third said they been able to fill for at But while the number of historic proportions, it new phenomenon. Since the Bureau of Labor this back in 2000, the resignations per month steadily over the past To entice workers back, with incentives ranging signing bonuses. In August 2021, Target pay 100% of its workers The big box retailer tuition, it would cover employees pursuing 250 than 40 institutions. Chipotle, Starbucks and debt-free education have boosted pay. McDonald's announced in wages at company-owned Under Armor and similar pay hikes. And according to employees is only half Companies face a steep unable to retain have. I think it's lose talent and talent. And so you've this person has been some time. They're getting the most out of And then, you know, decide to leave, you several months to be talent. According to a Institute, based on a salary of $45,000, the per employee is $15,000. That figure includes processing and well as training costs According to the group, employers from worker alone was $536 billion. But despite these the wave of resignations ultimately lead to an of both workers and the them. I think the one is that the pandemic has or question things that And maybe if you have given you that kick to I've been on autopilot, with my interests or my going to make a change. With this many there's lots of talented working right now for And so a lot of an opportunity as well organization and improve This is one example of that has been dominating especially TikTok. In July, Zaiad Khan, a New York, posted a video it went viral. Since spread like wildfire quitting, quitting and Does anybody want to Then the mainstream Like working overtime. No, thanks. Late night emails? Ignore those quiet. Quitting is a really bad If you're a quiet working for me. The world is changing and changing. Even people back to the office. And if I do, I'm until I find a job that Covid was the ultimate Covid was that moment ask a bigger question: life? Do I want to that I have? Or do I Do I want to continue to but do I also want to be Do I also want to be So I think all of these stages and I think quite trend that's come as a reset, which is Covid. Something like 40% of they plan to change jobs The pandemic also resignation. To retain people, but scared. Millions of in 2021, some for better career break. The pace well into 2022. This chart tracks job turnover in the U.S. economy. JOLTS for short. We do think that quitting Resignation story, so it story of having a high past year, year and a very tight labor market. And in that type of a lot of sense that willing to to work as past because it's very employment. So the question is what Quiet quitting is where employees are necessarily go above and asked to do. It doesn't mean that job. They're just not Back in my day it was For me, my last time years ago. I used to be What I did was work I wasn't putting in the I wasn't giving in to I wasn't giving into I wasn't answering messages, you know, DMs So weekends were free. They were mine. Even and Gen Zers who are a on social media, quiet happening amongst Gen the Gen Xers for the years. The anti-work movement is In 2021, the Lying Flat took off in China. Many viewed it as an This is a labor protest the country's relentless Some argue that quiet the Lying Flat movement In the U.S., quiet backlash to hustle The 24/7 startup grind, like Gary V. and others. I think it is almost disruption of hustle think it's exciting that When it comes to hustle quitting, we're seeing that they're really they have that work- l mission-driven purpose And we see this across People are being more that they just don't 40 hours of work that because they're tired. There has been a tsunami In 2021, the Great economic news cycle. Or need to remain in So In the second quarter of productivity data posted drop, and some leaving jobs or not current jobs for the hit Quiet quitting is reason for the slowing It's hard to tell from why labor productivity the course of the certainly one of the expect to be weighing on now. Employee engagement also A recent poll from engagement in the U.S. dropping for the first decade, dipping from 36% to 34% in 2021. Disengagement, not being the productivity. Mentally they're just not aren't giving it their just trying to stay are disengaged. That's very much going I do think quiet Great Resignation. People are so burnt out, and are still going We are recognizing that and so short and we want something we love. And that doesn't mean job. I think that myth slowly or rapidly dying. People that shut down that balance in life. Want to go to the soccer 9 to 5 only. They don't work for me. I can tell you that. Labor demand remains red That's despite the recession. An economic quitting a short lived Well, if the labor market imagine that quiet less of a phenomenon. Well, the risk, if is that the economy find yourself in a a job, where you haven't effort that you can, and disadvantage in terms of job. If others have been they're more likely to than otherwise. So market slows and if we recession, could workers at a In addition to talking to per year, I talked to year, all the way from way up to your C-suite And I will tell you that trend because it speaks One, we have employees but they're not going Two, what have we done as employees to make them their best effort? We're evolving as a as a people, and the and we need to be okay same concept for me as because I didn't have it it too. You should have to be careful about just quitting is the Gen Zs I think that it can be place. And the more we connected and share our issue disengagement will And then hopefully the start fading to the both employees being engaged and employers New alarm bells ringing coronavirus outbreak in Doctors say the virus is when someone coughs or And I think the business interest that people stop the spread. For a business that can telecommute. We want you Hey, my name is Lindsey I'm a senior producer We've been working from and it's going okay. I'm very lucky in that I where I can work. My partner works at home So I've been invading But so far, so good. I did some research on economy can perform while the coronavirus outbreak American workforce can . 50% to 60% of the that's at least remote work. As of 2017, the U.S. Bureau of Labor civilian labor workforce employees. If 56% of for remote work, that people could potentially Of course, that leaves workforce, but does opportunities for a lot For us, the obvious strongly encourage our home. The technology is here n working to be really . While not all employees work, the emptying of limits exposure for go to the office, like police officers, and other professionals. With the still in the distant companies are to enable their remote It's been really pike in usage that has unfortunately, followed coronavirus. With the coronavirus offices nationwide can adapt to a culture of Can the U.S. work from With many states, York and Florida and the declaring states of companies are attempting allowing remote work. However, telecommuting, from home, which all experiences, have been There's a lot of It's called working, the future of It's absolutely something momentum. The federal government every employee to work extent possible since Regular work at home has The drivers tend to with whatever's going on So during the recession and that's what was They found that if building, they didn't real estate. Right now, retention of talent. There's a talent flexibility, in some This past week, it has operations and the Over the course of the years, we have been distributed workforce. Gallup's State of the found that 43% of with some frequency. Global Workplace million employees or works at home at least Research indicates that workweek, working is the most productive. That gives employees 2 interaction and opportunity to focus on other 2 to 3 days of the I think there's really driving it. Number one focus on sustainability. People in the United from home, and that's population say they'd some of the time, did at a week, half time, it gas equivalent of taking workforce off the road The other thing that it cost side, and there's a with business travel and ddress the cost. We calculated that a about $11,000 per half somebody that's doing it week for a year. However, not all working remotely cuts Cost savings has never distribute our food service, for many people are coming What I think that will resources to to allowing in their home office Where you might save perspective, I think if right way, you've got to There's another the millennials are not at home, but they're the I would say the thing last two years would be orkforce itself. Almost demanding the ability to work when they want to work. That workplace allowed for a more So it's been more about and being able to right folks for us. So out, not being as Francisco for a number tap into broader pools globe and not just hire willing to work in San New England and employers are most likely options, and full time more likely to have part time employees. A typical remote worker least 45 years old, and $58,000 while working 100 employees. A lot of people think A lot of people think Both of those are wrong. It's about equal men and But it is skewed at the more tenured, higher spectrum. Actually, it's There's this area at the spectrum, the low income kind of thing. And then managers. And so it used to be a particular jobs are able everyone was essentially applications that were firewall. Now, a lot of available just through the cloud. As businesses evaluate their employees from the many are basing their from the Centers for Prevention, or CDC. The CDC recommends sick work until the criteria isolation are met. Employers should also policies are flexible public health guidance. The CDC recommends that doctor's note for health care provider busy. The CDC also maintain flexible employees to care for Employees who come to separated from other immediately. The CDC is a premier so it's important that their recommendations We have to make it follow those r To help employees follow distancing, many implementing their plans, which incorporate Companies like Twitter employees work from home So people are just really about how to get the different way. Some companies are work from home policy. In that case, at least a has their exposure still able to continue. Depending on an companies are allowing its feasibility. We're actually doing a r offices around the world testing if you will, to business continuity in cause disruptions for employees. Remote work seems like a many companies that digital economy. However, not all the internet at home or require in-person work. According to the Pew three quarters of broadband internet However, the study found older adults, rural lower levels of more likely to not have home. In addition, one only access the internet and do not have access. We did an analysis at the Bureau of Labor of what industries have now, and it was So construction, component of many, if involves sitting in talking on the phone, Certainly there are some leading like the tech Health care might Banking and finance. However, there are many be performed outside of So allowing employees do so protects those commute to the office. For health care educational schools, h and nonprofits dealing actually giving away remote work kits, which stand up workers really This means LogMeIn, like offering its software conferencing and I.T. support free of charge the coronavirus connecting sites like always had free versions This outbreak is testing software and broadband Many people also do not own home. From their own They can find it hard to work in their home distracted and have or neighbors not respect Of course, all of these outbreak. Children have schools and many from home without much prepare. We wouldn't have rolled accelerated pace. We more of a tiered have rolled out virtual until we had it in a was in great shape or That said, I do think accelerating the anyway. Coronavirus is point. We plodded along year for the last ten this is going to really Adapting to working be an adjustment for managers. I think one of the most having a door, having a you can close the door, out the dogs and just You have to be technology. Knowing how to not just but all of the tools, be talking to people platforms and you can't So there always is that Are you working? Are you you're supposed to be touch with your boss and You need to replace those conversations with management and You have to force that you're connecting There's managers who are starting to believe. I think there are sure that they could be right way if they were like that flexibility When you have this kind everybody is remote, you kind of level playing seen companies have a workers. Someone who expectations of remote If they're going to work they're going to work If they're going to they're going to slack I don't think people they are as a human just from home. Telecommuting Study after study, that they're more give back about 60% of otherwise spent In fact, one of the people who work at home At some point we will And once the countrywide work is over, some change to be more open I don't think we'll go used to operate. I Automation is coming for At least that's the fear burger flipping bots to to mention high powered and more administrative hundreds of skills are in the U.S. economy. A McKinsey study found and deep learning could trillion to 5.8 trillion companies. 80% or more of the jobs less, are at least p automation. The economic hasn't helped. Human diseases that robots easier and now cheaper that doesn't require Businesses are kind of humans can get sick from can't. You can eliminate the labor and wage tag that folks, and particularly competitive advantage. To put the increase in the U.S. had 0.49 robots 1995, which rose to 1.79 in 2017. But automation isn't revolution. The rise in and artificial has also become an A.I. can help navigate previously only a human Of course, if you've phone systems, it's experienced that long way to go. There is nothing wrong as it is part of a technological changes, are not super good for But the pace of accelerating, and the C have acted as the Institute estimates more jobs have been lost One of the reasons we labor force is that when have a harder time And that's been last 20 years. High skill jobs such as managers and accounting of being automated in And according to of oil and gas jobs automation by 2040. One Major problem in the for workers is that for employers, whereas subsidized. U.S. tax code has been The United States has likely than labor. I think the government's aggressive going forward on a growing economy. Automation was pandemic hit, but the that businesses in the the perfect storm to In previous recessions, streamline their to automation, and in simply sped up what was change. The conventional wisdom that it has greatly trends. A.I., artificial and things like that. is certainly going to be post-pandemic. For a don't get sick. In food service machines that help with preparation or even ease the burden on human susceptible to disease. Companies are looking to chains to make them more processes helps to more administrative labor-reliant warehouse coworker calls in sick, quarantined. Among those who are of these low wage future, there'll be their wages, right? competing with machines. And so I think there there. If we're not able to things, then the been that the people from automation are skills. In the you don't have some I.T. skills, you're at disrupted and having to other people. Both the Trump Biden campaign have gains for workers that least in part by Whether your predictions automation and self folks aren't stupid. They listen. They understand. And they're scared to The Biden campaign has college free and also apprenticeships. The advocated more money for forth. But I think as a people transition to new greater in the the one that existed The key to a vaccine for Covid-19. Recent vaccine forward in clinical that if the U.S. can enough, the economic some automation trends the outbreak. But I don't think enough how to get enough may take as many as 80%, population to take the get herd immunity and normal. And then these about, the A.I. trends kick in later. But we normal before we even longer term trends. The clock can't be turned advancement. A.I. research is steadily investment ranged $23 billion in 2016 In the long run, you leads to more economic wages for everybody. So there's really no automation, the story of has been a happy one. In the short run, for displaced, we generally and certainly not effects transmitted to more problems finishing issues. According to a Deloitte are potentially open to decades. And according workers could be 2030, which is about 15% Automation isn't all Some are hopeful that if lower skilled tasks, it opportunities for fewer time that could be pursuits that could more economic growth. There's certainly ways kind of step in and reskilling of workers Right? You know, they partnerships, support school or investing in sets within industries, industries from areas by the pandemic to sort So that's one set of The other set of provide incentives for lot of this work Well, in general, because it brings higher and it allows us to do And so in general, on a great boon to us. The during the transition, workers and the live, you could see some particularly I think, less well trained skills to transition in One proposal to help automation is the basic income or UBI. The Freedom Dividend fellow Americans that we as people, as citizens, Some UBI plans include a payment to every adult strings attached. that UBI would cause a because it would Other arguments contend financially for the out large sums of money of citizens. We've done sort of a course of this pandemic. We sent out the $1200 now, Congress is out another one. I don't sustainable from a Finland recently ran a that it did not create a to work. The study UBI versus 173,000 on over a two year period. People who were on UBI mentally about their those on unemployment Researchers also noticed higher increase in unsure on the causes I think handing out money of their circumstances, too much, especially in additional debt that We might get a better just giving out checks haven't lost their jobs externality effects right? Most people, I They want to build human building our productive future. So as a short during the pandemic, Having a short run, sort because people can't pandemic makes sense. I'm not sure yet. I mean, I don't think that this is a very relative to some of the invest that money. I think it's too late to automation. In the same reverse the job losses import competition from China. But we can be a better strategy for continuation of this. Older workers appear pivot into new careers skills. The challenge that we see learning new technology, Part of the problem could educational system is I think a bigger going to be more long address educational So the ability to adult workers is really math and language arts. And so if you focus on make sure that children school years unprepared, creating a class of able to adjust to new Up to 14% of the global to change careers by automation. I'm an advocate of accounts so that people back based on their training certificates or them for new jobs and so And 66% of respondents to executives said that among workers was a top technological change. Right now, our tax code investments in capital, And so if we could, you on the books that the incentive to rather than capital, as well. The future of the from written. As political solutions economic pain of a uncertain future. I think the focus was I mean, the focus of the really be a focus on the portion of our shouldn't be afraid of come whether or not we embrace it. The real is not to stop It's not to be worried It's to be worried about the citizens of the workforce, every family, maneuver effectively in automated or sees more which affects labor Obama administrations having a growing economy and eventually, the became, wages started to were bidding for them. And I don't think that special efforts to transition. I think both heavily on just a general. I don't think in the post-pandemic need much more government assistance to jobs. There is a notion that last several decades inevitable path. That we're just following else we try is futile. And I think that's misleading. Technology We have a technological knowledge accumulation, creating different types Automation is just one Automating everything produce everything and one very peculiar path. We don't have to follow That doesn't mean it doesn't mean turning technologies, but it forward, we have to take technology. The pandemic changed how And while some companies pre-pandemic workweek, they are adopting a more But getting employees to hasn't been easy. You can't insist anymore for a five day week. Clive Wilkinson is one of called on by the tech build workplaces that of a post-pandemic They'll come in because they're told to or that They'll come in because that the workplace will People are going in to reasons than they were always going to be a It just might not be for way it was pre-pandemic. Wilkinson is no stranger box. He's designed and the biggest names in We were lucky enough to Google headquarters back The Googleplex. Sergey Brin once walked said, I would like a the building. And just as Google and common trends in the once again reinventing work. We're in a different going to be much more And so we're unwinding being attached to a real estate within the Pre-covid, there was a individual space. We're make sure that we're collaboration spaces. With these changes, bigger say in what their We surveyed a lot of our they're looking for in It's really important our employees wanted and we built that into The employers of the to listen to what makes It has to fill the gaps fill. Remote work introduced people's lives. Working from home saved daily from commuting, they were more for in-person business There was a lot of goodness that came from But there was a lot of too, right? People We don't have that spark meeting someone face to The tax and accounting one of Clive Wilkinson's all in on the hybrid Employees come in person, but that amount On days where you might individual work or heads Working from home may be when teams need to come build that relationship, faster, we think those people back to the Wilkinson has designed One was completed in expected to be finished We did the first building A lot of kind of great hall space, really kind environment. We were or less in a new pandemic hit. With the second project the pandemic, Wilkinson the interior to reflect model. The initial plans for workstation centric. Coming through the acknowledgment that working differently, and to change functionally variety of new reasons going into the office. We needed to kind of that space and create a library, there's more What we wanted to review progress on the Intuit So if you recall workstations throughout space. And what we have indicating certain collab. We're in a time period be super flexible. They have to be able to We redesigned this This was actually an so it looked just like siloed and so we thought itself to a quiet But Intuit is asking future-proof this space could be day two if they building, remove that back those workstations. I like how these as testing grounds, pieces, and then they over a period of time the building. Intuit's new office regions it calls the The neighborhood concept entire floor plate, of people, but then it's compartments. Putting teams together, space types, some rooms, some bookable, all in service to the to need to work, world where not Just come in and check It's surrounded by other So there's some two-team well as different side. And those are So this is an example of library. The concept was employees had choices, engineers who needed do the heads down and This is an area that set up, and one of the needed to incorporate is Video conferencing tech bring remote and together. I am talking to you today campus. Mountain View is have upwards of 1000 on campus. You can Zoom, presets. The upgraded rooms that what we call auto really loud from our concern is they want to seen in the room, irtually or in the room. This is an example of one we're doing in really look at when and they're not their laptop. The that might be shared in enough so that you can Another one of Collab, which is a company. Even though about half of we're expecting them to 1 to 3 times a week. But the majority of the to work remotely. So that the new space that well for both in-office team members. It has also taken work to influence the headquarters in Los Having employees come competing with the have to make the space comfortable and fun to And thinking about an really was all about opportunities of having photo ops and shooting that. We have a whole collaboration settings collaboration and a about actual focused their visitors. These video conferencing is a multiple dotted around smaller Zoom rooms, but larger ones so that actually connect furniture is you've really got are they do feel a little intended as being a And I do think also over able to change and There is no workstations It's really open collab There's some enclosed idea is that it is truly where creators can come and they can work creating a space that employees wanted to come To see the workplace If you really just think super exciting. Like, we don't know what five years time. I incredibly exciting. This is really a very spaces that people want collaborate in. We're starting to gain a what people are looking and what are the things working from home that the gaps for? And companies aren't just organize their physical We are definitely in about having a physical community and devoting digital community. The hope is that all of empower workers and help resource for We found that our e productive, if not more, I think the future is both in-person and work There's just so many People have more where they work, but about working in the pre-pandemic. And as we for the future, let's Let's take the best of bring them together into We certainly were working creative workplace, and to the next step. And the next step mostly empowering employees. It's going to be making better.