Translator: Rhonda Jacobs Consider the following statement: Human beings only use ten percent Well, as a neuroscientist, I can tell you that while Morgan Freeman with the gravitas this statement is entirely false. The truth is, human beings use The brain is a highly efficient, that gets fully utilized. And, even though it is it suffers from a problem There's far too much in the environment So to solve this problem of overload, which is the brain's attention system. Attention allows us to notice, the brain's computational resources to a subset of all that's available. We can think of attention Wherever attention goes, In some sense, it's your brain's boss. And over the last 15 years, I've been studying the human In all of our studies, I've been If it is indeed the case is it a good boss? Does it actually guide us well? And to dig in on this big question, First, how does attention Second, why does it fail us, often And third, can we do anything Can we train our brain to have more strong and stable attention So, I wanted to give you a brief glimpse a very poignant example of how and I want to do it using the example He ends up being part of a very large for whom attention Think of medical professionals, This is the story of a marine captain, And the scene that I'm going is not about his time in the battlefield. He was actually on a bridge in Florida. But instead of looking at the scenery and noticing the cool ocean breezes, he was driving fast and contemplating And he would later tell me not to do so. You see, he'd just returned from Iraq, his mind, his attention, He was gripped with suffering. His mind was worried and preoccupied, and really dread for his future, and I'm really glad Because he as a leader knew that he wasn't many of his fellow marines And in the year 2008, he partnered with me that actually allowed us to test and offer to active duty military personnel. But before I tell you about or the results of that study, I think it's important to understand So what we do in the laboratory is that many of our studies of attention In these brainwave recordings, that are sort of like swimming caps These electrodes pick up And they do it with millisecond So we can see these small yet detectable And doing this, we can very precisely plot About 170 milliseconds after we show our research participants we see a very reliable, It happens right at the back of the scalp, above the regions of the brain Now, this happens so reliably, and so that we've even given We call it the N170 component, and we use this component It allows us to see the impact So I want to give you a sense that we actually do in the lab. We would show participants You should see a face and a scene And what we do is we ask our participants as they're viewing a series to do something with their attention. On some trials, we'll ask them And to make sure they're doing that, we ask them to tell us if the face appeared to be male or female. On other trials, we ask them was it indoor or outdoor. And in this way and confirm that participants Our hypotheses about attention If attention is indeed doing its job maybe it works like an amplifier. And what I mean by this is that when it becomes clearer It's easier to see. But when we direct it to the scene, as we process the scene information. So what we wanted to do of face detection, the N170, as a function of where our participants to the scene or the face, and here's what we found. We found that when the N170 was larger. And when they paid attention to the scene, And that gap you see is pretty powerful. What it tells us is that attention, which since the images they viewed attention changes perception. And it does so very fast, within 170 milliseconds In our follow-up studies, we wanted how could we perturb And our hunch was that if you give people or put people in a very if you distract them images of suffering and violence, sort of like what you might see that doing this might and that's indeed what we found. If we present stressful images this gap of attention shrinks, So in some of our other studies, not great, actually bad news but if it is the case that stress through external distraction, what if we don't need what if we distract ourselves? And to do this, we had to basically in which we could have people generate This is having off-task thoughts while we're engaged And the trick to mind wandering, So hopefully there's not a lot of mind When we bore people, people happily to occupy themselves, right? So we devised what might be considered one of the world's all the participants saw were a series They pressed the button That was pretty much it. Well, the one trick was that sometimes and it would happen very infrequently. On those trials they were told Pretty soon we could tell because they'd press the button even though it's quite plain to see So we wanted to know here, what happens when people And what we found was that very similar to external stress and external distraction internal distraction, also shrinks the gap of attention, So, what do all of these studies tell us? They tell us that attention in terms of affecting our perception. Even though it's so powerful, And things like stress But that's all in the context of these What about in the real world? What about in our actual day-to-day life? What about now? Where is your attention right now? To bring it back, I'd like to make for the remainder of my talk. You up for it? Here's the prediction: You will be unaware of what I'm saying It's a challenge, so pay attention please. Now, why am I saying this? I'm surely going to assume and graciously keep but a growing body of literature we take our mind away about 50 percent of our waking moments. These might be small, private thoughts that we have, and when this mind wandering happens, Now, I don't think there'll with you all sitting here today. But imagine a military leader missing Or a judge missing Or a surgeon or firefighter The consequences So one question we might ask is why do we do this, Well, part of the answer is that our mind It can actually time travel very easily. If we think of the mind as the metaphor We can rewind the mind to the past to reflect on events Or we can go in fast future, to plan We land in this mental time-travel mode and we land there often most times without our awareness, Think of just the last time got to the bottom of the page with no idea This happens to us. And when this happens, without an awareness that we're doing it, We make errors. We miss critical information sometimes, and, we have difficulty making decisions. What's worse is when we experience stress, when we're in a moment of overwhelm, we don't just reflect on the past we end up being in the past events that have already happened. Or under stress, we fast-forward the mind. Not just to productively plan, but we end up catastrophizing or worrying about events and frankly may never happen. So at this point you might okay, mind wandering's happening a lot. Often it happens without our awareness. And under stress, it's even worse, we mind wander more Is there anything we can And I'm happy to say the answer is yes. From our work, we're learning that the opposite of a stressed is a mindful one. Mindfulness has to do to our present moment and without any kind of emotional It's about keeping to experience the moment-to-moment And mindfulness is not just a concept, you have to embody to have any benefits. And a lot of the work that we're doing, that give our participants that they should do daily in order to cultivate more moments And for many of the groups we work with, high stress groups, like I said, for them, we know that mind so we want to make sure low time constraints so they can benefit from it. And when we do this, what we can do not just in their regular lives but when we offer it in the most demanding Why do we want to do this? Well, we want to, for example, give it Or we want to give the training Or soldiers and marines Why is that? Because those are the moments in which their attention because of stress and mind wandering. And those are also the moments in which we want their attention so they can perform well. So what we do in our research is we have them take We track their attention at the beginning and then two months later and we want to see Is there any benefit of offering Can we protect against that might arise over high stress? So here's what we find. Over a high stress interval, unfortunately, the reality is attention declines, people are worse at the end of this But if we offer mindfulness training, They stay stable, even though other individuals in their group, And perhaps even more impressive is that if people over, let's say, eight weeks, and they fully commit to doing that allow them to learn well, they actually get better over time, And this last point is actually because of what it suggests to us is that mindfulness exercises if you don't do it, you don't benefit. But if you do engage the more you do, the more you benefit. And I want to just bring it back As I mentioned to you at the beginning, his marines were involved we ever did offering mindfulness training. And they showed this exact pattern We had offered them right before they were deployed to Iraq. And upon their return, what he was feeling He said that unlike last time, after this deployment They were discerning. They were not as reactive. And in some cases, they were with the people they were He said in many ways, he felt that the mindfulness gave them a really important tool to protect against developing and even allowing it to turn To us, this was very compelling. And it ended up that Captain Davis and I - we've kept in touch all these years - and he himself has gone on in a daily way. He was promoted to Major. He actually then ended up retiring He went on to get a divorce, to have a child, to get an MBA. And through all of these challenges he kept up with his mindfulness practice. And as fate would have it, Captain Davis suffered at the age of 46. And he ended up calling me And he said, &quot;I want I know that the doctors but mindfulness saved my life. The presence of mind I had that ended up taking me the clarity of mind he had to notice but not be gripped by it - he said, &quot;for me, these And I was so relieved But really heartened to see He went from having a really bad boss - an attention system to one that was an exquisite and saved his life. So I want to end by sharing And here it is. Pay attention to your attention. Alright? Pay attention to your attention, and incorporate mindfulness training in order to tame your own wandering mind, and to allow your attention Thank you. (Applause)