Have you come across a situation where you implement a new feature that will affect data type of a column in a live database. However, getting through a complicated feature and many regression tests later, Rolling it out to. And in the end, if that didn't go well another instance where you need to wait to just patch a bug in your project. If you know what I'm talking That is gold people. And today we hear companies that roll out day, and probably a hundred times a week. How does that mean? The software developers I was comparing the pros and and microservices architecture. There is no old or new about It is all about choosing that fits your team and your. My name is Nash, and I'm a PM Focusing on helping developers build Today, I'm going to talk about building This is the first video in the the surface on the topic. However, there will be videos that will Do you know what is cool about this? Every video will give you links you can try yourself for free. Also included are the links to free eBooks a zero to an expert in just a few days. All right, let's get Microservices also known as microservice. Architecture is an architectural as a collection of smaller services. They are highly maintainable and tests. When the services are small, maintain and test the loosely. Coupled this is an important other on a service end point. So no to services, no. Any implementation details about the microservices are organized What that means is instead of into more minus services based on. You decouple them based on the business. Often patterns like the domain-driven business problem and separate them. They're in their own domain logic, This is why people often talk Need a cultural change in the organization managed by independent teams that release a feature or fix a bug with a Microservices are independently deprived. Having a service model based on teams, managing them and loosely independently to understand this. Let's look at how microservices are in the monolithic architecture, into multiple modules and fragmented interface layer, there's a cache layer. There's a service layer, a data However, when they are ready for deployment unit, meaning they all configurations and have create scripts. And. To a known infrastructure. The critical thing to note about the modules are tightly coupled. Hence the feature roll-outs must have teams must work together to prioritize also in a monolithic architecture, you modules are often the bottleneck for And scaling monolithic application means itself in microservice architecture. Since the app is decomposed into multiple on specific business functionality, Every micro service is responsible state in their respective databases. Individual services can now do. If they want to use sequel or no choice based on the business need. Unlike the monolithic architecture, And that is a crucial benefit because applications into production multiple services, microservices communicate Hence the internal implementation hidden from the other services. It also supports polyglot programming. For example, microservices don't stack libraries or frameworks. So you can have a dot-net application for the other, and they all can or entirely on their own. As you rightly guessed, this kind Since the services are loosely EPA calls needs to be resilient. Maintenance will be complicated and that give you a holistic picture for And that's why monolithic for smaller teams and projects. You don't need to start writing single project out there. Remember most applications that microservice implementing. Started as monolithic as a team size Okay. Back to microservices. Let me tell you about how even though Docker containers and microservices based applications. Most discussions around microservices The reason for that is the significant native technologies that help teams What role do containers? Containerization is an approach to application or a service its dependencies together as a container image, just as be transported by ship, train, or truck, containers act as a standard unit of different code and its dependencies. All the concept of containerization This technology has gained popularity Docker is an open source project for self sufficient containers that Docker is also a company that promotes collaboration with cloud Linux and when using Docker, a developer it and its dependencies into a representation of the app or service It's the image that when Are in the other words, the It's tense of an image in a typical app as an image and store it somewhere. I just need a container registry. And when you want to run your app, registry, deploy to the host operating For scalability, you can scale out quickly is a crucial benefit for cloud native. Another benefit is that a Once you have built an image, The only way to change an image is This feature is our guarantee that the same in the development and QA as well. So how does this compare to what virtualized environment? You will have the hardware, the host isolated virtual machines was apps. Most often there is a low And if you're hosting this on the for some underutilized resources. So whenever there is an under containers to underutilized VMs for savings containers are lightweight. You can spin up a container within will take longer to boot up, whether to scale out or migrating continuous You will need to do it And that's where the orchestrator What is an orchestrator using orchestrator your application is decomposed into containers, in a microservice based model and data to be autonomous from a This systems are complex to You need an orchestrator to have multi container application. Kubernetes has become the de It's open source supported by the neutral you can run Kubernetes on a local. All in the cloud on Azure. Now there's lot more that I want I'll keep that for another video. All right. Enough of me talking, We will look at a simple demo of creating Containerizing it and running I could start showing you everything it was best to show you a free That is part of the Microsoft learn part. The link for that is added to the find it somewhere on the screen. This is totally a free course. Either. You can start this module with execute the steps along the way, Later you can run them at your own pace. The important thing is you complete the ones actually, and earn your badge. All right, let's get into it. Go over to AKA Ms. Slash eighth PayNet hyphen microservices. That will take you directly to the covering cloud native technologies, microservice in dotnet to more advanced Helm Linka, the service mesh monitoring, resiliency, DevOps, and get straight to the first module. Prerequisites include installing And of course having basic in your favorite terminal. If you know the copy, the snippet Yeah, good. I'll go straight to unit three so I can should check unit two hours later because what microservices are and what role Copy the code and paste I want to make sure All right, clone the code, the files for the exercise. Once it is done, navigate to the. Go ahead and open the source There are many files in here, notice is that there are two main One is the end. And the other is the front end. Typically in microservices, multiple smaller applications. You may have to run hundreds view of the application itself. However, for this module, And as the name states, there is a front end or UI that connects to the The backend project is an It has a controller called pizza info restaurant pine that other services It lets you define valves and attributes data from the request part, automatically bound to method parameters. In this case, we have Ingredients cost and availability stored When a hedge DB get request is made to populated variable in the get method. esp.net automatically see a format a Jason out of the box. If you're new to asp.net, very scroll down and hit the web link. Then click on the API and hit. Get. Alternatively, you can also Put together there by All right. Back to the terminal. Let's go to the backend This is great. Execute the dotnet run command. The web API now is listening I'll go ahead and click the link go straight to the swagger, which latest asp.net project templates. As you can see, there is a pizza Let's try it out. Oh, cool. That is the pizza data that we can Okay. That was easy. It feels good. When the code you cloned from the internet Well, isn't that what Once you package your app and it should work everywhere. The Docker host runs next out. We're going to create a Docker image. What you need is a doctor. The project already has an empty with instructions from the module. Notice that there is no It is just the Docker file. Go ahead. Copy the instructions and So what is DACA file? A DAGA file is a text file Docker to build your image. You need to create an image out of an Pun intended. Gratz is a minimal amaze that Five images, especially image for almost all scenarios. It is recommended that you create an In this example, back in projects, official dotnet SDK image. Using the official images will ensure that And the dependency is included in each instruction within the Docker layer that is created while building. The work DIR command changes the current SRC the can't be command tells Cod Docker computer to a folder in the container. In this example, the back-end the current working directory. Then the dotnet restore command is run and Finally, dotnet publish The DLLs into your app folder, you may CS proj file separately, and then ran published command would have done it. All. This is to optimize our image. Building process darker creates a separate the layers are stacked, and each one is Docker also Cassius, this layers. So it doesn't have to rebuild That's why we copied the CS proj So all the packages are cashed within that when the, when we rebuild the image for If your bill contains several From the more frequently changed Go ahead and build a measure using then tag it as a pizza backend. Ah, that's an editor. If you see this error, One, your Docker desktop It is not confident correctly. I'll go ahead and start Once it turns green. I'm good to go. The simplest way to check the is to run the Docker, run command It's not going to find the image image from Docker hub and then run If you see this message, you're good. I'll go ahead and read The first time it is going to it needs to pull base images and Notice how it is running each If you want to see all the images in your There is a pizza backend and the hello go ahead and run the mate's Docker. Run it to be. And I'll also add on him to it stops and the image name. And now we are inside the container. If I run L S inside the SRC folder, copied in order to build the image. Let's go one step up and And there is the fines Um, actually copied too. So to recap, we included the dotnet out of the official Lockland image, it and built it right inside it. But if you had noticed the size of And that is because we have And even the source code is are unnecessary for the final. The final image can be much more compact package deal, it's only luckily Docker you to reduce the size of your final I can base my image out of another which is substantially smaller. And use the copy command to copy only which is named built, not as the This will ensure the final bill runtime required to run our image. Now, if you run the build again and then notice that we have drastically reduced are super helpful in UCI pipeline, not When you're testing your applications, you Since they are darker images, you crosses and ignore them as part of unit tasks, integration tasks, or any the final image will ignore all the final image is small and QA is checked. Now run the image this Five to double zero, that maps to the Run the code command to the And you'll get the same But this time the app is running Well, this is. But let's go ahead and run our front end a UI to run multiple containers locally, that comes with the Docker desktop. You will need a Yammel file And they're called Docker compose files. Go ahead and copy the And paste it right inside the file in the root directory. Since this configuration will explicitly image name, the ports, it is going to file you can build and run all your Darker build our Docker By default, it also sets up a Each container joins the default other containers on the network. That's why you can call the other colon, double slash, and the name of the back and Euro as the environment Since it is within the Docker network, If you need to expose them out to specify the port separately. In this case, finance it or two for the environment variable will be picked up configuration dot get value method. All right, now that we have the Docker run the Docker hyphen composed bill It's going to be faster this use the cash for most of this. Done. I will. Once again, verify they may just your lot is that we now have the Let's go ahead and run this together. Using Docker hyphen compose up command. This command will set up a default I can navigate to the financier to represented visually in the beautiful. And that's it we're done. If you like this video, do the usual friends and subscribe to this channel. But most importantly, run the in the description of this video. Answer some simple questions Thank you for watching. My name is niche. I'll see you in the next.