- [Instructor] My partner and appreciates everything And what better way to than with this spirit from a wild remote Island Thanks to today's sponsor, Jess and I are enjoying with a trio of martinis, dry, dirty, and one with the sweet twist. These botanist martinis will perfectly complete our date night meal. Let's get down to saying, I love you with great Let's get down to the basics. (upbeat music) All right, for this Date Night, we're going to make canopies, and I'm gonna show you how to make three different kinds of each. This way you can pick You can mix and match, for a sort of tasting menu. And for the easiest and of cooking together, we're gonna start with what First up, a decadent I'm gonna start with some arts and crafts lining for six ounce ramekins with parchment paper on To line the bottom, I am folding into a triangle pressing into the center of the ramekin and using my freshly clipped around the inside edge of the cup. This is going to act as a cutting guide. And if we cut right around that edge, it's going to give us of parchment paper custom Then the line to the sides, we're cutting a strip of parchment paper at the same height as the pressing it inside and This recipe is for four cakes. So if my math is correct, I'm gonna repeat this three more times, then once we got all we're gonna generously and the paper with non-stick spray. This is going to help to the inside of the cups. With those guys all prepped, we're ready to start making our butter. First, we need six ounces dark chocolate of your choice. I like to shoot for about 60%. Then to make sure that it melts easily, we're going to chop it And then heat proved of Dutch-process cocoa powder, a half teaspoon each, and kosher salt, and of unsalted room temperature butter. Mix that up into a paste and set aside and over on the stove top, we're combining three ounces of sugar with a third of a cup of making sure that all taking off the heat and pouring directly over our chocolate mixture. Then we're gonna wanna let this sit for 30 seconds of just 30 This is gonna give the to soften and heat up so to tiny whisk it quickly creamy ganache. This is going to act as the chocolate part of our flowerless chocolate cake. Now we've got to make the cake part. Into the bowl of a stand mixer goes three room temperature eggs and one and a half ounces of sugar. Then I'm gonna beat this for about three minutes in volume and reaches the ribbon stage where the mixture luxuriously like ribbons. Now we're just gonna add our to the party folding You don't have to be too gentle with it. This isn't like egg whites, you're not gonna deflate it too much. Once that's evenly combined we're going to divide it evenly amongst our pre-paper ramekins. You might notice that and that's because I thought this would only make three cakes. It turns out it makes four. That's why I'm here so you don't have to. Next up, we're placing these or cake pan and filling that of the way up the sides of Then they are headed into a for anywhere from 60 to 70 and relatively set but ever so Pop them out of the bath, place them on a wire rack to cool, and once completely cooled, for at least four hours Now, I mentioned that we're of each course in this meal. So for the cakes, we're gonna look at a few First up, one of my favorites, We're combining five ounces on the stove top with a and bringing to a bare simmer. While that begins to bubble and we're gonna scrape and in a medium heat proof bowl, we are separating three, Egg whites go there. We're separating out And we're whisking those yolks together with three tablespoons of sugar, adding our vanilla bean scrapings and whisking until smooth and creamy. Then a creme anglaise is that isn't cooked as much. So we're bringing over and milk mixture and gently into the eggs while whisking constantly. Then we are whisking the and cream and cooking over medium low heat while whisking constantly until it reaches about This should be the point where and it reaches a stage known as nappe, where it can thickly and leave a clean trail At this point, we're and whisk in about a tablespoon of butter. Once that's fully incorporated, let it cool to room pressing a layer of plastic wrap down against the surface of the custard to prevent it from forming a skin. Our next option for sauces We've got a half pint a half a cup of sugar, combined in a sauce pan, mashed up, brought to a simmer, and cooked for about five to six minutes until it's a nice thin liquidy And we're gonna strain this, optionally add a tablespoon let it cool in the room temperature and likewise, cover and Last up, one that I'm a bourbon caramel sauce. Into a medium saucepan goes a third of a cup of water that we're gonna bring to a We're gonna let this cook for anywhere from three to five minutes one might even say caramel color. At this point, we're killing the heat and slowly adding a half heavy cream whisking constantly. It will bubble and so make sure that you wear an off glove. Once that's all calm down, we can add a hefty pinch of kosher salt. It is illegal not to salt your caramel and a third of a cup of Let this cool off and cover and refrigerate until And just like that, we've So now it's time to take First up my personal favorite, a roasted eggplant Once we're done playing with it, we're going to slice one large eggplant into one inch slaps on a paper towel lined baking sheet and generously sprinkle on We're letting those for about 20 minutes which is going to make which of course, we're gonna dab off with more paper towels. This is a great practice for almost any eggplant application. In our case, we're plopping tossing them with a hitting with a few twists of tossing around to ensure even coating and roasting at 400 degrees Fahrenheit for about 30 minutes, until they are lightly While those cool off, we're where we're heating about over medium high heat until shimmering, adding one small chopped onion and sweating for about three minutes. Once the onion is softened and we're adding one clove of minced garlic, satang about 30 seconds or until fragrant and adding one red bell pepper both seated and diced. We're also adding one tablespoon of sugar, two tablespoons of minced green olive, one tablespoon of capers, holding onto the cup if we can manage. And once it's cool enough to handle, our roasted eggplant Now we're gonna slowly stew for about 30 minutes until and sweet and delicious. Add little splashes of water as necessary if it gets too dry, season and freshly ground pepper, let it cool and fridge Whether you go hot or cold, this is gonna make a lovely topping for our crostini down the line. Next up, a Tuscan white bean dip. We're satang a small shallot of olive oil until soften adding a half teaspoon of and two crushed cloves of garlic satang for another 30 seconds or until fragrant, then we're adding one can have rinsed and drained white cannellini beans killing the heat and just tossing to coat. Next up, the zest of one small lemon, a pinch of kosher salt and a few twists of freshly Then this guy's headed straight along with an eighth of a and the juice of our apple Go ahead and start to blitz that, and while the machine is running, we're gonna stream in one quarter cup of extra Virgin olive oil keep processing until the Taste for seasoning. Then this guy's headed for the fridge until we're ready to use it. Now for the main course, how to make a few different And for that, we need pasta dough. And I've recently come in the world to make it Instead of food processor, where you're combining a 7.5 ounces of all-purpose flour, one and five ounces of eggs. We are then locking down and smashing go and letting it process for 60 seconds. Much like with food this is going to create and accomplish what it would to do by hand. In the end, you should be met that bounces back when poked, give it a little hand that you care rapid and until ready to use up to overnight. Now I'm gonna show you how of pasta fillings with three Let's start with a with brown butter sage sauce. For the filling, we're gonna start with two cups of pre-peeled three cloves of garlic one small shallot peeled and cut in half, three leaves of fresh sage chopped, two springs worth of one tablespoon of extra Virgin olive oil, a teaspoon of kosher salt and a tablespoon of maple and squashes natural sweetness. Toss everybody together to coat evenly, dump into a rimmed baking sheet, cover tightly with aluminum foil and poke a couple of holes in Then we were roasting this for 30 to 40 minutes until the and shows little to no resistance when stabbed with a pairing knife. We're letting this guy cool completely before dumping into a food processor along with two ounces of marscapone cheese and one teaspoon of white wine vinegar. Processed together for about 60 seconds or until completely smooth with kosher salt and And just like that, your is ready to fridge. It's a company new sauce, It doesn't really require any preparation, but it can save you a little bit of time if you brown your butter beforehand. I've got eight ounces of and swirling constantly over medium heat until the milk solids separate If you've fridge this and then let it come to room you can mix it up and makes sure all the are evenly distributed throughout. Next up for all you cheese we've got ourselves a with a bright and spicy vodka sauce. In a medium bowl, we are two ounces of grated Parmesan, two ounces of grated asiago, and four ounces of grated low Mostly, you're gonna add a two or three leaves of one large beaten egg and and cheesy creamy Italian stuff. About a quarter teaspoon We're also gonna add one and freshly ground pepper. We wanna try to season as many layers of our dishes as possible. Mix that up into a homogenous paste and then it can hang out in the fridge until we're ready to fill our pasta. Likewise, it's accompanying the sauce, it's very quick and easy, but We're satang one small chopped onion and a tablespoon and a half of olive oil for about three minutes adding one clove of minced garlic, and between a quarter to a full depending on how spicy you like it. Satang those together for about 30 seconds before adding a full six cook that for about two minutes and it's starting to stick kill the heat and deglaze with about a third of a cup of vodka. Make sure the flame is off, or Once that is mostly evaporated, we're turning the heat back on the medium, adding a half teaspoon of dried oregano and cooking for about two minutes, just enough time to make sure that we've evaporated off all the alcohol. Then we're cranking the heat down to low and slowly and in stages, of a cup of heavy cream This is gonna help prevent Once it's fully incorporated, we're turning off the heat seasoning taste with salt and freshly ground pepper, and once cooled, this guy can pressed down against a surface to prevent the formation of skin. Last up, a sausage and cheese tortelloni with a broccoli rabe pasta. To make the filling, we add a brown, about eight ounces worth in a little bit of oil, mashing it up into resorting to using a We just wanna get a little bit of branding and make sure that the before draining on paper towels to get rid of all the excess fat. While the sausage cools off and drains, we're going to make a sausage Combining five ounces of ricotta, one ounce of grated Parmesan, And in addition to some we need something to that thing being one large beaten egg. This should help give our tortelloni a nice cohesive filling. Once you get that all nice and mixed up and well combined and homogenous and all the other words that this like everybody else Broccoli rabe and Italian sausage So we're making a broccoli rabe pasta to accompany this pasta. We're gonna need roughly that we're gonna remove one about a quarter pound once de leaved. Then we are briefly Just one to two minutes and is going to protect the and color in the pasta making process. We're shocking our rabe in an ice bath and squeezing completely dry The more moisture you get out of there, the better you don't want a watery pasta and replacing our drain BR in along with a quarter cup of two large cloves of one copious grading about of Parmesan cheese, a a few twists of freshly and six tablespoons of Process this into a fine paste and pasta, you got pasta, I am sorry. And like basil pasta, this and it can hang out until This concludes the pre-preface Now we're getting into that we got to do at dinner time. First up, we got to make some We're doing this simply by thinly slicing a Arranging them on a rack, brushing them down a and sprinkling with kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper. Then these guys are headed into for about five minutes crisp around the edges There you go. And once cool, they are ready to receive For the white bean dip, we're just gonna load up and both for flavor. And so they don't look so plain, with some chives sliced on the diagonal. I'm not a huge beam guy myself, but these guys are a delicious, elegant, and simple prelude to any Italian dinner. Next up, likewise, with the caponata, we're just gonna pile it This time garnishing with and there you have it, And as for the third one, it And it's one of my favorite This crostini is just a topped with a single marcona almond or a hazelnut and drizzled with honey. I've made these for and they are always the ones that disappear the most fastest. And they're the only one that I can't help but stick preview before serving. Now, we get to the filling and shaping our pasta. This of course can be done by hand, but it requires a significant and nobody wants to be exhausted for their Date Night dinner. So I'm going to employ a pasta roller. And I got to say this food processor pasta came out gorgeously. Normally, I recommend a couple of times that is rolling it out, folding it up and rolling it out again. But the food processor that there was no need to do it. You just roll and go on. And once cooked, the tooth some Al Dente. Now this episode, it's getting pretty long and I've already exhaustedly and shape filled pasta. If you wanna see my click the link in the upper But if I should say, by placing dollops of across the bottom half sealing it shut using a wetted fingertip and cutting it into decorative shapes. For the tortelloni, we're piping our filling into the center, letting two edges of the square folding in half and pressing then joining the two corners together around our finger to form tortelloni. For the tortelloni it's but this time we're cutting Piping our sausage wedding on one side, pressing shut and around the back to form tortelloni. Like I said, I'm not gonna go much into the technique here for making pasta is that on Date Night, it's a great time to recruit All the prep is done and out of the way. It ends up taking half as long and you feel like you're doing It's fun. So go ahead and grab an Pull up my other video again, click the link, get your and get down to making pasta together. Even with a camera crew present, it ends up being a sweet, Then once you got your all there is left to do is First up, to make the I'm going to fry up some and a little bit of vegetable or until they've rendered out their fat and they're nice and crisp, set those aside, hang on to that oil and get some water boiling so you can start cooking your pasta. We're gonna add our first sauce to the oil over medium low heat just to heat it up a little bit. Let our four cheese tortelloni until it starts to float into the waiting pasta and continuing to cook so the flavors can get to know each other. If the sauce starts to break, go ahead and add a glug and it will re-emulsify. Stack it high and a warm plate The procedure is very much the same for the sausage tortelloni We're lightly heating as we cook the pasta and once the tortelloni begins to float. For this one, you're add a solid quarter cup to give you an extra Don't be afraid to add more as necessary, keep tossing it around and of fresh Parmesan for For a butternut squash ravioli we're heating up our pre-brown butter until foaming or just browning butter if you didn't pre-brown and of garlic and a few fresh sage leaves. We're gonna let these fry up for just about 30 seconds We don't want anybody to burn. And as soon as the garlic is lightly brown and the sage is wilted, go ahead This one, likewise is gonna of pasta cooking water. Otherwise, you're gonna end This along with little is going to make it into If it starts to break or if take it off the heat And there you have it folks, for three different Date Night dishes. Sausage and cheese tortelloni which I'm gonna garnish with more cheese and some chops sun dried tomatoes. For cheese tortelloni with and crispy pancetta, ravioli with fried sage and garlic, and Caponata Tuscan white bean and ricotta with honey canopies. And so whether you've or all nine of them, all there is left to do is They're all made from scratch. They can all be made They are all made with love, and they are all clean Look, she even has her own What could possibly make this Well, I think three from today's sponsor, the botanist gin. First up, for our Valentine's we're gonna need some You can also harvest from your fridge, perhaps a sultry look to set the mood. One heaping tablespoon Those are the little seed which we're gonna muddle together with two and a half parts This is going to infuse them with both their pomegranate flavor and their pomegranate color. We'll let that hang out for two hours before straining and pouring over ice in our preferred mixing glass, along with half a part of dry vermouth, go ahead and mix that vigorously until the glass has become frosty and it is diluted to your preference, strain into a chilled Nick and Nora glass and garnish with a sprig of fresh thyme. But just like everything else today, we're doing three variations. Deep for the more classic dry martini, well, it's the same recipe, And instead of the fresh thyme, we're gonna garnish this guy with an elegant wedge of lemon peel. Do you prefer things a bit dirtier? Well, for a dirty martini, again, two and a half but this time we're adding a in addition to our half Mix until chilled and diluted, pour into a chilled Nick and Nora glass and garnish with three stuffed olives. And there you have it three to accompany your three different Oh, and the cakes, I almost Run a thin knife around the And these guys should pop Lose the parchment paper and sauce up as desired with pipes or pools or big dripping dollops. These guys also respond very nicely to a big dollop of whipped cream. Whether you like your martinis dry, dirty, or with a different twist, the button just brings out the best in this classic cocktail. Already delicious on its own, a botanist martini pairs perfectly with this three-course meal Mixed one up this order a bottle of the botanist The link is in the video (gentle music)