Hey everyone, and welcome to TopThink. Today, that make you smarter. Few traits are more personally, professionally, In simple terms, intelligence is the ability generate ideas, and think critically about intelligence has been the subject of hundreds, if time again, it's been proven to positively The most intelligent people tend to climb higher achieve meaningful, long-term goals. They tend more respect from the people they meet. On are mainly responsible for the development of Jobs laid the foundations for generations Einstein and Stephen Hawking transformed how we From artists and philosophers to scientists and were able to change the world forever because intelligence to the fullest. They learned, constantly searching for inspiration Some of these people were naturally gifted, anyone else; yet they climbed to the top of their expanding their intelligence each and every day. set in stone. For instance, Albert Einstein was yet he won a Nobel Prize in Physics and became one words, high intelligence isn't something you're your intelligence by stimulating your mind and With hard work and the right habits, anyone can train themselves to think and create like the we're going to explore the many powerful ways you gifted or just average, these twelve everyday 1. Meditation Increases IQ around the world have used one simple exercise to of meditation has been scientifically proven and even raise your intelligence quotient, or IQ. an IQ test, and their scores were compared to meditators scored 20% higher than non-meditators. under pressure, staying calm and focused a few minutes every day, and you may think, 2. The High-Exposure Method According to billionaire Warren Buffet, it's single day. Using the so-called high-exposure were able to climb to the top of their fields. brains with as many productive materials as talk to interesting people, and keep tabs on new information, which inspires innovative While you can't possibly know everything, that all kinds of inspiring materials every day, and 3. Make Your Neurons Powerful only ways to grow your intelligence. Studies intellectual performance and physical exercise. promote the growth of cells called neurons, which neurons expands and complexifies your brain, 4. The Illusion of Knowledge world around them. They take things at face value asking more questions can make you smarter. no matter how popular or conventional and ask as many questions as you can. Even if it deeper and more unique point of view. Albert Einstein once said, "If you can't explain well enough." When we learn new things, we tend to questions or get good grades but not enough Without mastery, we struggle to retain our That's why Einstein developed this simple test. explain it to another person in as don't understand what you're saying, you your understanding. Because the person who can 6. Intelligence Is Contagious surround yourself with. This isn't a hard and fast impact on your intellectual development. aren't particularly smart, you may not On the other hand, if you spend time with one conversation can elevate your thinking. easy -- sometimes, it's downright intimidating with the smartest person you know, and 7. The Power of Reflective Writing can only juggle so much information in our heads, ideas or work through complicated problems. This think about what direction we're headed or the often too complex to resolve by thinking alone. their lives. In writing, we can express the thoughts swirling around our heads. In a put pen to paper, pursuing new conclusions, Contrary to popular belief, you don't every day. Feel free to express your ideas in write just one paragraph about your life, and 8. Reinvent Your Distractions and time-wasters, but these mind-numbing intelligence. If you want to become smarter, make substitute common time-wasters for activities that For example, instead of watching a mindless TV You're still avoiding your work, but at least 9. Activate Your Musical Brain like a piano or guitar, has an incredible researchers scanned the brains of musicians as is like giving your brain a full-body workout. the amygdala and cerebellum. At the same time, and visual cortexes -- but that's not all. Learning the hemispheres of your brain while enhancing The list goes on and on, so if you want to Whether you're an amateur or professional, playing 10. Bite-sized Reading Few activities enhance your intelligence, an incredible way to accrue knowledge, but it MRI scans showed increases in brain performance The problem for many people is motivating have to be a time-consuming chore. To experience need to do is read just two pages a day. It may expand your knowledge and change your brain. How many hours do you spend staring at a on your devices can have a negative impact on time shortens your attention span, worsens So, try stepping away from your devices for at by as little as 20% may give you a much-needed only feel more focused, but you'll have more 12. Unlock Your Imagination are also the most creative. Creativity allows and solve problems in ways others might spend some time exploring and developing the For example, take up a creative hobby like Studies have shown that these activities and interesting ideas. So, let your creative minutes each day. Unlock your imagination, Thank you for watching TopThink more incredible content is on the way.