Welcome to Hollywood Graveyard. Today I turn community, as we travel the world to visit of the woods. In this tour we continue through legends like Abraham Lincoln, Prince, Will friends, the time is yours. as part 7 of round 2 of our Viewers Special, Midwest in part 7 of round 2 of our Viewers grave-hunting right there. If you can't that today we're exploring Illinois, Minnesota, and South Dakota. Now then, let's do what We begin our tour today in Illinois. This 70s, TV's favorite blended family ruled Robert Reed. Between 1969 and 1974 Reed played remembered for playing Kenneth Preston on He can also be seen in the miniseries, Roots. away at just 59. Elaine Stritch. She's considered one of Tony nominated roles in plays like Bus Stop, Elaine Stritch at Liberty, won the Tony Award winning Emmys for shows like Law &amp; Order, Elaine Stritch died in her sleep at age 89. who was something of an actor himself, seen 70s, including Doctor Who. He was just 53 This is the grave of actress Karyn "Cookie" in the 60s, like Hawaiian Eye, and The Gertrude Little Shop of Horrors. But it was her death days after the assassination of President West Hollywood Home, at the age of 22. Occurring her father's prominent place as a Chicago being among many wrapped up in the various the debunked claim that she was murdered by in advance that Kennedy would be killed, and unsolved to this day. Calumet Park. Here lies Nelsan Ellis. As an role as Lafayette Reynolds in the HBO series, and Martin Luther King Jr in The Butler. Ellis to get clean, but in the process was hospitalized syndrome, which lead to heart failure at just Our next stop is one for you fans of gangster and the grave of "Scarface" himself, Al of the Chicago Outfit during the Prohibition He became something of a national celebrity, people what they want." But his means grew Valentine's Day Massacre of rival gang members. his pocket, until Eliot Ness led a group of He was eventually imprisoned, not for murder in prison his health began to fail from syphilis. in 1947 at age 48. As one of America's most a model for gangsters and crime bosses in Speaking of gangster roles, also here at Mt. face to film and television audiences beginning Get Shorty, and Midnight Run. Farina would Manhunter, and on Law &amp; Order. He was abundantly years for the Chicago Police Department before embolism at age 69. rests here at All Saints Catholic Cemetery sportscaster he covered five Major League St. Louis Cardinals, the St. Louis Browns, and of course the Chicago Cubs. He would broadcast the fun and energy of the ballpark. The inscription his signature expression. Harry Caray passed away at age 83 from complications career he was inducted into multiple halls Hall of Fame. He was also famously caricatured Next up here at All Saints we find James Woolley. synthesizers for Nine Inch Nails in the 90s. Inch Nails, for "Happiness in Slavery." in a fall from a ladder while retrieving equipment This mausoleum houses Robert Ringling. He his work in the operas of Wagner. In 1934 run the family business. Given his name, I'll he helped run the Ringling Bros &amp; Barnum and died from a stroke at just 52. in Hillside. Here is the crypt of Mark Venturini. in 80's horror films, like Victor in Friday in The Return of the Living Dead. He also She Wrote. But Mark's career was cut tragically If you play the drums, then you know our next City: Gene Krupa. He was a band leader, composer, man who helped elevate the drums from mere instrument. His innovation of the drum solo Sing, Sing." Gene played with legends like by many as the founding father of the modern at age 64. A film would be made about his as Gene. in Bloomington. Here we find the unique grave land of Oz: Dorothy Gage. Little Dorothy was months later the family was devastated by Baum, author of The Wizard of Oz. To give Dorothy, he named the main character of his that this tree had to come down. An artist Toto, and the Yellow Brick Road into the stump whose final resting place is nearby. This donated by Mickey Carroll, who played one of Oz. here at Evergreen is Charles Radbourne, nicknamed 11 years in the National League and Players impressive 310 games. In 1939 Old Hoss was was just 42 when he died. a monument to a dark era in American labor the United Mineworkers of America were on owner, seeking revenue, brought in non-union Tensions escalated between strikers and strikebreakers, mortally wounding a third. The next day an mine to exact revenge. The strikebreakers for safe passage. The 50 or so workers were upon reaching a barbed wire fence, were told fire on them. Several strikebreakers who survived to crawl here to Herrin Cemetery, where they died in the dispute, 17 of which were buried And to add to the tragedy, sympathetic local We're in Shiloh now, and Shiloh Valley Cemetery. grave of Mary Wickes. As an actress she was nurses, and quite often being type-cast as with Angels. On TV she was the first actress regular roles in shows like Dennis the Menace, of Disney, Mary was the model for Cruella Hunchback of Notre Dame. She died after complications Next up is Oakland Cemetery in Woodstock. figure in Hollywood crime, Johnny Stompanato. he made his way to Los Angeles where he would Cohen. By 1957, Johnny was in a relationship was stormy, sometimes violent. On April 4, 14-year-old daughter, Cheryl. She claimed attacking her mother. A coroner's inquest Johnny Stompanato was 32. we find a name synonymous with your neighborhood In 1901 Charles Walgreen started a drug store nine drug stores, which he incorporated as lunches and ice cream. Walgreens is now the US. get your grave-hunting merit badge? What's Well, there should be. This is William Boyce, He began his career as a newspaper and magazine While on a trip to England he was introduced to the US, he formed the Boy Scouts of America, youth organizations in the nation. Boyce died Our next Illinois stop is Woodland Cemetery character actor was never a leading man, but we love. These include Total Recall, Arachnophobia, guest appearances on shows like Tales from Fences. Roy died from complications of diabetes Jack London. lies Frank Wead. He was a US Navy aviator aviation, he took his knowledge to Hollywood which earned him an Oscar nomination. He received even had a movie made about him, John Wayne died after complications from surgery at age No exploration of famous graves in Illinois and one of the most famous and visited gravesites of Abraham Lincoln is located at Oak Ridge President of the United States, and one of the nation through the Civil War, preserving lawyer from Kentucky was elected president presidency as a threat to slavery, and began South Carolina. The Civil War broke out shortly the rebellion and restore the Union. It seemed that seemed to be at such odds - something Address aimed to do just that, describing dedicated to the proposition that all men preserving our union, when the Civil War ended in 1865. On January 1, 1863, Lincoln issued the slaves. Lincoln was re-elected president through reconciliation. But just days after the play Our American Cousin at Ford's Theater by a well-known stage actor named John Wilkes but succumbed to his injuries the next morning, went into mourning, and Lincoln's body travelled Funeral Train, mourners lining the tracks was the first major public figure to be embalmed, Lincoln's body was temporarily entombed was being built, finally being permanently wife, Mary Todd Lincoln, and several of his and the state of Illinois, be sure to rub Before moving on to our next state, let's quick to visit a site we missed in our coverage Oak Hill Cemetery in Lake Geneva, and the designer best known for co-creating the pioneering published in 1974. The popularity of the game which he co-produced. To this day, Dungeons playing games, and is frequently referenced died from an aortic aneurysm at the age of in Dungeons &amp; Dragons. spend much of our time in the Twin Cities is Lakewood in Minneapolis. Let's head first of the legendary Tiny Tim. The comedic musician the 60s and 70s for his long hair, ukulele with dizzying vibrato. This inimitable sound song, a cover of "Tiptoe Through the Tulips." Laugh in, and The Tonight Show with Johnny as well. In November 1996 he was playing a "Tiptoe Through the Tulips" he suffered his way back to his table, but collapsed, at age 64. At his funeral, a ukulele was placed Let's head back out to the grounds, where animals we've not yet encountered, wild Nearby is the grave of actress Alice Frost. Mercury Theater, and would become one of the series Mr and Mrs North. Alice became known then become a regular player in early television, Electric Theater, Bonanza, and more. Alice Over now to the Garden Wall section, is the writer, known for his work during the Golden for pulp publications in the 30s. He wrote novels, one of which, Way Station, winning other accolades for his writing, and in 1987 Bram Stoker Lifetime Achievement Award. Simak On to section 3, and the grave of an artist foremost wildlife painters, his work appearing more. Other of his notable work includes a of Chief Little Crow, and designing the Old Next up here at Lakewood is author and playwright 1946 novel, Mister Roberts, based on his experiences Roberts would be made into a Tony Award-wining Tragically, Heggen drowned in his bathtub just 30. strolls today? Maybe a croissant or a cookie A. Pillsbury was the co-founder and namesake 1869. It would grow to become one of the world's Charles co-founded the company with his uncle, eighth governor. your hunger, maybe the Mars Family can help Candy Factory in 1911, and later Mars, Inc. candy, notably, chocolate candy bars. In 1924 son, Forrest Mars, inspired by the milkshakes bar. It would become a best-selling treat favorites that ended up in your trick-or-treat for Mars &amp; Murrie... Bruce Murrie being the ensured they melted in your mouth, not in company in the world. move back into the entertainment world, visiting player and founding member of the Minneapolis 80s, and had a Grammy-winning hit in the 1993 Karl was diagnosed with cancer in 2004, passing Our next Minnesota stop is Roselawn Cemetery. at the grave of Herb Brooks. He was a hockey in the form of what would be known as the coach of the US Olympic Hockey team. The US Soviet Union team. The underdog Americans victory led them to a gold two days later the most iconic moments in US sports. Brooks died in a car accident shortly after turning 66. He was posthumously inducted into the Also here at Roselawn we find Mitch Hedberg. for deadpan delivery and short, sometimes appearances on screen, in shows like That March 30, 2005, Mitch was found dead in his overdose. He was 37. His death was announced April 1, Tragically, it was not. This is Gethsemane Cemetery. Let's head is the crypt of Mr. Perfect, Curtis Hennig. for the AWA in the 80s. In 1987 he won the then move to the WWF. be regarded as one of the best competitors died from a cocaine overdose in his Florida inducted into the Professional Wrestling Hall Fort Snelling is a National Cemetery here a hero named Thomas Burnett. Tom was aboard 2001, when it was hijacked by terrorists. attacks on the World Trade Center. He and mission and the terrorists intended to crash well, likely the White House or Capitol Building. couldn't just sit quietly and formulated call with his wife telling her, "Don't they did, heroically storming the cockpit, but in doing so lost their lives when the field. Tom was 38. His and the others' courageous Earlier we visited the creator of Dungeons Sutherland. David was one of the original work includes the cover of the original Dungeons isometric maps, like that of Castle Ravenloft. He died from liver failure at age 56. we find Dear Abby herself, Pauline Phillips. well-known newspaper column, "Dear Abby" newspaper column in the world, with over 100 compassionate advice, delivered with the straightforward Pauline wrote the column alone until 1987 diagnosis in the early 2000s, her daughter Pauline lived to be 94. we find a composer named Bebe Barron. She and designing instruments with her husband, soundwaves and recording them to tape... among and techniques caught the ears of producers They were hired to compose the score for the film score. Eerie and sinister, it was unlike It was so unusual, the musician's union but rather, "electric tonalities." It's Bebe lived to be 82. Cemetery. This is where 60s teen idol Bobby who had some 38 Hot-100 hits, six of which of My Baby." Vee would often appear as himself it Cool. Vee was diagnosed with Alzheimer's Rolling right along we reach Greenwood Cemetery. As his stone indicates, he was the author was written in 1920 and became immensely popular. novel, Arrowsmith. A few years later Sinclair be awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature. the Oscar-winning 1960 film, Elmer Gantry. at the age of 65. for a time, didn't go by a name at all, just outside Minneapolis, the creative home singer, songwriter, and multi-instrumentalist a number of styles, from funk and R&amp;B, to of the most talented and versatile musicians the 80s with hits like "When Doves Cry," would also serve as the soundtrack to his for Purple Rain. Prince would go on to become In 2016 doctors were called in to help Prince help would not come soon enough. Prince died just 57. He was cremated, his ashes placed Paisley Park. The urn was on display for a removed from public display and placed in as a monument to Prince's legacy. monument belongs to Magnus Johnson. You could that Johnson was a politician, who served only Swedish-born person to serve in the US curious claim to fame is as the creator of by a single individual. For reasons unknown, 1950 to 1979, until it measured some twelve pounds. Weird Al even referenced it in his This Calvary Cemetery is located in Rochester 1905 he played just a single game in the Major fielder. He never got a chance at bat. He a doctor. Graham would be one of the characters made into the film, Field of Dreams. Dr. Archibald Lancaster in his final film role, and by Frank lived to be 88. to their neighbors to the south, in Iowa. Iowa stop. In these grounds rests Don Ameche. on Vaudeville, before becoming a major star calling, making him a romantic lead in films Way. He enjoyed something of a second career and as Art in Cocoon, a role which earned 85. After his death he was cremated, his ashes plot of his wife, Honore Prendergast... though mystery, and there is no marker for him. Highland Memorial Gardens. Here is a musician vocalist, and songwriter for the heavy metal #2. He was a founding member of Slipknot, after the release of their debut album in and "Psychosocial." On May 24, 2010, Gray an overdose of morphine and fentanyl. He was Let's wrap up our time here at Highland This is Riverside Cemetery, the burial site was one of America's great painters, known He's particularly well-known for his 1930 of the most familiar images of 20th Century pancreatic cancer. He's buried here alongside farmer's daughter in American Gothic. the other model for American Gothic. This family friend of Grant Wood, and was the model unassuming country dentist, with one of the Our last Iowa stop is Mount Calvary Cemetery was immensely popular with children for decades, Kukla, Fran, and Ollie, which ran from 1947 like Sesame Street and Mr. Rogers. The show the puppet characters in whimsical ways. Fran Personality. She lived to be 81. Cemetery in Kearney, we find a man indelibly James. He was an American frontier outlaw, he formed the James-Younger Gang, known for the Midwest. After a disastrous attempt to the gang dead, Jesse James returned to Missouri there was a bounty on his head, one cashed shot him in the back of the head. Dead at to Wild West legend. He was originally buried exhumed and moved here to Mount Olivet. James Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Connecting history through the world's graveyards, man who shot Jesse James, Bob Ford. He was the time when Jesse was considering giving along with the promise of a full pardon for On April 3, 1882, he shot Jesse James in his famously dusting a picture on the wall. Bob turned themselves in, but were dismayed when sentenced to death by hanging for murder, later a man named Edward O'Kelley entered a shotgun, and killed him. Bob was 30. City. Here lies Buck O'Neil. He played baseball and 1955, mainly for the Kansas City Monarchs he would become a scout for the Chicago Cubs, in Major League Baseball, also for the Cubs. in 2022. He lived to be 94. Hill: Satchel Page. He was a pitcher in the become one of the greatest players in the his debut for the Cleveland Indians, making American League, but the oldest player to his last Major League game in 1966, at the died after a heart attack at age 75. Lincoln Cemetery is in Independence. Here He was a jazz saxophonist, band leader, and and a pioneer of the bebop style -- one of His innovations expanded the harmonic language in his track, "Ko-Ko." Drug addiction on Bird's health and career. He died March from lobar pneumonia and a bleeding ulcer, 34. Charlie Bird Parker was portrayed by Forrest This mausoleum is found at Mount Moriah Cemetery. there was Al Hirschfeld, there was Ralph Barton, well known for his cartoons and caricatures Among his most famous is this 1922 caricature of Hollywood's nascent years. How many can see, there's Douglas Fairbanks, Marry Pickford, Bebe Daniels, Bill Hart, Wallace Reid, Gloria Coogan, Fatty Arbuckle, Rex Ingram, Alice Barton's work was much in demand and became of the Great Depression his career waned, shot himself in the head at age 39. in Anderson. Here lies actor Dabbs Greer. as Reverend Alden in Little House on the Prairie, include as Old Paul in The Green Mile, and in their own little sphere, is the lead. Earlier we visited Jesse James... well here Gang, Cole Younger. Cole was the eldest of bouncing state to state robbing banks and went awry, the Youngers and James's separated. caught and imprisoned, then paroled in 1901. normalcy, passing away at 72, while Jim, buried paroled. St. Louis area. Here is the grave of Stan for 22 seasons, playing outfield and first and 1963. He's regarded as one of the greatest game. He would win three World Series with and 3x MVP. After playing, Musial would serve was inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame There's an Independent Order of Odd Fellows is where William Preston Hall is laid to rest. broker and circus impresario. He would be and "The Horse King of the World." This in the horse and mule trade. It was on an he developed an interest in circuses, and animals like elephants and camels, which he briefly with his own show, the Great W.P. Hazelwood Cemetery in Springfield is our last professional golfer who won 11 PGA Tour events, his first major title in 1989, and would be his tragic and untimely death at the age of in aviation history. On October 25, 1999 he Dallas. Shortly after takeoff the plane went get a response from the crew. A fighter pilot He made visual contact of the plane flying Hours later a second fighter plane was directed normally, unable to see into the cockpit because still no reaction at all from the plane, flying the air. It never turned toward its intended in a straight line. Nearly 4 hours after takeoff, spinning out of control, and crashing determined that what had happened was shortly all aboard were incapacitated by the lack continued to fly on its own until it simply was inducted into the World Golf Hall of Fame. Oklahoma. Let's begin by visiting "Oklahoma's Museum in Claremore to find the grave of its developed as a youth in rural Oklahoma, such the Vaudeville stage in the early 1900s in Follies, where he not only exhibited his skills observations about life. He would soon become his earthy anecdotes and folksy style allowing By the 20s and 30s he was one of the most He would star in a number of films in this and talkies like "Life Begins at 40." I die, my epitaph, or whatever you call those joked about every prominent man of my time, I am so proud of that, I can hardly wait to to wait long. In August 1935 he was flying takeoff, the engine failed at low altitude killing both Rogers and Post. Will Rogers Lawn Glendale, before finally being laid to In our previous visit to Oklahoma in our first Clark at Memorial Park Cemetery here in Tulsa. that time, this beautiful marker has been and loved by generations of country fans as beginning in 1969, for over 300 episodes. and Roy Clark." The Beverly Hillbillies, and in 1987 joined the Country Music Hall of Fame in 2009, and Another legendary country musician rests here, of the founders of Western swing music, "The in the 30s, putting out a number of chart-topping Moon." Bob Wills died from pneumonia at This is Hillcrest Memory Gardens in Spencer. Army Air Corp Aviator during WWII. A member he was one of the first black pilots assigned in North Africa. During a mission in the Mediterranean the Distinguished Flying Cross for shooting the first African American pilot to earn official the Second World War. Hall was just 51 when Welcome to Pawhuska, gateway to the tallgrass Johnson is laid to rest. He was a world-champion experience brought authenticity to his roles Lion in 1971's The Last Picture Show would and a Golden Globe and BAFTA as well. In 1982 Hall of Fame. He died from a heart attack We're at Rose Hill Burial Park now. In the was a television producer, known for creating Magnum, PI, Knight Rider, and more. He would shows he created. Glen died from cancer at Next up is Greenhill Cemetery. This lovely Noble. He's perhaps best remembered for 80s series, Benson. And his film roles include in Airplane II. James lived to be 94. brings us now to Dougherty Cemetery, and the singer who enjoyed considerable popularity of chart-topping gold singles, like "Wheel in a couple films, including When You're of Alzheimer's at age 94. Norman. Here lies Michael Dunn: actor, singer, just 3'10" tall, Dunn made a big impact Wild West, and had a memorable turn on Star Oscar for his role in 1965's Ship of Fools, be nominated for an Academy Award. you'll meet more fools as we go along. This Michael was also nominated for a Tony Award Cafe.&quot; He was just 38 when he died in his Park Grove Cemetery is our next Oklahoma stop. was a composer, noted for co-composing music These songs include "The Trolley Song," Blane was inducted into the Songwriters Hall Moving right along to Sunny Lane Cemetery. You fans of American Idol will remember him competition. He was a fan favorite and ultimately killed in a multi-car wrong-way crash on an This walk down Memory Lane takes us to a cemetery was a popular Western star in the 40s and the son of Western mega-star, Jack Holt. Tim's and The Treasure of the Sierra Madre. Tim Years later the Golden Boot Awards honored cinema. lies a beloved Native American actor named in Oklahoma. As an actor he played Ten Bears II, but he is perhaps best remembered for the Cuckoo's Nest. "You bet." they all think you're deaf and dumb." suffered from scleroderma, which affected a heart and lung transplant, but died from The structure here on his grave is a traditional over the grave to serve as a home for the Our last Oklahoma stop takes us to Highland Woody Guthrie. He's considered one of America's wrote hundreds of country, folk, and children's his best-known song, "This Land is Your Bless America." opposing fascism, and inspiring future musicians of Huntington's Disease at the age of 55. of his partially fictionalized autobiography, as Woody. Our strolls through the great plains brings rests Tammy Faye Bakker. She rose to prominence in programs like The 700 Club and The PTL glamorous and eccentric personality, heavy mainstream televangelist to support LGBT rights Tammy gained additional notoriety after Jim 1989, resulting in the dissolution of their in other TV programs, like Roseanne, and as from cancer at the age of 65. Jessica Chastain Faye in the 2021 film, The Eyes of Tammy Faye. Kansas. You fans of basketball know the name physical educator and sports coach, known he designed the game of basketball while teaching indoor activity for his students on a rainy the original basketball rule book. He later of Kansas, where he founded the University Hall of Fame is named in his honor, in which died after a brain hemorrhage at age 78. Lawn Cemetery, where rests Eugene Pallette. Golden Age parlayed his rotund physique and like Friar Tuck in The Adventures of Robin died from throat cancer at age 65. He was parents. Walker. He was an actor and performer in the remembered for teaming up with Bert Williams, teams of the Vaudeville stage. In 1903 they musical both written by and performed by black Comedy. It was not only a popular success, of blacks in the theatre in that era. Walker and Walker Company, an agency to support African-American at just 39. is where Gordon Parks is laid to rest. He in the 40s through the 70s, depicting the He's then turn to filmmaking, becoming the and direct a film for one of Hollywood's Tree. He would follow this up directing the he was a writer, painter, and composer. The Medal of Arts in 1988, and lived to be 93. Here we find Hal Foster. He was a comic strip producing the comic strip Prince Valiant, It debuted in 1937, and continues to this for the incredible detail and precision of Our travels take us now to Caldwell Cemetery, notable film roles is alongside Marilyn Monroe stage he played Horace in over 3,000 performances on television, making guest appearances on Perry Mason, Hazel, and of course my favorite, age 83. we find Sidney Toler. As an actor he's best-remembered detective, Charlie Chan, in 22 films between originated in books, and was conceived in light, as an intelligent protagonists and And while it may have been a step in that character on screen is still a mixed one, actors, like Sidney Toler. He died from cancer Moving into Independence, we reach Mount Hope by the name of William Inge. In the 50s he Back, Little Sheba, and Picnic, which earned of small-town life, he became known as the skills to the big screen as well, winning the Grass. Several of his plays would be adapted Bus Stop, as well as Picnic. Inge died of age of 60. Coffeyville. Here we find another one for the graves of the notorious Dalton Gang. Brothers enforcement before turning to a life of crime. would rob banks and trains from California to outdo Jesse James, by robbing to banks this feat on October 5, 1892. The gang split one another simultaneously. As they attempted and Grat Dalton, and Bill Power were shot for a time their grave was marked only by had used to tie up their horses on the day and fellow Dalton Gang member, Emmett, placed Next up is Nebraska. We begin our time here and the grave of Chuck Hayward. He was one for his work in Westerns, doubling for most 80s. He's particularly known for his association in some two dozen of Wayne's films. For horse called Twinkle Toes, which you can see himself acting in small roles as well, on Country. He died from Hodgkin's Disease Moving into the capital of Nebraska, Lincoln, we find Gordon MacRae. He's best remembered the 50s, perhaps most notably, in Oklahoma, alongside Doris Day in On Moonlight Bay, and take his singing skills to many of the variety Show. He died from pneumonia complications on his stone is the song "Oh, What a Beautiful "Oh what a beautiful mornin'" Let's head into the mausoleum. Here is the role is that of Honey in the 1966 film, Who's her an Oscar for best supporting actress. alongside Jack Lemmon. She also had a notable the plays A Thousand Clowns, and Any Wednesday. Back out to the grounds, we find the grave he began identifying as male in his teens, two acquaintances learned Teena's biological they forced him to disrobe to reveal the fact they kidnapped Brandon and gang raped him. were brought against the men, Brandon being Incensed that the crime was reported to police, and stabbing him to death. He was 21. His film, Boys Don't Cry, in which Hilary Swank portrayal of Brandon Teena. His murder, along led to increased lobbying for hate crime laws Our last state of the day is South Dakota. are legends of American folklore, like Wild in his time, as a frontier soldier, Union also involved in several notable shootouts making him a frontier legend. He also toured but he was not particularly fond of performing poker here in Deadwood. A man Bill had beaten and shot him point blank in the head. Wild he was playing showed two black 8s, and two "dead man's hand," as alluded to in been portrayed on screen many times, including Resting next to Wild Bill is another legend and Calamity Jane were closely associated too was a scout and renowned markswoman, known own alongside the rugged boys, spitting tobacco of dressing like man after donning a uniform also had a soft side, loved by those in Deadwood during a smallpox epidemic. Having the reputation most men, later in life she took her skills Show, performing sharp-shooting astride her life for audiences across the country. As a desire to, upon her death, be buried next visited. She was actually 51 when she died Day in the 1953 film, Calamity Jane, among Our final stop on our journey through America's city is famous for its association with a we find the graves of the Ingalls Family. of Laura Ingalls Wilder, who documented her late 1800s in a series of children's books, first book was published in 1932. As documented quite a lot in those early years, from their Iowa, Minnesota, and eventually settling down good store, held various elected positions, build the first congressional church of De Mary, Carrie, and Grace are all buried here House" books, is buried in Missouri. Charles Landon in the beloved "Little House on the 70s and 80s, and his wife and daughters who as characters in the books and shows. of your favorite memories of the stars we below, and be sure to like, share, and subscribe Thanks for watching! We'll see you on the