You could look into somebody's eyes. And at first I think you can see go by when you can stay on the monitor, What is he coming on to me? And then just to say they're all my family and you know, and then until pretty soon except all they get back They don't get back because you're just here. You're just right here in this one until pretty soon they come and come And the minute they get here, in them, because the place we need The place we meet is behind All of the stuff. And when you can stay in the place coming towards you That's becomes the the way of developing great awareness That brings you into harmony Because the harmony comes as you can come down and get free of your own ego melodrama, whatever your drama is. And now you look at somebody really See, that's a good one. And you look at them and there is a thing that pulls you into the little melodrama of turning on. You start to feel arousal happen get you get a little like you start All my neighbors and then you see and then you see because the way in which every time a person does you are just sitting there doing, Oh, man, I really like you see? And you get a certain flash inside from that your responding organism. You respond to whatever drama and you can either climb into that because I'm really a nice guy, you know, They change or they look at you like, They suddenly you become untrustworthy. You know that feeling inside? Well, if they don't trust me, Whatever impure. You know, people and they you go around Like there must be something and you can feel that in you. But the mantra allows you and look at the thing in them behind each of those until finally, who is centered, it's just like you met And they paid me, you see, because And they see all the drama as drama. And the interesting thing is it only takes the flash of a look to come to that place when you are centered enough it's like a pinball machine going through You know, you look at them love, seduction, anger, fear, distrust. And then here we are. And sometimes you can walk down the street eyes coming this way. It may take just this long because time is not the relevant variable. It'll happen just as fast as you are straight, because each human being will run We can get hung up together. And if you are at any one of those places, if they find you That's So the game is always running through. And that one too. Sure. And that one too. And that one too. And that one is the taking that and that. And the far out thing is when you're like most unlikely person to be here coming down the street, with a cane and a bad back And you'll look into their eyes just that little flash of here we are. And it's been all the melodrama, all familiar. That's a conscious contact Conscious contact. Otherwise you're only living out Here. Some stimulus is arousing a set of responses in and then mantra just keeps you. So that, for example, mantra since the thing that is takes See, once we get into words, you get busy For most of you now you're busy listening to me, like all the time I'm talking to you and all money Money paid me and all money. Well, you can use the eyes in the same way Oh, no, I don't know that I can. I don't know that we can demonstrate Perhaps we can. I don't know. It's very tricky. But if you look into somebody's eyes, I'll do it with you And I look into your eyes and I'm talking and your hand is on your foot And we're both aware of that. And we're aware that I'm talking and those ears are The eyes become the mantra. The eyes are the same place, going around the eyes and you hear that what you develop is a vehicle. The vehicle in this case is the eyes. It's totally impersonal. And often what I do, which is used to be called psychotherapy in a number of incarnations back, which is behavior change, or something, is to look into somebody's they anything you can think of that you can't say to me, okay, that's the fiercest statement requirement because all the thoughts which would keep you an object to them, you say, okay, let's you want to get up, What do you say? Or would you like to play and no, I really want to get on with it. You really want to go out? Yes. All right? For me to be your teacher, You don't let me in. Oh, I'd like to let you in, All right. The simple rule of the game is Anything you can think you Now the person looks at you and they say, Oh, I can't think of right. There was no right during oh one. They had me on all my nay ped, and all my knees and all my they me. And then you see I just don't say Just think now, and I gave you the instruction, anything which embarrasses you would feel like in you. You said it to me. Say it to me. All right, Somebody says to me, You look like an old, lecherous, vile, you know, And I'm looking in their eyes when they go inside, And I'm seeing that And that one too. And and then they keep looking. And pretty soon they say, There's light coming out from you And I feel so beautiful and light And I think And then the hair on that black holiday, you know, like I say, I say, okay, I want to pick up that caviar and crackers when I'm gone. And, you know, but now it is literally true. There is nothing anybody can say to me People say, isn't that too bad either? Well, is it or isn't it? What do you lose or gain? What's the bird in the hand What is that all about? Because to the extent that you can center you allow another person which includes all the stuff away from other human beings, keeps them And the faster in which you and I can move there's nothing that has to be done. Nobody has to do anything. It's just the state of business. It is. And it's behind all the drama and I've sat with some people for 10 hours and they go through and they think, And I can look and I can see when I look It's like a light And then I see a kind of opaqueness. And the opaqueness is their thought forms. That's what the opaqueness is. It's repressed. They're thinking they're still back in their thinking And then we experience light. We just, the two of us, The minute you can stop your thoughts. And I mean, we are in the light. But the problem is You can only let them fall away. And the way you let them fall away in this case is using the other person's and then seeing all the thoughts as clouds that are going And most of them just come like like the walls are brown. Well, there's no reason So that isn't one you have to say. It's a thought that comes. You notice And here we are in the walls of brown and the floor has a carpet on the floor But then a fire will come into my head And then immediately because I've already got a thought. And in Freud's terms, I'm attaching energy to that place And it's all that set of those things that until pretty soon any thought can come in, go through, go out, come in, go through, The minute you notice it, it doesn't hold on, because there's They all just go through just as fast and then the thoughts that come down and then the two of you come into a place And that's the whole game. That's the game of Tai chi, It's the game of mantra. It's the game of calming down, breaking your identification with your own platforms, wherever they may be, or think about, Well, what do I do next? The answer That they own their own money. If in doubt do mantra. That's the simple name of the game for the rest of your life. If in doubt, do mantra or do mantra and everything else That's the faith. That's the statement based on the faith that I could to you. All right. If you would like to be all you have to do for Don't ever have to do another thing. Well, what if I need to go to the toilet? Don't worry, you'll get to the toilet. Just keep doing the laundry and to stop them until you go to the toilet. Ramakrishna Mummy, will you wake me The mother says, Don't worry about it. You know, when you need to go to and when you try to meditate, which is, for example, what it was like when we were eating Beautiful piano playing started like the piano playing is groovy We're consciously eating thing now. At first how can I concentrate on being conscious I realize that in order to do my task, I'm Then I say, And that too. Then I am listening to the piano I'm doing the mind for simultaneously people get under some, they get attached to a linear because really, ultimately You just are aware of all the things You don't think about them in linear Now it is useful when you're beginning to do these things to cut down That's why most or many of and are living in much quieter My optimum place I live in where there is where there's no traffic, where there's In fact, the best place you can work fiercely, is to find a cave underground and just go and sit down in the cave. Because then you cut out all the stimulation because there's nothing But you heard birds and trees And every time you hear a bird, you've And that's another platform. And what you find is keeps sucking you in Once you have calmed your mind then you can enjoy nature, you can groove, you can hang out in the cities But until then, an environment where you can cut down It might be earplugs, it might be whatever in your own house. I've been saying to people, if you want to have a really high vacation really cheap and high, really cheap and really high, and go in and sit down and arrange once a day by the closet door and everybody knows what you're doing. So there'll be a bug and I'll tell you, and it'll take you through trips because most of us are just copping out And you see it yourself, right? As I watch, I was watching people I was watching that whole stimulus So you watch people walking out to look at nature, looking around, What's that noise? What was that? What's that? I got to know. What was that? That's important. What's happening in the world today? What do you say? Should we get down to the Did you turn on? Have you seen that taste, that feel, that smell? And think about that. Maybe we ought to think about people. These are all stuff. They're all lots of stuff. And the idea is that all that stuff When you become the master, when you are It's all just taking. You want to trip in the illusion The first thing is you've got to calm down until all thoughts just go by. All of us go blind. How to do this? You develop a method of meditation and there are many methods of meditation, must find his own vehicle. Some people can sit and meditate. Others from where we're starting And they would be able to do Others can do that holy songs Others can do whatever method works. They all go to the same place, That's the game that some of talk about. The Enlightenment is the only way. So yes, well, beyond yoga, the yoga of the intellect, feeding the intellect The only difficulty is that but almost infinitely seductive Now see, that is the role of the experiencer or the knower is And the thing about the intellect it thinks about something, that relationship between the thinker And you can keep thinking about things more and more how it all is and more and more But ultimately, or the transcendence of the thinker that in relation to what you just said, so that many of the people the method of beyond yoga, of the mind get caught in knowing they know Like the prime example in my own lifetime, contacts was Aldous Huxley. I mean, all this was very conscious being and at the same moment He knew he was just seeing how it all was It's called It's the Godhead, it's It's the highest of the highest plane. It's the Godhead is the place the place where you're you are seeing all You're seeing how it all But then you have to give up being It's like the first time Wow, that list is so great. You just want to bathe in it. And the instructions say enjoy the bliss of the bliss. By becoming the bliss, the same way you go beyond the experiencing Okay. Now knowing can take you a But the end point is always the mindless state is the where thinking becomes the servant, Just like your hand You lift your hand well the same way when you need it, absolutely nothing. Nothing. And then you begin to see and less and less and less and less. And that's very, that wisdom and knowledge and that knowledge is very finite and very the collection of objective knowledge is like a drop in the bucket because being wise is that says, I am me, who knows? Then you merge with that which is around you And when you become wisdom, You know, you gave that one up, but you are wise. And then whatever is the optimum response. It's the optimum response conscious merging with it You are like, you're like a doll normal. Nothing is happening inside you at all. When you meet a no mind person, their simplicity, and they can be talking exquisite machinations of life And you still see that They're doing that behind it all. They are totally childlike in the sense of nothing. They're just naive, they're unworldly. It's all, yeah, when they didn't collect it, they don't identify with so the technique of Gian yoga what's called the koan, foiling the rational mind by giving it And when you can understand it then you've transcended the rational, linear process of thought. But the other techniques of meditation are just to take one place and focus on it and down and down and down and down and all other thoughts go by, be it You're breathing, going in and out. The mantra, be it a face, be it And then you wipe that one out. That's the secret of that's the trip. That's the steps in what's called Prachi Anjali system. You go in, you sit down, see all go into my room and I'll sit down and I'll get comfortable. And then I pick whatever matter I'm going to use at that moment, whichever So if it's, for example, a focus somewhere in one of my centers I work with that and just bring the light in more And I might be focusing on my breath, on my muscles, Take this the psyche pattern of the person All these muscles just go So you just get so arising from rising fall. Stay 15 minutes, okay? Every morning and just watch those muscles And that's your instruction Those 15 minutes to do that. Any other thought that comes in your head, What are you going to do is watch Rising, following Rising are rising and doing it until pretty soon little muscles inside here through. And in your head is this rotating set of words rising on high. Right? Where are they at? Oh, oh, oh, oh. Now the baby makes a noise. The baby gurgles. We all note the baby gurgling. You can know that if you want baby gurgle then rising, falling, rising, falling. Window rattles, window rattles, rising, fallen, rising, falling Knee hurts, knee hurts rising, falling, rising. You just keep coming back to that place. You're just slowly foiling the mind's That's all. And the calmer you know? Okay, Taiji, your consciousness is right You're not thinking about other things. You're not thinking, Here just movement, that's all. There is just that consciousness That's the whole business total. One point in this, in karate, the way a board is broken consciousness is right on the back all the energy right there, because you're not thinking of. Now, I'll break the board at one point. And this in mind is an extraordinary, For me. It's the prerequisite seems to be tired quickly. And in terms of two strategies for getting on with the work, I'll give you the maximum that I can conceive of and work with. The maximum strategy was when I lived in the temple for 30, bathing in the river back, bathing with mantra up into you don't get up immediately. You start around two in the morning, You don't sleep too deeply, right? You didn't eat. You only eat at noon. You don't eat in the evening so that you're a very light, And around two in the morning, You start the mantra going right And so you're on one knee When they put me in the dreams of going You doing just like this is physical work You're doing a little karma Note your astral life going by you dream consciously. It's the same place you get into when the alarm went off give up the dream yet But you also try to keep the dream too. Everybody goes through that When you do this for about two or 3 hours and then 536, 430, whatever it is, you get up and you wash and you do your toileting and all that, in front of your puja table. You sit down in front of a place where there is no other game It's a crutch. These are all crutches I'm talking about Ultimately, when you're a no mind, you can just live just like everybody else But these are all crutches. You sit down in a place, you may have some pictures like Buddha Christ or whoever it is Ramakrishna, Ramana, Maharishi SIM Card one such as Sai Baba care pulsing may have Baba on and on. You might just have the pictures If pictures turn you off, they're just groovy cats to hang around and they give you straight messages out like looking into somebody's and just a pure mirror. And then you learn how to honor, to consecrate and you might make the symbol of ohm as the symbol of home Now what you're doing is which is you're honoring the place in yourself, When you honor Ramana Maharshi, Sam Maharshi or Ramana Maharshi You're honoring the fact that he's And so that you honor. You honor, which is the offering. It's the offering. It's the is doing from where you are in the illusion to that which is beyond God got the power. You got the power again. And then you do your puja and then And you may start out You might just meditate, a little bit down and then and then and on and on. And then after that Now, if you're going to do Austin's, you've got to get your body straight because you'll see that you're spending And this and this and this and this that you finally get pulled in to getting And the thing about Hatha Yoga is it you can sit and pull your body out, It's when it's done right. It sensitize you to a whole lot of nerves You start to hear them and work with them. They're like radio receiver. And the third thing that arsons are They are statements again, that every mantra like you go into a twist and then you get into it and you turn your body And then you make the statement, and you are in this position You are a piece of sculpture. You've never been any other way. But this. And then as you centered in that place, then you're finished And as you get more conscious, how each each asana you see in Hatha Yoga, each of the 84 You'll start to experience the statement when you make it each time, often by calligraphy and you do your eyes and slowly and you go into it you come out of it, you go into the next You can go through all 84 of them in, look out, and all the time is you finish your actions and then you meditate in rising and falling minutes, 30 minutes. Now I'm giving the maximum program of you Then you might go do Tai chi, then you might take tea Very light. Very, very light. Tea would be enough. One meal a day, plenty. And then you would sit down like one of the writings of somebody You might read the writings of Ramakrishna Don't reach secondary sources, the New Testament, Don't read the rest, Get the Bible words and read All the rest of that. Now the Vedas, the Upanishads, the Geeta, Philip Scalia, the the Kabbalah, the, you know, on and on. There's lots of stuff Don't read a lot though. Everybody's collected enough. We've all been collecting like, have you read this, Have you read the, your page over the Punjab the written in little lines You got to get through pages man. You got to go little But it's meant study in the Hindu system in the yoga is done by studying a shloka. You can take one of those little lines and just open any one like I've got maybe six or eight holy and I close my eyes, pick or the DA or whatever it happens to be, Look at the first line that hits my eye. Read the line, close the book, And that's my study for I go in that line and around it and over it and through it, and And I just do it until. I've done that line That study. Study is not collecting information. Study in this sense is vibrating with information too. You become one with it now at well, ten or 11. If you've got karma yoga to, Yogi You might have to clean up your room or do something or your food. All done with mantra, very aware. Now, if you're doing a full treatment before you take the meal, Then again. Then you take your food. You take your food silently by yourself. In fact, you stay silent all the time, except when you're singing holy songs Take your food by yourself. Eat it consciously. You learn how to consecrate your food, Find the Divine Mother the Divine Mother. You be after your meal. You rest for a little while, and maybe there'll be a walk in nature or something like that. But do it consciously. It's not to go out and groove with nature. It's to be conscious of how it all is. So you keep the mantra going. Take a walk with mantra and just look at it all or just sit down and meditate You can do it. I mean, I just ran a seminar in New Mexico In New Mexico, and we took seven little houses and we they were eight frames or domes, And then there were of us. And then everybody would go into one of Usually they go in for five days first or ten days or something like that, that the house had in it supply of wood, a bottle of water. This period was completely cleaned out. You would walk in there and I would be I was a teacher, so I would determine So the first time I'd say, So they'd say, Well, I like to take my sleeping bag a room And they'd make a list of books I keep notes of what happens to me. I take some candles. I'm taking holy pictures. Oh, that's all groovy. I think I'll take a little knitting Or I'll take a It's wonderful. And, you know, and I just let them and a lot would And every day the food is brought. At noon, a guy comes singing, singing holy songs So there's no social interaction. If you have any messages legally, send rom does. I was the only one Then Rhonda's or Water I knew they'd get water I more firewood you needs, they were taken care of Attended. And if you could do it, you just sat. Because the next time when it came okay, I'm going for the second time. I would say, All right, this time Say, all right, what can I take? And I said, You sleeping bag. They'd have their big bags full of stuff. They ready to take it? I'd say you can store all that Yeah, but. Well, you want to do the thing And off. They'd walk into a room for ten days Well, and with keeping yourself warm and walking around the room so many times. And you can only sleep so long. First everybody goes into a long sleep. Then they sleep and sleep Then you get tired of them. You get up and it's getting dark I mean, if you want to go on a horror a hardly, you climb the wall. What did I get myself into this thing for I got to remember I just thought this What do I do to remember it? No way to remember it. Either you got it or you don't got it. And by the end of the ten days, whoever comes out of I'll put it. Now, some people freak They're not ready to handle that. And they just go, Yeah, you know, they're You know, you're right. And then people have the auction some of them went in for 14 days with only the sleeping bag I just had water delivered and would. And the thing that when you do this how much stuff your mind keeps creating, The if you go out and walk around nature, But if you just stay in this little wooden in your cell, in your monk's cell, it's interesting because when you first cells, you say all these poor monk, until you get First you create a house for yourself, full of antiques and beautiful stuff and rugs and records And then you notice that everywhere you carry all this stuff And then pretty soon you notice or listening to until pretty soon And right until all you really want room, see with a man on the floor and it blows your mind how easy it could have been or can be But you can't make believe you're Because that's as phony. That's as phony as anything you if you go in and you sit in that room and all the time you're wishing you can wish this the room you can beat the system. And where I dug in India That was all there was to it And then my attachments to worldly things I still had stuff to do in the world because I wasn't home. So you go through your lunch and you're for the meditation, and get yourself and loving and loving and loving and just keep opening your emotions And then comes options again And then and then you may make a little warm milk And then you sit down and you meditate, and then it's time to lie down And then around midnight since you're sleeping flat on the floor, it's not hard waking up because you keep waking up And then at 230 in the morning, Very simple. Not a big draw. That's the maximum push program or the minimum push program is just say, Well, I'll just live my life, but I'll become I'll watch myself with my life. And as I use Because it is true that to the extent that you can witness your own It'll become more and more conscious. And that is called karma yoga. And just doing full time karma yoga. There's no sense in doing there's no sense in cutting the tree unless you can cut the tree consciously. There's no reason for it at all. No, there's no reason for washing a dish because all you're doing And if all of this operation here is running exquisitely mechanically, so everybody's doing their part, It's just like some huge machine that is just mechanically driving itself Nothing's happening at all. Nothing at all. And it's the ability to have that center which is constantly here, all the actions you're performing all day and that there is no attachment over any other. You want to examine what fatigue is, why you get tired. You find out you only get tired I can only get tired from sharing this stuff with you today If I'm attached to teaching you. In fact, all I can do is do what I do, And you will hear what you hear. Questions and my pushing everybody too This too much that you come to know that to get attached And so you allow yourself to touch and then the statement, the requirement is you must give it all up to have it all. Every attachment for any model at all must go in order So you love somebody. Your test to somebody, you have to give up that attachment in order to really be with them, because that attachment to them and the fear of losing them makes a limit to the relationship. And it's only so that when you and that other person and the next moment, if that person dies But if I sit now because of my attachment, or losing that thing I'm attached to to hold on to it, Buddha's point is well taken. The cause of suffering is attachment. Now, that doesn't mean You just have to give up You have to become so centered that whatever happens, Okay? That's how it is now. We've now and that allows you, when you're with something beautiful, because it's here now and this is it. The next moment when it's gone, You see, the problem is you don't give up. It's finally you don't give up loving. You just broaden it out. So you love it all the way. The process. It's like I used to try. I travel a lot and I used to get it. I travel The attachment from while I'm going home. Where are you? Well, I'm away from home. And then I started to take like I'd be sitting in an airline terminal I said, Well, you're home. Well, Everybody, characteristically a coming from somewhere or working there. But they don't call it home unless it's birds or something like that. And I'm sitting there, okay, I'm home. What is home? Home of the state of mind Relax, You're open. I'm home. Well, I began to see that any time I was stuck in being less than here. So I'd be in the middle of Kansas and say, You know, It's going nowhere, coming from nowhere. And you're at marker 70, home at last very far. And you go through all of your lines Keep using them until you begin to see because as long as you've got a bottle, And what happens when the universe stops the from beginning with where the universe stops screaming itself, nothing happens. The universe is what would have happened to all of this if there weren't This wouldn't be because this is really this is created by our desires. The minute people say, Well, what would happen What would happen wouldn't what would Well, that's the way it is now. Maybe I haven't put it positively Maybe I haven't told you about because remember, attachments You can be so busy that when the baby chirps or the nature does its thing, you say, Oh, How can I meditate? That is as much attachment as you have to in the Tibetan sense. You have to embrace your 10,000 beautiful, horrible demons The things you desire. You've got to let them pass, You've got to accept, you got to say yes. And that too, Right. And that too. Sure. Right. That one too. Or realize being says one to me is loss and gain. One to me is fame and shame. One to me is pleasure and pain. One to me is life and death. That's the big one whose story you're all familiar. Whether the old monk and the girl has a baby in the town and that she doesn't So she tells everybody it's the old man. People go out with torches and they knock and they hand in the baby Now you bring it up. And he looks at it and he says, Oh, so he takes the bag and he raises it. And then many years later, and she's afraid of dying So she tells everybody And they go rushing up to the monastery We've come to relieve you And he says, Oh, so however it is, it is whatever it is, it is now, at any moment, as the cards are dealt, you play the hand You play it with total involvement, and in the most harmonious way But no one hand A hand is a hand is a hand is a hand. And when you find realize beings, Walking around the country, as you are, or a garbage collector or or somebody you meet on the street and goes there, knows where that there's no external model If you read the book The Parachute or The Wayfarer about how he went around and he would find these men They and all they were they were in charge of the spiritual And all I did was sit there all the time sit in the garbage dump and say, Well, They about would rush over and wash him and leave them sitting in the garbage dump And we keep trying to measure it Or are we doing important work? Too important? Work in your life Whatever you do, you do it consciously and you are doing If you walk into a grocery and you are in such a rush that when you get to the cashier's because she's holding you up a vibration of anger You just create a new karma that joy. The game is to not create new karma and you don't create new karma without attachment, do what you do, And there's no new karmic. Wow. Yeah. Do you have a chief wisdom or and I guess the word of chief has in it All I am is where I am. If I am where I am, and I am what I am, and if what I am is wise to you groovy. I am what I am. I don't know where I am That's the thing. I don't. I don't think about the question I could say if I wanted to answer because obviously I'm a beginner on the path and I don't understand And at the same time, I feel more about how it is. The less I think, the wiser I get. I know which blows my mind but that's really a hard one for me. That's really hard. How how do you compare with psychotherapy? Psychotherapy If you have as your therapist Buddha, the likelihood is you can become Psychotherapy is a human encounter between two beings, will be as high as whoever And to the extent that the therapist is not identified the patient can get free To the extent that the therapist the patient can get free of somebody To the extent that the therapist we are human beings in the roles of doctor To that extent, everybody gets free. I recently I went to the heroin addiction center at the Boston State Hospital Bob Taylor was there too. And I it blew my mind. There were 50 people in the room of which and some are doctors And it was very clear to me to their addiction, than the heroin addicts Because when I sat down in the room I'm concerned, there's 50 beings in a room And let's cut out all the crap of roles And doctors and I'm sick and I need help It's all melodrama and here we are now. Here we are. And you look at another human And they and here they acknowledge it. And the doctors are saying, well, they got these cards in the hand because they're enjoying the power. It's It's just very poignant. They're busy doing good I think that that there are people that come to see me They say I am sexually this, And all I can do to maximally help them And if I can keep my center, all money paid me or all mandated me, Any of those things, they get free of them because they keep noticing that behind going in and I don't know where to turn. And they, like a woman, comes to see me I was here at Columbus, the woman came to see me and she's worked all her life for a child and now the child's run away And boy, she's got a really sad story and she takes about 15 minutes to tell it. And she I don't know why I've come to see Right. And all the time and she gets all done Not looking at me, of course, at all And then she looks now, that is the lack of compassion. The most compassionate thing I can do into the melodrama she's just laid on me. And what I, in effect, All that's true. Because behind you being a mother and all that, and I'm a human being now, And within just moments after she feels because everybody else, she's She just takes everybody here You know, They and what happens is immediately the smile comes on, and she said, well, when I was a child, too. You know, that next level after Diane that whole level of the death here and she say, and I don't know why I've come to see you, But that's all silly. I, But I you know, it's a moment now she can maintain it She'll be right back in the drama. And that is a car you can't You can only provide the environment They will grow. And the whole thing of psychotherapy is that one human being thinks they're going to do something to another They are stuck in because it is really doctor, cure thyself. That's really what the requirements. And if I would train psychotherapists, And so teaching them the correct low, of psychodynamic, you know, category and doing the MMPI and the usher, I would teach them because it's almost a universal you want to be a better You want to be a better lawyer. You want to be a better dishwasher. You want to be a better thief. You want to be a better whatever your game simple as that. Oh, right. What? What would you do? This? I get a very angry person. So physically. Oh, well, an angry person who acts out. Well, I think I told a story here once when I was here I was at home. They told me personally, Oh, teacher, I told the teacher, Well, They should give you that the flavor of it with alcohol from I was invited out to excellent to be in residence and all this is public information thing here. And these were around singing love songs And this somebody brought this And he gets towards me and I think, Wow, But music, muscular, savage, And he goes like this behind me. And the first thing I feel wow, that's a strange way of express love. And I'm confused And then the next thing is And I Oh, wow, My brains are all shaking. Next thing is, I feel a kick in my ribs. Oh, wow. This is just too far out, you know? Now the first reaction because my model's been upset because he. This guy's a friend of mine. He and I like each other, and suddenly Category. He then walks around, he picks up the tumbler all right. And I hear it landed a rock. A big hole goes into the ground. And I. Oh, boy. There's the camera. Wow. Imagine that. And then he picks up the gospel and he throws that over the side. And I think, Oh, I'm not proud of me because obviously Ramakrishna video That's a bad thing to do. And then he gets me down and he's got his farm in my neck And he's got his hip in my ribs. And I'm looking at All the time. My thoughts. I wondering I wonder if the beard rips off every one of those clothes happens First man, Not any more. Others just like, wow, this just faster. And so then he gets up and I stand up and he rips them. And he's holding a section about this man So there was a string tied in them, and the rest of the beads are falling off. Now, these are the beads my guru gave me. And like, the hell with everything So I'm picking up the beatings, kicking And I get the beads and I throw it into house And he takes the other beads and these beads have disappeared, And then he goes and he gets in the car It's you against me. They've taken you over. And all that kind of saying, right, I'll go your ship. Oh. Then I walk over to him and I said, because I see my desire. I'm attached to those. Be all that time. He says, You want them and he takes them and then he gets out of the car and he comes at me And just as I see them white flowers, Now I've gone through all of my see, since I'd become a holy man. I don't know what you feel like when you get beaten up in your whole you know, Holiness, some holy men sit there, everybody kills them, and other And this time your eyes. I don't. I know what a holy man first do. I don't know the instructions for being beaten up And so I'm playing it right here. You see, I want to go in and I'm like, very confused I don't know. I'm not supposed to. Anything, And then I dig. I'm attached to the beads and then I dig However. And then suddenly I feel absolutely free And the minute I feel and I push them over and I get them down and I'm right on top of and all the time I love you you all. Stay happy. At which point he picks me up and he sends me flying. So my head goes and he gets in the car, he drives away. So this all happened about 4 minutes. And I sit down and I think, wow, very far out, you know, and the denouement, a panel truck pulls up with some backwoods hippies from Big Sur then, And they're like Ozaki and hippies, they all all the chicks, real long dresses And the guys all have their teeth missing pulled weight out of their heads. And they're really tough, They're like the Atlas Tire edge, But I was so gentle. And they come in one of them says, Hey, babe, you shouldn't I just watching this, all this is like drama. Now the guy brings back the Ramakrishna book and sits down, and then the guy says, I said, Well, it's broken. He takes it away. They leave. I look for the beads, All these beads are lost all night long. I'm up all night. My beads are going Well, I'll tell them. A madman came out of the jungle and I'm trying to think of I'm realizing, Finally, I figure out five. All right, well, the beans are gone. And I walk outside near the beach and over the white flowers. I bring them in, I lay them all out. I count 182 days later, the truck You can't even tell it's been broken. They, like, done it with plastic, And so it's all perfect. I'm doing awesome. Then I put my hand between two boards The black and blue marks go away. And I write the guy a letter and I say, And when people said to me, Why did he hit you? I'd say, Because I wasn't pure enough. Because there was a thought I'll play the music, You see, I was attached, If I were not attached, because that's And the shield of Buddha And so he was teaching me. He was he was very yeah, it's And if you read Miller Rap and you see how his teacher would say, and the guy would feel that need to say, I decided I was drunk I want a square house. So Miller months would work And he kept saying, Please enlighten me. And the guy says, I just go to force. I will tear all down. That was. You didn't hear me right? I said, five. I says, No, you said four sides. As I said, I'll have your wife as a witness. So he says, Say it again. He says, Build a five sided house. So then he gets all done and he says, I'm and he says, But your wife said. And the wife said, yes. Instead of five sizes, What are you questioning And he throws him out. Poor guy goes through all this hell all the time, and the teacher thing after thing after. So it was like yesterday we sat looking into one another's eyes and we went through a lot of stuff a tremendous amount of tension mounting, because there were blocks And finally he said, I've got to move. And he got up and he started to do the sun exercise Yeah. Oh, you know, very fierce, you know. And I just sat there doing all Moneypenny. Wow, that unbelievable scene. He sat down and, now that's over. And all I said was, well, maybe soon Because what's happened and closer, In this higher space, And the problem is you don't have any way in compassionate terms on it. If he were to hug He would feel we were entering do it, If he were to express something, He was blocked because he couldn't It was like the Wesleyan student I was telling you about Saariaho, in the church He walks out under the stars and the spirit just inundates it. And he just comes into the spirit. And his next reaction because at the lower level of his head, he can't handle this higher experience I must be getting soft in the head because and all you can do is keep centering it, keep centering, Because I can free the guy in his profane state. Well, if you say so. Are movements for social change in the United States, Yeah. In terms of the activist scene it strikes me that that there has been much more energy than was ever available before, primarily is forcing people to come into the here Television, transportation, And as that happens, They come into the here and now more, of what to do, Like if you make it externally beautiful, That's an old model. And therefore they get into to doing harder and harder and harder so that when they do that though, And the idea of good and evil which they don't empathize with and the minute they do or we against them, the polluters, if it's the blacks versus if it's the hippies versus it's like a polarization They get caught in the yin yang of it, whether it's male or female or whatever They get caught in yin and yang the polarity more and more. Because as long as they're attached Now, to the extent they can make a statement for ecology by their way of living, and they can make a statement which doesn't create in the other person In other words, if I see you as him when I talk to you, is more of a feeling of isolation for me, The minute however, I see you as us, then you and I can talk about the ecological problem, whether you're the president of the worst or now. My further feeling and larger numbers in order. It's a method for getting higher like Woodstock and gathering, but they are social political statements incidental like hundreds of thousands of people which will be another Woodstock and it'll be it'll be for peace It'll be for all good things Okay, look, the fact of the matter is, there are gathering there to feel that There is a place where we get to the point because that's experience is happening Yeah, and it seems to me that beings social political overlay, They become they start out take he wrote war and peace in Vietnam. There is no doubt it's just like Malcolm X said to Martin Luther King, So I don't question that the violence forces the hand of the administration to respect But at the same moment, or in California now, it's very hard take of the fascistic element their helmets and boots and guns Last the other day. And you begin to see how that method is creating very horrible side effect, very horrible side. The profound model of behavior change Change yourself first, work on yourself. Because if you walk down the street and you are a loving person, every act you perform with another human the feeling in them of loving this The only way to work. And that in turn increases their loving and peacefulness, It's there's the old story. The other way it works and he hits his wife, My father brought accuses, pugilism The thing is, it's a it's a Well, the spinoff works the other way And the thing is, the first thing you to do is become like when you be life, when you live in life, if you don't be like you can't be dark and say, doesn't work. That So I keep meeting more and more people, more and more they are getting despair I'm even starting to meet a few blacks who are saying that now because they're beginning to see that they don't want what it is and then you're beginning to see that you got to be what it is And there it's an amazing thing how when number of beings become I'm telling you, don't but the spirit doesn't have to be measured The spirit has to be measured in the nature of the beings, It was the nature of the beings, that allowed a certain process to happen. And it's the nature of the beings that And when you become a different being, you keeps changing. I can watch a bus driver and people get on his bus in the time they gave in the quarter they created which just makes their whole thing And how many little bit softer? A little bit softer, It turns out whatever your role in life, You don't have to go out, You just have to be peaceful. And then that process starts to happen and people say, Well, it isn't enough, a human being can do is increase Because in a conscious civilization, like what is a relatively unknown, except then it's just a high game like chess. For mercenaries is just like any other game. It's neither good or My cutting into Taiji time. Yes, it's 5:03. I think we all until is is is 8:00 alright sure The tour were 830. You rather have a three for some reason 830 we are here then the 830 is my time. 830 we're here is this now? Is the structure of the evening Now I'd like us to do some singing and just sort of open our bodies and stuff But let's do it only as we feel it. Let's not phony, right? We can do it. We can do it if we can, we can so get drunk and Taichi and which is outdoors now with my stallion When I was in India, I started collecting quotes and I've been collecting books And then when I speak each place Darshan, I'd always surround myself and I keep picking them up and saying, And then as I started to realize that if I could just center that thought would come out of me, all the time and living in them and that I didn't have to use the as Buddhist said All I had to do was center and let myself stuff to come through. And then it all became more natural and more in harmony with what it was But one quote that I've sort of clung to which I read when I was here last time, one of the five or six because it seems like into what bhakti yoga is about, or the yoga love or devotion, which is is often said to be the appropriate yoga for the college or the period of darkness. It's the method of the heart they involve, says Love has to spring spontaneously from within. It is in no way amenable to any form of inner or outer force of love and coercion can never go together. But the love cannot be forced on anyone. It can be awakened in him through love itself. And love is essentially self communicative. Yes, those who do not have it catch it from those who have it. True love is unconquerable and irresistible, and it goes on gathering power and spreading itself until eventually it transforms everyone whom it touches to see where love fits in relation to consciousness The day you have got to have wrestled with and come to a deep that love and consciousness That is, they are exactly the same thing. And if you want to take it one love, consciousness and energy are an identity, right? In fact, at that top of that pyramid comes together into the oneness love, if you follow it far enough, back consciousness, truth, beauty, it's all the same thing. They just different perspectives, different which is on unstable now. When you open the fourth chakra, you experience more energy that is done and greater love for all things, a compassion and love now is useful to get free of a thinking of love as a finite commodity or as out of the romantic models of interpersonal love. It may be of all the words that we've overused, But since we are working with them start to understand the difference between or that profound love of the beingness and the doing love of I Love You. Now, if you understand that love is a state of existence, it's a state, it's And when you say we are in love means that you and I do which allows us to come In other words, which means touches a place in me That's really a better way of saying it. You allow, me, to be love to somebody that you say, and I say I love you. It means that you allow me to be be love, which is a more exact way of saying place in me where I am love and. If you start to see that as you transcend, you are as concerned with the well-being And if they haven't eaten, you're really there's that place where you You merge with that other person You don't decide It is your problem Well, in that sense, you have both entered which is what happens the minute of your own individual separate identity. Now, it's useful to think of this, I think, as as frequencies of vibrations. I think it works quite I am in love, that feeling when you are in love spring or whatever, that is where you are and the whole thing is new that you can think of as a frequency or vibration in which you are perceiving, in which you are seeing the universe It's just like spectrum You see different colors. Well, in different vibrations, in the same way and a more profound level. So then the question, as Mayor Barber since that higher vibration, the game is to get identified In other words, do you take of yourself until finally and you merge with light, while we are stars, stays Anything beyond Planck's constant, It's the other side of the coin. So now when you want to change your own vibrational rate, the get one of the games to do it with is to calm the mind down to you. Get free of all of the thought patterns at this vibrational frequency, Another way of doing it, way, which is within some entity to which which is exhibiting love by its nature or light or love light life, etc. and then just keep opening yourself to it In other words, you pour yourself to its right, and the reason you can do it is because it is perfectly safe and it's perfectly safe now. So it may have either, for example, you want to go the whole trip, Sounds like a far out egomaniac, you know, just love me enough But what he's saying is, through your ability to love me, you will tune in on the place in you, and that places And that's what enlightenment is, You, I love you are light, you are energy, It's it's the place where every movement you make is the totally creative act Because you're always performing Now this method of back to yoga can be done in about ten different ways, Okay. Like there are bhakti yogic forms loving the light in the form of a woman there's some for loving it There's some for loving in the form of a teacher or a master. Each person finds that form through Now, in our Western religious traditions, within a certain and God is often characterized as either He's a little bit like somebody the the in the in sometimes in the Psalms, But generally though he's he's in wild sexual sport somehow like you can with Krishna Singh is Krishna spending a whole every autumn on the full moon Krishna plays is flute he's the eternally youthful, beautiful He plays his flute and all the chicks in the countryside drop They leave their babies, their husbands, When Krishna plays the flute, they come and it's a full moon by the riverbank. And 16,000 of these trophies Girls, these milkmaids And then in order to fulfill he makes himself manifest in 16,000 forms just the way they want to be made. And in that wild moment, they become one They become divine at that moment. Now, that story, is a very hard one for us in the West And many Indians is this pornographic or is it you know, you know what But it turns out that there is a sect in India called the shots who are who are who become the groupies They literally they're men in the second chakra sense, and they go around and their whole sect and they worship Krishna And through that relationship, it turns out they are You then go through the door of dualism Now the fact that I'm in is a servant sect thing, and the motto of their service is Hanuman Because in the Ramayana, in the story of And he's he's a perfect karma. Yogi who he is. He's a perfect father, husband, warrior, everything. He gets sent off into the jungle and is He he does everything perfectly. He's always perfectly conscious. And he's just a good guy. Right? Name is wrong. Okay? Now, just like most of these holy books, he doesn't mind. So it's like most of these holy books, That is so like in in the New Testament. There is, of course, the Jesus story So there is Jesus like like doing his thing every day, and then there is Christ So you like in a Shakespeare you know, now it's all done or you know, That's according to the prophecy. So does that matter? Guy Metta thing who sees it all? See, And in most of the holy books, you see, you always have. If that you take it at whatever level It's so that there is always a nice story But you get a clue to how the two levels like in the Ramayana, a good guy, taking a bad incarnation Okay. And his greatest hope see, because that will free him So it's a he's bad guy at one level At one point, Ram is walking through the woods Please. The the Nagas, the naked ascetics are being bugged It's a great story They come ram and they say, Hey, Ram, They're real drag and we can't meditate So it's like, So it's so we don't, you know, because So Ram says, to get a mantra to do it, you know? So he walks through, you know, swamps And his guru takes one look and sees Of course, right at one level. And the guru goes rushing out of the house and falls on his face And this is Guru and Ram is still And he goes and falls on his face and they're falling on their face And Ram says to the guru, I need a mantra to get rid of the demons Nargis I'm translating it slightly. And the guru says, Sure, man, And then he says, Hey, wait a minute. They like your God, What kind of a thing? What are you asking me for? The mudra for? You are not only the mantra, You're the whole business. Now, if you don't like it, just change, And then right the middle he says, Oh, I forgot. We're in an incarnation. And in this incarnation, So of course I'll give you a mantra home now? That's what why it's very high see you getting these levels your own drama lived out at all And you begin to see that in some form or other that's come. Or is that same being in some form And so in India, when you meet people, which when it was known in the spirit That place in you, I honor the Ottoman, right now. Hanuman to get to Hanuman at one point, Sita, who's by Ravana, who wants to make it with her and he takes her to his island She says, I'll die first. I only want Ram. And of course, Ram is distraught but at the same level, he's God. And you know, how destroyed All right, all right. So there's two. But in the level of which he's distraught, and he goes to the king of the monkeys everywhere, you know, in the trees and the King who Ram does a few favors The king says, I'll sign my monkey, And the monkey lieutenant is Hanuman. And a Chinaman dedicates his life and Hanuman in the pictures is always shown, That's the relationship of Hanuman to Ram, and Hanuman is now dig this way it works. You see that However, to the extent he develops. He has all the powers of God. All right. That's the way the thing works. In other words, he surrenders himself to pure light and pure energy, And since he's surrounded himself, expanded diameter through To understand in this one set? He spends his whole life just the way he does open to Ram. He is in love with Ram. He is loving upward in the There's only one male in the universe, in relation to it and he surrenders to that. So becomes upward. He is female that is in the Yeah. And yin yang yin yang sense of it. He is the passive receptive, open because of the purity of his surrender. All of the energy of RAM passes so that anybody that meets the guru the most powerful male being not in the Western male masculine thing, but the maleness of the forcefield force. So when you meet this pure force, is surrender to it and you open yourself and surrender to it. And to the extent all the energy goes through you turn are this strong, etc., the next person to open to you, And that's the way It's passed through the act of surrender, can be from the love of the beloved and no So that like I sit in India in a temple and there is a in front of me Right? And I sit there meditating and I think about the folks back home good Jewish boy from Boston worshiping a monkey. It's a hard one to explain, but you're not worshiping idols and I don't mind, says Hanuman Ram says to run Hanuman. Who are you? And Hanuman says, When I don't know who I am, I serve you. When I know who I am. You and I are one, right? But that in other words, I really am, But as the minute the only role I come down into That's the only thing I do And therefore every act All right? And that's the way possible diameter for the maximum to be optimally effective in the universe to which is in the Christian bile, Oh, Lord. So it can be like John to Jesus or it can be brothers, it can be all these Each person finds, their own relationship Now, the thing is, and do the same thing But it's a very, very, very risky empire. It is the highest risk Is using you a sexual partner who isn't a realized being as your method Because when you are dealing with areas that high drive areas, the habits, the mechanical habits are you learn, and they're very difficult to change not to get caught in or not The instead of that which is behind the And so sometimes it is useful to go back and forth and there is a mantra which is a mantra that want and I intend to, is so shot through being a Shabnam which says all evil vanishes Him who keeps the sun in his heart. And I can sit there and just walk down the street. I did air raid. I am Chateauroux What does the sun do? It emits light, It asks nothing in return. It doesn't say, I Love you, and I won't shine on you It just shines. It does its thing. And the result or its scope. Its. Its area is warmed and given life And that's what you become. You become an unconditional lover. As C.S. Lewis says. Don't find the quote Exactly. He says, Love me Neither love me because of my need or your desire, Because you love me. Because you love me. Because you love me. Because you are love. Because that's what you do. You love. Oh, When we sing kirtan, which is the repeated names of God, names of God, It's It's to you could do it to anyone And all you're doing The other person, which is the pure light. And I have all these pictures. I can take a picture of Ramakrishna And pretty soon or Ramana streaming down my face and I'm quivering over the love that Just because you keep opening and opening and opening and opening Yeah. So nobody says I am unloved That's all the hype that is and then believe me, You are drowned in love. The more I can become centered in love, the more everywhere I look I see people that love me And it's extraordinary. I sometimes when I spoken in an evening it scares me And then I say, Who's scared Is that trivial ego Do you love me? And that one's getting too much. It's can't you know, Well, here's Niagara Falls, you know, until finally you have to give up here. Who can drink wine? You've got to give it up the horror It's like you want it. Okay, baby, here. And I look at the picture, Maharaj, Not so heavy. Could you give it to me a little dose Oh, you see, the the the key place is the relation And the closest thing you can do where you flicker we are through total love. It's just the same image sometimes I've been making love to bodily union. We are in the deepest possible body penetration There's so much that it is beyond Tunis and then at certain points we pull back in a dualistic act to say we come down to experience the bliss that we are In other words, we come back and then go back into the oneness We are not any longer experiencing that. We just are in a state. And then we come back and say, And then go back And when you dig that place and you I watched my guru for a long time how his game works, you know? And then I began to see his fingers He's always mantra to rom rom, rom to his breath and that with every breath he goes in and out of dualism, that the place where you breathe in before you breathe out, there's and then as you breathe out, there's a little place And we ignore those little places. And when you talk about your breath, as a spy curve. Breathe in, read out, But it's actually the place and the place between the out It's place of unity. And the he goes in and out of the place in total love. And that's the place and you do everything you do all day, just on the edge of dualism. You come back in order to love it works. Rah rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah Oh my, oh my. Oh rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah. Or I'm oh, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah or oh my rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, hurrah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, oh oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah. La la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la. Rah rah rah rah rah rah rah rah rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah la la la la la la la la rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah rah, rah, rah la la la la la la la la la rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah la la la la rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah rah, rah. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, 000000000000000000000000000000000000000000 rah rah. 000000000, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, Also 0000000000000000000000000000000000000 Not a00. Okay. It's interesting After about 3 hours, you go through all your fun and games, you know, and then you get into that place of recreation and you just get deeper and deeper into it because you just been doing it And you go through all the changes and and everybody gets a chance to stand by and watch and participate And then the whole thing and going and going and going. It just gets more and more It's deeper. I've done it. Sometimes the longest I've done just all night long. Just keep the fire going and and it'll take you through psychic space And it's like, it's my space. And you just keep opening and you look at everybody you're singing love songs everybody in the universe, all form. Like engrossed is the be of my mind and the lotus feet of my divine mind around to now the is that you get too attached which there are of course. I mean it's just fun to dance and to sing and another level. It's an act of worship, as an act of worship, but you can get addicted the beauty, the sound. Enjoy the esthetics of That's why going on and on for long times in New Mexico, when we inaugurated our new spiritual house, which is like a hoga a huge central area up and a big fire for 24 hours. We did on one day and beyond just 24 hours, we did it together and just on and on and on and on. And there is a there are chemical you go through and you breathe the life force into the ritual beyond all the places where you would So it takes you to somewhere new. Someone know that as the meditation, as the tai chi, as the karma yoga, as the body yoga. The guy on yoga as tantric yoga all start to work. You come more and more and more and more into what, look, I am being look, the rebirth is the being born again experience. And you feel very vulnerable and newborn and, and it's kind of scary ways of knowing how it all because they were all looking at it And you have to become childlike again. And as that quality of childlike you can honor it rather than rejecting it It's just what you've been waiting for and so when you can sing a love song with that and slowly fatigue take you through into that place, working to be that vulnerable and all the methods you use, you use from a place which when the method starts to work, It's all different. In other words, once starts to happen to you, all the stuff Absolute nonsense, because you don't sit around figuring out how to get there So some of us get into will take us to a place awful And so we do that again. And what in fact we do is we override side We override all the the reasons We chemically just push them aside You do it with pranayama It overrides the things you're not, and that's and then you get booted out again And after you've gone in and out where you're perfectly content to it unfolds, because you see that the desire to rush You can't get greedy for enlightenment because it comes at the rate and the greediness It's just not a place. And all I can do that you can come that the minute you see like the trap of dishonesty with yourself about where you're at. Yeah, like in that singing, we were all at different levels of Some of us would like to be more open Some of us can immediately and just merge, but that's very few and the rest are trying. And trying becomes the place It's a place over there. And the, you know, three miles down the road over there, That's a place, an interesting place. Sit there for a few incarnations. I tried. He tried. Can't say he didn't try, but trying is beyond the winning. So says the Book of Dao, Trying is just another place in India. They talk about the about people who are very satwik they're very pure They're good people, good people. And they say Ramakrishna says everybody is caught in the chains of their own desire. The sideward persons chains are made of gold, not iron, but a chain is still a chain. And a lot of people get so good, they just good in the way And they're doing this in sadhana and they're being good and kind Just feel a totally mechanical way They're just stuck a place That's the trip. Because the thing is, you've got to even give up goodness, You've got to give it all. You've got to be right here. Now. So if you don't feel like singing, That's who I am now. Not well, I'll make believe I feel like so because I think That degree of honesty is the only thing that makes it falls short with the absolute forced honesty to be exactly where you are and just exactly what you. Which means that you have to recognize a lot of your desires We can all read Buddha's life or the high lives But it doesn't work. It's the difference that writes a very high of being and another band that if you're sensitive, and you don't get turned on by another and it's like when I experienced depression or the depression, instead of denying the depression, Obviously, I'm not depressed. What could depression mean to a person Bullshit. Think. The fact is here and it takes the is very tricky with everybody else where they said Wow. Wow. You know, and you got to be depressed and you look around first you see the depression and it's like a gray room with no doors. I am in a depression. And then by allowing the depression to be, you immediately For example, I'll give you this sound called nod yoga. You need yoga. You just take earplugs You just take any kind of earplugs So simple. You just sit down, stuff your ears, and start to listen to the sounds inside of, and you will start to hear You may hear waterfalls, you may hear a crowd You may hear the sound of crickets or flutes or drums or cymbals. There are a whole set of possibly and you can label them with different And the game is to listen to whatever sound is is dominant to one point of mass on that sound And then you use that sound as the base Okay, So anybody can do this yoga. It's a very, very good yoga, by the way. So you just put the your, into the put the earplugs in, go inside, Then you hear the ocean, So you listen and listen and listen just absorbs you and fills And then at that point, Suddenly and you just climb the chakras, through these sounds, It's a very, very good You see. So what's happened to me, for example, is my body. Like I used to love music, played the cello, loved classical music. Then I love rock and folk music. Then I love rock and roll music. Then I loved Indian music and I continued more and more music and I love more Until finally it started to that looking at a wall with no music around which or ROM or something like that, And then pretty soon I started do this was so powerful and beautiful that I began to see that all external which was merely the crudest approximation And pretty soon and put earplugs in And it was the same thing that happened It got to the point that will really turn me on ever again, storyline that will be as high as my own life Because Every moment is like baklava. It's so many levels of absurdity, It's all storylines all at once. And I'm supposed to come to follow through which is a very delicate matter then that the only kind of art and music see? And that's why you end up See, mandalas are visual devices just like If you've seen a mandala, it's a it's a square. It's got four gates, and then in the gates are a circle And then the circles get inner and inner And when you go to a Tibetan physician and you happen to be sick with something, he doesn't give a prescription, say, or something like that. He gives you a mandala and you take the mandala home and you sit down in front And what you do is you let your field of vision Then very slowly, as you let it happen, you get sucked in and the particular center when you go through that center, you take That puts you into a space where the thing that was wrong with you Okay? That's How highly articulated it's the same thing as Faith Healer. See, the way faith healing works a vibration different than the vibration And all he does where the illness doesn't manifest anymore and that somebody else And all he does is give you a contact high with his vibrational right and mandalas are very high So pretty soon you start to see mandalas Look at you take each thing and that'll teach you something else. It'll finish off another trip, but something very profound and you've got to appreciate that you will experience horror and discomfort some of the exquisite ness of life the flesh you're used to from the things And you say, Wow, what's happening? My becoming dead is life turning off. Okay? And you've got to accept transformations One whole new thing, one couple you know, when we when we kiss and start because in a way, we're already we have to come back into And we haven't yet figured out a high so that we don't have to go back so trivial to us Gurdjieff Somebody said to Gurdjieff, Our friends don't find us as interesting Now that we're doing the work, I'll tell you. And it is interesting because there's no desire to come on The whole social conversation thing The hanging out, the model of hanging up, to most of our hearts for many years. I mean, I remember like when I got done like I thought, Wow, I will never have to Isn't that groovy? I don't have to have to hold a martini You don't say. Well, tell me more. Have you thought about the implications? You know, that kind of crap On So then I got super hip, so we'd. We'd have the big hash pipe and we listen to the grooviest and we hang out together and sound trips and, food trips. Have you ever tasted pickle with, with, you know, that whole combination while you're in a bath with candles and and for three years, I was just never enough, I walk far to get a new kind of thing, you know? And then I got into this funny place you know, I'd sit home and somebody would And I'd say, Oh, wow, You know, The fine lightness became obvious, and then it blew my mind was when I sat with an absolutely blank with no sound and the earplugs in my ears. And I kept getting higher and higher Oh, wow. Oh, wow. And the thing was that I never got bored. And I started to get scared. Like, what is the implication of this? You know? Because when I used to teach at nursery and you'd call him a social isolate you'd say, We have a real problem here. This child doesn't mix and all of the social forms we all graduated into already I mean, you've used them up already. Which forms are you going to find and nobody talks Because we all know all that stuff. What are you going to say it for? You have And what's How weird? When did you ever walk into a room silently without a roll rules, and everybody goes through the tension I was supposed to do something. Isn't this some social conversations Something supposed to happen? What's happening, man? Nothing. What's going to happen? Nothing. And what could happen? Nothing. Try living in that space for a while now to help us reorganize our lives. Sometimes we create new environments like we impose the rule of silence. It's like I use this chalkboard for months and months And you got so that. It's such a hassle to write. It's such a hassle to write. Who cares? You know why even say it? Let's just sit here. The only thing you put in is like milk or, you know, I love you are really important I mean, I now get a whole groups of this is a far out practically one a week that all it has in rah rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah It's all in like Sanskrit, And I read it page by page by page because the person wrote me a letter thing they could say instead of, Hello, how are you? You know what happened last Tuesday? And you know, that's That's Beautiful. Finally, with one another about, And that doesn't mean If I have to talk to you about but the rest of it starts to fall away It's enough. Each moment is enough. Sitting with a blank wall And yet the whole model you've built, life is doing things See, that's why you move away from high energy cities You see that people in cities They're on an adrenaline addiction, you know, riots and excitement and horns and and when you center enough, as the same as living in the country. It doesn't make any difference until finally you're sounds are there So that's what starts to happen. You see everybody. You look at the same person. That's an interesting thing They're all the beloved. You've always love for eternity. They're all every human being Everybody's everybody. It's really strange. See, now, this doesn't mean When you develop each new one, because you feel you gave it up is that everything you give up, you end up you have it again, but you have it You have a new way. In other words, I can tell you're wearing red socks I can see all that stuff. But I still when I look at you, When I look at you, I see light. When I look at you, I see light. I see light and form. And the thing is, While before the form was before That's how you get ahead in this world. Be better and better Do it faster and faster. And the person that can do exquisitely gets to the top of the heap. And that's what education is about. Learning more and more individual How do you discriminate more dimensions? Do you analyze more dimensions? And then when you start to flip over So all the Divine mother. Now, if you're in the stage where you get stuck in that plane, So somebody comes up, says, And you say, It's all the divine mother and boy, There's no doubt about it. No doubt about it. And so there are interesting steps that you Some people some of us are at the place And our question is, how do you take off? How do you get it going? Others It's going so fast. The only question is I mean, I meet people that I look at and I see they're seeing like light And I go out and say, And they say, I say I'm just me And here we are and this is the floor. And that's the way it is, right? This is it's like that thing that happened to me in New York City where a guy who was very far out and all that, all dressed in black when I was doing Hurry creation he came up somebody got and he took two strawberries and he was crucifying me as I was dancing in front of the people, doing Harikrishna I was the only one dancing at the time. And I was standing there all in white. And suddenly I felt Now, at this point, I dig the high camp, you know I dig through my get baby, Here we are in the middle with Christ having his feet And here is this. Oh, wow. It's so far out. I mean, at every possible level, you know, But simultaneously, I am aware and I got to Strawberry's in my hand See now. And that moment, I see that what I have Okay. Now that's called keeping it all together. In other words, If you can be Christ being crucified, on the carpet. I began to see that that's what it meant all that all together. Because you and I like somebody. Somebody will call me and I'll say these photographs for the papers? I'm I'll say, Sure, man, and I'll give you the address. I'll say, And the guy said, Oh, I don't know. I say, Well, baby You got to play the game at every level. You're dealing in a system Why don't you know your zip code as if I'm too conscious So I'm like, I can't be bothered with that. But a conscious being You just do it all because you and you've got to acknowledge every single level which this physical level is one of them, And if you keep it together like that, There's never any difficulty, any difficulties because you slipped up because you weren't here there to be here, all of them all the time. And the way you can do that, linearly with your thoughts, You can't do it Here you are, beautiful girl, and I'm man Your God, I'm God. You can't go like, go through that trip You'd be exhausted at the end of walking So the way to do it is to empty your mind And any label that we give each other, That isn't it. It isn't that one either. And then we just flow and I meet you We're just flowing together. We just flow. And then if there's reason And if there's not, we flow on with no models at all. There aren't any model. You only have a model when you need Like somebody says, Would somebody Well, then I can come to the level there, But otherwise I don't sit around saying, I know that's a woman. And the thing is not to lose the ability to discriminate, not to repeat that. I just have a couple of more words and then I probably should stop. The thing about finding teachers of gurus, it is quite important that you understand that the nature of the relationship or a disciple of a guru is not There is nothing in the relationship that has anything to do with this, That's the level at which it exists on and that the going to find your guru is as phony it can't happen till I find my guru, and the way the best image I have of the whole process now is that one where you see an airplane on the airfield and the guru is circling in to be cleared, and you are busy and you are looking out the guru, and he's waiting for you to get That's roughly the way I understand And he is always exactly where you are and all it means you've got to turn off to receive him That if a guru is what he is and he and there's only one of them, and then it is you, it's it is always exactly where you There's All you've got to do is open yourself to that possible. Now, teachers are something else. Teachers and the teachers that you will need of your particular unique method empire in view of where you aren't, it will become apparent to you as soon as you can ask the right questions That is, as soon as you can define where you are, not then who can deal with that particular thing Once you begin to see that you're suddenly tuned to all these body and then you start to look for one that is in harmony And a lot of the body trips you find out And then you find some that are very pure and then that teacher teaches you what But that's in the role that your asking the right question is what finds you, the teacher and the just general free flow. Where can I find a teacher? Is is not you're not really asking yet you got hurt somewhere first, Each one can teach you a certain thing. And finally, you will need many teachers. Many teachers along the way. I have a teacher who is teaching me are some of the pure statements As every Egyptian Egyptologists and I went through on. Now I got to learn geometry. I take algebra this term in geometry that was the level And now I'm seeing it. It's like he starts me And he says, What is two? So I say, It's one plus one. He says, How could that be? There's only one. It's like, Well, what is two? Two is one divided in half, because nothing can be bigger than one In other words. It's got to be. Unity is the highest place you can get to. So what are you going to create systems only one whole number. So the whole mathematics because as is true above, so below, The system is going to be right? And now I'll go probably to South America for a while and I'll study with a Sufi It's very interesting I am going to this teacher turns me off. The whole model of secret schools bugs me. I don't believe in secrets. The whole idea of a guy who is like very worldly and teaches you And it's just that turn off that there are uncooked Say, okay, here we go. It's because I stick with I'll go to a holy man and then I'll come back And here is a man who teaches holy man He gets you so that you smoke pot and you drive around Oh, my great, great trip. I've done that already, but he's going to do it like teaching me. Something through it. Yeah. He's a tough teacher. I guess. And then I'll go back to my Hindu teacher and he will teach me and take my body And then I'll go to a Buddhist monastery and I will sit for months I will get up and sit eight, 10 hours And it's such an exciting curriculum. I can you know, it's only because all of those will cook seeds and they'll all help me and you'll begin to see that you need right? Teachers, for those of you that haven't heard it, there is a book being prepared, Actually, which is to be given away free. And when I was with my in India, he said he sent his blessing. I was keeping notes of because it was also far out. So I thought, I'll make little notes which is absurd, of course. And I got a message Ask you about for your book. I said, Well, what book is that? And they said, Whatever book it is you're So I concluded So I came back to America I wrote a book, and I sent it all these publishers, and they wrote back but our line is full in that area We have a lot of mystic so I thought, Well, if the guru is who he is, he's the publisher too, So obviously that isn't the book, right? You hear that logic See, he's everything. If he is who I know That's a big trip. So I waited. And then in the course of a few years, of these kinds of things And then this groovy woman in New York started to type them all up until And then a guy in California you know, it's very far out. Some of the tapes, parts of them heavy teaching and some of them are really far out They just like phrases So we cut out all the heavy stuff and we kept all the high stuff. We put it all together that had 108 pages in it and, and so the way we're doing that book is that we've got a group of there are, I haven't been there yet, It started on April 6th and every morning they rise. They are living in the mountains Every morning they rise at five and then they take food and then they and they have these four foot and they hand rubberstamp book on to these pages. So it's all organically done. And then the artists draw and then at the each page Then the manuscript is sent to Japan, rice paper and hand the whole thing, All right, So that was the core book. And then somebody said, Well, we're going to do 20,000 copies. Right? You got to put that out. Why don't you? And it's Maharajas I mean, it's not anybody else's book Somebody said, would you include that And they said, you got all these Could you put in some of those? Okay. Would You mind putting in two copies so You know, Okay. You said all those quotes you have. Could you put in some of those quotes so near the door? You know, it's nice by the door of a thousand miles begins You know, just as you walk out okay, we'll put a little deck of cards. So now it's not a book anymore. See, it's like a box now because it's got these pictures in it And somebody said, say, And some of these evenings, could you put So now we're working on a 12 inch Rahman and mantra. One whole side is or die amp is the teaching And then there are these other songs and kirtan, and then somebody said, Look, and all that stuff and, how to eat Couldn't you put all that into a So we have a cookbook for psychic space just going in there. And then somebody said, say, could you put They don't I mean, just a straight And what happened here was somebody said for my parole officer, So we have a straight story, the little storybook, his story. His story and the story. And then there is this box and there's a model on the box And so all of part of the funds this all happen, It's costing us $30,000 to do this thing and we're giving away, I always wanted to do that. It's just a complete It's like, sure, it's infantile rebellion, but whatever it is. So that'll be ready late in the summer. So on. And I have postcards, which you can take if you want one. You just put your name and address and when the book is ready, notify me Okay. And anybody, because you're you you're providing All right, Danny, there's a box If you don't find loose Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh I shall, I shall. I am like, oh oh, I have, oh, oh, my mum's rather crucial. Oh, la la la la la la la la. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh yeah, oh yeah. They oh yeah, yeah Oh yeah. And, and and oh yeah Check them Oh and oh, oh and and oh, 000.