If you have your Bible let's go with me to Book chapter 27. I'm going to start reading in just a the Bible to Book of Acts chapter 27. As before we want to tell you that in the Bible there are many the Bible and let me highlight them quickly. First You probably remember this and some it's one of the reasons some atheists believe that a fish could carry a man for and he's alive. And the City of Nineveh was was caused by running from God and when Jonah ran storm. Not just the devil. Some storms are God. Jonah's storm was not caused by the devil. It God wasn't punishing the sailors, He was waking trying to drown Jonah. God was trying to redirect it says this, when Jonah ran from the will of God, something right now. When you run from God's call presence on your life. Some people think they lose true. Some people lose manifest presence when God didn't just call you to stay away from sin. is that none will perish. His will is that you win those who believe in me, these signs will follow. are not just saved so you can wait till rapture. and when God has a call on your life to be to be an evangelist, when God has a call on your of God. And you find lame, dumb excuses for why in the opposite direction. You go to Tarshish I don't like Ninevites. I don't want to do that. God loves you so much and the people He called you don't listen to the whispers of God, you will This is not a mean God. This is a God that loves comfort, and I'm so glad He does that. Because if answer the call of God, and speak into my life and be here today. Somebody had to answer the call. could reach me, so that I could be discovered of God. And so now the Lord wants to do this work me to go in the wrong direction. Even if I'm not of you here today, there's a storm in your life You've been a Christian for so long, you have you need to start a life group, you need to become going to church. I am on a receiving end. You've releasing. God didn't call you to be a Dead Sea. you receive and you release. Even your own body and if you stop releasing and you only receive, body. You will actually start dying. You will get in their life, when a Christian doesn't serve in will lose the manifest presence, they will lose God. I want to provoke you today to do God's will. do not do the will of God, God has an alarm clock. wake up Jonah. He might use a storm to wake you a very common one. You probably have heard it storm. Somebody say, Jesus's storm. Jesus's storm opposite, when He actually followed God's will. and exercising faith. So not every storm is the circumstances just because somebody else could reason. There were three people on the cross. the other was a rebel. Two people were in jail. in jail for walking in purity. So when you look based on the circumstances they are in because Jonah was in the storm because he ran from the was the will of God, and Paul was in the storm you can experience storm in all kinds of settings. why you are in it, and that's why when Jesus was He was the son of God. When Jesus walked, God was an opposite will that did not want the will used when Jesus spoke to the storm and He rebuke Jesus would rebuke demons, because I truly believe that wanted to stop Jesus. And if you look at Jesus goes to a place where He delivers a the devil probably saw Jesus is headed to a place the will of God, please understand there's going that is the kingdom of Satan. He comes to steal, but it should also never stop you. We don't roll, devil showed some resistance. The devil will show devil will start showing some resistance for you to show some resistance sometimes in your family. as you start moving toward the will of God. Do He first slept in the storm and then He spoke to to the storm is the faith that first learns to the Prince of peace gives you peace in here before resistance and attack because you're in the will win souls and make disciples. You feeling like but because of your obedience. I want to let you power. God supplies you His joy before He begins receive that peace, learn to sleep in the storm. God's got my finances. God's got my marriage. I know I'm under attack right now, but I'm and I'm going to withstand everything in an evil God's got me. Somebody say, God's got me. You know Jesus was sleeping but Peter was panicking. and He says, Peter, you of little faith. He little faith. You got a little, little faith, storm. But what I find interesting is in the similar storm. Peter is arrested and chained next day. Now James got killed. Stephen got pretty much facing a death sentence. When the sleeping. Peter's faith grew, and maybe you're you panic first. That's a little faith. As you kill few lions and few bear, symbolically things that give you sleepless nights, your faith baby through them and you'll simply know God's if He'll send a fish. I don't know if He'll but I know one thing, I got a Provider, He's your faith is more panicky faith. You're like to 20 million people on Facebook and Instagram. you prayed, you confess but you're still scared. keep growing your faith, keep coming to church, and you will learn to find God's peace in that authority to speak to that storm. And you will survive and overcome that storm, but you're to heal some sick people. You're going to win some of you are going to plant a church. Some of you You will build a business that will sponsor other side and everything the devil threw at But let me talk to you about the last Now Paul's storm. Let's review. Jonah's storm God. Jesus's storm was caused because He was and Paul had a storm. Jonah's storm was caused but we believe probably had spiritual components Paul was caught in the consequences of someone's a moment. Paul would have never been in that storm common sense. The captain made a decision that only to endure storm but almost lose his life. Now not his first storm, this was his fourth one. So of storm survival, storm survival this year, this another storm. And then you flip the page, you're this time I was left for dead. So Paul's resume that he was caught in the consequences of other By persevering, swimming and holding on to broken that you and I need to do when you're caught in be storms in our life that we will experience our boss. Could be a pastor, could be a parent, because see your decisions affect other people. it affects businesses. When they shut down all was not essential, it affected people. People were This happen in churches. This happens just, not because just a sinful nature all around us in decisions that affect other people, and sometimes are responsible for the storm you're facing now. that will deliver a lot of us. Acts 27:21 Paul Paul stood up in the midst of them and said,&quot; me, and not have sailed from Crete and incurred in the room, the elephant in the room. You didn't never took it personally and became bitter or we're going to take a look, Paul actually helped his commitment to God. If you are in a storm wife or somebody left you. Maybe your children a company got closed because of the government. As drown in the storm. If you release that. It's not fair? For you to relive that trauma every single the past, it enlarges your future. If you're you are entitled to it but please understand, as you. Release yourself, loose yourself. God is the have any strength to forgive. Do not look within did to Jesus Christ, and you will find strength in your wounds into scars, and He will turn your His glory. Come on somebody, give God some praise to forgive. Touch your other neighbor, say, let it your ship but don't let it sink your faith. The storm might destroy your ship, don't let it &quot;And now I urge you to take heart,&quot; and look what you, but only the ship.&quot; This is that storm where I want to let you know, do not become too attached why? Because ships tend to break, and God doesn't to save your soul. And that's why Jesus prayed that your faith will not fail.&quot; The enemy is not The greatest loss is not when you lose your job or greatest loss, not even if you lose a friendship. why Jesus prayed for Peter. He says I prayed for face. He didn't even pray for Peter not to fail. Paul says eventually to Timothy in 1 Timothy 1:19, which some have rejected, concerning the faith today and your business got shipwrecked. Maybe your marriage got shipwrecked completely. Don't Hold on to God. And I want to speak for those claim your faith. It exposed the fact you had God is an anchor. It keeps me stable in a storm. my spouse. It's not even in my church. My faith in in whom I have believed, Paul said. Job said, lives. See all of these men lost their ships but will purify your faith, but it cannot change your God. Come on somebody. If you still got your If you lost your ship, keep your faith. You give him another ship. God will give you not destroyed. That's why our faith is not defined amen. Number three. Storms don't mean God is sun is gone. Acts 27:23, and Paul continues his night an angel of the God to whom I belong and Paul.&quot; So this is what the angel said, &quot;You must you all who sail with you.&quot; Just because you're God is with you, and He's reassuring you, when second thing He's reassuring you, where He has you will arrive, sooner or later. And he told in front of Caesar. Meaning your story doesn't bit but you're going to get there where I have a promise, and the storm has derailed your life of yours. But I want to tell you something. Delay not alone. The angel of God encamps around those not just surrounded by your problems. You're God of heaven and the earth is around you. He's the storm you might be like, but how is He in the rides on the storm. He walks in the valley with of the shadow of death, He doesn't leave us and what the worst thing that could happen to you happen to you is God will never leave you, He will He will fulfill that promise. You will stand in goodness of God. You will fulfill God's destiny. glorified through your life. That's a word for sanctuary. The storm isn't going to stop God's Number four. Not everything God is involved however so Paul says, just want to let you guys to let you guys know that we're going to be God's angel spoke to me. He said, everybody's going to make it and by the way, we must run going to crash. So a lot of positivity and a lot course. No supernatural intervention stopped their faith. Not everyone who is struggling has no something wrong. We have to remove this thing God's angels are assigned to me, every situation not God stopping the storm. Some endings is you faith. Paul didn't lack faith in here. The Bible, just have more faith you would have stopped the this thing is going to run its course. It's going going to make it. You're going to stand in front on the ship. Learn to appreciate God's presence stop. God is as present with you when the storm He comes and supernaturally stops everything. Can spiritual appetite in the storm or you will face so Paul says, &quot;Therefore I urge you to take not a hair will fall from the head of any of you.&quot; Paul, he took bread and gave thanks to God in the began to eat.&quot; So Paul, let's review it, is in a doesn't hold bitterness. You don't see bitterness God's angel speaks to him. Paul, he begins to tell it's been 14 days and none of us have eaten. You the storm will seek to, if he can cannot, if to take your appetite. Your appetite for God's you come into God's presence and you don't feel storm is they shut down in worship. They say, I worship God in spite of your feelings. Come out he can steal your faith but he's taking your hunger is being taken for God. You're opening It's like I'm reading a blank book. Force feed Word does not come from not eating God's Word but a prayer, bring yourself to a morning prayer, why? to pray comes from the presence of God. Do not opt to take me. He will take you to the shore but eaten for a long time. Open up your Bible again, don't know what you're feeling. I don't know how life has been. Listen, sometimes you got to why David told himself, he says, O my soul, why been sad because you've been going through the but I will still trust in God, but I will still If your soul lost appetite, Don't live in your own head. As a Christian you thoughts. As a Christian, you lead your thoughts same thing with your emotions. Your emotions are to tell you different messages every single day, annoying, it's just kind of a cranky moody child. to church at 9:00 on Sunday morning. Come on, lift know you're in a storm but you're alive. I know Feelings, shut up. You're not telling the truth. me. He didn't forsake me. Your thoughts will amen. Strength to survive the storm comes from you may say, but I don't want to be a hypocrite Word. Your flesh doesn't. Stop identifying with are not a hypocrite when you're doing something you are a true Christian. It's when you're doing you're a hypocrite because that's, that's not Jesus. Number six. Survive the storm by holding somebody needs to hear this, your neighbor needs your neighbor, say focus on what's left, and turn Acts 27:43, it says, &quot;But the centurion, wanting commanded that those who could swim should jump some on boards and some on parts of the ship. See the fact that Paul was was swimming for his wanted to, sailors had wanted to sneak away in a had noticed and warned the centurion. Soldiers thought the prisoners will escape and then they'll their life. But Paul found through the wisdom of who didn't listen to him in the beginning, saved some people who know how to swim, get out first, does this mean? When you're in the storm sometimes today, don't worry about tomorrow when you're the future when you in the storm. God's got it. don't focus on what you don't have, praise God you focus on the presence of God, the promise focused on that. Your two hands lift up, focus on ears hear, focus on that. Focus on what's left, and you lost 99%. You can't get it back what you got to get through this day, and the way you get Hold on to broken pieces. No it's not fair because ship, and there you are holding on to a log, and and there you are holding on to a little you have a little bit of oil left in your It's who stayed with you, God will bless. work through what you lost. That is gone. Focus what do you guys have? They said, just, just, Jesus says, that's enough. What you have left is I'll use that log and I'll get you to safely. other side. You will not have to be on this you will have to hold on to a simple hope, one day like He did for Israel, calm the storm like he did He will give you strength to swim, like He did if the sea didn't split, if all working, put some swimming clothes on and go speaking to it, grab a shovel, start moving as much faith to swim to the shore Sometimes it takes as much faith to survive and God works in mysterious ways, but be alone and He will never let you drown My God in Joshua 1:5 says: In Psalms 37:25 He says: In Isaiah 41:10 it says: In Hebrews 13:5 He says: 1 Kings 8:57. Isaiah 42:16. Psalm 94:14. Romans 8:38-39. Devil, if God doesn't give me a fish He'll give have to know devil, I ain't drowning. I'm going And somebody's sin may destroy my ship but they my God, and I will eat in my storm. I will eat my storm. I will forgive other people and I will but washed and pruned and purged and better I'll become better. The devil threw a knife at me. how to hold it by the handle, and what he meant people who survived the storms shake off snakes. to heal others on the island. People who survive and they know how to do stuff in jail. Even in people, and you are that person, our church is Has there been disobedience in your life to the disobeying God's call. Are you here today and you Find pleasure and peace in His presence. But other people, you got stuck and you're hurting? right now I want everyone to bow your head and online. If you don't know Jesus as your personal have backslid. You have not been walking with the HungryGen or you came because some family members the Lord brought you into this room because He has sent His son to die on the cross for you. The the fear you're experiencing of being disconnected the blood of Jesus washes your sins, washes your Jesus came to give life and more abundantly. to fill your empty heart and most importantly He wants you to have a relationship with God. Not all kinds of dead grandpas and grandmas. But He the Son Jesus Christ. Maybe you're here today I'm not a bad person. In comparison to who? Bible says nobody is good. None of us deserve Maybe you're here and you're like, but, but to St Pats. I go to this church. I go to another make you a cheeseburger. Coming to church does Jesus told Nicodemus, who worked at the church, you must be born again. And the guy looked at that doesn't matter. Religion doesn't save you, and every eye closed. If you need to be born first time or you need to come back to the Lord I'm going to ask you to raise your hand. That's to God's call today to give my life to Jesus. In too late. Today is the day of salvation. Two. is knocking on your heart. Three. Raise that of you online, you can drop in the chat, I want I want you to stretch your hands like this, like sanctuary. Say this out loud with me, say Lord God, who died on that cross for all of my sin. wash me with Your precious blood. I'm coming but I can't change myself. Holy Spirit come me. And I promise to follow You all