The perfect shortcrust pastry pie with cottage cheese! Shortcake with curd filling! If subtitles bother you, turn them off! Hello friends! Dina and the Recipe Collection channel are with you! If you love pies, but don't want to mess around with yeast dough, let's make a shortcrust cake with curd filling. The channel already has an excellent recipe for a pie with jam, if you haven't seen it, look, the link will be in the description. Cooking shortbread dough. Pour 400 g of sifted and rub 200 g of ice It can be chopped with a knife, mixed with flour in a food processor or blender, or grated. Grind the flour and butter into a homogeneous butter crumb. Pour 150 g of sugar there, 1/2 tsp. salt, 10 g baking powder and vanillin or vanilla sugar. We mix everything. Add 1 egg and 100 g sour cream. We knead the dough. First with a fork and then with your hands. As usual, at first, the shortbread dough is reluctant to gather into a single mass, but try not to add any more liquid - gradually the butter will begin to melt, and you will perfectly collect the dough into a common lump. It took me 8 minutes to prepare the dough. We put it in a bag and leave it on the table, however, if you don't plan on baking the pie right away, put the dough in the refrigerator. Cooking curd filling. I have 9% cottage of 0.5 kg, add 150 vanillin and eggs - 1 whole + 1 white, and leave the yolk to grease the cake before baking. Mix the mass well. If desired, you can add lemon or orange zest, half or washed and dried raisins to the curd filling, If the cottage cheese is too wet, either squeeze it out through cheesecloth in advance, or add a spoonful of flour or semolina to the filling. The filling is ready, we return to the dough. Cut off about 1/4 of it and put it in a bag. I will bake the cake Teflon rug, you can also use Sprinkle it with flour and roll out the dough into a layer, 4-5 mm thick, 33-35 cm in diameter. You've probably already guessed why such a big circle? That's right, we will shape a cake with a beautiful side! With a plate or lid of the required diameter - I have 28 cm, we make an impression on the dough, leaving a strip 4-5 cm wide at the edges. From the marked line to the edge, using a cutter or knife, we make cuts 1.5-2 cm wide, not thinner. We trim the edges of the dough, and put the scraps into a bag. We form the side of the pie. Raise each strip of dough, turn it clockwise and press it against the base of the future pie. Once again, lift, turn and press, it's very simple. Of course, if you like the pigtail decoration, like in the jam pie, then you can arrange it that way. We press the edges of the dough, pressing them to the bottom, and thus, finally, we form the base of the shortbread cake. We transfer the rug with the dough to a baking sheet, and only then put all the filling on it. Spread it evenly over the base of the cake. We make decorations from the remaining piece of dough. Everything is as your imagination tells you! Mesh, narrow or wide dough ribbons, braids, leaves, flowers, etc. Use a wavy cutter, notches, scissors, textured rolling pins, in general, everything, as in a creative workshop. As a last resort, this piece of dough can be frozen, and then grate it into crumbs and pour it over the curd filling. Lubricate the pie with yolk and send it to an oven preheated to 180 deg C. We bake on the second or third level from the bottom without convection on the top and bottom heating mode for 45-50 minutes or until the filling becomes dense. If you have a gas oven, bake as you would normally bake pies. We take out the finished pie, let it cool slightly, transfer from a baking sheet to a board or dish and remove the rug. The pie is perfectly cut, holds its shape perfectly, the dough is not clogged and evenly baked. The taste of the pie is moderately sweet, creamy, with a pleasant vanilla-curd filling. Such a treat will appeal to all lovers of shortbread or curd pastries. Cook for the good and please your family and friends! I wish you all Bon appetit! Friends, to save the recipe, like it! I am waiting not yet subscribed to the Collection of Recipes Dina was with you! Until next time!