- The last time we had the same level of carbon dioxide in our atmosphere, our oceans looked very I asked one of the leading and what I learned was pretty shocking. The sea level was a lot That's because it takes a long time for sea levels to adjust as earth's temperatures that new heat energy slowly and eventually, once the oceans find So, if we stop emitting how much higher would our sea levels rise? Well, we have a pretty good idea of what things looked like thousands of years ago when atmospheric today. In this episode, we're going to use some amazing what places we know and care about would look like scenarios in our lifetime and just beyond. It to project far into the future to start seeing major impacts and that will impact millions of people. Carbon dioxide levels are any time since the last ice age. I know that because I went and held 50,000 year that has tiny bubbles of ancient atmosphere Scientists use those bubbles to compare our current atmospheric carbon to the distant past. I was holding that ice while broadcast season called which you can stream right now. Scientists at Oregon that we're currently emitting any time in the last 100,000 years. If you want to learn what for our weather today and see more of weathered on head over to the PBS streaming app where you can watch all And to learn more about Coastal communities are of sea level rise, but so far what we've what we'll see in the future because the rate of rise is speeding up. In the last 30 years, we've but we're projected to There are a lot of unknowns but paleoclimate records for a startling future - 125,000 years ago and or some last high that are comparable to when temperatures and carbon dioxide levels were about the same as they are now. And back then, we know that maybe 10 meters higher So we still probably have - Here's what 10 meters of sea level rise will look to the data model by Climate Central and If or maybe when that happens, and Newark would be underwater. The White House would become with all of Norfolk, and so many more. But the most impressive where major coastal In southern Florida alone, more than 10 million people Even in mountainous states of San Francisco and even Sacramento would around 1 billion people or about one eighth of the world's population above current high tide lines. Most of the country of Bangladesh of Bangkok, Shanghai, and most of Hanoi would of Singapore, Buenos Aires, and of course nearly Without a meaningful temperature, this is very and that's just at current CO2 levels. As we continue to emit greenhouse gases, the projections rise even higher, but it'll take centuries with current temperature. But what exactly is - The dominant signals to rise are about two parts land-based ice melt: mountain glaciers, and about So roughly two to one, - When water warms, it takes up more space and there's so much water That thermal expansion used but that's changed. - The ice sheets are really and that the rate of which they're losing mass is accelerating. And now it's overtaken the And that's the real how much are these ice and what will that look like - Projections for the next 30 looking further into the future. So we'll start at 2050. Over the last 100 years, but that rate of change is increasing, - So history will repeat itself and fast forward. We're rise in the next 30 years relative to 2020. - One foot may not sound like or 30 feet, but low-lying coastal communities around the world will and that one foot of higher as well. So on our US map, we're by a 10 year or 10% chance flood to our of this flood happening Many low-lying coastal communities have levees and sea walls. But on our maps, we're showing areas that are potentially protected as flooded to give a sense of the risk. But what will these sea levels Enter Climate Central, they're undertaking an ambitious and Gulf Coasts of the and elevation data to create realistic, visualizations. We talked to Max, who is out collecting - Right now I'm in beautiful This is Climate Central's Edge the vehicle. It's a Lightning. Up on top, we have mounted on both and in between those two cinema cameras is the silver cylinder. This is a LiDAR unit, which sprays basically what they use in augmented reality. And then the other two units - With that data, they can create of future sea level. - Our interface allows us to zoom in on, on a particular city or town So what you're seeing is of ground level water. This is what the, the downtown Charleston with three feet of water. - We'll look at our most likely warming and sea level rise scenarios in a bit. But first we're gonna look of warming, and it's not But if renewable energy currently project, it is possible. - If we start talking about we're talking perhaps more we're gonna hit three, - Four feet would put large underwater and populous global cities like Shanghai and Bangkok would no longer today. But there are a lot out we project. And by 2100 melt could speed of large ice sheets could be a major catalyst for faster melt. - What will be some of the triggers that might create some These processes aren't very well modeled. They're not very well observed. Is it plausible by 2100 for global sea levels to rise two meters? And what would that look like along Well, that two meters would So that would really be Now that's a very low likelihood, but what if these glaciers These ice sheets really start to melt. - 2.2 meters of rise along the East In Florida, popular cities like Miami and Cape Coral would be flooded. Cities along the East Coast Savannah, Georgia, and all the way to Philadelphia, As we model out to 2150, there - If some of these known at higher temperatures, the numbers just become We're talking about sea level rise. 12, 13 but we can't take it off the table. - But for now, some good news. Our most likely emissions and warming path shows very gas emissions by 2100, hitting somewhere around three degrees, hopefully just under - On the trajectory that and a half, three degrees C we're looking at somewhere of rise on average along - And that extra foot is or five degree warming And by 2150, well, it's important to understand that we're not currently on by 2100. The more we warm in that extra 50 years, the faster seas will rise. - The coastal environment is going to look very different We're on a trajectory now of under the commitments at hand. probably not gonna be too much smaller. - So by 2150, our grandchildren and great-grandchildren are very likely to witness the evacuation of most of Miami and the already below sea plus dozens of smaller towns and coastal communities, And that's in a relatively I want to talk about Much of the area is There are over 3000 miles of of the area, including New Orleans. So will all cities just build as our seas rise? Probably not, but it's hard to say. Levees are only protective and as seas get higher, the risk of failure becomes catastrophic. We have already seen for communities in Louisiana, to move an entire community than extending a levee Isle De Jean Charles is a community Weathered: Earth's Extremes. It was relocated after it was but the choice to leave was And even with effective levees, eventually communities will be living in a very risky fishbowl - The Texas spine. This idea of big gates that's not gonna combat sea level rise. I'm sorry to say, - But we have the technology And that's the point when we gas emissions to a point so low, and put that carbon in long-term storage. And we can reach that point If we really move quickly and support the energy transition, we could reach net zero well before 2100. That will mean a lot more support for speeding up the transition to low carbon energy like electric vehicles, and To learn more about the transition and the impacts of warming right now, check out our new broadcast series, Weathered: Earth Extremes on the PBS app. Is your home covered by If so, what's your plan? Let us know in the comments and see you next time on Weathered.