There are thousands of great classical you might be wondering &quot;I want to work on a but where do I start? Hi my name is Jazer! I'm a 5 Easy Classical Pieces that you shouldn't play the start and briefly explain why these are great pieces to work on. All five beautiful, and famous. And on top of that. you that will later help you to play even harder stuff easiest to the hardest piece, so make sure you Before we get to the countdown, make sure you LIKE with more of these free piano lessons and ...and so on and so forth. So Number 5 on the this is a beautiful piece but let me share The piece is in C major which means there are not and then. So there are a couple of sharps and most of it are white keys so a great also filled with repeating patterns. it's filled with this arpeggios pattern. And it's just with different notes. So you learn one entire piece. So quite a good little piece to you a lot about chords. So this piece is filled If you were to play it all together, this is and the next one is a D minor 7 chord on with really make sense to you, it doesn't matter. and just get a feel for chord shapes on the Bach Prelude in C. Okay moving on to ...so on and so forth. So this one is As you could hear - a really, I always love playing this after coming really calms me down and makes me feel happy. So piece will really help you to do is also develop So in piano playing most of the time right hand harmony, right? So right hand generally needs to Okay for most of the time when beginners start to So how did that sound to you? Hopefully you this video was a bit better than the second time. the right hand and left hand was playing at this piece. Right, if we play them at the same hand. All right, so this is not good. The right way to might be playing at a level 7 out of 10 for the play at A maybe about a level 3 so something like and try to really bring this one out. Did you hear that? So a lot nicer control there, a lot nicer balance there. So this is trying to build a nice balance between your list so... ...so we all know this one. This is Fur Elise I think, the Fur Elise is really good for Legato playing means 'smooth playing' the next note. So for example, this is So as a beginner pianist, one of the things that is really important to develop is a really So legato playing is not easy to master really, really fine movements. you want to play a note and as you strike note up. And you're dealing with this So Fur Elise is really good for building a also really good for working on a piece that moves you might find that a lot of your pieces are in C position right,,, something like that. Um, widening your range right, giving you something Do you see that? So the range of the notes you so just a nice piece to start to extend your range on to Number 2 of our list, this one is personally ...so on and so forth. So Number 2 on the list This is a fantastic piece to work on because it will teach you lots about chords. So you can was playing a whole bunch of these 3 note chords So it's really great for the left hand to challenging things about this piece is because and the right hand is playing just a single note your hands just like the Gymnopedie, for Right, so most beginners might So as you could hear that this wasn't a a nice balance between them. The left at the same volume. So what we want to bit. So this may be playing at level ...stand out more... so on and so forth. And moving now to ...so on and so forth. So Number 1 on the list is Now aside from the absolute beauty of this piece, learning this piece. The first one is chords. Now are, that are playing the chords. So if you were if you were to join them together. It's a great piece to learn to understand great benefit of learning the Moonlight Sonata not easy to do but it can be a great challenge. I don't know if you can see what's happening 2 voices. I was playing that a lot louder than So not easy to do. A really great and And last but not least the Moonlight means it has 4 sharps to begin with. And of sharps throughout. So this piece in particular made me more comfortable with sharps. They used to I got more comfortable with key signatures And knowing what sharps to play so knowing which and there you go guys, that concludes the 5 Easy Which one of these 5 are your favorite? Let me there are any other beginner piano classical learn. Comment below please. That's all for