The question we would is... Do we want survival, or do we want happiness? And the second question is, happiness and survival, can these two things go together? Because... while struggling to survive, we have to destroy, to kill. And the motivation, deep motivation inside, is... not only to survive And looking deeply we can see that very clearly. People are killing each other. And many believe that the others... are the obstacles and to sensual pleasures. On one hand we try to fight and on the other hand get the pleasure, And both kinds of action are to us, and to our victims. And we can see that... the one who has to perish of course they suffer. But the one who wins also suffers. And that habit, that seed... is so deep in us -- The drive to survive, the drive to get as much When we look into you can see a way out. The Buddha does not speak does not... encourage us the path And his message is centered... on how to cope with our suffering, how to transform our suffering. When we... when we get angry, we suffer. And we make the people around us suffer. And the Buddha would like us the suffering caused by anger, and by the kind of action And the Buddha encourages us as the cause of suffering, and find ways to transform like compassion, loving-kindness. Because, while anger makes understanding and compassion And he also advices us to look, Because fear also brings a lot of suffering. And out of fear we can act in a very destructive way. We try to kill them before they have a chance to kill us. And we cannot sleep well, &quot;The terrorists are everywhere, and we can die at any moment.&quot; So we are pushed by our fear to kill the terrorist In the process of trying to kill them we kill so many innocent people. The Buddha advised us to look deeply and to see whether there is a way into understanding and compassion because understanding and compassion and help people around us. He advised us to look at our delusion. We are confused. Our confusion. We are confused: we don't know We don't have a path. We are lost. And confusion, confusion lets us to be angry, to be desperate. Caught in a state of being angry, desperate, desperate and fearful, We can destroy our health, and we can cause a lot of suffering to many other people, confusion. And then the Buddha also advised us the nature of craving. Because craving also pushes us wrong action. And when craving is there, we don't have happiness. And these things are... described in Buddhist teaching Poisons. And when we get the poison in us, we suffer, Already having poisons in us, we continue to get more poison from in our environment. We get more fear, more anger, more confusion, more craving. And that makes the situation more and more difficult. Looking deeply we can see that in terms of survival, only just in terms of survival, the practice to help us... transform our anger, our fear, our confusion, and our craving, help us to suffer less. helps us to bring... help us to heal, helps us to have a better health, for ourselves. And also helps us And with that, the chance to survive is better. Now looking in the situation of the world, we see that how much confusion, and destroy the people around us. And that goes in the line of evolution. [You may] think but it is not. It is creating a lot of suffering. And survival cannot be because if we continue like that, And that is why we have to bring in... the dimension of &quot;spiritual evolution,&quot; &quot;cultural evolution,&quot; and understand the word &quot;survival&quot; with another meaning. There are those of us who have... a serious illness, and the doctors say We'll die in a year or two, and because of that we have a lot of fear. We have a lot of despair, and anger also. And that fear, that anger, that despair, will make the situation worse. But when we bring in... the teaching and the practice we can change the situation. Because the teaching and deal with the anger, the fear, and the despair. And we learn how to live peacefully and happily, Even if we accept that our lives will... the time left for us to live than for other people. When you have learned enjoying every moment you learn how to smile, how to relax, how to nourish yourself with... refreshing and healing Then these poisons do not And many of us, thanks to the practice, have been able to than predicted. There was a young man in Canada, he had only three months to live. He was sitting next to me And he told us about his situation. And I said, &quot;It's ok, it may be true that but are you capable of drinking this cup of tea with me in peace?&quot; I challenged him. &quot;Because this moment is You are surrounded by friends. Today is a beautiful day and we have tea. Are you are capable of enjoying your tea in the presence of the people I challenged him. &quot;What is the use of if you are not capable of he was challenged. And tried to drink his tea. And after that he... he received the teachings drinking tea, breathing. He took the Fourteen Precepts, and got the Dharma name... &quot;True Birth.&quot; True Birth (or True Life). And he was able to live... 11 years after that. So that is also survival. But survival not by killing, by destroying the people but by bringing in the practice