Windows 365 Link is the It's a purpose-built solution by Microsoft with a small Windows-based to Windows 365 in seconds. With a quick sign-in to your Cloud PC, you can securely connect to a familiar Windows desktop accessing a responsive And Windows 365 Link is simple and straightforward to set up. For IT, it brings a more where it can be managed in Microsoft Intune. The device is secure by design, featuring no local admin users, no local data storage, and no local apps. You can't install or execute on the device, so you're protected from malware. Security baseline policies And its security features I'll start by showing Windows 365 Link. First, you'll enter and you're presented with multi-factor Here we're using the Microsoft Then you're securely authenticated and connected to your Cloud And if you have a few apps you can pick up right where you left off. The start menu shows productivity and work apps provisioned by your IT team. And with Windows being in the cloud, everything is up to date. We've enabled local redirection for web multimedia content This ensures a smooth, And is also optimized for online meetings with Microsoft Teams, providing highly performant And while you saw me use Windows 365 Link also works and cross-device passkeys. So, you get the experience you with all the security and scalability of the Microsoft Cloud, resulting in a no compromise experience. And when you sign out of your device, it returns to the sign-in experience. Your data and account on Windows 365 Link. So it's great as a shared use device for hot desking, contact Windows 365 Link also works to be productive. You can connect them via USB and Bluetooth 5.3, including up to two monitors at 4K resolution each, and audio including your headset. Next, let's take a closer look at the Windows 365 Link device itself, which is compact, fanless, and lightweight by design. On the front panel there's a USB-A port and an audio jack for The back panel includes two USB-A ports and one USB-C port, wired It also includes a full size HDMI and display port. And on the side, there's a to physically secure the device. Its dimensions are 120 millimeters square and it's 30 millimeters thick. Importantly, Windows 365 Link is designed with sustainability in mind. It's made with recycled materials and is Energy Star certified to help reduce your carbon footprint. So, now let me show you is to set up for the first time. You power on your device, via Wi-Fi, where we support Wi-Fi 6E. And of course you can Then you'll sign in with your And at that point, your device then joins your organization's and enrolls automatically into your Microsoft Intune environment. And just like that, to your Cloud PC. But it's not just using We also simplified and From Microsoft Intune, Windows 365 Link devices alongside your other managed Windows These will have a default And you can click in to and specific management operations for each Windows 365 Link device. You can create configuration for any Windows 11 PC. And because the small OS is to the cloud, there are far to Windows 365 Link. For example, you can create a policy for blocking removable media, so that people can't copy to a USB drive. This helps ensure that stays protected in the cloud. And to further protect Windows 365 Link is designed for security from the ground up. It's configured with a high that leverages a discreet Secure Boot, BitLocker drive encryption, Hypervisor code integrity, and Microsoft Defender Endpoint Detection and Response capabilities. And with strict code only the software that on the device. By default, device updates and applied overnight when So overall, the management overhead for Windows 365 Link is much lighter compared to other device types. And again, its security-first its attack surface. So, that's a quick look the first cloud PC device to securely connect you To learn more, check out And keep watching Microsoft Mechanics for the latest tech updates. Subscribe for more and