Joe: I lived in New York City for years, and it has some of the I invited my friend Harry to teach him how we do things We'll be visiting four across the city all in one day to see if we can find This is &quot;Food Tours.&quot; First stop of the day, JG Melon. All right, buddy, today in New York City. How you feeling? I'm excited. Burgers are Joe: Thank goodness. Well, starting here, JG Melon. Have you heard of this place? Harry: I have not, no. Tell me more. Joe: I wanted to start does burgers traditionally. and piling it high with Here, they serve the double beef blend, griddle-cooked burgers. They We might get a little bacon on ours. Simple ingredients. Simple Yeah, the vibe in here I'd It's quite low-key, old-school decor. Don't accept cards, which is annoying. Gotta run out and get some cash. But, yeah, I'd say the Classic, nothing too flashy on here. I feel like you were pretty when we were touring London. Yeah, I was. We had fantastic burgers, but, I mean, it's next I don't know how else I can put it. I'm excited to see what I imagine to be a pretty traditional Joe: The taste is going to Joe: Hey, fantastic. Harry: Ooh. Server: Is there anything Harry: Thanks so much. Harry: Think we're all good. Server: All right, enjoy. Harry: They have not skimped Joe: No, they have not. on the thickness. I mean, You're not going to get anything This is ridiculous. The only thing in the UK OK. What do you think of that -- you're getting the American bacon today. I'm just, I'm ignoring that. You're getting the American You got that crispy, thin. Harry: I feel like often when you get the full strips. Harry: I quite like this, because they've kind of diced this up. So therefore, I guess you're not just going to accidentally tear the whole burger up. Optimal eating. Get some Harry: There you go. Harry: I'm putting the pickles on. I know you're not a pickles guy. Joe: Cheese, look at that. It's melted right to the burger. It's done to perfection, dude. Harry: My God, I'm so excited. Should we just crack in? Yeah, let's crack in. All right, man. Mm. Mm-mm-mm! Man. Joe: It's an absolutely fantastic burger. Uh-huh. Perfect flavor. Harry: Did you get that, like, juice just pouring out of Joe: Oh, look at that. The inside? Yeah, that is medium The one thing that's it doesn't feel too dense, I would say. When you're forming the patties, sometimes there's too much of a temptation to really pack the meat in there, and you end up with a Whereas this is still so It's really, really impressive. Joe: How does this compare Good question. Joe: Thank you. Joe: I'm a journalist. Asking questions is kind of my job. And the fact that you like that one really means a lot to me. Harry: High praise. I think one thing that's standing out to me I don't think it's super to actually ask you how unless you're at a slightly So I think that generally fresher ingredients. Everything and I think the end result there is a really fresh, juicy burger. Joe: I totally agree. The meat was so perfectly packed. It's crazy good. Back there, they got finishes the cook of the meat, right? Before they put the burger in there, that's when they add the cheese. Not adding the cheese on the griddle. It's almost like they're Harry: Mm. So it's almost like the delicious flavor, and also adheres the cheese to the meat. Ah, this place, man. I mean, come on. I feel like I'm in the '70s right now in New York. I'm in Midtown Manhattan having a big, thick burger, cup of coffee. I was going to say, this than the '70s, maybe. This I mean that in a complimentary way. Very old-school. Retro vibe. Joe: Yeah. I mean, this is couple of drinks, burgers You go back to the office Harry: No work. [both laugh] This might be the one to beat. but, I mean. It's laid down a gauntlet I know we've got more Yeah, yeah, so slow down, slow down. This is getting finished Joe: That's OK. I warned him. Harry and I had some time to so we took a stroll through Central Park. Harry saw a turtle. From there, we made our way to another New York burger staple, PJ Clarke's. New spot, PJ Clarke's. All right? It's a New York burger institution. I know there's a lot of facts here, but one fact I think is hilarious is that Buddy Holly and it was their first date. What? That's moving a little bit fast. Joe: Yeah. I think he was just, I don't know. I mean, maybe he knew. Oh, also this was Sinatra's joint. He always sat at table 20. Where's table 20? I want to I think this is it right here. No, this can't be the Sinatra table. So it's like a jazz-legend hangout. Joe: Yeah. Dude, this which I'm assuming when jazz was popular. Sure. Joe: Did you notice corporate building plazas all around us, but this building's almost standalone? Harry: It's really funny. Yeah, they really held out, because, I mean, like I'm saying, man, this might be the best We're going to be the judges of that, Joe. Speaking of, which burgers Nat King Cole, baby. We're Harry: The Cadillac? Joe: We were getting bacon anyway. You know, they have other but I think bacon's a Get that on every single one. Harry: I gotta get my fill of that good crispy American bacon while I'm here. Joe: That's right, that's right. You can't get the type of You can in some places, Particularly on a burger in a kind of, well, it's effectively Although obviously with a bit more of a fancy-dining aesthetic. You can't bring your own bacon to the pub. You could smuggle some in, maybe. Get some pocket meats going. Joe: With your own ranch? Yeah, yeah. I like the vibe in here. It's busy. Popular spot. Joe: The checkered red and white. Harry: This seems very Joe: They filmed some Like, they came here in &quot;Mad Men.&quot; And that's the perfect fitting. Like, getting to work, then going to lunch to drink martinis. Sure. Joe: Before you go back to Cool. And then you get loaded at happy You had me up until Drive your giant tank to get home at, like, 9 p.m. for dinner. Harry: Dreamy, yeah. And unwind with two It's a miracle anyone made it Honestly, yeah. How did we not Joe: No clue. Harry: Ooh-hoo! Thank you. That's a big burger. Joe: Thank you, Eduardo, Looks delicious. Brace yourself. We gotta talk Harry: OK. Joe: Also stacked. This Lettuce on the bottom. OK? I because I know it makes It's kind of isolated from Very smart, very smart. A This might be the best bacon you're going to see all day, my buddy. This looks crispy as hell. Joe: And you notice onions Harry: Are you going to put Joe: Yeah, of course. Harry: And the pickles on the side again. You can pickle your own burger. Joe: Yeah, thank you, Harry: Which I feel like you might skip, but I'm definitely doing. Burger, some assembly required. Joe: Yeah, dude. Harry: Hit it with the pickles. This thing is huge. Joe: This thing is just dripping. Harry: Mm. Oh, my God. My plate looks like the This is perfect! All right, ready? I think so. Joe: Bite, my guy. Let's do this. Harry: Get my optimal angle for bite. Joe: Wow. Wow. Oh, look at the inside there. That's cooked perfectly. Harry: We said medium rare. Joe: Yeah, perfect. Harry: Another place where they asked us how we wanted it cooked, which, again, I think is a good sign, cooked to order. And they nailed that as well. Joe: &quot;How do you want &quot;We're paying attention.&quot; Harry: Mm-hmm. This is so good. This is so fantastic. Harry: It's a serious burger, man. Joe: The consistency of might be perfect. It's crunchier than normal. I like how it's got a bit of bite, because everything's so soft. Had a few concerns about Because when you have things big slice of lettuce, and sometimes when you bite into it, you can pull everything out by mistake. But it's really holding together. I'm liking the bun as despite the amount of moisture the bun's holding together, doing its job. Joe: It's not falling apart at all. Harry: No. Wow, wow, wow. These fries are nice and crispy, too. Harry: Mm. I wish the UK did bacon like this. I'm willing to admit when the US does something better than the UK. I think bacon's a good example. Because you guys even have The bacon buddy? Bubby? Buddy? What is it? Harry: Butty. Harry: Mm-hmm. I can't believe you guys are literally having bacon sandwiches and nobody's like, &quot;Hey, why don't we make Harry: Yeah. Not one person has made that conclusion. I wish we would. I've very pale rashers of Bacon's a real bummer over there. Harry: Mm-hmm. What do you think about Joe: This one's, like, the perfect size, and with all the toppings Harry: I think they can only get away with putting this many other toppings on it because the patty is so Not falling apart at all. Which I love. I did think that I'm not getting as much of the cheese coming through in the cheeseburger part of it. With this one, the cheese has When you want a cheeseburger, you really want to I think I kind of come and go on that one. I do think that American for a cheeseburger. Hear that? I also don't personally want a ton of cheese on a cheeseburger. I know that might sound a bit weird. For me, it's more like a Joe: Really? And almost more of a Joe: Well, this is amazing. I feel great, but we got more We do. As much as I'd have a few more drinks, I feel like it's time to go. Yeah. Couple more burgers, then Let's go. Joe: Eh. And then I did it too. Joe: After that, we for our next burger, All right, this is The Long Island Bar. It's been open since 1951. And also, I think you'll because it has more of an American menu. There's cheese curds and deviled eggs that I want you to try too. Harry: Yeah. Never tried They sound like classic Joe: Oh, definitely. Joe: Also kind of dig the Art Deco vibe in this spot too, right? Joe: Like the '50s diner vibe. Harry: Yeah, I feel like a hallmark of this burger tour so far. It feels like we kind of stepped I'm really liking it. All right. I am dying for Yeah, I think I can do maybe Joe: Let's do it. Ooh, here we go. Look at these! This is a spread. Dude. Joe: Like the American flag in here to let you know where you are? I'm taking mine out, you leave yours in. This looks like a Krabby Patty. Oh, yeah! It's like the perfect cartoon burger, which honestly makes me No time to waste. I'm taking a bite. I'm going in. I can't Harry: I don't want to so I'm going to move that one. Oh, my God. Mm! Mm-hm-hm-hm! Dude! Oh, man. Joe: You're kidding me with this. And with the special OK, I gotta go for another one, oh. That is crazy. This is the secret weapon [bacon crunches] Harry: How have they -- I need to know how Because the shape is amazing, Joe: Something that you they batter the fries. Harry: Battered fries. That's the most American thing I've ever eaten. Joe: Yeah, right. Instead of it being one thick one, two half-thickness ones, double it up with the Harry: I'm seeing, like, Joe: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Harry: They've layered it really well. Joe: Sealed in deliciousness. Harry: Mm-hmm. Joe: Yeah. Oh, this is Harry: A bit more texture to the outside. Joe: Uh-huh. Mm. Oh, God. Harry: This thing's ridiculous, man. It's fantastic. Harry: Yeah, you can tell into the assembly of this burger. Joe: And I like, because it's two patties, there's a meat-to-cheese than it's been anywhere else. Yes. Don't let that precious Harry: Mm-hmm. And the, I mean, the star of Bacon floss? I don't It's fantastic. Harry: Bacon spiral. So, I love the American vibe to this. The owner is from Wisconsin. You know what else is from Wisconsin? Harry: Mm-hmm. Cheese curds. Joe: I don't know if you've but you know what this is? It's a ball of deep-fried goodness. That's all you need. Cheese, right here, in curd form, fried, boom. Get in here. Get in here. What is that, like, ranch sauce? Joe: Yeah, but it doesn't need it. It's so flavorful. It's so good. He's bringing these in from Wisconsin. Harry: Mm. Really pleasing texture on that. Joe: Yeah, it's great. You can see why this is, like, Yeah, wow. Nice and chewy. Not overly cheesy. More just like a sort of Joe: It's a snack. This is You can go to town. I Harry: I am concerned for if this is a snack, but ... Joe: Oh, they're fine. Joe: I don't think there's in the Midwest at all. Those colorful little deviled eggs. Hard-boiled eggs, you whip it up with spices, So even though it's a hard-boiled egg, it has a softer texture to it. Harry: OK. usually they'll throw to give a little bit of a kick. They have their own house-made hot sauce. Harry: OK. Putting their own Joe: Yeah. Get in there. Why are they called deviled eggs? Why are these, like, unholy? It's because they're a sinful pleasure. Are you joining me on this one, or are you watching your cholesterol? Joe: No, I'm watching my cholesterol. I want to see your reaction. What do you think? Joe: Yeah, right? That hot sauce, man. Nice gentle heat. Joe: What their competitive is that they're leaning into the Americana-ness of it, right? A double burger, dripping with cheese, delicious sauce, ridiculously good bacon. I don't know where this bacon's from. Harry: No. But I absolutely love it. Harry: Mm-hmm. Battered fries, battered And martinis. Joe: Yeah, I mean, this is like a niche that in New York or anywhere It's really kind of unique. There's nothing like this in the UK. I've not had this experience before. It's Cobble Hill. It's not the tourist center of but definitely worth coming out to. Or people who live in Brooklyn, visiting. But yeah, this burger's It's a thin patty, but it's not smashed. Not a smash burger. Because we're not getting crispy crust on the outside. But I will say it's very well They did lettuce, no tomato. Harry: Mm-hmm. No onion in there, either, right? I don't think so, no. Just a lot of pickles, Yeah. The meat did the Harry: Mm. Which, honestly, I kind of think is how a Yeah, I agree. Harry: Let the meat do the talking. Fantastic. Ooh, I'll wash down with Cheers, my good man. You look like you're enjoying that. Should've gotten a beer. Ah. All right. Killer burgers, place is getting packed. Feel like we're taking up Got one more spot to I do, yeah. Popular spot, let's clear out and give them some space. Joe: Let's go. I wanted to show Harry a place that takes a slightly more creative so we headed up to Rolo's in Queens. I don't know anything. I don't know anything about electricity. I want to say that. I about electricity. Like, nothing. OK? So we've establishing I'm pretty sure that's not right. Harry: No, that does not look good. [both laugh] Joe: The f---? Joe: No way the electric and got up there and was like, &quot;Yeah.&quot; &quot;Looks good. Cool, cool.&quot; Harold. Harry: Joseph. We've eaten our way through We have. Last place, here in Queens, Not to be confused with the with the caramel center. Burger here is supposed to be bomb. Wanted to end the day here. Little outdoor dining. Alfresco. How you feeling? I'll be honest, not great. [Joe laughs] I think my eyes ... Why? I think my eyes might have been bigger than my stomach with this shoot. Joe: Oh, really? As you'll remember, I the entire burger for the thinking I was plain sailing. I don't recall saying anything. No, I don't think anyone did. If only someone had told me, Yeah, so it's the crew's fault. Yeah, I blame everyone except myself. Yeah, very smart. Man, you more and more every day. Hey, I've made it. Joe: So, the house burgers I believe the meat blend So you're going to be getting Everything cooked on an and not a flattop, which is a distinction from all the other places They only make a limited Harry: Yeah. I'd say than the other places we've been today. It's much more of a cool, hip spot, rather than a very classic Joe: Yeah. Harry: Music's playing, lights are dim, candles are lit, you know. Nice place to take a date, maybe. Yeah. Getting a little mix of everything. If this video was a little longer, I would've taken you to White Castle, but apparently that doesn't count. Harry: Thank you. Perfect. Look at those. Thank you so very much. Server: Absolutely. Y'all enjoy. Joe: What'd I tell you First impressions, what I was trying to get a photo of the burger. Joe: Yeah. OK, do your BeReal. Let's go. Harry: Real quick, real quick. Because this is a photogenic Yeah. I mean, how beautiful Harry: It's pretty gorgeous. I will say, right off the to the other burgers we tried today. Joe: Look what's going on here. They're searing the top of the buns? Harry: Searing the buns. Joe: Didn't see that before, right? Harry: We got the bacon. Look at the color on Joe: Yeah, it's different than That looks really good. Yeah, it's a really bright red. Harry: Two beef patties. There's some caramelized And, of course, some cheese. Joe: This is closer to, like, a, I don't think they're smash burgers, but they look more smash-burger-like. Harry: Much more like a smash burger. Because you can see you've got, like, bits of caramelization on there. Joe: Mm-hmm. Harry: It's like dark crust on the burger. Joe: Yeah, pretty impressive, right? Might be something to do It's cooked over the wood fire? Joe: Mm-hmm. Yeah, no, yeah, exactly. Sorry, I'm mesmerized by this burger. Harry: You're lost in All right. I gotta bite before we talk. Harry: OK, man. Last one of the day. Cheers, my guy. Oh, wow. The onions on this thing, too. Mm-hmm. This thing is fantastic. You can just taste the difference with the wood-fired meat, versus something that was on a grill top. They put cheese in between both patties. It's a lot cheesier, but I can't get over the onions, actually. Whatever they're doing to these onions, they're, like, dipped in garlic Harry: Like, garlicky, caramelized. Joe: Yeah, yeah. That's incredible. A little bit of sweetness. Joe: Yeah, yeah, yeah. I really like the mustard It's a mustard-mayo-type thing. Little bit of pepperiness. Yeah, it's got a bit of Dijon-ness to it. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Everything's working so well together. This is one of the more juicy ones we've had today too, right? In a crowded field, yeah. I feel like they've all been pretty juicy. That's a recurring theme, but this one definitely, a lot of juices are running out of it. Joe: Mm-hmm. Harry: The onion juices into one delicious broth. Really impressive. It's probably we've had today. Right? Look at the color on that, on that bacon. It's maybe not as crispy as some of the other bacon that we've had. Joe: No. No, no, no. But the flavor is fantastic. Joe: Yeah, the flavor's I mean, I think everything all the positives, the It's because it's cooked in wood fire. Harry: Yep. Joe: That has just unlocked that we weren't really getting Flavorful, right. Joe: Yeah. With the grilled onions? Harry: Mm-hmm. Joe: No other burger today has been topped with such flavorful extras, Price-wise, this burger It's $18, but 3 extra definitely worth it. So 21 bucks for the burger We been eating burgers all day. I feel like if I was having a normal meal, just this burger would It's a big burger. It is a big burger. I think I also think, like, location-wise, than we have been for the other ones. The first couple were very Then we kind of moved and now we're in Ridgewood, which I guess isn't as Joe: More of a neighborhood, yeah. Location considered, I think this is more of a high-end burger. Well, it might be kind end of the price scale. I do think you're getting a They clearly take a lot the way they prepare it, And it does show through It's a very, very tasty burger. Joe: Yeah, very tasty. [motorbike engine revs] Not very considerate of on the roads, are they? But I think we're all Oh, me too, yeah. Hard choices have to be made, Harry. [engine revs] I get it, it's fine. There's another f---ing bike. Nicole: I was just going to say, this is a very big motorbike area. It's a motorbike and bus area, [engine revs] Oh, my God, so cool. Four of the best. We did so I had to respond with the Overall, what'd you think of I do think we've had some really I also like how the different spots have kind of represented I guess, New York culture as well, from the very traditional kind to the more classic Americana diner style. And, of course, the a little bit differently, putting their own spin on the classics. I like the variation that I like how some of them have been the more thick-cut patties. Some of them have gone for All of them have been All of them have been pretty flavorful. I will say, I don't the London options, I don't necessarily a lot better than London is. Joe might disagree. I disagree. But I feel like in terms the quality of those meats, I do feel like UK farmers No, I don't agree with that. I'm sorry. Our beef is I don't know how much USA is beef. So, break it down. What is your favorite and why? [sighs] Man, if I had to pick a favorite. You do. Harry: Of the burgers that we chose today. Contractually obligated Harry: I am. I think if we had to pick a favorite -- [motorbike revs] Joe: Same guy? [engine revs] Harry: Oh, my God. Very tough decision. I think my favorite of Joe: Yeah. Long Island Bar. Whoa. Harry: Long Island Bar. Really? Mm-hmm. You look surprised. I guess I'm not. Harry: No? That was a really good burger. Harry: Really good burger. Yeah, that was my No. 2. A, the vibe in the place was really good. I like it in there. Very, Really cool. I think the thing that was the care they took that burger, the way that it was layered, ingredients equally distributed Joe: Yeah. The beef itself really well Lots of pepper and salt in there as well. Joe: You even pointed out didn't you? Harry: I did. It really, Wow. Yeah, I just think overall Joe: Wow. That was my No. 2. Harry: No. 2, OK. But No. 1? It's tough because JG's and PJ's, those places to me are, The vibe, they had that, we're popping in, getting depending on what time it is. The ambiance, the fact the same way they've been doing for, you know, 100 years or whatever, and they've been there that long, clearly they're doing something right. So both those burgers had, like, a taste, a classic, traditional Now, Long Island Bar, your favorite, I picked up on all the Would maybe have been Harry: Mm-hmm? But the best burger that I had today is our boy Rolo's. This one right here. The flame-grilled, the the 75:25 ratio of lean to fat. This burger is fantastic. I'm very impressed with how good it is. I love the bacon on this, The bun, how it works together. The second I bit into this, I'm like, &quot;Yeah, we have a winner.&quot; We've been eating burgers all day. That's a testament to On our way over here, I'm like, &quot;No, not another burger place.&quot; And then I bit into it, I'm It's a fantastic burger. The other three places, also amazing. I think the quality of probably highest at Rolo's. Really had that beefy, meaty flavor that I really want when So I do think that if it was purely a case of, like, the flavor of they may have been my No. 1. Joe: OK. I think overall I was into my decision, like the vibe in there. I just love the Americana. It was a little bit kitschy Joe: Ah, I see. Harry: But I love that. As a tourist, I think that's what people for an authentic burger experience. Joe: I never thought of it like that. Harry: So that factored into my decision. The burger itself was still fantastic. I'm not just recommending it on the vibe. But yeah, I think all in recommending this to other tourists, that would be why I'm making my decision. I'm so tired. Harry: Really tired. So very tired. People can The sun is going down. We're both going to get Joe: Bring it on, baby. All right. To White Castle! Harry: To White Castle? [laughs]