This video was sponsored by Dislyte. Night City, City of Dreams. But under the surface, it's a nightmare. Past the Mega Corps, the to drive you insane. One word of warning Hello Internet! Welcome to Film Theory, house. Today we're talking about an urban with characters oozing so much swag that I Cyberpunk 2077. Ah, scratch that. Today we're because our sponsor for today's video is Dislyte, all about people awakening divine powers in a Dislyte is set in 2027? they're just four years lights in a hurry. And it beat cyberpunk But it's not just the cool rave aesthetic that about awakening your powers using augmentation, have been able to awaken the dormant powers of help fight the monsters that are invading Earth. And you ain't never seen Odin like this, wearing the MCU? The latest additions to the roster only adding their sharp sense of fashion to the themselves a cool jacket? But are also bringing Across the game's newest chapter, you'll how Athena gained Esper powers and That then left Nyx to be captured and forced to which is kind of an issue when you consider control of themselves, kind of like to be meeting today in the world of Cyberpunk. I thought. Connected universe theory perhaps? rebelling against corrupted systems and shadowy Episode for another day perhaps. TL;DR If you like bonus, in the world to Dislyte the powers that controlled pawn for the government which segways In case you somehow missed the Cyberpunk This was a video game that, unlike Dislyte, Yeah, despite the fantastic writing, the head of the company definitely pushed before it was ready. And though the devs Cyberpunk 2077 looked to go down in history as Or at least that was the case until the release So then, this is titled "Cyberpunk Cyberpunk"? tragic love story of mercenaries David and Lucy a capitalist dystopia run by mega-corporations. It handedly saved the brand with 2077 selling Online discourse has also completely with people who used to clown You're Breathtaking! It's also the reason why we're talking about look at those review scores. To catch you up, forced into the life of a mercenary in Night City. mechanical body modification that speeds is a big deal because he definitely Despite this, David adapts well to the rest of the series upgrading his body central conflict then eventually implants and whether or not his Why is all of this such a big deal? Well, when someone's body can't handle their it literally drives them insane. With Oh, that's why it's called Edgerunners. with cyberpsychosis. It isn't what it appears Edgerunners is actually a method of control, many at the bottom. And the craziest part of it much grander conspiracy about controlling the Wake up, theorists. We've got First things first. Let's actually break down what in-universe mental illness, which results in the from cybernetic implants, and the more cyberware cyberpsychosis. People who suffer from it come to have themselves a total disregard for human life. care about self-preservation. The more and the worse their violent outbursts get. We character of David's mentor, Maine. He But then he starts treating Most interestingly of all, though, Cyberpsychos something that we actually see visually in mechanical parts growing out of the people around you're a dead man walking. But here's the problem in this world. What we actually see we're told about this diagnosis. Firstly, it Obviously, David's unique in that he But a ton of the characters and Edgerunners with no psychotic effects at all. Plus, we from Cyberpunk 2077. He can get completely but is never once considered to be in danger But okay, so what if someone does go all be all death sentence that everyone makes it gang obsessed with Cyberware implants, are burning Night City down. Some cyberpsychos are the universe's equivalent of a SWAT team, is a puts it, quote, The same people who butchered a day earlier are now knights in shining armor. very first trailer for Cyberpunk 2077 featured but she later shows up in a quest from the video trailer as a canonical event. They didn't a computer terminal that you can find in a as a fairly common problem among MaxTac. main antagonists of both the anime and the game And yet, despite being sadistic, violent He doesn't display any of the insanity in the series. In short, despite the diagnosis is a death sentence, it just isn't. but rather it's the software. While I think gateway to getting cyberpsychosis. into people's minds rather than their take a look at this. Despite David's massive actually puts him over the edge is the software Additionally, within the 2077 game, one that you can unlock and use on enemies is you think. Giving cyberpsychosis to anyone, you might think that this is just a gameplay Rule-of-Cool ability that doesn't actually The official music video for the ending team of lead to the death of a hacker named Sasha. And in meaning that this is a very real piece of software something external trying to hack a target's characters that I mentioned earlier with a ton Lucy and Kiwi are master hackers that while wealthy and important characters like have the best protection software that money cyberpsychosis, this thing that is central to we're led to believe it is. And the craziest part? one that would see everyone under the thumb City. Cyberpsychosis is the most obvious form forms of manipulation that's happening under the Ladies, gentlemen and punks, it's time to City are the ones pulling the strings. would be the next logical step. But there's more frightening. One of the best questions in Jefferson Peralez and his wife Elizabeth, Now, this quest chain is long, so forgive me they hire the player character V to look into a Jefferson wakes up one night to find the stranger and then passes out. But the next morning, the intruder is gone As you do this quest, you discover a cover company has been secretly monitoring them from a technology and subliminal messaging to mess pathways that are in their brains, altering their And we're not just talking about simple At the end of the storyline, we can either tell Either way, the manipulation continues. thereby putting a puppet in control of Night than just some small time security company. a stolen encrypted hard drive, which contains Night Corp detailing secret experiments that They've managed to use subliminal messaging to into a psychopath that, quote, strangled one of really blame them. I don't like decaf either. But turn people into rage filled murderers. Sounds a doesn't it? And all while using subliminal is brainwashing people, turning good people all as part of a grander scheme. And here's from a fun little plotline hidden under the people at the top of the corporate ladder. at the top of the corporate ladder. It's an evil of control. Now I realize that that's a pretty A.I. do exist in the world of Cyberpunk, and that they're controlling everything here? sorts of the A.I. can and potentially do run mind digitized during 2077 and turning himself Other characters like the Maelstrom and Voodoo of the world by A.I. as an inevitability. encrypted Night Corp memo, it was outright called to live in cages. Pretty much every A.I. we meet or take control. It's only a matter of time before And wouldn't it be handy if it had itself being responsible for this whole conspiracy, both explain why gangs obsessed with tech and implants why one of the major symptoms of cyberpsychosis is It's the A.I. conditioning all us fleshy meat fronts, this A.I. is controlling people, brainwashing, or just good old fashioned this A.I. in action. In this game there's a named Mr Blue Eyes. He's seen at the end of the as well as during one of the game's We also hear that he and his people might Clearly, whoever this guy is, he's powerful, glimpse of. But here's why it matters. In the blue or orange when they're transferring remotely puppeteers by someone, or something. So enough so that they're aliases Mr Blue Eyes. data, constantly being puppeteered. This guy is a story that's touched every part of 2077. And I bet that we're going to be But hey! Once again, I'd like to thank the the things that made EdgeRunner so successful just look at the breathtaking animation and color and turn it into something incredible. I think we've more than proven to you of Dislyte is going to be up your alley too. your own and just want to take you can skip the story and hop straight into complete with its own mysteries to unravel. Real entertainment. The fact that the Dislyte team is the very real world in a way that might get people I think that is awesome and it actually got me myth and literature than I would like. But got me excited to look into them, to research gods and dragons from mythology that inspired sister location Game Theory, there were only 70 So there is no way that you're not going learn more about. If you want to awaken your link down the description below. Doing so reward so you can use her right away and dove On top of that, you can also get a five star entry point that Dislyte's ever had. Plus, there's backlog. So once again, thank you to Dislyte this one are the whole reason we're able We get to talk about a series that we really so much and you guys get to hear about really win for everyone, so please do us all a favor below. Check out the game thank Dislyte for series that you might not have heard about. remember, it's all just a theory.