The Freeway Killer looks into the eyes of was the most important." He speaks without the like he's telling someone about his favorite He'd gladly shoot this man. He's seen with There is, indeed, perhaps no serial killer in US before their deaths. You'll be repulsed when you his story divided a nation. Friday night, March, 1980, Southern California, Bonin, aka The Freeway Killer, has just picked have just been to a party at Everett Fraser's drank some beers, and when people "Get in the van, I'll take you home." in a strangers' cars. There had been some and the victims were mostly male teenagers like and anyway, they've just been chatting at But as they travel down the road, Pugh realizes on his leg, telling him he wants to have sex and wishing he'd never got in the van, he tells obviously upset. The two then sit Pugh sees his chance when they slow down at the almost gets out, but Bonin grabs him by his As the van moves away from the lights, Bonin's sigh. He takes his eyes off the road for a second He tells Pugh, "Do you know what I do?" not in a threatening way, but in a matter-of-fact want to them, and then I torture them, and I kill Pugh doesn't know what to think. He keeps looking usually do this on Fridays and Saturdays because, The letters "WTF" are what Bonin then says, "If you want to kill somebody, the body before you even pick a victim." just nods his head as if to say, "Yeah, do that next time I'm out murdering people." "You and me are going to be friends, ok?" Pugh kill you because I like you. You're a good kid, Pugh doesn't know if this guy is serious he lies and tells Bonin that his house is get close. He tells Bonin thanks for the ride, driveway of a house he's never seen before. of a human being, as strange as men come. Billy Pugh is so important to the story, but such a very weird and wicked man. to Robert Leonard Bonin Sr. and Alice Dorothy poverty in their hometown of Willimantic, In the late 19th century and early 20th century, home to the American Thread Company. By the time its old self, known less for its industries Bonin and his two brothers were so poor in the middle of the night, the Bonin to pull up potatoes and eat them raw and wearing clothes way too big for them, while the boys's small frames with his fists and belt. all day in the house. She spent most neglecting her responsibility as a parent. In father had committed various abuses against her he hurt her, and when he did the same to her kids, happen. If she'd suffered, they should suffer, While she left the starving kids to their every penny he earned. When he lost, which he the kids. Much of William Bonin's childhood yet he knew there was no place to go. house on a bet. The whole family had to go live William got into trouble in school. He wasn't riding his bicycle into some girls on purpose, his yet again, he was treated to violence, It was in the convent where he had his first court records about this experience, it is very the difference between a violent experience advantage of him in the worst possible Gangs of kids beat him black and blue. As an on his head and back. Bonin would tell them he no doubt from his days in the orphanage. It those boys had beaten him until he was bloody. him with knives. There had been witnesses. The nuns never allowed him to contact his the time he was there, he believed they were have come to visit him? He stayed there until frying pan into the fire, as he was forced to At age ten, he was sent to juvenile hall again, Now, it was the older boys who took advantage the person supposed to be helping him. Both adults lived a tortured and twisted existence as a kid. for a child. In terms of sexuality, young Bonin's as acceptable was completely unacceptable. It sexual acts with his female cousin, around him from going into his brother's bedroom delinquent, now known for bothering younger boys. his grades in school were okay, even quite he was troublesome. He never had ones he'd meet later in life: his dear boys. he was 17 by getting a girlfriend. She was aware of his antisocial behavior. with the younger kids. Her son was damaged goods. him to join the United States Air Force when he that he was now engaged and wanted to marry. It he was trying for what to her was normalcy. man a gun and telling him to kill people warfare might not have been a great idea. time to go murder some so-called "gooks." would be brought up in the years to come relation to his sickness. So, let's If you've studied American serial killers, you'll in Vietnam. It's worth asking Various criminologists and psychologists have a lot of traumatized kids over the edge. The US pal that in Vietnam, he and the guys would Jablonski said Vietnam was indeed where he truly his wife said that when he returned from Vietnam, but now he was "very mean." Jablonski had suffered After Vietnam, Jablonski was diagnosed with nightmares about his time as a helicopter door of mental disorders attached to his name. killers after their service in Vietnam is long, It's since been debated if having normalizes killing when these soldiers return psychologically, and perhaps killing in the name especially as many witnessed murderous Like Jablonski, Bonin served as a helicopter time for the 205th Assault Support Helicopter the entire experience made him realize that He became a decorated soldier, pleasing his What he didn't tell her was about the times he or that during the Tet Offensive, he pointed his do certain things to appease his ravenous libido. he was 21. He'd gotten a taste for killing. was back in sunny California, expected to get Bonin went back to live with his parents. One their son, since returning from Vietnam, had snapped in his mind, but he didn't want to talk He took menial jobs, such as gas station pump his entire life was about violence. enjoyed dishing out in Southeast Asia. evenings was cruising around in his car, the streets of California were full of the summer of love. The long-haired wild adventure and whatever came their way. Teenagers wearing tie-dyed t-shirts and flared jeans, for freedom on the long and winding road. Bonin, in total, picked up three teenage in his mother's white Chevrolet station and had his way with them. The more they pleaded kill these boys. He didn't really want to. It was the part he enjoyed the most. Other people's In 1969, when he was arrested for five counts of he broke down and apologized. He told something to him, changed him, but he days. He was subsequently diagnosed as a sexual It was there, a place where the fashionable therapy, where psychologists attempted to divine him about his many scars, about his experience neglect. They said he was a manic depressive of antisocial personality disorder and Yet, he had a fine IQ of 121. To but when they were out of sight, he bragged he'd never leave a victim alive again. Bonin to hear. He was given experimental treatments and he was badly beaten by inmates after manipulating But he happily obliged to all the treatments and was no longer a danger to society. They opened the door clanked behind him. He'd played them he was angry, and after years behind bars and in other people's suffering and pain had given him. community college, Bonin again went on he set off in the car, and in 1975, he picked to his parents' house in the Huntington Beach whereupon he stopped the car and obliged himself iron and strangling him with his own t-shirt, he reason, Bonin stopped. "Are you alright? he In what sounded like a sincere voice, he told the going to kill you, but I want to come back for way to Huntington, dropped him off at his house, you later." It was as if he didn't understand who we will talk about later as he plays a big rest of his life. For Bonin, it was like they had He was, of course, later arrested. He was telling the cops, "Next time, there won't be He was going to be an ideal prisoner again. He do the courses, and do the work, but once he got he was never, ever going to let someone live after the ante. Their pain was his pleasure, and pain, Back on the streets of California, Bonin lived just a few doors away from each which were teenage boys. Fraser would hold parties booze and whatever else they consumed, and the Piper. Bonin was in his element at these parties. there was nothing wrong with having a few drinks. He'd met Mary, a woman who beat her own child, so Bonin took her roller-skating. In '79, his his brother. That fell through, but he got by beloved 1972 Ford E-100 Shorty Van - arguably There was a lot of space in these the back of them. For Bonin, it was to his Death Van. He had his handcuffs in there. a knife, an ice pick, pliers, and he was well-equipped. He was finally ready to Memorial Day, 1979, John Swensen is in the pal Thomas "Tommy" Lundgren in there. Lundgren, Swensen asks why it's covered him he'd just painted it on in class. girls?" says Swensen. Lundgren just laughs. off. He tells his friend that he's got to go. skatepark. The guy wants to do a photoshoot with This was the last time Swensen saw his buddy made the innocent mistake of believing what When his body was found, it was a shocking Lundgren had been bludgeoned, stabbed, and up. Lying nearby were his severed genitals. than a murder. Whoever had killed this kid were all inflicted antemortem, or before death. not just the sexual aspect, which he never the actual death that much, but the pain To the police, who'd seen a lot of depravity A few months later, Bonin picked up a for as long as possible. The kid died from the a foreign object had been forced into his body. highway. He reversed and asked him where he was was from West Germany. He'd traveled by himself of Coca-Cola and great music. He wanted to lights of LA. But right now, he wanted to take and then see other parts of beautiful California, to see Jack Kerouac's Big Sur for himself. Bonin said, "Get in the van. I'll show you America deal was sealed. This kid was tortured like Bonin stuck his knife in him 77 times. The next they said it looked as if a rabid dog had Bonin picked up more victims, usually boys in He tortured them all, binding, bludgeoning, stabbing and strangling. The kids were every part of their body. Each body looked The cops now knew that this could be the work serial killer on their hands. Soon, parents the public didn't know all the gory details. They found one kid on State Route 99. An ice pick In February 1980, Bonin committed two murders but it wasn't enough. His blood lust raged inside who was waiting at a bus stop in Huntington was doing. Macabe said, "I'm going to there." Macabe's body battered body was found a On March 4, Bonin was arrested, not for murder, he'd been arrested for picking up a boy. With book at him. Instead, he was let right out of court appointment. A disastrous admin for him. He should have gone to prison. He felt One month, two months, three months passed, and bodies that looked like a lion had savaged knew that this killer was keeping his They found another kid with an ice pick and he'd fought well. He'd even survived and he kept on fighting. Bonin eventually is that it looked as though this was the Bonin was one of three serial killers at the known as Freeway Killers due to leaving most aka The Scorecard Killer and also The Freeway California from 1971 to 1983. In a strange appreciate a certain pastime together. They would Kraft might have killed more than 50 young men. they weren't the same. Kraft was smart and also Air Force, but in this case, his homosexuality said were "medical grounds." Kraft didb't have had been horribly tortured: bound, mutilated, were "foreign objects" in places objects aren't wouldn't be caught until two years after Bonin was felt in southern California in those days. Freeway Killer, murdered at least 21 a sadist like the other two, and he was Keep in mind, all of these serial murders happened California seem like the biblical Sodom. To think, out for you, California." We think the Eagles got California, they said, "This could be Heaven, or negative parts of glittering California. the state was hell for young men and teenage Kraft had an accomplice, but the cops was with him when he was torturing those And now is the time to tell you about a twist partners in crime with him. He hadn't been He'd killed twice in succession in March before guy that Bonin allowed out of his car after the that day, they were going to be friends. Indeed, helped Bonin pick up a 15-year-old runaway named he told Billy to finish him off. The body all kinds of injuries to sensitive areas. had been seen in one of the earlier murders, and His name was Vernon Butts, a low-IQ petty offender on the installment plan." Butts was an insecure was nine, but not before teaching his son magic occult. He was an avid Dungeons and Dragons wagging about Satan, as was common in those days. so when Bonin came into his life, he was taken horror movies as well as fantasy, had now met say that after he was introduced to Bonin at one it was the start of a "good little nightmare." with this young, unwashed chap, a veritable more than ready to engage in sadistic sexual kid. He had coffins in his house. He pretended death often and had, like Bonin, been in Bonin would later say, "It was cool having I never had no friends." He was an Bonin told Butts about his activities. He showed and described in detail what he'd done to his He loved the attention, and Butts thought it Butts was there for the murder of the first crime together. He watched Bonin mutilate maybe more. Sometimes Butts would do magic tricks of security. He tortured and mutilated a coat hanger. He told one victim that when you Butts would later claim he was scared of Bonin, acts of extreme depravity. It was said he followed to think he was in some kind of horror movie. He the midst of painful torture that his own parents the last thoughts of this poor 18-year-old kid. another impressionable kid whose IQ was Miley was with Bonin the day he killed two people. known what Bonin was going to do with the first joining in the assault after first telling "I'm horny again, let's go and do another offered that young lad a ride to Disneyland. but it was Butts who put in damage. There was still more work to do, though. Steven John Wood, and three weeks later, he supermarket worker named Darin Kendrick. When up the volume on the stereo and joined in. It human body and how it felt to penetrate someone's "You just hit the bone." Butts was a weirdo, Police had, at this point, formed a murder task fluff from the bodies, which seemed to come from a If Bonin had lived in the real world and hadn't with seeming impunity, he would have known that accomplices. In May, Billy Pugh was arrested counselor were talking when news about the murders the counselor about the killer's modus operandi. he sure did seem to know a lot for a young kid. they heard the name Bonin, lights flashed the one we talked about earlier in the them he thought the killer was Bonin. and talked but didn't explain that he'd was just unfortunate that when the surveillance on the prowl for another victim. This time, his a bisexual male prostitute who Bonin had not long Bonin acted as a father figure to this kid. and let him move into the apartment he still see later was still up to no good herself. with a man he said was "a bit odd but a good his friend was when Bonin told him that they and murder him. Munro thought Bonin was killer on the loose in southern California, who A day after Bonin told Munro the plan, the day Bonin and Munro picked up 18-year-old print up going back to Bonin's place, whereupon Bonin up with a clothesline. Wells, who was bisexual agreed, only for Bonin to inform him, "I'm pleaded for his life just before Bonin just stood there. Bonin laughed and said to him, They put the body in the van and drove over to and Butts had been up to for several months. When "We've got another one. He's in the van." Butts, went to inspect the corpse and complimented the on your aspirations" would have been the perfect Billy, you really did a good one." Two days later, back at Bonin's house, Bonin Well's money when the news about the discovery laughed and looked up as if to see the heavens, two exploded with laughter, although Munro's Munro later said he was scared for his life. That this fear, and Munro told him the reason. Bonin that I will not kill you." Munro wrote in a he tied up Wells. Then he told me that he could I started to cry, and I pleaded for my life "Don't be silly, you're ok, I like you." saw a van pulling up to young men on five in total, knew very well at this point in for many young men hardened to the streets, either a male prostitute, or they just didn't care. One This 17-year-old got in the van. Police followed. the cops approached and opened the back door. The him. In the van, they found tape, knives, pliers, scrapbook of murders was in the glove box. There from a horror movie, the handles of the doors The jig was up. who knew very well a clerical error had meant managed to evade detection for so long with his with violent kidnapping records could there fit the description of the presumed serial killer Bonin denied any wrongdoing at first but changed sent him a letter, pleading he tell her where take them to the body, but police later said it food. Bonin later explained himself, saying, "I out with the cops, they would get me a hamburger." anyone's understanding. He showed not the torture like you'd talk about painting the house. room that didn't want to kill him." An attorney "Listening to his confession was like we are talking about killing kids, killing one then going back to get another. It made me sick." lives. The way he went into every graphic certainly didn't feel sorry for him when they from alcohol-related liver damage, not Butts was later arrested, after which the Los "Bonin and Butts are believed to torture, and murder of at least 21 young Butts hadn't been involved in that many that, but that's what they thought at the time. Munro, by this point, had fled. He knew he had to hitch a ride out of California to his home a woman stopped in her car and said, "Are you "Shut up, you BLEEP. He's been caught." As was arrested in July in Michigan. Miley Butts refused to take a plea bargain and had his day court. He was found dead in his stayed loyal to Bonin to his very last day. and both got life. There was some sympathy for the their lives but because they were neglected kids. qualification for medical mental retardation. neglect, too, later admitting that he hung with gifts and felt accepted for the first lesser crime of voluntary manslaughter, but Pugh only served four years. In 2014, was beaten to death in prison, likely because Munro has fought hard to get out of prison, but appeared on Change.com stating he should not be there honestly say - he is guilty of murder, or was, and I, for some reason, got caught up in this to that, but this case disgusted people so much Public outrage will likely mean he won't get the The hatred for Bonin was outstanding when that came out about him, the more some people defense argued that this man's childhood was what he did. They said the way he talks about his They also argued that he had frontal lobe damage, a kid. His parents were almost demonic, they said. have adapted to life as an adult, not after being saying there are many damaged kids in them don't go on to murder people for fun. more than the "sound of kids dying" and "I'd still be killing, I couldn't stop killing. It chance he was going to avoid the death penalty. photographs of what he'd done to those kids. the death sentence, saying Bonin's crimes were "a didn't seem the least bit concerned, although he the victims said his lack of emotion in court was He was despised. No American serial killer in He tried to appeal against his sentence numerous When his execution date was due, outside the and lighting candles in support of Bonin, a Not surprisingly, this didn't go down Fights even broke out between supporters Many said Bonin, who on death row was known for he wrote, was a victim himself. People contended he had a "caring nature." A writer who the opposite of what everyone sees." of remorse for what he'd done, a man who told the most because he was "such a screamer." After she the LA Times that his letters were "all about him that he did anything wrong." In her final letter, so if he had anything to say, say it in the next he would say he is sorry," the mother later said. bridge group, consisting of his new best buddies, killers Doug Clark and Lawrence Bittaker. The four lest they face the consequences of the prison Bonin was particularly close to Bittaker, which brutal sadism matched Bonin's. He was one of the to tell Air Force stories to Clark, who'd served It was a happy family of monsters. he was asked if he had any regrets in life. His After thinking for a second, he said: too soon because I was peaking in my bowling out and get the instruction and pursue that. He didn't seem to understand at all why A day later, on February 23, 1996, he watched two large pizzas, three pints of ice cream, just before he was injected with a cocktail of he made a final statement, saying in part, thought of doing anything serious against go to a quiet place and think about it seriously." The execution went without any complications, remarked that he died in much more comfortable people he killed in total is still not between all three Freeway Killers, there We didn't forget about Bonin's mother who, as we was a free man and also while he was incarcerated. had been claiming his Social Security disability administrative error. She'd netted $79,424. The Now you need to see the one sadistic American "The Serial Killer Nobody Talks for ultimate strangeness, watch "How