Home organization is a really challenging is some areas of the home that are maybe Hi, I'm Sandy, professional organizer. Welcome to my channel where you're on all things, home organization. One of the big challenges with paper And what I'm talking about here is one, right on top of the other. And it is really deceptive of how many Each sheet truly represents an action that can become very overwhelming. This seems to be a universal problem feel so overwhelmed with the volume of This volume of paper causes depression, and of course, overwhelm. In this video, I want to talk to you then I'm going to get into six different maintain and get a handle on your clutter. The first cost of paper clutter that I Each and every one of those pieces of your home is oftentimes an action item. Now that action item could be actually doing something even deeper. Now, this is a really because those missed opportunities can Or we may have even missed an which leads me into point number two. The second cost of paper clutter is A lot of times the paper that we get or it could be an early bird special. Since you didn't look at those pieces and you missed out on those discounts, repercussion to you because you didn't Or looking at it from another example, maybe you got some bills in the mail Now that means you're going to incur some you didn't go through the paper piles. That is so important to realize really does hit your wallet. Another example of a missed phone call and you scribbled down from that call onto a post-it note. And guess what weeks go by. Months even go by and you cannot really important information. That is a missed opportunity altogether. And not to mention all of the experience, because you cannot find And the third cost of paper clutter is the cost that it has on your health Having paper clutter strewn throughout mentally because we see clutter can weigh on us in very real ways. It can put pressure on our shoulders. It can make us feel very heavy inside and contribute to depression, Now that I've shared the three to get into what to do about it. There are six different steps The first one is, make sure you take care This step is really, really important, get your name on the do not mail lists. This is so important because you paper is not coming to your home. Anytime you order something, a home or maybe even offers for Make sure you add your name to things don't come to your home. It's really important to create And that system has to be daily. If you get into weekly or even monthly, have piles and piles of paper clutter. So what I recommend is on a daily basis, want to tackle that paper right away. So at the very end of the day, to do is look at your mail and You need to do some action discarding them, reading them. That that time, every single day When you make this a habit, you're to stay on top of that paper, and you're piles that tend to accumulate. Now I have a few more suggestions for you. One of which is that you want to make when you're going through your paper. Clutter. The first pile is going to be the be the paper that there's no action And then second, you want Now, this pile is going to represent later, such as paying a bill or writing These are things that are going to And then finally, you want to have These are going to be things such as really important documents that And so that's going to be in that paper, clutter, a family affair. You better believe that you are to the paper in your household. So get the other people in your family skills necessary in order to eliminate, It's so very easy to stack your And when you do that, it is so deceptive So instead of creating neat little items, why don't you stack them in a When you store your paper upright, you have, and you can actually see So try to make this little tiny and you'll realize that when you it's going to signal to you. Hey, I got to look at my papers, create One thing that I really like to a bin, and if your paper exceeds the absolutely have hit your boundary and Now the bin can be much smaller. It can actually just be a file that you put all of your papers when that tray or that file folder signal to yourself, visually, that And finally, you've got to add If your papers aren't a little bit fun then you're really just going to drag So to make it fun, I have You can buy a file folders or you can have store all of your remaining papers for. This ups the joy factor, and it you, which can also help you in the Are you now motivated to I know you are. I gave you some really solid tips here. So the most important thing is to take Let me know in the comments, I would love to answer them. If you enjoyed this content, please also subscribing to my channel so and tips on home organization.