Number 1 No sew curtain hack from IKEA and burlap panels that I had left I spaced out the burlap fabric 14 inches apart which turns out is exactly 14 inches. I pinned the burlap in place. And since I'm not much of a sewer, I used to the curtains. I used a cheaper fusible tape that requires I also tried another type of fusible tape liked that one a lot better. I left an overhang of about an inch on each the fabric along the edge, ironed it to smooth back to attach it. And then I just trimmed off the excess. I left it like this, but you could also add I'm really happy with this experiment and white curtains. Number 2 IKEA Ivar Hack staining the legs in a semi transparent stain I gave the chairs a little bit more personality which is called sailboat. To make the chairs more comfortable, I added chairs, which I then upholstered with some the chairs. Number 3 IKEA LACK Ottoman Hack $350 poof. Here s my version that I made with a LACK To make it, I first needed to cut the legs I put masking tape where I was going to make Then I used the speed square to transfer the The legs are hollow so they're actually very I found that cutting one side at a time makes all the legs aren't exactly the same length, makes it easy to smooth out any of the cuts legs even on all sides. I chose to use this vinyl material that's love the color and shiny finish. I could have also spray painted, but I'm not The trick to avoid air bubbles when putting back and forth and pulling off the backing For the top of the ottoman, I cut two inch spray adhesive to attach it to the top. I also use spray adhesive to attach a one the sides to give the ottoman a fuller look. I did have to cut up some pieces because I when it's all covered up with the batting After installing the legs, I staple the fabric sure to pull the fabric very tightly. And then I staple the rest of the fabric to to work around the legs. I cut the fabric at the corner right up to excess fabric on the side, which then made around the legs and then staple it in place. It was a bit messy, but it did the trick. I'll have a list of all the materials that The total came out to about $50 a lot less I absolutely love the way it turned out. Number 4, Ikea Lamp hack. For this hack, I used the alang lamp shade First I removed the cap from the lamp kit. Then I cut 2, 12 inch lengths of metal wire in half around the light socket of the lamp I wrapped them around the socket under the twist them together. Then I passed the cord of the lamp kit through the spokes. Next, I made a diffuser using a flexible chopping I traced the inside and outside of the shade, so that the diffuser can rest on the bottom To make sure that my pendant lamp was installed a plumb Bob. Using some tape, you mark where you want the you hold the string of the plumb Bob at the plumb Bob is right over the x, and that's hang your lamp. The hanging hardware comes with the lamp kit. To install the hook, I drilled a small hole Simple, but this saves on clean up time. Next, I put in an anchor and screwed the hook Then I used metal clips to secure the wire the way. You could also use cable covers that you can The lamp kit that I used doesn't come with that works with LED light bulbs. You plug the lamp into the switch and then You can also control your pendant lamp with like the one that I used in my dining room Number 5, Dividing wall hack with Billy Bookcases. The first part of the project was to join together with screws at the front. For the back, I covered it with quarter inch I needed a piece that was 63 inches by 41 at the hardware store, and had the piece cut It's easier to screw the plywood in place you will want the counter sink all the screwheads I attached a one by three board between the the back of the bookcases. This board makes the base more stable and the plywood. Next I primed the surface. You could fill in the holes of the screwheads would give a more even surface. I decided to go with a beautiful textured It's the perfect thing to cover up any imperfections Because I didn't overlap the wallpaper enough bit and I ended up with a white line. So for a quick fix, I ended up using some of the wallpaper and I simply brushed it on One last thing that I wanted to do to the and that's so I would be able to put in an I used tape to cover the side of the bookcase panel and the center of where I want my hole And then I used an inch and a half hole saw The tape helps protect the finish for a smoother to take out the rough spots. The next part of the project was to make the I made it using one by fours that I had cut It's very important to measure and have your the top to be able to slide over the base a gap. I painted all the wood, and then using a combination across all of the vertical boards. It just makes it easier to line everything I used the corner clamp to hold the boards, together, counter sinking the screws. Next, I attached the cross pieces the same wood filler, let that dry and sanded it down I also made a hole in the side of the top extension cord. Next, it was just a matter of sliding the wasn't actually very helpful, but she's pretty I left an overhang of half an inch and screwed the side and the top of the bookcase with I also added a one by one at the bottom of to complete the frame. And that's it, the dividing wall is done. Number 6, Table leg Cat scratcher hack. For this hack, I used the linnmon table top To transform the legs of my desk, I use one I cut the insulation the length of the legs, look thicker. The insulation won't wrap all the way around, leg, it won't be noticeable. The insulation has sticky edges, so I remove leg to keep the insulation from moving. I added strips of double sided foam tape at to keep the sisal rope from slipping. You'll want to pull tightly as you wrap the I finished the bottom of the leg with white look and a whole new function as a scratching Number 7 Hidden Cat litter box hack The first thing I did was cover the top with threes. I already had some of these on hand, so that's Plus, I like the idea of having the different bit more interesting. Before putting them on the top, I added two to give the illusion of thicker boards. I wanted to be able to remove the boards easily sided tape to secure the boards to the top. Then I used an iron to attach the veneer to A bit of pencil in between the gaps really Pretty happy with how this turned out. I painted the legs black with chalkboard paint colors to give it a more aged look. I wanted to keep this project as simple as So I chose black lightweight corrugated plastic It's lightweight, easy to cut with a utility need to paint it. For the opening for Lea to access the litter, of a cat head. I used my Cricut machine to make the template I used the inside part of the template to and it was really easy to cut out using a The veneer will add a really nice border around I used simple tacks to attach the back of But since I will need to take the front on I tried this idea of making keyholes to slip And after testing it out, it worked really It's low tech, but it does the job. I chose to place the litter box as far as have to walk a little bit before coming out. The idea being that whatever litter is stuck walk. But the question is, will lea actually like use it. It took a bit of coazing, But after I put figured it out and used it on her own. And so far she is tracking a lot less cat So I would say that this project has been Plus it's so darn cute to watch Leah come I just can't get enough of it. Let me know in the comments what you think cat litter box is something that would work Number 8, Picture Frame hack with dalskarr I made this double sided picture frame by the two frames, adding some Velcro along the a small hole for hanging. The Velcro makes it really easy to attach changing out the pictures. And then you simply hang the whole thing from Number 9 Easy cork board hack project: round HEAT Cork Trivets from IKEA, long prong brads, a flexible chopping mat, that I found at the Dollar Store. The first step is to draw a line in the middle To do that, use a ruler to draw a line anywhere And at the middle point of that line, draw It will be in the middle of the circle. For the middle and top trivet, drill two holes and for the bottom trivet, just drill one Then glue the bias tape to the edge of the it wraps around the edge. To connect the trivets, cut half inch long and one short, and then drill holes in the Use the brads to connect the trivets with to the top of the first trivet, after fishing a loop for hanging. I added some greenery and pine cones from on my front door using a three M command hook It adds just the right amount of holiday cheer And as it turns out, this project was also my home office. Number 10 - IKEA kitchen Island hack and the top wasn t salvageable, so I removed The original casters also had to be replaced, so I added a piece of plywood under the legs When I was looking at my macgyver fix, It for a spice rack. So I used some wood that I had on hand to That ended up making the cart look like a block by stapling sandpaper to scrap pieces it. That made all the different types of wood the rustic look. To make the new top, I used 4 1 by six pine I kept this built very simple by using one This has the added bonus of making the top To give the sides a cleaner look, I glued I wanted the top to be blue so go with the with two coats of a semi-transparent exterior Once that was done, all that was left to do cart. I'll have more details on this cart project It Feels good to reuse something that otherwise Plus, it gave the opportunity to make it more space perfectly.