Europa, one of the most exciting moons in It is a beautiful world, filled with mysteries. This is the first ever close-up image of Europa, Since then, we've had the Voyager and Galileo Europa has never failed to surprise us. We are yet to solve a lot of Europa's puzzles, together. I'm Alex McColgan, and you're watching we will explore some of those fascinating there is to know about this intriguing world. Let's first of all see where Europa fits Europa is the second and smallest of the four sixth biggest moon in the entire solar system, of about 3,000 km. It takes Europa 3.5 days to orbit Jupiter Interestingly, the first three Galilean moons orbital resonance, due to their gravitational This means that every time Ganymede orbits orbits four times. This orbital resonance and the constant gravitational of Europa from ever becoming completely circular. Due to Europa's slight elliptical orbit, on it from Jupiter increases and decreases This creates tides that stretch the moon's These forces are significant, as they have and what goes on under its surface. Europa's surface is made predominantly of As you can tell, it looks very remarkable fractures and cracks. These are called Lineae, which translates These lineae are often only about 1-2 kilometres across the moon's surface. We aren't sure about how or why these lineae But the most likely theory is that as the material from beneath fills the gap, in a In this image taken by the Galileo spacecraft, They are very small, only about 10 km across, They are also believed to be formed by the surface, either by pushing the existing crust Should the underground material have broken unusual terrains, called chaos terrains. They are really rough patches surrounded by These spots are expected to be soft and may under Europa's surface, which we will get Data from Galileo also indicated that Europa's Penitentes. These vertical cracks may be up to 15 meters sunlight on the equator. Interestingly, penitentes are found on Earth nowhere near as large as on Europa. Despite being roughly the age of the solar Europa has less than 50 major craters, whereas with a diameter above 25 km. This indicates that Europa's surface is Models suggest that Europa's surface is is very young in geological terms. Additionally, Europa's icy surface is the in the entire Solar System. Its icy crust also has an albedo or light all moons. Europa's albedo makes it 5 times brighter This surface is bombarded by a constant and The radiation level at the surface of Europa per day. Exposure to radiation at that level would The reddish-brown colour spread across the to be due to salt and sulphur compounds mixing radiation. A recent study from JPL suggests that Europa Energetic ions from the radiation penetrates beneath, which would make them release energy Unfortunately, we cannot see Europa's dark the Sun always, so we are going to have to we can prove this. Radiation received from Jupiter plays a significant Europa has a very tenuous atmosphere, composed Unlike on Earth, the oxygen on Europa is formed of radiation bombarding the water ice surface, Hydrogen escapes Europa's gravity altogether heavier molecular oxygen remains. The hydrogen and oxygen that escape Europa's follows the orbit of Europa around Jupiter. In 2012, the Hubble Space Telescope discovered Europa's south pole. This image suggests that the water plumes In 2018, astronomers found additional evidence looked back at the old Galileo data with a A dedicated mission studying these plumes the moon without having to land on it. Because what may lie underneath that solid thing about Europa. There is likely to be a global ocean between The first clue that this amazing ocean world by the Voyager and Galileo probes in 1979 Between these missions, there was a drastic which is not possible unless there is some surface. Europa's crust also indicates the presence with at angle of 80deg, which is not possible attached. Instead, it is likely that the icy crust floats full rotation around the moon once every 12,000 The fact that this ocean is not attached also Tidal flexing should cause lineae to form However, because the position of the crust in place for very long, hence why more and Europa is 780 million kilometres away from the Earth, that makes the sunlight about 25 As such, Europa, or any other moon in the any heat from the Sun. So unsurprisingly, it's cold enough here In fact, Europa's surface temperature averages degC at the poles, keeping Europa's icy crust However, tidal pressures exerted on the moon so geothermal activity from the core should This ocean is believed to be under only 15 The ocean itself is probably about 60 to 150 Interestingly, Europa is only one-fourth the twice as much water as all of Earth's oceans What's most interesting about Europa's in contact with Europa's silicate rocky This makes Europa's ocean a suitable environment We believe that life requires water, minerals And Europa seems to have all these requirements. From the evidence we've seen so far, scientists only exists, but that chemical reactions can tidal energy heating the core that geothermal As we have seen on Earth, whole ecosystems Sun's light. So, for now, Europa is one of the most likely Now, NASA's Europa Clipper spacecraft is to reach the moon by the end of the decade. It is scheduled to perform more than 42 flybys ESA is also working on their own spacecraft which will explore Jupiter and three of its JUICE is also scheduled to launch in 2022 end of the decade. These probes are specifically designed to NASA is also planning a Europa lander mission, the Europa Clipper mission. These missions will help us know more about the most tantalising question of all, does At the very least, these missions will give help us understand how it works. So, there we have it, almost everything you Another Christmas event I'd like to draw your attention to is the NordVPN Christmas deal! Over this Christmas period, NordVPN are running a deal where you can sign up to their two-year plan for 68% off, plus 4 additional months absolutely free. NordVPN is a service that allows you to browse the web safely and securely, as if you were in pretty much any country in the world. The advantages of this are that you no longer have to worry about making a purchase online while on a public network or on your mobile data because NordVPN encrypts all the data you send and receive. And if you are abroad, but still want access to region locked stuff back home like Netflix or Amazon Prime, NordVPN has you covered, allowing you to log into the internet as if you were in almost any country. You can use NordVPN on your phone, desktop and laptop, with up to 6 simultaneous connections. So, take advantage of their Christmas deal with the link https://nordvpn.org/astrum and the coupon code 'astrum' at checkout, and you can get 68% off their 2-year plan, and for a limited time, get 4 months for free. Thanks for watching! If you enjoyed this video about Europa, be out some other of our Solar System moons in A big thank you as well to my patrons and If you would like to support too, check out All the best and see you next time.