My angle grinder broke last year. It's a pity, of course, but then there would be no today's homemade ... Hello friends! I parse it. While I need only a part of it, the rest will wait for other projects. There are already small backlashes, the stopper is broken, I accidentally pressed it while working ... the bearings are also in new condition. I cut off part of the shaft with a grinder. I'll clean everything, replace all the grease with a new one . To connect the shafts, I use a coupling, drilling half the size of the gearbox shaft. In order not to rotate, I will make two holes for the bolts, one of them will be a key. Both holes are M4 threaded, there is a hole in the shaft for a bolt to enter it. I will cut several pieces from a sheet 5 mm thick. For clarity, I will draw on paper the markup for fastening. The first fastening is an equilateral triangle inscribed in a circle. The second mount is a square inscribed in a circle. The centers of the circles will be the centers of the shafts. The points of contact between the figures will be the centers of the mounting holes. I made markings taking into account the dimensions already on the metal and drill on them. The unfortunate drill heats up a little when drilling with a crown. It's hard for her)) Everything turned out quite accurately. I cleaned the old grease a little . Now I will remove the small unnecessary protrusions on the gearbox housing. I will also remove the support legs in the form of these horns. The main part will look something like this. I weld everything. Electric arc fireworks! Magic... I'm making another attachment site. After preparing the parts, I will also weld the ears for fastening. It will be like this. Almost everything is ready , it remains to weld everything together to fit and cut off the excess. I also made such a double eye with a thread for an M12 bolt. I will weld a coupling to it for mounting on the gearbox shaft, drill another hole and cut the thread for the fixing bolt. All the details are ready: The adapter from the shaft to the shaft An eyelet with a mount on the gearbox shaft And the main part, you can probably call it the frame of the device. Of course, before painting, I will cut off the corners, for beauty and relief . It is weak of course, but you can always replace it with a more powerful one. I chose these colors. In my opinion, it turned out to be nice to paint)) Everything is ready. I collect. New grease, all cleaned, cleaned and painted. It occurred to me to try to implement this idea a week ago, after watching a video by Evgeny Matveev in the part with a screwdriver and heads. Thanks Eugene! Of course, there are some difficulties in assembly due to the location of the elements, but this is not critical. Almost everything is assembled, I combine all the details. And here it is - a jack for 2 tons. For fastening, it was necessary to partially disassemble it and drill holes and cut threads for fastening. Guys, everything is as always. If you liked it - Like, Subscribe, Bell! Not to miss the following interesting videos. Sizes as always a little later in groups and on Instagram . We continue. For control, I made a polarity switch to have a reverse . I'm going to street tests. Powered by cigarette lighter. It was necessary directly from the battery ... I turn it on and ... Everything works! The car is not heavy 1200 kg, not an SUV. A small motor of 20 watts 12 volts does it! but of course it feels a little hard for him. Before that, I tried without a gearbox from an angle grinder - of course, it doesn't lift at all. The rise is not fast, but sure. The engine heats up a little from the load after one lift, you need to let it rest. I really liked the idea. I will make improvements. It turned out to be a useful thing, especially in spring and autumn when changing wheels. Thank you very much for watching! Goodbye friends.