In the crowded market of How does a business set Is it having Instagrammable is it something else? How can we be better than And how can we be more than You need that little It's really important to multi-sensory experience. This is Elisa Marshall and of Maman, a chain of 34 event spaces spread across States and Canada. Their stores are inspired and childhoods. The name Maman encompasses home, which is really the for. I think that within people had the luxury of their home. So we really home away from home for our After spending $250,000 to New York's Soho influenced by French with antiques, quickly $49.5 billion U.S. coffee shop market. It was very important to our friends and it became for us. Truly. This is the story of how a started a company that million in sales in 2023. When they met in Montreal were in very different Hospitality. Benjamin, pursuing a law degree and suburbs of Toronto, was spaces. Everything from event and 9 to 5 in PR and on the weekends, with a the side. Around 2012, Benjamin and change in their careers. A opportunity came from worked with a restaurant themselves running a It was really like us, where you get thrown don't speak the language nothing to you know what we Being exposed to all the restaurant business really We had so many failures Then, wanting to take a step during the off-season, New York City just five bar with the same It was a really great of, you know, get our hands industry in New York and like in comparison to the Elisa had always dreamed of noticed something that many the time had in common. The trend at the time was All of the cafes, very cold and nothing welcoming atmosphere. And for us it was really reminiscent of a home and home. The couple came across an lease to start their very In October of 2014, Maman When we started the business know how much it would around $250,000 into the from friends and family. Also from the savings we Ibiza. What was important active in the construction So our parents were there. We paint the wall um, we build some tables, So it was a lot of sweat it happen. Benjamin and Elisa drew upbringing for the design Growing up with our family, countryside. Elisa from the live in the countryside of We love antiques. We love repurposing items. We very involved in the today. It's a very business for us. I grew up with my father my house being filled with I love hearing people come that these are the plates this reminds me of home. So having that little bit just helps to really embody ethos is. When creating the menu, to look to their Initially, when we started the inspiration was drawn recipes that we had growing We realized that when we ask favorite chef? We both say both grew up in a kitchen Childhood classics are to have on the menu, but we them. We like to play with proper French pastry In addition to serving food locations also act as event location and time of day. Events at their cafes in range from $1,500 to over It was a really a big part become a large portion of Benjamin and Elisa threw operating the business. Truly, the first couple was really a 6 a.m. to maybe 8 p.m.. I remember waking up, you coming in, getting the That was kind of my thing, goods and the coffee and And Ben was really front of overseeing the savory. A breakout moment for the a month of opening. I read an article on Grub back, Levain -- Maman has cookie in town.&quot; That was a because then, you know, publications pick it up, in town is at Maman. I remember being in that other like, we are going to these cookies. Maman brought in around $2 first year. We didn't have any day off. We couldn't pay ourselves We were very fortunate that little bit on the side, so New York. We put back all of our knowing that it was to grow and want to expand So we we lived very tight I think one of my most was close to burnout. I think we were both of hours every week and ourselves. In 2015, Benjamin's brother purchase in equity. Eventually, Benjamin and staff. It was really a matter of Am I not very good at? Where could someone else And what doesn't bring me kind of like carving that description for that role. 2017 brought another break nutty chocolate chip cookie, one of Oprah's favorite Today, a box of eight of cookies ships anywhere in Prices for other in-store A regular croissant runs A small latte $5.25. A tuna sandwich, $17 and a Additionally, a six cookie cookie gift box is $60. Maman would grow and open one in Toronto and another neighborhood. They opened August of 2019 in Montreal. Near the end of 2019, Maman We went on a roadshow and it to understand if someone partner with us. We didn't Then in March 2020, the In December 2020, however, struck a deal with them, million. Benjamin and Elisa majority stake, according their stores would remain Expansion soon followed - have opened since then. During Covid, we ended up lot of them being second Ben was able to really deals. In addition to expanding and Elisa want to transform lifestyle brand, complete vases, a cookbook, and a toddler brand Lalo. My vision for Maman is much brick and mortar and four I really see us turning lifestyle brand for 2023. Maman brought in nearly $50 maintained its the company. Today, Maman's the restaurants, 20% from from retail. While Benjamin dealings, Elisa handles the and event planning. We really understood very be successful, you gotta be your approach to the along the years is to be a know how to do, and also offering instead of wanting We really, really learn how profitable, what's for the customers.