The so-called pre-Columbian civilizations are those that developed prior to the arrival The best-known among them are the Inca, The Maya civilization It was organized into city-states, The Maya society was divided into castes, and the cities were led They worshiped many gods like the sun, the rain, Contrary to the Incas and Aztecs, by Spanish soldiers who had come the Maya civilization by the time From the 8th to the 10th centuries, were progressively abandoned This decline was probably due to a mix The world of the Maya covers the Yucatan Peninsula, Chiapas, At the peak of its civilization, including a small part of Honduras, and part of present-day Salvador. To summarize, Salvador, which was a part of British Honduras, Aspects of Maya civilization dating back Recent research has brought about the beginnings of Maya civilization. We now know that the Maya and building great cities, For over 300 years, Maya civilization and finally disappeared at the end Beyond their agricultural work, the Maya wove cotton and silver to create jewelry Then the feudal empire first in the south, then in the north, After the famous fall Maya civilization continued to exist Above and beyond this time period, the Maya remained At the historical level, the most ancient sites Certain populations according to certain characteristics, and this became the distinguishing mark so there was a progressive development The peak of Maya civilization, was the civilization's most prestigious The Maya civilization did not disappear, The Maya populations did not disappear, and established which preceded the Spanish conquest perhaps even later, a long time to reach There were Maya populations and in keeping with their traditions Following the final revolt the conquistador Montero and parts of the coastline The cities located further inland, because they were smaller remained independent until 1697. The Maya hierarchy was led by the king. The Maya king was a divine king He was the intermediary between man For example, He had supernatural powers, The divine king was surrounded managed the cities, Below them in the hierarchy who resided in the secondary provinces The Maya society was thus organized governed by noble families Their greatest cities at the peak of the Classic period, then Chichen Itza In the Classic period, the Maya world was characterized Each city-state occupied a small territory or even on the periphery A certain number even in rural hamlets, There was thus a specific organization These were sometimes very small. We're talking about city-states but others had much greater territories. Overall, Maya territory The biggest cities numbered There were five Including Tikal the great city-state and Calakmul, They were the two great rival cities They warred constantly There is also Palenque in Mexico, Copan in Honduras, Maya territory was very well organized The city of Uxmal, in southern Mexico, The name Uxmal is derived from a Maya word Its development, its peak, a rather short period Governed by competent leaders Uxmal maintained from approximately 800 to 950 A.D. Archeological finds have revealed only Chan Chak, also known in the archeological He built some of the greatest monuments Adivino Pyramid It is decipherable because There are two temples, which are in fact It was restored at a time when This pyramid is absolutely gigantic, and beside it is the famous structure Of course, this is its modern name, who thought the palace might be In fact, this was Beside it lies the court with a ring suspended up high and other major constructions It is a very prestigious site, It is set a bit aside but is thoroughly included in the site. A bit further away, there is a massive pyramid Thus, it gives the impression but that is not at all the case. In fact, this is the only zone but there are other structures around it, which puts the Governor's Palace Even before the restoration works, Uxmal was better preserved thanks to the unusual quality Most buildings were built thereby avoiding the use of plaster. Here, the Maya architecture Uxmal is a site that dates back It is an interesting site of the Puuc architectural style. This site is particularly famous The facades are very detailed. The mask of the divinity, Chac, with his hook-shaped nose or upper lip. Hooks protruding This site is truly characteristic On the walls, King Chac the emblem Thanks to its good condition, that gives us a good idea The great changes in the site that can be seen today while walking He reigned from the late 9th century at the end of the Classic period. It was not yet the Post-Classic period. What is interesting is that at this time, many great capital cities from the central lowlands Many major sites of the Classic period The sites that developed after 800, The Maya worshipped the sun, They believed they were created who descended and sprayed the bones thus bringing them back to life. Ancestors were worshipped. Whether you're from a simple family at the summit of the social hierarchy, and you always had an ancestor I'm not completely convinced but in any case, locations for their sepulchres. Specific cults The family's life was organized The site, or capital, A family's group housing the burial spot of the person considered The leaders were buried and worshiped In this way, nobody could ignore them. The deceased ancestor had joined but to what degree He was an important figure The Maya religion did not remain unchanged In the Classic period, the guarantor of cosmic order, and the intercessor between the ancestors Around 900 A.D., brought about the fall and the priests then rendered A certain number of forces of nature, were honored and worshipped However, were anthropomorphized characters That's debatable. The Maya worshipped over 50 divinities. The text from the time gives us some information. They refer to a rain god, for example. The god of fertility and rain We know that there was a god that We know that there was These names but for the Classic period, We know that there was a god of the earth who can be identified Kuak is the earth god, In the Post-Classic period, there are also names a goddess associated Spanish texts inform us were carried out on these islands. Cozumel Island Palenque is a city located It is one Compared to the other cities, but it stands out nonetheless for its architectural The city had already abandoned by the time of the Spanish conquest Palenque was very innovative In creating lighter vaults and made that is easier It is believed that in the Pre-Classic period around 100 B.C. It was then a small agricultural village The site's excavated zone barely less than 10% Over 1,000 structures Palenque was led by a king, It is one of the most famous Maya tombs, We have come to know this dynasty It is one of the most famous dynasties Pakal I, ascended the throne in 615. He erected most of the palaces and the city The pyramid temple That is to say, it is a step pyramid. A staircase leads to the top. It is a raised platform usually made of stone but not always. There are places where partially built of perishable materials, The period temple but it was The more we dig, Inside these pyramids Thus, the idea that of dynastic worship Palenque is famous for its temples with its mansard-like roofs The various temples are grouped around a plaza. Each temple was crowned decorated with stucco and painted. The palace at Palenque, is a succession of courtyards This shape is linked to a construction called the false corbel vault. This technique calls for narrow rooms and prevents the construction because it makes It is a defining trait There is thus a succession that are reception halls, that were considered thrones, Around the courtyards at Palenque, there is a series of low-relief sculptures They represent the king Elsewhere, groups of prisoners emphasize as the purveyor of sacrifices, a king capable of increasing his territory In fact, the entire site is covered The kings of Palenque proclaimed that their ancestry Some bragged that it originated which in Maya mythology The Pyramid of Inscriptions Today, we know that this pyramid It was built, erected, and furnished since the funerary chamber and a massive staircase to give access to the funerary chamber. It is a dynastic temple In the early 9th century, Palenque In spite of this, emigration the sites were abandoned In the 16th century, Maya writing at this time was mainly done Later in the Post-Classic period, or parchment can be found. These are later texts. There was an evolution to writings on perishable materials. In the Classic period, the texts were of a political nature. They detail the succession There is absolutely nothing These texts commemorate the birth of an heir, or the capture and sacrifice All of this is commemorated in the monuments They are thus It is glyphic writing. It is based on glyphs surrounded by symbols that according to their position The signs can be read phonetically. It is a mix of ideographic Today, most of this writing and graphic specialists, They have usually The deciphering has brought of the great Maya capitals. Maya writing was not alphabetic, and writing was done by scribes It is read from left to right There were certainly books but there are no books We're talking about a period prior to the Spanish conquest. The Classic period No book has survived from that period. However, there are many texts dating back These texts are sculpted like monumental rocks, and even small precious stones. Very detailed texts were written There are fragmented writings Much was documented on ceramic recipients, especially during the time The scenes that are depicted represent They include written texts were made for special circumstances. They were buried with those of a high Many leaders were buried with these vases. One of the common phrases is that this who was the governor of such-and-such, the drink of princes In the east of Guatemala, beyond the Honduran border leads located in the midst of the jungle. Like Palenque, that reached its peak It was abandoned around the 10th century. Here as well, the remains are impressive. Copan was a great Maya city in Honduras. It was the most southern We know of the reigning dynasty here also There are numerous steles Copan gives us a lot of information about the dynasties The steles were closely tied They represent the god-king. Many of them are limestone slabs The golden age of Copan came to an end once the king was captured The killing of the divine king The Acropolis of Copan and most researched We know how the different buildings on one another. There is one structure It was recently discovered which can be seen when walking the tunnels In fact, there are tunnels spanning In these underground galleries, In one of them, the face of the sun king Further north in Mexico, on the Caribbean Sea and a major fishing port. The city's foundation as is mentioned in some inscriptions, but the major part of the remains dates from the Late Post-Classic period, Tulum was a prosperous trade and religious center The site was devoted Tulum is a major site that is striking because it is by the sea. Its architecture is not very remarkable. There are small temples and houses. However, it is very emblematic Tulum was still inhabited at the time and until the early 20th century, villagers from the surrounding area The city is extremely well located. It reveals the economic activities in the Early Post-Classic period since Tulum was, It is also a ceremonial center It served as a stopover The city is built The constructions and many have become They were originally protected that aimed to cover all Even the architecture The grandeur At the peak of their civilization the Maya had no knowledge of the wheel but they practiced writing, The Maya were great mathematicians. They performed calculations We now know These calculations involved great numbers. They were also using zero. They were very much ahead both in mathematics and in the observation of the stars, They could make a certain number based on the cycles of the moon and Venus. We also know towards certain constellations, The Maya thus spent a lot of time and the changes in their positions Chichen Itza is an ancient city located In the 10th century, it was probably Today, it is one of the major Chichen Itza was declared and was elected as one A prime example of the Post-Classic world can be seen in sites It is undoubtedly at concentrating power at the time, Chichen Itza really seems of the northern peninsula No other city had managed over such a large territory. It is a side that belongs to a current Maya characteristics include architectural of the high central plateau, at that time Chichen Itza is a Maya site bearing to Maya civilization, including different types of construction, different iconography, On the site's decorative signs, jaguars, eagles, and winged snakeheads alternate with masks Low reliefs depict and prisoners in postures of submission. There is a free Maya area It includes buildings reflective of the Yucatan Maya. Then there is the recent part with Maya-Toltec architecture. At the center of this Maya-Toltec area, called El Castillo, This construction of combined Maya-Toltec architecture. It also helps us better The winged snake, was worshipped in the great temple, The orientation of the monument of astronomical knowledge. The pyramid itself is a stone calendar. It is a step pyramid. In the setting sun, that are projected onto the staircase, creating the illusion descending into the underworld. The presence of a snake's head indicates that this optical illusion The four lateral staircases as there are days in the year, to the 18 months of the Mayan calendar. There are monumental ceremonial centers but the residents mainly lived that have not been maintained. In the best case, Since the vegetation is extremely dense, a precise idea of the number Estimates can only be very approximate. The site of Chichen Itza, in its golden age, After a century of study, the site's chronology. The Maya are known their pyramid temples and palaces, and also for another the ball game courts. These three types of constructions Relying on the great lower frescoes archeologists believe a team representing the underworld competed against a team Games could run for over a day. The ball game was a team sport. Two teams competed, with rubber being a native tree. There were The ball had to bounce between the designated markers The balls weighed and were extremely elastic and bouncy. Only the elbows and hips were used, and in the game's classic form, Another game included rings It seems that the object of this game This is debatable because Some researchers believe They were perhaps used to stretch into two sections, It is believed that was then decapitated At the end of the game, In the Classic period, A member of the team or a substitute and the blood was left to run Some say that the sacrificed person since it was an honor A glorious death brought Certain archeologists and anthropologists The decapitated head was then impaled just beside the ball court. It is worth mentioning that these If each game entailed I think that the level It is now believed that the person with all the attributes of a high-level that somehow incarnated the winning team Human sacrifice In this religious system, man was considered Offerings to the gods included flowers, The man was thus included and like other beings, While the victims consensual members of the population, For the Maya, war was founded on the fact that people War was the time for taking prisoners, and the prisoners War was also a ritual act and if possible, prestigious prisoners, The higher the prisoner's social status Sacrifices also took like religious celebrations, during which hundreds Given today's data, regarding mass sacrificial practices but sacrifices under specific circumstances. From the iconography, was extremely common and that the kings This is heavily represented Of course, the self-sacrifice The activities But the Kings had their actions and often represented Blood is a very precious element Spilling blood and can render grace Each divinity Some victims had their hearts ripped out Others were drowned Some victims had their throats slashed, and were then skinned in honor Roaming amidst the ruins sends chills down the spine and the practices of this culture At the heart of a lush and grandiose the Land of Echoes. It was inhabited from the 6th century B.C. The ruins are located of northern Guatemala, It is one of the major sites The ruins cover a surface and include over 3,000 constructions. Around the Great Plaza, in Tikal's heart, including 43 steles and 30 altars, with hieroglyphic texts The pyramid of temple number one It characterizes its architectural style. Tikal is a model site simply It is splendid and very particular Though it was one of the greatest cities with a population well above 50,000, other than the rainwater This dependence on seasonal rainfall made Some believe of the Classic Maya civilization It is a city-state made up that are linked by sacbeob. These are white roads that cross These zones and maybe also as intensive farming areas. There are many monumental units linked by these roads, There are thousands and only a fraction of them For many centuries, by the jungle At Tikal, the last known The reason for the quasi-total in the early 9th century Hypotheses have been put forth of the civilization, then at its peak. Specialists still do not agree Wars, ecological disasters, or a combination of these factors to explain the decline of one