One of the great pianists of the 20th with such long fingers, flat flat fingers. The Who teaches how to play with flat fingers today? And yet it's all available for you on videos, movies of them, you see them. Gould is sitting here like... and And it's probably just terrible The higher you sit the more you feel like you watch Gould and you see this kind sure we shouldn't emulate, and he had plenty more than neck tension actually he had all spliced together because he could only play for The artistry, I would never genius and artist and everything, but that lowering of Variations, what I think defines my obsession aware of is the music. And that's the goal We're not the creators this music, we're the hopefully bring our humanity to the music are without imposing ourselves on the music, that Let me guess, you must not have liked I never heard him ever play anything that Look he was a wild genius, there's no question aware that I'm listening to Bach, I'm listening Ccan I recommend a Gould recording that I think of the Bach three-part inventions from Moscow in golden, it's beautiful, it's poetic, it's still He was more of a romantic I thinkthan people give him credit Just play it how Hollywood would play it. Well I think Hollywood would play it with Now what's wrong with that? Nothing really, except know how many of your viewers have ever read Glenn And I'm telling you I read the essay, him. That didn't last very long but he especially in his later years was not a predictable chord changes, in fact like an executive holding forth one in the front office was much concerned are compelling internally, they have their he's written an essay for you and given you an sound. And that's what we arbitrary thing to do, but it works. I can only I hope for most people has become sufficiently they may say ah, you know one never knows but... That's really what you're aiming to do is to make people sit up on their seats from the first Yes. If you want it in one word, yes. He was a show that there were certain conventions that had 60s that made people and audiences a bit mindless, think that this is something that we must all do pursue performance at a time when the greatest been made permanent in the record catalogs it or or find another way to make a living. I that simply duplicates what's been done before playing the piano, do you agree, that especially in recitals a year, a lot of pianists develop a kind approaching the same repertoire and I think culture for better or worse. I detest audiences, audiences, I think they're a force of evil. the rule of mob law. I think what we must do is try raison d'etre that is somehow different and still sit back like a film director with his brushes and together? You're somebody who also left the stage You talk about wanting to be more creative. I did, in common with Gould, he also left the stage to do In the studio where he could be in control. Right. climax. Glenn Gould is in my triumvirate of piano and I've come to appreciate him more and more hands on and editing and using yeah it justifies doing the repeat. Marty thank you, that's the one, that's the keeper. he would be, he would go crazy. I mean literally in the 60s and technology was just not ready room working right now because he would not be and I agree with him that it there's a I's not about correcting mistakes do or making yourself seem like you're better than yourself. It's about having an idea and wanting to render that I know so few pianists that haven't Even Gould recorded the Third Sonata, fascinating recording. Everything Did you ever cross paths with him? I met him, you know we we arrived when we came from behind the Iron Curtain from Poland we came to I was 10 years old and when I was 11 he came to and he did a lecture concert You know I was 11, I had no idea what was going on oh this is a young piano student who would like this and put out my hand and he said, oh no I never shake was gonna ask if you'd ever shaken Gould's hand You're wearing your famous gloves, I see. Well that's an occupational thing, you know You know I simply have to protect my hands, ridiculous as it seems. I think he's out of his mind.