The voice of The Doors James Douglas Morrison at the age of 27. On July 7th, at the Pere Lachaise Cemetery. Even today, and mysteries surrounding his death. Los Angeles, 1971, After six groundbreaking years, Morrison is a fabulous, A living legend. The Dionysus of Rock tormented by the pressures of celebrity When I first met Jim, I knew, to quote him, &quot;Something is wrong.&quot; Then, at other times, that I thought I watched his gradual disintegration over the years of being a stage performer, and I realized, he didn't want to be an actor, At the height of their fame, The turning point In a supercharged atmosphere, He's accused of indecent exposure An arrest warrant is served against him Where you have children being subjected to such obscenities, Let me say, Jim did not expose himself. I was on stage. They never proved indecent exposure. No one had a photo of Jim although there were hundreds at least dozens of photographs, The suit drags on for two years and The Doors are temporarily banned Jim is reviled in the press The icon has the traits of a fallen angel. He's no longer the dynamic Adonis and he wants In March 1971, He announces his departure for their final album, L.A. Woman. I can remember when he was telling us this. The song Riders on the Storm with the rain, thunder, and whatever. Maybe there was something in that song that indicated that something was coming. His death. We were pretty clear Jim wasn't the kind of person hits, or the &quot;you could be a star again.&quot; He wasn't very interested in that. It was pretty clear and was going to pursue his real soul, On March 11th, Jim Morrison leaves L.A. We were waiting and because we were talking and drinking, or maybe the announcement Jim had to come back the next day Maybe subconsciously, The next time I saw a trace of Jim Morrison flies into Paris On arriving, he moves joining Pamela Courson, his girlfriend, who was already been in Paris A few days later, at 17 Rue Beautreillis The couple is subletting I saw a man with great hair. He was charming. He came in and sat down. He didn't say much the first few days, He was adorable. Pamela and Jim would live here A haven for the former rock star. At the time, Jim occupied this bedroom and spent much of the daytime here, He had big yellow notebooks, spiral-bound, He used to go into the dining room, He had books and notebooks everywhere, Jim writes and explores Paris alone. He loves to stroll and in the Marne. He loved this city. He thought it was beautiful and calm He always had this gaping pocket Jim is entranced by Paris, Charles Baudelaire, He spends hours in the Place des Vosges, He scribbles in his notebooks Paris, the City of Light, &quot;As I look back over my life, &quot;ruined snapshots, He told me one morning in the hotel on our way to breakfast, &quot;I guess I just hope to be remembered &quot;Why does my mind circle around you?&quot; &quot;Why do planets wonder Jim, the poet, In his bag, he brought two films made by his friend In one of them, Highway, Jim plays the lead role A story of rage and destruction, One of our plans and he was going to meet with, Jacques Demy, and he'd show them these two films and hope that perhaps they'd have a way Highway remained unfinished, but Jim and Agnes' father In 1970, he'd even shown up in the midst a world far removed from his own. He wanted to see the shoot. Jacques was already in Chambord, but I took the train with Allan Then we rented a car in Orleans He was on the set as a visitor. Nothing special happened. He came out onto the lawn He came because he liked The Umbrellas of Cherbourg, It was just based on simple friendship &quot;I'd love to stay.&quot; &quot;I'd love to stay.&quot; &quot;I'd love to stay.&quot; April 1971, Jim has been in France and has again succumbed He drinks and hangs out in bars making chance meetings that help overcome He just literally picked himself up, &quot;Hey, are you guys American?&quot; &quot;Mind if I join you?&quot; We said, &quot;Sure, come on, pull up a chair.&quot; At first, it wasn't obvious He had become namely, a bearded poet. Jim downs beer after beer, chain-smoking, and invites Philip They pick a blues track but the gig is soon over. Jim basically had to take and we found out I didn't think he would be that sick. I didn't know he had chest problems, which I learned later because he'd been for coughing up blood. When Jim was in Paris, Catherine remembers a telephone call he told her he was having He had asthma seriously as a child, and then he developed asthma again He really let go to the extent where he was in the danger zone Jim's doctor advises him to rest. Asthma, combined with liquor and tobacco, He leaves Paris for a few weeks heading to Spain, then Morocco, Jim and Pam spend days wandering around the souks in Old Medina, &quot;The sounds and smells notes Jim's notebook. He's feeling better On May 3rd, 1971, they returned to Paris. Jim and Pamela move into a hotel When he came here, it was primarily He spent more time in his room It must be sad Oscar Wilde, who died in the same hotel. A writer, the victim of Puritanism, What could Jim have to say to Wilde? That he was condemned to join him perhaps even very soon? It's written in the station area and it's dated May 18th, 1971. Jim says, &quot;Dear Frank and Kathy, &quot;It doesn't seem &quot;We've been traveling in Spain.&quot; &quot;Granada was the best.&quot; &quot;Morocco, southern France, and Corsica.&quot; Then he says, &quot;There's an extra room, &quot;How is everything?&quot; &quot;Say hello to everyone Signed Jim. Try to get over here, I like that. I think he was alone in Paris. I think he was by himself. I think he searched for friendship In the middle of May, Pamela and Jim They lived their own lives I never saw them together. I didn't feel Jim continues his walking tour of Paris, At the Cafe de Flore, whom he had met seven years previously. I met him two I saw him Pamela apparently organized everything. She was a great planner. She must have suited him. He lets her have her own way. He gave her money. She'd say, &quot;Give me so much,&quot; She'd say, I said, &quot;Okay, she's doing the shopping.&quot; When you say Pamela do you mean for drugs? Obviously. Then suddenly, when she came back, That's a sign. I know that sign. Pamela got into heroin, even before they went to Paris. The only thing I can tell you is that sometimes and sometimes I'd be a bit worried. I'd go and knock, Pamela was seeing a rather odd individual, who had been her lover in Los Angeles. He was a well-known figure He was a bourgeois type with money. There was a whole clique like that. Chic, bourgeois druggies They were very generous. They never said she's never taken anything Just the opposite. Pamela is a junkie, He too has his drug of choice: alcohol. Jim is also hooked the hippest swinging 60s nightclub and those who seek artificial paradises. Mick Jagger, Jimi Hendrix, One night, one of the regulars, Gilles, He has just been accosted by the bouncers. Gilles drags him into a taxi. He was really in a bad way. I knew he was going to have problems I spoke to him I asked him where he lived, but because of the state he was in, What state was he in? He was dead drunk. Gilles takes him to a friend's home He literally has to drag Morrison We saw Gilles come in with this guy, He had this big smile. He said hello, He fell on the bed, Yes, he said hello I remember that very clearly. Morrison spends the night at Herve's. The next morning, sober again, Jim invites Herve and Yvonne to breakfast It's here that he and Herve, get acquainted. A rare moment It was fun, and he'd kick off with a Chivas. A bottle of Chivas later, Unfortunately, he was an alcoholic the kind that gets drunk with one drink However, I don't remember any of us None of us said that, we were too young. We didn't understand that at 27, We didn't know that. Herve sees Jim on several occasions. Their last meeting to see a play by Bob Wilson, Morrison is fascinated I remember Jim in front of the theater. Very effusive, It was strange because one side of him and he had all kinds of projects, but there was another side too, where he was all burned out, On June 14th, John Densmore. He called me and I was the last band member He wanted to know how our last album, and I told him it was really doing well. He was interested He intended to come back. No doubt. On June 16th, Jim goes into a makeshift studio and stands up to the microphone. He's pretty drunk. This is Morrison's final recording, How about this one? -Ready? I wrote this myself. Well, I used to know someone fair. She had orange ribbons in her hair. She was such a trip. She was hardly there, but I love her just the same. On June 28th, Alain Ronay, an old friend, They drive together to the small village They have lunch at the Auberge de L'Oise. Without realizing it, Alain Ronay takes one of Jim They seem happy. On Friday, July 2nd, 1971, Jim Morrison A day that Ronay The only report with the Italian magazine, King, In it, he describes At about one o'clock, they have Alain finds Jim tense and depressed, Near the end of the afternoon, they have Jim is seized by an attack of hiccups. He tries to control it, throwing his head back Alain Ronay is worried. &quot;I felt like I was looking Alain leaves Jim on the cafe terrace As he descends the steps, he turns back He would never see him again. What happened the last night in Jim Morrison's life? The only official witness The events of the night, are consigned It would constitute the official version. At 9 p.m., according to Pamela, Jim left the rue Beautreillis At 10 p.m., he came to pick up Pamela and they went to the cinema At around 1 a.m., they returned to rue Beautreillis Close to 3:30, She shook him. Jim woke up. Pamela wanted to call a doctor, He went into the bathroom &quot;When he was in the bath, &quot;saying that he was nauseous &quot;He vomited food, then blood, &quot;Then he said he felt strange, &quot;Go to bed.&quot; &quot;I fell asleep straight away.&quot; &quot;I was reassured.&quot; At six in the morning, Pamela woke up. Jim was not beside her. She ran into the bathroom She thought he was fooling, &quot;You're frightening me.&quot; &quot;I thought he'd had a heart attack &quot;I tried to get him out of the bath, Whatever she did more, Pamela called her friend He was with Agnes Varda, Obviously, it's horrific. To see a man you love dead in his bath. It's not fun. It's horrible, We went and called the firemen At 9:21, an emergency call on the rue de Sevigne. The reason for the call: someone asphyxiated We didn't even know if it was a man, We only knew the reason It was 9:24 Pamela opened the door. Her dressing gown was still wet. There was some water in the corridor. The emergency team When we arrived, there was a man. White and well-built. Stretched out in the bathtub. His head was on this side, His arm was resting The water was warm, 30 degrees. It was a bit pinkish. Some blood had flowed which means It was a bad sign. We took the body The young woman I had it laid on the floor and quite rapidly we realized I didn't want to leave him on the floor, -Did you know how long he'd been dead? Just after the firemen, Agnes Varda caught a glimpse Alain Ronay didn't want to look. At the same moment, the telephone rang. It was Alain Ronay who answered. I remember being surprised We talked a little No, they've gone out. Her voice was strange I remember being really struck by that. At 9:45, Inspector Jacques Manchez He would later take Pamela's statement. At 6 p.m., a doctor arrived For Max Vassille, of trauma or lesions. In his report, perhaps aggravated by alcohol abuse followed by a bath His conclusion Natural causes. He checked if there were needle marks and there was absolutely no sign of that. That's why there was no autopsy There was no doubt concerning the death. It was a heart attack. He thought he was drinking a lot but that kind of thing can happen. The death certificate was delivered. Time of death was given at 5 a.m. It was declared in the name not James Douglas Morrison, I did something because it was in the spirit In other words, I held back the news. Yet, whereas no one was supposed to know, the news reached The Doors manager, The phone rang and said, &quot;Jim is dead!&quot; I said what? I picked up the phone my label manager in the UK, calling to ask me He'd been called asking if it was true, but I don't know. I got up and called the apartment, When I finally got through... I think I got through at about 12 She was defensive, She started to cry a little bit She said, I don't want any interference. I just told her I won't make you do anything In agreement with Pamela, He informed only The Doors Our manager, Bill Siddons, came in and said he got a phone call I sat down and Robbie and I sort of... It felt like, is it true? It was a horrible moment for us. It just came out of the blue. It wasn't that he was sick, It was just that he was dead. One day he was alive and the next Bill Siddons arrived in Paris on July 6th, He spent the night at Rue Beautreillis, I didn't study the casket in great detail and try to figure out but it didn't look I vaguely remember thinking about it Again, I didn't have that I have to see the body because there was not a doubt in my mind It's because Bill and see Jim that all these rumors flew. I remember Ray saying I have to admit, if there was anyone as crazy as Jim, he could've faked his own death. On July 6th, Morrison's death The American Embassy had been informed Behind the scenes, Agnes Varda and Alain Ronay He had said once We looked for a place but it was impossible It was too complicated. We went to Pere Lachaise, We did everything we could so that the news, wouldn't get out until he was buried. They wanted to avoid the same media frenzy as there had been On July 7th, at 9 a.m., joining the poets and writers he loved: Apollinaire, The tiny procession stopped Only five people attended the burial. Agnes Varda, Alain Ronay, Robin, There was no priest and no tomb. The burial took just eight minutes. I haven't done this. I haven't talked to anybody About what the experience was like I remember pulling the casket whatever kind of hearse it was. I remember lowering the casket, I just remember it being pretty surreal, I just thought, Pam whispered a few verses &quot;Now night arrives &quot;Retire now to your tents &quot;Tomorrow we enter the town of my birth.&quot; &quot;I want to be ready.&quot; On July 9th, six days after Jim's death, Bill Siddons publicly announced the news The press published the story Officially, Jim Morrison I saw the death certificate. It's not a very detailed description when we die, I think all of us, It's a general way of saying you're dead. I had a lot of questions and I still have a lot of questions If I'd been 30 at the time, I might've said, I have to know the truth I didn't want to know. To know what? That Morrison perhaps did not die Why does the law of silence What really happened One disturbing fact is that around 6 a.m., the time when Pamela Courson claims at the Rue Beautreillis apartment, a DJ made a strange announcement There's a bubble here There's a door over there. Young guys like us. I don't remember their names. They weren't friends. Just people I knew. I was playing records, &quot;Someone just told us I was stunned, how do you know that? Where, how? Questions like that. I wasn't a journalist. I just picked up my mic The news was now out, The next morning, on Sunday, July 4th, a journalist present at La Bulle Yes, rumors were circulating Who were the guys who announced The two guys were people I knew. I know they were dealers. Do you think Could they have? Who knows? Curiously, on the very day of Jim's death, a wind of panic seems to blow At about four in the morning, a guy I knew well who was a dealer &quot;Do you know Morrison is dead?&quot; He says, &quot;I'm really screwed up &quot;I sold something to his chick, &quot;I hope it wasn't my stuff I told him Don't feel guilty. He was drinking like a fish, It might not have been your stuff. How can you be sure Zouzou's confidant The enigmatic Count Jean de Breteuil, also seems to be afraid of something. He made himself scarce. He realized that Paris I'm absolutely certain and that he stayed there. Indeed, as of July 4th, Jean de Breteuil along with his girlfriend He would make They looked very distraught. They began to tell me and my wife where they had found Jim Morrison dead in the bathtub In the middle of the night, saying Jim is in the bathroom, he's not responding, Morrison was turning blue, was stiff as a board, There was nothing they could do. That freaked them out even more. This version is in complete contradiction She says nothing or Marianne Faithfull How could she benefit from lying? Did she want to protect herself and Jean de Breteuil I think the Count was terrified of staying They would've wanted and they would've liked to find out that killed Jim Morrison. Of course, Jean de Breteuil died one year taking the secret with him. As for Marianne Faithfull, she has constantly refused If she says she wasn't there, then she was lying through her teeth because we talked about it again and they told the same story Morrison was an alcoholic and ill. There's no doubt about that. On the nights of July 2nd and 3rd, namely heroin? In the article Alain Ronay tells that she and Jim sniffed drugs together Morrison had apparently started using Pamela was messing around. However, I'm sure he dabbled. Jim Morrison fragile health, alcohol, and dope. Did he really die in his bath as the official version claims? Pamela Courson affirms This is probably not the case. He was seen at the Rock'n'Roll Circus, I was at the foot of the stairs, Then Jim arrived No better or worse than usual. He just showed up normally, like a guy who'd already had two and we chatted very briefly. &quot;How are you doing?&quot; &quot;Yes, later.&quot; He went to sit down. He arrived alone, Around three o'clock, Shortly afterwards, Someone had been found unconscious At that time, the Alcazar had an entrance and the door to the Rock'n'Roll Circus but the two clubs At one point, because someone and no one could open the door, I was told and that his friends had taken him out which is the Rue Mazarine. They told me the guy and his friends had taken him away, I don't know who it was. There was a big question mark The question is perhaps for Jim Morrison was definitely which totally Jim's presence there on the night he died That of a veritable night owl, a regular customer This woman has until now she claims to have witnessed. I come out of the toilets and I see this person Someone said, &quot;He's overdosing!&quot; It's true, I saw Morrison collapsing. He was in a really bad way How can you be sure It's because I knew the person -They sold to him directly? From what I understand, I think it was de Breteuil who had a contact in Marseille What happened for one reason or another, Jim was the first to arrive This guy arrives, sees Jim, and he takes the package. He took the package and in all likelihood, he tested the heroin ordered by Pamela Heroin that was particularly potent. It was 90% pure, whereas usually, from what I've heard it's maybe 20 or 30%. Imagine someone On top of that, doing a load of alcohol It must've been like a bomb in his system. It must've blown his head off. That night, Nicole saw Jim Morrison and when his friends It was from here, in my view, or he was taken out What did you see exactly? I saw several people around someone but he was more lying down I saw a woman and some men around him. People in dark clothes, I remember. They were well-dressed compared to us, Who could the people de Breteuil, Pamela, Why, on returning to the Rue Beautreillis, did they give him a bath That business with the bath Why was he in a bathtub? Until I discovered later When someone overdoses, they put him in a cold bath The most important thing is to stop them from falling asleep. I don't know what the water temperature but it wasn't important. -The water was warm. After Jim's death, the Rock'n'Roll Circus Dealers were interrogated by the police, but officially, A lot of people Of the consequences that might result, or raids on the customers whether they were well-known or not. -The owner, Sam Bernett, knew about this? Bernett was discreet afterwards He'd already had problems because there was smack going around He had every reason Was there a blackout Obviously. It was clear that, at the time, Particularly when the main players like the principal witness, Pamela. Her version of the facts right up to her death She'd sit up at night and have visions that he was coming back. It really wasn't a life. It was an existence. She couldn't focus on anything. She couldn't sleep at night. As I told you, she just felt maybe something but I don't think so. Who could've saved Morrison Probably no one. Today, his myth is still very much alive. From around the world, fans and admirers Twenty years after his death, Jim Morrison's parents had an inscription James Douglas Morrison,