Andrew Carnegie: Robber Baron or America's When it comes to judging a person by their In other words, few people can be considered Andrew Carnegie was a man of paradoxes. He oftentimes, this meant that someone else had Although publicly he championed the welfare his many factories and plants didn't exactly On the other hand, Carnegie donated almost not to mention the fact that his actions set who followed. Therefore, it is up to you to we take a look at the life of industrialist Early Years talk about Andrew Carnegie's last name and As a spokeswoman for the Carnegie Corporation the correct pronunciation of his name is car-NAY-gee, Now that we got that out of the way, let's on November 25, 1835, in the town of Dunfermline and Margaret Carnegie. He had a younger brother role in the family's business interests of age. Carnegie had a modest upbringing as his father of just one main room inside a cottage which At the time of Andrew's birth, Dunfermline linen. This created a high demand for Will a brief respite from poverty, enough that This didn't last long, though, and, in fact, Revolution brought with it steam-powered looms obsolete. Chartism, a political movement which sought The main goal of Chartists was to obtain universal right to vote which, theoretically, would from the aristocracy. Will and his father-in-law, members and were heads of the Chartist chapter struck down in Parliament and, eventually, Carnegie would go on to crush unionizing efforts hard for better worker conditions. the Carnegie family in Scotland. Margaret from her sister who already moved there. The a loan to book passage on a ship from Glasgow trip where the poor passengers were packed did not become sick from the terrible conditions undermanned. There was no immigration station on Ellis in lower Manhattan and the Carnegies continued destination of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. The Carnegie family settled in Allegheny City, get annexed a few decades later. Thirteen-year-old bobbin boy at the same cotton mill where his to sundown and made just one dollar and twenty his autobiography that none of the millions as [his] first week's earnings." He was Carnegie soon moved on to a new job at a bobbins He then became the boss's clerk because found him a better job as a messenger boy fifty per week. Working as a messenger allowed Carnegie to people who often received urgent news from so he was promoted to telegraph operator a career switch and went to work as a clerk a superintendent with Pennsylvania Railroad entire company. His father passed away but, in 1859, he was Thomas Scott, became vice-president of the a salary of $1,500 a year. Scott clearly took "my boy Andy" and not only taught him him to make some serious money for the first One day, Scott approached Carnegie and asked Express stock because it would provide him of course, obtained through insider trading, then. Carnegie didn't have anywhere near home and he made his first investment. Soon to "Andrew Carnegie, Esquire" from the a check for ten dollars, representing the the first time that Carnegie made any money He saw that check as the "goose that lays Carnegie became involved in more business met with Theodore T. Woodruff, the man who with the design and brought it to the attention president, John Edgar Thomson. As a reward, the venture. During the American Civil War, Thomas Scott and then Assistant Secretary of War. Carnegie, second-in-command. His main duty was to ensure maintained in working order for the Union At the outset of the war, Carnegie took a Washington. At some distance from the capital, down to the ground using wooden stakes. He the wires had been pulled to one side prior upwards violently, hitting Carnegie in the He later joked that he was among the first During this time, Carnegie got the opportunity members of his cabinet. He later wrote with an "extraordinary man." He mentioned that even the youngest messenger boys. Carnegie men" he ever saw when his features were shone through his eyes...to a degree...never A Man of Industry Just because he was involved with the war did not mean that Carnegie If anything, this new experience revealed flourish in the years and decades to come. right time and this quickly yielded huge returns needed to start his own enterprises. predicted that the demand for railroads would meet those demands. First, in 1864, he founded a company that manufactured rails. Soon afterwards built, you guessed it, locomotives. with the Pennsylvania Railroad Company and was time to leave after the war and strike with them, though, and secured many lucrative In 1865, Andrew Carnegie founded the Keystone as treasurer. It was followed by several ironworks in Carnegie's mind and, indeed, would become Again having a keen attentiveness for the Bessemer process, a new way of refining steel and allowed for the mass production of steel heavily in this technique and it paid off in the American steel industry. He also prioritized controlled companies responsible for all aspects materials and transporting finished goods. The steel business made Andrew Carnegie one there were others who looked on at his steel was financier and banker John Pierpont Morgan. producers to form the Federal Steel Company manufacturer of steel (behind Carnegie's But second place was not good enough for J. corporations and Carnegie knew it. The Scotsman drive off the competition. On the other hand, had already been contemplating retirement The lynchpin in this business venture was and trusted advisor of Carnegie. He was first over a war and then convinced Carnegie to price was $480 million for Carnegie Steel, no negotiation. Later, while talking to Carnegie, have paid another $100 million. gained around $230 million from the sale of other businesses and merged them all together corporation in the world. Carnegie's career might have been full of decidedly less exciting. He was a bachelor relationship with his mother to whom he was headquarters to New York City, the two shared Even so, during the 1880s, Carnegie made the who was 21 years younger than him. The industrialist time they spent together, the more he realized any [he] had met" and all other young women Curiously, Carnegie believed that his vast he already had everything in the world while and constant supporter of a struggling man, The year 1886 proved to be devastating for died within days of each other, while Carnegie typhoid fever. Eventually, he managed to recover of hope and comfort" in his life. She now any other man and she became his "helpmeet" 22, 1887, and went on to have only one child The Johnstown Flood Andrew Carnegie's life was not devoid of many of his duties were taken on by Henry founded his own coke manufacturing company It seems that Frick was at the center of all reputation. First was the time when he and floods in American history. During the early 1880s, Frick founded the between 50 and 60 members who included industrialists, men in Pennsylvania. Unsurprisingly, Andrew At first, the club seemed rather innocuous. could relax, smoke some cigars and maybe do private place where they would not be disturbed. Dam on Lake Conemaugh. of Pennsylvania a few decades prior, but it multiple times. When the South Fork Club made in a state of disrepair due to neglect and to sell for scrap metal. dam, but they were more concerned with making safe - they added a fish screen to the spillway, a road and, most importantly, they lowered sprung a leak, it was quickly patched up and It was just a matter of time before disaster The area had been hit by one of the most powerful between 6 and 10 inches of rainfall in 24 that the lake had swollen and was ready to in a desperate attempt to unclog the spillway the fish screen. Their efforts proved in vain. over 3.8 billion gallons of water to the towns South Fork was the first hit, but got off towns were affected, but Johnstown was completely greatest loss of life in American history. 2,209 people were killed, including 400 children. 400 miles away. the main priority was negating any liability influence at their disposal and ensured that successfully arguing that it was an "act all lost in court. of the blame should be put on Carnegie personally. the club, but that doesn't mean he was involved he, like all the other members, agreed to no further mention of the flood or the club, A recent study from the University of Pittsburgh all along - it was the modifications made not the heavy rainfall. Throughout his career, Carnegie liked to portray the rights and wellbeing of his workers, but At no time was this more evident than in 1892 On one side, we had the Homestead Steel Works, other, there was the Amalgamated Association powerful labor union at the time. last deal ended to negotiate a wage increase. at the plant, wanted the exact opposite - he break up the union. labor disputes of that time. The union went workers and called in over three hundred Pinkerton escalated to violence and around ten men were the state militia intervened and the town The situation took an unexpected turn on July Berkman tried to assassinate Henry Frick in shot Frick twice and then stabbed him in the and Berkman was arrested. AA, his actions generated sympathy for Frick Consequently, other employers refused to hire and their funds dried out. The strike ended Like with the Johnstown flood, it is a matter Carnegie. He was in Scotland during the most he claimed ignorance of the matter, saying and calling it the biggest regret of his business he was well-aware of Frick's actions and writing him in a letter that "we are with Philanthropy Those were the words of Andrew Carnegie, expressing of the wealthy to use all their extra money clear in 1889 when he published an article outlined his views. Carnegie was against simply in his experience, these heirs were often In this regard, the Scottish industrialist time he died in 1919 of bronchial pneumonia, over $350 million of his personal fortune. according to his own words, he died disgraced, his wealth would go to worthy causes. His to live comfortably, but other than that, As a self-made man, Carnegie wasn't a big did not trust that those charities would manage by just giving money directly to people, you station in life. He set up 3,000 public libraries in cities starting in 1883 with his hometown of Dunfermline. grants such as various trusts and universities. the largest gift of $125 million and they name today. plutocratic policies? Is that why he did it These are questions we couldn't possibly Andrew Carnegie set him apart and made him the 19th century.