- I want to tell you something A friend of mine called me in the middle of a speaking tour that and said, &quot;Eric, you &quot;There's a big marketing conference, &quot;and they need you to come And I said, &quot;I'm on a tour, I And they said, &quot;Well, do And I said, &quot;Well I have &quot;my batteries, but I'm And they said, &quot;Well, what's And I said, &quot;It's this day.&quot; And they go, &quot;Well, that's the And I said, &quot;No.&quot; I said, &quot;No, problem.&quot; &quot;It's a problem, I'm not doing it.&quot; And then another friend of mine called me, and he turned out to be for the same marketing company. And he called me and said, &quot;to be there, would you do it So now I have two of my friends asking me to do them a favor to go and I'm not interested in doing it. But now two friends have So I fly off to Poland, I get to my hotel, and is going to come pick me up at my hotel. And when the car picks me up at the hotel, it'll take me to the conference center. I'm supposed to be on stage at 12:00, and they tell me the car's That's not ideal. It's not ideal, but look, I do what they tell me. The car comes to pick me up at 11:00, but they don't send a car, you understand. They don't send like a Now, I'm not snobby, I'm the trouble is is that the doesn't know where to take me. So we get to the conference center, and it's one of these where there's halls. And some of the halls are bigger and I don't know which And it takes us about So now I have to be on and the taxi just drops me. And it's like, it could be a 20 minute walk And so I'm running around, thinking, &quot;Why did I do &quot;I should be relaxing right now. &quot;I should be recharging my batteries. &quot;I should be putting Is that true? - [Audience] Yes. So I finally find the hall, I run in. I find the hall, I run in, and And the registration area says like, regular tickets, VIP So which lineup should I go to? - [Audience] Speakers. But I go to that lineup, but there's nobody working So the woman who's right there I say, &quot;Hi, I'm a speaker, She goes, &quot;Oh, that person's on a break, &quot;just join the line for the VIPs.&quot; Well, there's like six and I've been watching her, and it takes her about four minutes per person to register them. I go, &quot;Okay, I can do &quot;four minutes per person to register. &quot;And that's going to take you 24 minutes, &quot;and I'm supposed to be &quot;What do you think we should do?&quot; She goes, &quot;Maybe I should So she registers me, and then And the woman comes over where the conference is. We get over there, I have to pretty much walk onto the stage. We get into the room, it's with the elevated seating, and with people in them. But the one thing was missing. The audience. There was like nobody in there, there was like 12 or 15 people. And by the way, were they - [Audience] No. Two over there, one over Like, they're scattered around. And I turn, and I go, &quot;I'm here doing you a favor, And she goes, &quot;Oh, they're expecting you, &quot;they'll walk in once you get started.&quot; I'm like, &quot;Really?&quot; And I know that they have and the display booths. There are people out there, but they're not in here. And I go, &quot;Well, when &quot;The speaking part.&quot; And she says, &quot;This morning.&quot; I said, &quot;Oh, are we on a break right now?&quot; And she goes, &quot;No, it's &quot;There's a woman on the stage.&quot; I'm standing down here, and there's the stage, it's much higher. And that's the first moment I look up, and that's the moment I realize that there's a woman I've been in the room for five minutes, and I couldn't even notice, and The 15 people are checking on Facebook, they're looking for the Have any of you found it? Anybody? They're looking. They're looking for it. They're going to injure their thumb looking for the bottom And so that's when I realized that the woman is on the stage, and I'm going, &quot;There's 15 &quot;I do not want to be here, I'm &quot;I'm not charging a fee. &quot;I don't have programs and &quot;I'm really there as a favor, But I've agreed to be there, &quot;Well, where's the microphone?&quot; I'm scheduled to speak for and I'm frustrated. And I go, &quot;Okay, where's the microphone?&quot; And she goes, &quot;It's the guy over there.&quot; Now, the room was much bigger and the guy with the microphone was way over at the And I go, &quot;Well, don't you think &quot;we should get the microphone on?&quot; And she goes, &quot;Yeah, yeah.&quot; And as I say that, this woman finishes. Nobody claps, because they And then the MC goes up and starts reading out my introduction. I don't have a microphone. She says, &quot;Yeah, the guy is coming. &quot;He's on his way.&quot; And now, have any of Anybody? Yeah, you will know the word. It means slowly. This is the way that And this is the way the And I'm way over there, there's no way he's going to get to me in time. And as he gets to about &quot;And please welcome to Nobody claps, 'cause they And I have no microphone, the handheld microphone, And I walk out, and I and I cannot believe I'm here. For the first time in my speaking career, I am dreading being onstage. I don't want to be there, I just have a nice bath, relax, And I look out at these 15 looking at them, they're looking at me, and we're all wondering And I suddenly think to myself, what would I do if one of my asked me what to do in this situation? What if one of my they took out their phone, and they go, &quot;Eric, I'm on stage, and this &quot;and I don't know what to do right now.&quot; And I would know exactly what to do. I go, &quot;I know what I'd tell them to do, &quot;but I'm not doing it.&quot; I'm not doing it. And then I thought, &quot;Oh god, that's not I really try to practice what I preach, so if I think they should do it, I'm going to have to do it. And I stop, and I go, &quot;All right, guys.&quot; By the way, a handheld microphone! How much does one of those things weigh? It depends on how long Three and a half hours, the so I'm starting, oh, I can't believe this. And I go, &quot;All right. &quot;I think that in order for me to help you, &quot;I'm going to have to &quot;something about marketing. &quot;You came here to learn about marketing, &quot;and there's nobody in the room. &quot;That doesn't say good Do I have their attention at this point? Yeah. They're kind of going, &quot;Wow, that's an interesting thing to say.&quot; And I go, &quot;And I think the only way &quot;that I'm going to be &quot;the important information &quot;is if I can get this room full of people. &quot;If I can get this room full of people, &quot;then you'll probably pay &quot;three and a half hours, isn't that true?&quot; Are they intrigued now? - [Audience] Yeah. - So I'm like, &quot;So, I'm going to do that, &quot;and you're going to help me.&quot; And they're like, &quot;What?&quot; And I said, &quot;This is &quot;In a moment I'm going to count. &quot;I'm going to count down from &quot;you're all going to jump up.&quot; By this point, there's now And I go, &quot;I'm going to &quot;and when I get to one, &quot;and you're all going to &quot;really loudly, and then &quot;And here's the thing, I know &quot;I'm not doing that. &quot;And the reason you're &quot;is that you think you're &quot;But the problem is, the &quot;The other people are going to do it. &quot;So when you don't do it, &quot;Are you ready,&quot; I said. And they said, &quot;Yes.&quot; And I said, &quot;All right, now.&quot; The reason I'm telling you this, is there's some people out there that think that the phone They think that the about the Guns N' Roses concert is more important than what's and I'm telling you that it's not. And so when I count we're going to do the exact same thing. Does that sound good? - [Audience] Yes! I walked up in front, and One, or sorry, three, two, one, go. Oh my god, that's incredible! Oh, it's so funny! You guys, that's amazing! Holy cow, I can't believe it! I don't even know what to think of it! That's so amazing! All right, we'll see if So are you guys ready for some fun? - [Audience] Yeah! - Awesome. I am about to share with you in the whole world to share with you. I have devoted this part the gifts that I believe are I have been honored over that we've been here in Tallinn to have people walking and telling me the stories has been transformed from People are telling me about and the pain and symptoms that are gone. That their children have even. I've had people come up to me and go, &quot;After a month of watching your videos &quot;every single day, my kids &quot;And now they want to change And I think one of the greatest gifts in the world you can give anybody is their relationship - [Audience] Yes! - And you know who's trying to take away your relationship with The food industry. And so that's my job is to and I love doing it. And one of the other gifts that is the gift of communication. The gift of being able to effectively, persuasively, influentially. And the challenge is, is that our society has done everything it just the way it is to And I think that that makes I think some of you find yourselves having a intense conversation And every now and again, you walk away from that conversation and you think to yourself afterward, &quot;I wish I'd said this.&quot; Who's had that feeling? I'd like it to go away. I'd like you to not have that feeling. I'd like you to say the I'd like you to express yourself the way you want to express yourself. I suspect that if you do that, it will change your relationship with you. It will change your your romantic relationships. It'll change your relationships it'll change your It'll change everything. And for those of you who are interested in getting an incredible I'm talking the biggest professional or business advantage possible, what we're going to do today is And I'm going to give you and science behind this. Now, this is going to be especially those of you that are younger. There was a time before the internet. I know, I know. And then this will be even more shocking to some of you that are There was a time before television. Can you imagine? What did families do? They sat around the radio. No kidding, families used And so what's really a time before the radio. And what did families do then? They sat around the fire. They sat around the fire, to sit around that exact fire. And what I mean by that, is I have had numerous visits And the Hadza bushmen live very much the way most of our ancestors And they sit around the fire. And I want you to think about something. If you're sitting around and I share a story with you. I share a story with you, and it's engaging, and it makes you think, and maybe it makes you laugh. But in that story, I that these big white 'Cause they really did. I'm not kidding you, it And I'm standing there, are running toward me. And what I knew about white rhinos is that they don't have good eyesight. In fact, they barely can see. They can smell and they can hear. And so the reason they is that they could smell me. And I knew as they were running toward me, and let me tell you something. Rhinos are bigger than you think. Have any of you guys been in that cafe with the big white rhino head on the wall? That is to scale. That is what a big male white rhino, that's the size of its head. Then you add the body. And they're way faster And when two of them this is basically how They're running toward Because they're shaking the ground. What does every inch when they're running toward me? - [Audience] Run. But I know that if I run, they're and that's going to give them And if I let them follow I'm going to get some Not good, right? And so instead of running, I stood there and stared them down, and waited. And they got about 15 feet And they turned around and and then they got curious again when the wind shifted direction, they came running again at me. And then they got about and then they stopped If I had run, I would be dead today, or certainly I would have one way or the other. And so imagine that we're and I share that story with you. And a week later, you're off doing whatever you want to be doing, and two white rhinos come running at you. And you suddenly remember, &quot;Oh my god, I'm supposed And you stand still, Who's fire do you want to sit around for the rest of your life? Do you understand? This is why we have this For millions of years, your to thrive was completely being told around your campfire. It was the most valuable thing there was. Nothing could be more around the fire and hearing these stories. And you started listening to these stories when you were two and three years old. And by the way, can two even though they can't speak? Can they understand? - [Audience] Yeah. They understand everything. The other day I've got my little girl here in town with me, and my little My boy is 20 years old, and my And so they don't get to spend and so they're hanging out. And I go to Zoe, I go, And she goes. And I go, &quot;Daniel's your brother.&quot; And she goes. And I go, &quot;That means Daniel, And she goes. She understands it all. And so we're sitting around the fire listening to these stories, for us to survive the most and they're making it in the most difficult circumstances. And so our DNA loves stories. That's why Hollywood will do you understand that? Think about that. They will spend $200 and they won't begin to see until after the $200 million is spent. It's risky, but they know We like stories because it is the primary operating system of the body. And once you begin to are the best way to write information in, then you can look at history and recognize that it's completely true. Every great revolution, whether it's a political a technological revolution, by great speeches and great oration. I remember reading that was trying to pass some legislation through the U.S. Congress, would vote for this, because it had to do with changing their lives. It was legislation about congressmen, and they didn't want to change it. He was getting nowhere. And then he recognized and he could speak directly to the people. Radio, town halls, and He started giving speeches. And do you know what's amazing? Is when they put that it passed with only because he'd gone directly to the people. Speaking is one of the we can create in the world. And by the way, can for both good and bad? - [Audience] Yes. - Adolf Hitler gave 8,000 speeches. He knew exactly what he was doing. He wrote in his book, &quot;Mein Kampf&quot; many years before World War II. He wrote in that book, essentially, that the microphone was That speaking was more That if you really wanted if you really wanted to you did it with great stories, you did it with great speeches. Speaking is one of the there is in our society. It creates an advantage in business and your professional life that is far past any other advantage. Here, let's test out a few things. Are you aware that in and I imagine this is in the westernized, In the American corporate world, people make slightly more money for each inch they are taller. Did you know that? They actually make slightly more money. They're more inclined they're more inclined to make the sale. slightly more taller. And then by the way, is - [Audience] Yes. And so there are all kinds of that are little optimizations. The gender pay gap, how big They say it's about 10%. It's about 10%. But if you remove the fact Do you guys know that Uber, Uber pays male drivers more - [Woman In Audience] What? - Yeah. Okay, this is a way statistics lie. Female drivers choose not and they choose not to and they choose not to drive And so Uber doesn't pay them any less. Uber pays them exactly the same, they choose to do things differently. Women choose not to take Men die in the workforce more often than women do. And so when you remove all that stuff, the gender pay gap closes a little. It's still there, but it closes a little, does that make sense? But these tiny little that height, or maleness, But the most massive, massive advantage you can give yourself and in the entrepreneur If an inch of extra height can being a speaker, being being influential in can triple or more your income. It obliterates all other advantages. It is the most powerful thing you can do for your professional life. The problem is, we don't. Because we're afraid. And the crazy part of it is, Not one of you. Now, because I understand this whole fear, what we did before you guys is we took 15 envelopes. 15 envelopes and we a few words, a couple of questions. One envelope, one word, one question, and then we stuck those We stuck the envelopes and don't think we didn't We stuck them underneath. And in a minute, when I say go, you're going to check or underneath the beanbag, and you're going to see If you got an envelope, with what happens in your Because if you got the You will simply stand up, you will come up on the stage. And then I'm going to have and I'm going to hand you and then you're going to and you're going to see and you're going to speak for in front of this audience. - [Woman In Audience] That's awesome! - I will tell you that some of the words, one of the words is orgasm. Another word that's in there is Brexit. Another word that's in So, who's ready? Go ahead and check. Okay stop it, there are no envelopes. Now, the reason I do that, I do sometimes have envelopes, so they might be stuck under there. The reason I did that, is there were a variety of different emotions that came up in the room. Now, I want a totally honest answer here, please don't worry about looking good. I want a totally honest answer. There were a few people in this room that were absolutely, genuinely Who were they? Wow, welcome to Mindvalley University, 'cause it is not like that That was a good 15% of the room. In the rest of the world, it would be one or two people, and they would almost It's how it is. It's how it is. How many people were but also your stomach was doing a little back flip thing routine, okay? All right. And how many were thinking, &quot;I'm not the least bit excited, &quot;and I feel like I might actually vomit.&quot; Who was in the category? And then how many of you were thinking, &quot;Please no! &quot;No envelope! &quot;I won't do it!&quot; Anybody? And then there was a &quot;If there's an envelope, I know. And so what I want you to know is that I used to be in the category of in that chair and I found, and I touched an envelope, I would have immediately and pretended I didn't have I was so terrified of public speaking that if you called me on a Friday. If you called me on a Friday and you asked me to do a talk, no. If you called me on Monday, and you asked me to a talk on Friday, I would absolutely have said no. Without question, I don't how big the audience was, And when I said no, I would And I would have continued and Wednesday, and on Thursday, and I would have woken up on and I said no. I don't even want to think what would have happened if I said yes. That's how terrified I was. But you know what's so Not one person in this room was born afraid of communicating. Not one person in this room was born afraid of public speaking, nobody. No matter how fearful you are of it today, no matter how nervous you not one person in this room was born afraid of It's really important for Can you imagine what came out afraid of public speaking? How would it ever get its diaper changed? How would it get food? What happens is, at first we are so thrilled by Baby noises, aren't they incredible? I get home, if I miss Zoe's bedtime. Like if I miss it occasionally, I come home and she's already in bed, I want to go wake her up. You can imagine my wife's I go, &quot;I'm going to go wake.&quot; I will never go wake her up. &quot;I'm going to go wake her up.&quot; &quot;No!&quot; But you know, in the morning she wakes up and immediately And she talks in some strange mix of English and Spanish, and now Estonian. And it's beautiful, and we But then there comes a point in time, after the age of three and four, where the talking isn't so great. Where you're on a plane, and and that's where you're trying to go. Indoor voice. Think before you speak. Children should be seen and not heard. And it begins. And almost every person in this room was subjected to at when they were a kid. And that's where your that's where your apprehension Because social conditioning a cocoon around you and started telling you to control yourself. To not be so excited. Is it true? - And then we continue we continue to live with that. And then it gets even worse, and one of the things Teachers forget what it's They do. Look guys, when children are They don't know what stuff means. And so their entire job is to assess meanings. Oh, I have pain in my stomach from hunger, and when I cry, I get fed. Look at that, when I cry, somebody sticks a boob in my mouth. Wait a minute, why did I stop doing that? Anyway. But the fact is that They make a meaning and then they continue And the problem is, is that we make when we're children, they become rules that we then keep. I spoke to the teens on the teen track here at Mindvalley University. I spoke to the teens, I told them a really embarrassing story. I'm going to share it with you. One day I was eating an apple. I was eating this apple, and then I decided that I So I went into the washroom in our house. Went in, closed the door, put Went in and did my business, Finished up. Flushed, washed hands. Grab the apple, took a bite, and my mom was standing there. Now think about this from All she heard was toilet flush, and son walking out with apple in his hand that he was eating while How does my mom feel about this? Not good, right? So my mom goes, &quot;Eric, you can't do that?&quot; And I said, &quot;What?&quot; She goes, &quot;You can't eat And I said, &quot;Why not?&quot; She goes, &quot;It's dangerous.&quot; And then she got distracted, and I'm sitting there with it's dangerous. Why is it dangerous? And this was when I was six, Before Google. And so I couldn't go, why is eating an apple while I couldn't do that. The question was just in my Back in the days before you for the question, did where you had a question bouncing around, and it's kind of got filtered That's what happened to me. And so I was sitting out and we're in a restaurant. And we have the straws, you're and we were doing like kids do where you block off the top of the straw and you pull the liquid up, and then you drop the liquid in, right? It's physics, basic physics, it's fun. And then I was doing it, Oh wait. If you block off the bottom of the straw, the liquid won't come out. If you block off the bottom and the top, the liquid won't come out. If you block off the top, that's the bizarre part, right? You block off the top, then maybe we're the same. Maybe the danger is that if at the same time that you you just fall out. I figured it out. She's right, it's bloody dangerous. I won't be doing that again. I'm telling you, for months after that I could be chewing gum, just chewing gum, and I go to the bathroom, Wouldn't want to have an accident where I slipped out of myself. And so children are doing stuff like that all the time, is it true? And so we forget that. And so you're in a class if you're a teacher, and you want to teach the children a bunch of things. You want to teach them the curriculum, but you also want to Is it true? - And so you're teaching that one of the students, JB, All distracted by her recent nuptials. She's just not paying any and so how am I going to teach How am I going to teach her? I'm going to call on her. You see, what I'm going to do, Like I'm going to teach the Most of you that are about this war, but this to invade Canada and take over. They invaded Canada with Seven to one they invaded Canada burnt the White House. Did you hear Donald Trump The war did not go so well and I could teach you all about how they invaded Canada in the war of 1812. And then at some point during the lesson, I am as the teacher going to &quot;When did the war of 1812 happen?&quot; And a number of students are Which students are going The ones that have been paying attention and know the answer. Teachers will typically that have raised their hands. Teachers when they ask it's just a poll. They just want to know And so if you raise your If you don't raise your hand, I figured this out young, I taught the kids this, by the way. I taught them a trick I had in I went to school and I hated that, I didn't like school very much, because I would typically pick and do teachers stop on the first pass? No, they teach it again, and it would drive me crazy, They called it daydreaming, But I got into meditating and meditating out the window. And then the teacher would call on me, and I didn't hear anything, and then I would feel like an idiot. And I would feel stupid. And so I learned that if you can give yourself freedom What you do in September You pretend to daydream, you pretend that you're You doodle, but you're really listening. And then she goes, &quot;What is H2O?&quot; And you don't raise your hand. You pretend you're not And then she goes, &quot;Eric!&quot; And you go, &quot;Water!&quot; You just do that two or you're free for the rest of the year. Free pass. Now the trouble is, is or sorry, when teachers do this, what they're trying to do They're going, &quot;When was the war of 1812?&quot; JB doesn't raise her hand. &quot;JB, when was the war of 1812?&quot; JB wasn't paying attention. Now, in that moment, is she If she gets startled, what kind of chemicals is her body going to produce? Cortisol, adrenaline even. And if she produced here's something that a lot but the minute you start you step back in time in your brain. You go to the more primitive The more scared you are, The idea is is if you're It's safer that way. You see, if you're and you suddenly see some lion Tell me, it's happened to me, And in that moment, every starts looking like a lion, is that true? Is that safer than Of course it is. And so when we have some we become slightly more pessimistic and we lose touch with our proper brain. And so in that moment, even if she knew when the war of 1812 started, the answer is in the question after all, she might not know it. Is that possible? And so I go, &quot;JB, when And she's like, &quot;1814?&quot; And now she's just done in front of one of the most difficult audiences in Children are the toughest audience ever. Children are not nice. Come on, I'm not talking about your kids. I'm not talking about my kids, I'm talking about the rest of them. They're not nice! When are JB's classmates or when are they going to forget When? Never! JB goes off to Palo Alto, she starts the next big dot-com company, she's a billionaire. She flies to her 25th anniversary, She arrives in a private She's got all the jewelry, and the great clothes. And she shows up at her reunion, and they go, &quot;Look guys, it's 1814!&quot; 'Cause they're never going to forget, but the real problem is to teach JB the lesson, But the lesson JB got that day was, public speaking is freaking terrifying! And for the rest of her life, maybe, she's nervous every time every time somebody or prepare a conversation. And this is what's as well at various points. I will tell you that that it would make me sick But the transition I've gone has completely changed my life, I'm going to share some things with you. When I was 15 years old, I was homeless. And when I say homeless, that I was living in a And it was winter. Now, some of you live in places but you've not been to Edmonton. I will tell you that in it is absolutely routine for it to be minus 20 degrees, minus 40 degrees. And for those of you that are Americans that are wondering what minus 40 is the same in both. It means fatally cold. And if I look at my life if I look at my life from on the streets of Edmonton, Alberta, to the things that I've and I'll give you some I was invited one day to do a tour of the original Industrial For those of you who are not familiar with Industrial Light &amp; Magic, it is the special effects shop that George Lucas created And one day I was offered a chance to go do a tour of these studios. And when I got there, I found that George Lucas had sold the that were running it and they weren't running it very well. And they were trying to for all kinds of cool movie And I watched one of and it was atrocious. I mean it was bad. It was the, &quot;Don't Invest in It was terrible! And so I'm sitting down and I'm not saying anything, I'm just a guest here. And then Gavin, my friend says, &quot;Eric what are your thoughts And I'm like, &quot;Gavin, I don't &quot;I'm not from the movie industry. &quot;I don't want to do this.&quot; I wasn't nervous of I just didn't want to And then they said, &quot;Yeah And I said, &quot;Do you guys Like, &quot;Do you really want the truth?&quot; And many of you will know this about me. How many of you have to any Am I nice? I'm not nice. And what I mean by that is that and the first thing I'm do you really want to know? And so that's what I said to them, &quot;Do you really want to know?&quot; And they go, &quot;Yeah, we And I said, &quot;Well, the &quot;I mean, it was bad. &quot;It was really bad.&quot; And they said, &quot;Why?&quot; And I said, &quot;Well, because of this, &quot;and this, and this, and this.&quot; And then at the end of 'cause I basically expected And they said, &quot;We have another &quot;this afternoon, would you No problem. I thought it was a big problem. And I'm not kidding you, two hours later I'm standing on a stage in 140 seating private theater And I'm standing in the seater, and there are investors in And then the investors here's what they say, &quot;If we invest, will Eric I'm on a tour. You know when you go to the tours, and they try to make it really realistic? They've made this one really realistic. In the end, the investors and I got talking to my friends. And I went to the owners &quot;Look, I think you guys &quot;than you're letting on, And I offered to buy to and so I flew home, and I in Turks and Caicos, and I flew home. And I got a phone call almost the minute I walked in my front door, and they said, &quot;Would you come back?&quot; And I said, &quot;Why?&quot; And they go, &quot;'Cause we And I ended up buying the studio. And the first thing we did after and then we worked on, and, &quot;Transformers,&quot; and, &quot;Elysium.&quot; And then from that company we that literally built for the U.S. Military. We literally saved lives. And that only happened because I had become comfortable with speaking. I got another phone call &quot;Eric, could you come and do &quot;a talk here in Vancouver, Canada,&quot; and I said, &quot;That's great, &quot;I left Canada when I was in my mid 20s, &quot;and I'd love to come back And I gave this talk. And at the end of my talk, the woman says, &quot;Would you come back and do &quot;another talk during the Olympics.&quot; I'm like, &quot;Sure, that'd be great.&quot; I go home, she calls me a few weeks later, and she goes, &quot;Eric, I need your help &quot;with this event in the Olympics.&quot; I said, &quot;Sure, what do you need?&quot; She goes, &quot;Well, we're setting up, &quot;it's the city of Vancouver, &quot;this host program where our, &quot;every four days of the Olympics, &quot;of people coming in &quot;in the United States. &quot;So the construction industry, &quot;the legal industry, and so on.&quot; And she says, &quot;The trouble is is that, &quot;we want to get the people &quot;and movie production industry to come, &quot;and we can't get them to show up. &quot;We just can't get them to show up.&quot; And she goes, &quot;Why won't they come?&quot; And I said, &quot;Oh well, when &quot;you just get invited to everything. &quot;It's just the way it is. &quot;It's the sexy industry, and &quot;so pretty soon you learn you I'll tell you by the way, you can accelerate your one of the coolest ways that to manifest incredible financial freedom is to become totally okay with celebrating saying no to cool stuff. FOMO can be one of the to your manifestation. Fear of missing out can of creating an incredible and I'll tell you why. Think about Richard Branson how many things can he do that day? Anything. He can do anything that day, with who? With anyone. If Richard Branson called and say, &quot;Hey, do you &quot;go for a little boat ride, Who's going with Richard Branson? He can call anybody at But what that also means, there are 9,000 incredibly cool things that he's not going to do. And he probably had to get okay with that, because some of you when you have a fear of missing out, it's painful. Who feels a little pain That pain is something will do anything it can to avoid. And so that includes holding you back from creating those So now what you do when you is you don't have a fear of missing out. You have a new thing. It's the celebration of missing out. I celebrate when I miss out. Just a few weeks ago, we had our first ever WildFest Conference. We'd set it up, it was and then I, no kidding, got the invitation to go to Richard Branson's in South Africa and hang out with him. And I had to say no. And you know how I said no? I said, &quot;No, how cool is it Does this make sense? And so the problem is, these they've gotten really good at that. They just say no to all the They just say no, they And she goes, &quot;But how could And I said, &quot;I'll tell you. &quot;The only way I can imagine you're &quot;is if you book the last four days. &quot;You book the last four &quot;and you get tickets to &quot;'cause it's the coolest thing. &quot;And you get tickets to the In Canada and America, was going to be one of the most in the history of sports And the woman said to me, &quot;Never going to happen. &quot;Those tickets are the hottest &quot;we're never going to make it happen.&quot; And I said, &quot;I know. &quot;That's why I said, do &quot;That's the only way you're She calls me back two &quot;We got them.&quot; She goes, &quot;We got a block of tickets, &quot;and we got them in the coolest section, &quot;right there in the club &quot;Will you be there? What was my answer? - [Audience] No. - Yes, absolutely, I will be there. I wouldn't even want to say, &quot;No problem,&quot; in case she only heard the first word. Absolutely, I will be there. And then the rest of because we'd made it so cool. Then I went to go do a presentation, because that's why I was there. I gave a presentation, 15 minutes. Not motivation, not inspiration, just boring-ass stuff Just stuff about how the work and how 3D technology is Nothing exciting. And then all of a sudden, this Chinese guy, from Shanghai. He was one of the producers And the way the Olympics work, is that the last city helps So he was there helping So he happened to be at my talk. He walks up to me, and he goes, &quot;Eric, that talk was fantastic.&quot; He says, &quot;It's the best one He says, &quot;I'm working on a &quot;A movie about the Sun &quot;And it's going to be &quot;It's going to be like Avatar. &quot;And the government has &quot;but they've told us that we need to fund &quot;a smaller movie first to He says, &quot;Do you have any 3D movies &quot;that you would like funding for?&quot; Even if I didn't, I grab a toilet roll, and I mean, if somebody's offering yes, you have a movie. Just practice, I just want Right now, how many of you Okay, just a few of you. No just wait, actually, actually. Now, I'd say something different. I've got money for somebody How many of you have a movie to make? Excellent answer! Excellent answer. Two months later, he sent us to go into development on a Why did that happen? Because I'd overcome my rubbish, I'd overcome the garbage, and I'd gotten comfortable with speaking. It has opened so many doors for me that I can't even begin to tell you. Who wants to know my recipe Anybody want to know that one? - [Audience] Yes. - I don't know, it didn't of excitement for that. I'll tell you the way it works. Some of you have studied So here's what happened. I had made a decision to get on stage at A-Fest, that I wanted my products published on the Mindvalley platform. Here's the bizarre bit though, at the same time that Vishen had made a different decision. And that was the Mindvalley no longer wanted to produce quantity, they wanted to focus They wanted best of breed authors. In other words, they were down to 14 authors. And I had made the decision one of those 14 authors. Does this sound like an easy goal? No. And so let's back up. When we talk about marketing, it doesn't work like In the 80s, what you did for influence, was you just talked You talked about your you talked about how great you were, you advertised yourself. That does not work anymore, do we agree? - [Audience] Yes. And now what we have to do if is we have to think about them. We have to think about them. We have to think about In fact, I want to do I need some parents, I need parents. I need parents that are Are you sitting beside each other? Have we played this game before? Okay good. They are now my parents, and And I would very much like Now, in the traditional world of children, how am I going to convince mom and dad that I get to go to Disney World? How am I going to do it? Help me out, coach me on How would I do it? I'm going to go tell I really, really want Say no. - [Woman In Audience] No! Now what do I try now? - [Audience] Please! - Begging, begging, please! I'll clean my room! Bribery. Is it true? - Right, and then, oh, guilt. But all the cool parents Will kids do this stuff? - [Audience] Yeah! Well, I'll tell you something. You might think that kids do this stuff, I've seen some of your websites. You're doing this. You're just talking I want you to buy my product. Let me tell you how great my product is. You're not giving them value. So if I think about it who's my ideal target market? My parents. Aren't they? All right, so if I I need to learn everything What are my parents worried about? What are they thinking about? They're thinking about me. They're thinking about, am I safe? They want to make sure I that I don't have the They're thinking that I want Is this all true? - All right, now, my parents Got it. Hey mom and dad, are you having a good breakfast? I just wanted you to know, about my university education, and university entrance requirements. I've been thinking a lot about that. Do I have their attention? - [Audience] Yes. One of them is choking now. Like, what? What? And it turns out, mom the grades thing, you guys were right, that's really important. I'm going to have to step up on that area, because you got to have those grades. You know what else is fascinating though, is that it turns out just in robotic grades. They're interested in interesting kids. They're interested in innovation, activity, involvement, creativity. And so I'm doing everything 'cause there have been some Do you guys know who Nikola Tesla is? And of course Thomas Edison, and then you've got George and Walt Disney, and Elon I mean, these people are so creative! And I'm so excited about them! So right now, I'm doing like a project. I'm doing all the research You know that when he was broke, and he was just making cartoons, and his stories, and fascinating. So if you have any books or blogs, or articles or videos or anything at all about Walt Disney, any way about Walt Disney, you just let me know. Who's idea is it going to be? It's going to be their idea. It's going to be their idea. And I think a lot about this, because most of us these with communicating that we don't have time to think about our communication Isn't it true? I am a big fan of having really clear, strategic objectives before I communicate. Before I walk on stage, I have a list of strategic objectives. One of them is always to have fun. It's always like that for me. I won't go on stage if it By the way, in Poland, Yeah, because it was one And so one of the problems is, is that if you're nervous, and you're afraid, it's because most people, many if they were told, &quot;Hey, you have to give &quot;a presentation in front Your biggest strategic objective It's just to get through it, it's just to get to the other side. In fact, some of you will come up, and you'll do a presentation, You'll make people laugh, You'll walk off the stage, and you'll have instant stage amnesia. You'll forget everything you said. Who's had that experience? That's adrenaline and cortisol. When you walk up on stage with adrenaline and and you don't give So I'm going to give you a clue, one of the biggest clues you really comfortable with Never, ever tell the Never, ever show them with Never let them hear in your voice that you're nervous, don't do it. How many of you have you've been a little nervous. You've really kicked butt, like you've actually done really well. Once you got into it, you made them laugh, you started to feel pretty good. And then you got off the And then people come up to you And yet, somehow you were Who's had that experience? The reason you had that off the stage and you walked around, and people came up to you, and they told you what a great job you did and you didn't believe them. You didn't believe them, because you showed them And so because you showed you believe that their praise of you, that their warm words for What you have to do is that if you tell them you're nervous, the reason you're doing it, &quot;Oh gosh, I'm a little nervous That's why you're doing it. You're fishing, 'cause you're afraid you might not do that well. You want to set their expectations lower, and that way they're going But the problem is, is the It's like a drug. That feedback is like It'll feel good for a minute, Please, never let them see you nervous. I had this woman Jessica, she came to one of my first She came to the academy, and she was so scared that even signing up, her hands were shaking. She was so terrified to be there. And then she did the program, and became incredibly comfortable and super proficient at speaking. And so some time later, I where people could send me videos and I would do a video breakdown And so I did that for her. She sent me one of her videos. And I'm watching the She did this incredible Beautiful talk. Beautifully delivered. And she came to the very end of the talk, and then she did something how hard it was for her, It was subtle, it was super subtle. I'm going to show it to you. You might not even see But it kind of went like She no kidding got a standing ovation, and at the end of the standing ovation, just see if you can see it. Like you know in poker, you have the tell. When you're trying to and so she just gave it away a little bit. Here it was. Everybody's clapping, Did you see it? I couldn't believe it! I'm watching the video going, &quot;No! &quot;No! &quot;You did this perfect talk!&quot; And if she just held on. If she just stood there then when the people came up and told her how much ass she kicked, how well she did, she would have believed them. But just that one stupid little thing, she won't believe any of them. No. You cannot show them you're nervous. If you walk on stage, acting acting confident, telling and not communicating your fear, you will believe the feedback you get, and you'll feel slightly And then you'll do your next talk, and you will believe the feedback you get, and you'll feel slightly Five talks later, you will You will let it go. Does this sound sensible to you? I went to speak at my Coming back to my strategy The ideal target market Vishen. And so I ended up at a And what I know about Vishen, because I'd done a little bit of research, is I knew a few things about him. One, is that he has a very selective way of putting his attention on things. He has a very high value he does not waste his So if he goes to a about which speakers he He knows that. And the rest of the time he's working, he's on his device, he's He didn't know me, so was he No. And so I'm sitting on a and I notice I've got Vishen nearby. And I go, &quot;Vishen.&quot; I want to do a little Sometimes the best place to do your market research is with your market. And so I go, &quot;Vishen, I want &quot;I'm curious. &quot;What are you interested in these days.&quot; And he goes, &quot;Oh. &quot;I'm super interested in bio-hacking.&quot; And I go, &quot;That's amazing, &quot;that's what I'm speaking about tomorrow.&quot; Now. Know your ideal target market, and then give them what they want. As it turned out, I was talking and evolutionary psychology, is the foundation of bio-hacking. I wasn't going to say that in my talk, but now I thought maybe And the other thing I knew about Vishen is that he really values solid educators. Have you guys noticed he brings for you to learn from? He really values solid educators. And one of the ways he measures them is, can they hold an audience's attention? Can they give information in a way that the audience is and actually going to change? And so I knew that if I could that I needed to deliver like that. And so there he was in the room. And so I gave the talk He walked up to me &quot;Eric, you got to come speak at A-Fest.&quot; Mission accomplished. Step one of mission accomplished. By the way, I wasn't doing and I said, &quot;What month is it in?&quot; And he told me the month. And I said yes, because I didn't have anything in my calender. I was like, &quot;Yeah, okay, I'll do it.&quot; And then another guy, walked up to me calling, and he goes, &quot;Eric, can you speak at our And I'm like, &quot;What month is it?&quot; The same month, I'm like, &quot;Yeah, yeah, I'll be there.&quot; Same weekend. One event's in Vancouver Canada, and the other one's in Mykonos, Greece. So close. And so I go off to and I get off stage. And I normally would like to stay, and autographs and take selfies, that people want to do, but I could not. I literally went from the to the airport, to the And here's the funny thing I didn't know, is that Mindvalley had I didn't know that, I I just went there myself and I had already booked The problem is, when I didn't they were like, &quot;Where the hell is Eric?&quot; And so the next morning I and I walked over to and I knew I had to be on And I went there to go and do all my stuff. And Mia, some of you will Is Mia fantastic and amazing? - [Audience] Yes! - Absolutely she is. And she and I had never really met before, well that's not true. About two weeks earlier, She goes, &quot;Eric, the &quot;before Vishen invited you.&quot; She goes, &quot;What are you And I go, &quot;Well, I imagine Vishen wants me &quot;to talk about WildFit, I think.&quot; And she goes, &quot;Well, we &quot;we've got J. J. Virgin, &quot;We do not need another diet talk. &quot;You cannot talk about diet.&quot; And I'm like, &quot;I have And so what did I say to her, by the way, when she said this to me? - No problem. And then I got there, and I And she goes, &quot;Oh my god, Eric! &quot;Oh my god, you didn't &quot;and we didn't know where you And I said, &quot;Mia, everything's fine. &quot;There's no problem, I'm here.&quot; And then I walked out, and She came out and met me in the lobby and she said that it was just so amazing, because so many times speakers before they walk on the stage. Is it true? - And in my case I was like, I was just so laid back. She's like, &quot;You know you're And I go, &quot;Yeah.&quot; And she goes, &quot;Don't you have to do &quot;that nervous thing that people do?&quot; &quot;No.&quot; She goes, &quot;Oh, do you &quot;you go on stage then?&quot; I go, &quot;No, I just don't do that. &quot;I don't like that, I don't enjoy it. &quot;So I don't do that.&quot; &quot;We don't go there.&quot; And she's like, &quot;Okay.&quot; And so then I walked out And that night we were all at dinner, I was out at dinner and Vishen was there, Christina was there, a bunch And Vishen walks up to me and he says, &quot;The Tribe so enjoyed your talk. &quot;Would you do another one for us? Now, I need to back up for a moment. I don't do 20 minute talks. I just don't. Like, I just don't do that. Like I just don't do that. Do you know why I don't do it? If you would like me to come and you want me to speak for eight hours, do you know how much time I don't. I just show up, and I'll I mean yeah, I'll do a little preparation on what your company wants, but I don't have to prepare If you want me to come on stage I'll prep for half an But if you want me to talk for because I have to choose I have to choose the rhythm so carefully. I don't have leeway. So everybody, people &quot;Oh, come and do a TED No. 18 minutes, no, I won't do that. I just won't do that. But in this case, remember to get published on Mindvalley. And so in order for me to I knew step one was get And when Vishen said, &quot;come and speak,&quot; I didn't even ask how long it was. I found out it was 20 minutes, And so I did my first talk in 20 minutes, first time I ever spoke for 20 minutes. And Vishen comes up to And he says, &quot;Eric, the Tribe &quot;Would you do another one Sure, I have a month between And then I said to him, &quot;What would you like 'Cause he knows me a little at this point. He knows about my interest in he knows that I'm interested He knows that I'm interested I'm a curious guy. And what's interesting is, I and when you go out to a meal this is so cool. He won't order. The waiter comes over and the waiter says, &quot;What would you like?&quot; And he goes, &quot;Anything. &quot;You decide, surprise me.&quot; How brave is that? In America. I mean, that could be lethal, really, but the fact is he does it. He goes, &quot;Bring me anything.&quot; And you know what's really amazing, is if the restaurant's not too full, almost every time I've been out with him, they've brought him something because the chef is bored silly with cooking the same crap. Chefs did not go into being chefs to cook the same stuff every day. They're creative people! And so when he says, &quot;I'll take anything.&quot; The chef is back there going, cooking the same thing all &quot;Hey we got a joker back here, &quot;he says he wants you to &quot;Pick something off the menu!&quot; And the guy goes, &quot;Forget the menu. &quot;I get to be creative!&quot; And he does something creative, and then they send the creative dish out. And then we're sitting there, and David gets his creative meal, which somehow looks better, smells better, tastes better than everything And then you know what? Almost every time the chef comes out and greets us at the table And he says, &quot;I want to Is that a rich experience? - [Audience] Yes. - It really is, and I think is really to have rich experiences, and I love the way he did that. And so when I said to Vishen, &quot;What would you like me to speak about?&quot; Vishen says this to me, I kid you not. And I want you to understand, Mindvalley controls things tightly to make sure they're delivering. Like every minute is accounted for. First of all, I don't know where he found the extra 20 minutes for me. You never have an extra 20 because speakers quite often go overtime, which by the way you should never do. Not ever should you go overtime. But sometimes speakers But the problem is, conferences never have a spare 20 minutes. I'm amazed at where this has come from. It turns out, he told me later, that he took it out of And so then to him again, remember I said, &quot;Well, what would you And this is what he said to me. &quot;Anything you want.&quot; I don't have to go from the menu! And I went back to my hotel room, and I said, &quot;Oh my god, what could I do? &quot;This is so incredible.&quot; And then I broke one of and that is never, ever break a topic out in front of a fresh audience. You practice stuff, right? Forget that. I'm going to do something amazing! And I'd been working on a project, I've been working on this book called, &quot;The Hindsight Window,&quot; and it's something I was super excited about, and I decided that's what I'm going to do. And the project had been on my journal and my book, and I hadn't really thought much of it, and I suddenly thought, &quot;about, &quot;he Hindsight Window &quot;I better register So I went off and registered no kidding, and then I went out on stage. And I started like this, and I don't remember it But basically I walked out on stage, and I looked out at all and they were so warm to me. I'd already been on stage the day before. And I walked out and I said, &quot;I am so excited about this next talk. &quot;I want to tell you &quot;is going to have a major impact on you, &quot;and you are going to remember Was I nervous? - [Audience] Yes. Not at all, that was my truth. My truth was I believed I that was going to change It was a talk that they would And do you know that I have had, and still to this day two years later, about once a week somebody because they see it online. And they tell me, &quot;Eric, But even bigger than and I bumped into people, 'cause one of the things I is that at a lot of you come in, you do your But at A-Fest, it's like community, right? So that means for the next I'm out on the catamaran, and I'm hanging out with the audience, and I get to hear from them. And you know what? People came up and told me, they're like, &quot;Oh my god Eric, you really touched me, &quot;I really enjoyed your talk. &quot;It was so funny, it was They're telling me all this stuff, and I am believing them, It's so important that you do not show the audience your nerves. Does this make sense to you? - [Audience] Yes. - Now. Couple more things I about getting super comfortable Super, super comfortable. One of them is that you're breathing has everything to do The way you breathe has everything to do with how safe you feel as a human being. And I believe that this is a design of the Homo sapien's frame, You've got lungs. And at the top of your lungs, the little hairs that extract oxygen from the air you breathe And they're dense in the Now, if you didn't know our history, you might think this is I mean, you might think because where do people spend Up here. They breathe up here all the time. The trouble is, when you breathe up here, you don't get quite enough oxygen. And if you don't get quite enough oxygen, your brain gets oxygen starved, and then that triggers cortisol By design though, it now seems flawed, because we spend so much time sitting down and crunching up our lungs, so we're constantly producing and cortisol when we sit It's one of the reasons. Have you ever seen the brain scans where they show a brain of for like 30 minutes, and they show somebody who's been walking? The brain scan of the person There's no flow in there. There's no electrical circuitry going on. It looks like New York in a power outage. But if you look at the person it's like fireworks inside there. And I think one of the reasons for that is that when we sit down, and we breathe only in the top, we switch back to reptile brain. And we stop being able to And then a problem with that is, is that if we breathe like If we breathe like that and adrenaline, we become I wonder if this is why so many antidepressants are out there these days? Couldn't be. Couldn't be related to that at all. But it's a perfect design of Homo sapiens we are meant to be that way. Because for most of our Now, I want you to imagine for a minute, if you and I are walking along and we stumble upon some We stumble upon these where are you going to start breathing? How are you going to breathe? Will you breathe? What do you think? You tell me, would we walk and go, &quot;Oh look, lion tracks.&quot; Would we do that? No, no, we would not. We would look at them and we would only do one of two things. One would be to go. And stop breathing. Instant way to produce Why? Because we want to switch to reptile brain as fast as possible. We want the fastest possible Is it true? And the other way we Same thing, right? Same thing, we're going to which is going to move so we are only going to And when we are only everything will look 'cause that's safer, okay? That was perfect for most of our history. But you know what it's not perfect for? The person who's about to walk on stage and give the presentation, I'm talking professional they're standing off and they're going, &quot;I'm And they do this. And they're breathing I feel scared now doing it myself. Don't do it. I want you to know that when you communicate to your DNA This is one of the reasons that meditation is so incredibly powerful. We can talk about esoteric things, and energies flowing around the universe. Yeah, fine. We can also talk about the practical reality of this machine. And this machine likes it because in nature the only time you would ever breathe fully, is when there is nothing Does this make sense? And so before you walk on the stage, while you're preparing for your talk, you breathe fully. When you breathe fully, you Next thing is your eyes. They say the eyes are Well, I would put to you absolutely connected to When you are afraid, you use your eyes in a very focused way. Again, we walk along, Will we gaze at them, or You go, &quot;Oh look, lion tracks.&quot; No. It's going to be, &quot;Lion tracks! What do we want to know right now, quick, what do we want to know? What direction are they going in? That's useful. How about, how big are they? Do you have any idea? How many of you have ever seen a lion, like in a zoo or something? They're bigger with no glass. How many of you have seen a lion from a four by four in Africa? Aren't they bigger in the in the four? How many of you have seen Few of you, hey. You're just walking. You're walking, and there's a lion there. Your DNA knows what a lion is. Quite a few of your ancestors so your DNA knows. And so you look at that lion print. You want to know what how big is the lion, how Do they have cubs with them? And by the way, most importantly of all, how fresh are they? And by the way, in case 'cause you know it might. If you see the lion tracks, if you want to know how fresh And then if sand trickles in, then they're within 15 minutes. And at that point, your eyes They're not going to gaze and, &quot;Oh look, the lions are going that way. &quot;Oh cool.&quot; Your eyes are going to go. And they're going to look for everything. Well, guess what? When people make themselves nervous, they start doing that with the audience. And they looking around and focusing in on stuff. And they make themselves afraid. I want to share with you a Do emotions affect our body? - [Audience] Yes. - Does our body affect our emotions? - [Audience] Yes. - It's a feedback loop, isn't it? It's like Tony Robbins. He says, &quot;How fast can you &quot;In a heartbeat! &quot;Right, change your physiology! &quot;If you want to create &quot;change your physiology now! &quot;Level 1,000!&quot; That feels pretty good, by the way. He's not wrong. The fact of the matter is, is that if we look at somebody, we can roughly tell what based on their body, is it true? - [Audience] Yeah. - But tell me the difference. If I say there's a you'll tell me, &quot;Shoulders are If I tell you there's an shoulders are tense, fists are But if I tell you that one of them is excited, and tell me the difference? What's the difference? There isn't really. Do they both have sweaty palms? Are they both breathing up here? Are they both vibrating inside? Yeah. There's no actual difference, They are actually I will put to you that about something cool. Right? And nervousness is just That's it. And so what that means getting ready to come on the stage. The person over here getting if they're creating movies then they're going to be nervous. If they're creating pictures and movies about how cool the whole then they're going to get excited. Does this make sense to you? - [Audience] Yes. - So when we combine all this together, and we recognize that in order we want to breathe fully. And I want to share a I share this every now and again, and it's a little controversial. Are you guys okay with - [Audience] Yeah. - I want to suggest to you that, and some of you may have seen me say this, I think there's a YouTube where I said this, so some of Maybe you heard it from somebody else too. But I want to put to you that I don't think cigarettes So there are two types How many of you have ever found yourself addicted to a video game? Where are all the Candy Crush people? Yeah, my wife and I, we almost had to call a divorce lawyer, Candy Crush. So can a video game be addictive? - [Audience] Yes. But that's not an external that's an emotional addiction, or an internal chemical addiction. So when you stop playing candy Your husband loves you again. No, no. He never stopped loving But when you stop playing a video game, nothing happens inside, is it true? You don't vomit, you don't get a headache. When you stop drinking coffee, and you've been drinking what might happen to your body? - [Audience] Headaches. - Headaches, and in extreme cases, heroine-like withdrawal symptoms, including fever, shaking, It's incredible. And If somebody quits heroine, If somebody quits cocaine, If somebody is addicted to alcohol, and they quit drinking alcohol, it's called the DTs and When somebody quits smoking, what happens? Nothing. Nothing, they don't get a They have an oral and a finger fixation just like a child does when The next time you see an or an e-cigarette, I want you to create a picture in your head It's them walking along or no, no, the other one. Yeah, Jessica, the little one, right? This is an adult with That's all it is. They're just doing it like they may as well switch to a dummy. But the one problem is the real addiction for them. The real addiction they That's the addiction they have. The addiction they have is There are some other things, like personal significance like, &quot;Damn right I'll do this, no Then they feel important. By the way, it might kill you. There's some adventure. But the biggest thing that is the deep breath. Because when you take a big, your body knows that You would not take that if there was a lion, or a hyena, or a snake, or a spider, or a lawyer. You wouldn't take that And so what happens, come on. Grab a cigarette with me. Put whatever in it you All right? And then just act it out with me, we light it, and then watch me first. You light it, and you Okay, everybody do this with me, ready? Here we go. No wonder they do that after sex. I mean, doesn't that feel good? Breathing like that so what I want you to think to go on stage there are a bunch of things that are going to make you feel better. Breathing deeply, using your When a bushmen is sitting in Africa, making stone tools or carving an arrow, he's gazing out at the and gazing out. If there was a threat, he would stare. If he's relaxed, he will gaze. So we breathe deeply. We gaze. We see it coming out beautifully. We never let the audience see us nervous. And the last thing that is so important, is we start the talk How many of you have ever done a talk, and the minute you got the you instantly felt better? Who's had that experience? And many of us have had but what if we did it on purpose? My friend Jack Canfield, He's so funny. What he'll do before he goes on stage is he'll have slides of he's seen for the last couple of months. And he just plays the slides, and everybody starts laughing. He didn't even have to say a word yet. But he feels good, they feel I saw Eddie Izzard. Eddie Izzard, the comedian. He created the first that I saw at an event. He put this huge screen so the audience could And they put it publicly. And it was hilarious The audience had tears down their face. The audience was the opening act! He found a way to make them laugh, and so what I want to suggest to you is that the last peace for in that first bit, know exactly so that you can create from the audience in the first 30 seconds, does that make sense?