[QUIET MUSIC] I got a consult in the on a baby who had a year in a kind of common And this doctor "We don't think the how serious things are." And I said, "OK. Well, And he was like, "Well, Evie's And I was like, "So what And like, honestly, this baby And I say, "So you think And he right away was like, And I'm not trying to be "Do you think the baby's going He was taken "I guess if you say yeah, we're I said, "Do you think the family is confused is that you can't even say it." We're in that awkward place He had some big fevers today, to imagine. At some point, what I he'll kind of start giving And then we might see his And that's when, for me, he has only minutes to hours. I think the process can Can be very chaotic. I think when you're fearless is dying, people cling to of calmness and strength. [CAR ALARM BEEPS] So how you been doing? I'm doing OK. You're doing OK? Yes. She's smiling? Yes, all the time. Oh, good. She's sleeping a lot. [EXHALES] A lot. Excessive sleeping. She'll sleep. And then she'll in the morning, like making and all of that. And then she'll go sleep the entire day.&quot; [BABY FUSSES] Oh, I know. Just watching her a she breathes real, Light. Mm-hmm. But that's her norm? Yeah, that's normal for her. Even though this pattern it's a little concerning, It just makes it hard to -- you go like this? Right. It's not a normal pattern in And so, you know, I think I think if we don't she's comfortable, but just for And I think that But my guess is she may only And I think that's a real turns around. She doesn't show signs to A lot of times -- [SNIFFLING] It's hard. You're good. And I'm guessing you kin of like you're worried. (WHISPERING) Oh, she's I'm sorry. It's OK. It's a lot. Here you go. You're a good mom. Thank you. I'm sorry that I had to I prayed really hard so I'm really grateful for [SNIFFLES] She's a strong baby. No question. You're a strong mom. [QUIET MUSIC] Everybody kind of says is the worst thing Palliative care perspective when everything seems bad. And if I start with the when I'm dealing with children is the worst bad that could then we all can find good. I have a patient at who appears to And the mom really doesn't so I'm trying to to see if we have any space. A lot of what I do and I'm trying to -- I tell them, I'm trying I'm trying to humanize it. And I think most people don't want a medical death. They want a human death. I hear a lot, like, things like the or the doctors will we're not consulting you And I think that this is I always feel like if we clearly become that we've woefully Do you have a name? Are you not worried? You do have a name? Or you're not -- Um, Giovanni. Giovanni? Oh, I'm an Italian. [CHUCKLES] So if Giovanni is will call the to kind of be available know exactly what's OK. Given all the told about the baby, most worried about? That, um, I don't know, I'm really kind I'm just trying not to every day, he's still moving. And I go to and he's still having natural So trying to kind of Right. And I think you're already You don't want Yes. And the more you fall in I think we take it We're not going to force you, like, the more you fall in his life had meaning. And he had an impact. And so we're also here -- so gosh, if he be all about getting you and everything that we can. OK. And as a team, afraid of these things. Does that make some sense? It does. It's so rare able to describe the positive to talk about this and why we I do think that deep they are thinking about, like, and they're worried die in a scary, and with families not psychologically, spiritually. And they want to get but they're not that that's like -- now what is we want to plan And we've seen the bad to give you a good death. Yeah. Are you doing OK? It's been hard. Yep. I know that they took him but I didn't know, like, if you you wanted to sit about what the next steps like the day to day, and Yeah. I would like to know Focusing on getting him Well, I hope he can I totally agree with what He will wake up. And he will get better. That's right. I'm a terrible... I've seen patients for months on a ventilator, The most frustrating is when we're putting and we are not going to be tube out. They're always -- they're not But with the tube are stable for a With the tube in place, on the ventilator, and and we can adjust things, but And they're still I think if you were to they would tell you to be kept alive on machines. They would not want to be taken. They don't have when you're trying They don't understand they're going to be doing, If you have just you just need a lung doctor. But if you have a affecting your kidneys, affecting your heart, and and then you have that's when you start So who's looking And I look at all They're all trying And then me, sometimes and the overall picture is And they have a the big, causative And so we're just trying but if you can't fix that big I started out with one So after that, I've had four that I've seen. I mean, I know that but they -- it's because the questions and it's just so have so many other Morning, how are you? I'm good. How's it going today? It's going OK. [BEEPING] How's the baby moving? He's moving good. Cramping? No cramps. Contractions? A lot? Yeah. Well, it's pretty often. OK. Yeah, and not consistent? So you know that's normal. You've had babies before. So contractions here and Any leakage of fluid, No. Bleeding from the vagina? No. Perfect. So we're at 38 weeks I talked to Dr. Patwardan the high-risk doctor. So she recommended an So that's Sunday. Correct. Yeah. And we also are not for any reason, correct? Correct. All right. Perfect. So the only thing, is I am not on call I do work in a group of five I think you've met Yes, I've met them all. You've met them all, Let's listen to the baby. [GURGLING] [HEARTBEAT] He sounds perfect. [QUIET MUSIC] We have to kind people are making on their own I don't want to feel guilty Well, now I'm not what's right for the baby. Or maybe the doctor to fight with his family. I don't want to get sued. But now you're treating So we have to bring it back. So what's right for the baby? We have to -- and get in the muck. Is this the right at this time in this family? That's really hard work. It is. Research is showing of palliative care can have of different health It was already mentioned, the care was cheaper And we don't like to but they had less ER stays, and overall less The quality of life and we anticipated So pain scores, depressions scores not but their families. And they followed up of families. And the families after death, The very unexpected the patients lived up to three So we actually Living lives longer, sounds awfully good, but are going to die at the end. [QUIET MUSIC] I think it's profoundly sad. The idea of dying, a part of this world But it's such a reality. I don't know if it's good, I don't know if it's healthy our children, to not because it's sad. I got some yummy tortellini. We have tortellini soup. I was about to OK. Then I totally forgot. It happens, man. It's called getting old. Our family's like a pattern don't like olives, and That is like a pattern. I don't think that's We're just on the olive are on the no-olive team. Mm-hmm. You're the only one I'm the only one on [LAUGHS] You know, I think I and my personal life a lot. And it's clear I have a And I think it's incredibly to learn about grief. I look for opportunities might practice little losses. OK, tell me about Nibbles. He was a great Was he our bunny? Yeah. Do you miss him? Yes. Doing the funerals or if a toy is lost or broken, how does this feel? And certain things I'm open with them if My kids know that I don't think that they're You help children ... You help children OK? You ... You help children Mm-hmm. You got him? Mm. [SIGHS] Welcome home. [CHUCKLING] Let me see him. Check him out in I know. Everything's so big on him. [LAUGHS] He's a He has a little clubfoot. This little cutie. [LAUGHS] All these doctors like the heart doctor. They all these different tests. And everybody wanted Dr. Tremonti, she they can fix all these things, We're kind of having some So the only thing I can until that time comes. As a doctor who specializes asked often, how If I'm really I would say that till I'm 100 with And then I'd like to and die in my mom's arms. a place in the and unconditional love. [QUIET MUSIC] [BABY FUSSING] I think that we should all this death and dying thing. I think that this for people, and people are but if the solution is that we then one day, each one of and nobody will [QUIET MUSIC] [APPLAUSE] [INAUDIBLE] I'm going to ask come up here. And if this little dude, on earth just to get us a moment of love, We celebrate him tonight. [QUIET MUSIC]