Josh: Hello everybody. And welcome to another Uh, I'm really excited about, uh, today's Um, I would say good byproduct of the Mental health, positive mental health, dealing with mental health challenges. Um, one big component of mental health and that connection that mind, body Michael Moreno, Dr. Moreno as a family practice physician Dr. Moreno: You know, I'm And I, I, Josh, I recognize your name, up, you know, Kaiser's a big organization, now I'm actually getting to talk to you. So I, uh, I'm very honored, Josh. truly am. I'm like I get to talk with Josh. I love this. What the honors really mine. Josh: So one thing we hear of Dr. Moreno: did tell me, tell Y you know, there is, we could go on try to break this down in, in some very Very clearly. What you put in your body is And it's not just physically, it's It's as you said, Josh, it's mentally. It's how we think it's really depression, um, mood disorders. So, you know, we have, we have some Dealing and managing and helping Um, but if we can give them Like, we're gonna talk about today, right foods, proper nutrition to build Uh, we talk about something called connection between our stomachs, So there's a lot of connections out there. There are a lot of connections out there. There's a lot of research to show this. The idea is fuel your body. Proper fuel and your body will perform How we eat can have a tremendous impact versa to your point and your initial Well, now we're taking that reverse. So rather than going from the gut the brain and the feelings, the And that two way highway And this can essentially cause It can cause a lot of, you know, irritable primary care doctor, I practice every day. I, I would have to say We're talking about Well, it's the same thing. When you talk about stress And when you talk about what how much you eat of it and. Impacts that brain. So that gut brain access And there's really a There's a lot of research out there what we're now finding out that we Josh: talk about, have we When we talk about comfort foods, when we, is a comfort food and it should comfort Dr. Moreno: But, you know, I guess, bowl of blueberries and some walnuts, say this guy's out of his mind. Right. Yeah, I, I, I think the term comfort food Uh, you know, mom's, mom's cooking eat, it sits in your gut and then puts Um, yeah, but you know, I, I, I think life. Uh, is a complicated thing. And I think that we do ourselves ourselves in this prison of food, You know, I've always like I uh, and I live by a principal. I live saying, this is how I eat that's the acronym likable afford. Doable sustainable. And I think those four element. Are the elements to a good diet. It's not about giving up this and that We have to enjoy life. We have to respect culture. We have to respect family. We have to respect all of the day, but when they do, we need And going back to what we're talking Trying to minimize or reduce. Depression, anxiety, mood So, you know, comfort food is comfort it three times a day every day. Um, mm-hmm but listen, I think part of our mental health, self-satisfaction and if part of that comfort food, I think that's okay. But you gotta get back on the track I think is a great foundation for. Really all foods and how we should eat. Can you break that down? What, what, which one of those means? Yes. So lads, L a D S um, And, and, you know, I, I was doing some work and writing And you find, when you look out there, things, and it's all about giving up this in how we eat, what we eat when we eat. And I really feel like food is, Um, and again, for those, First of all likable, you Okay. I, I go, , you know, let's face it. I go into the break room of my office my staff, sometimes a doctor, um, you that, that is less than appetizing. And the look on their face shows that That's not something that's We should enjoy what we eat. Food should fuel us. One of the things I always say is eat And it's a really important thing. So you gotta like what you eat. Number two, a affordable, listen, we are finance world to commit to whether we're We've fallen on hard times. Groceries are outrageous things all, all of those things. So you have to have an affordable diet. And I truly believe that you can, if can find healthy, affordable diets, Um, So likable affordable, doable. It's gotta be doable. It's gotta fit into your busy life, right? If your food preparation revolves and all of this prep work and all So it's gotta be doable. It's gotta fit with your job, your other, your kids, taking him to How can you make your diet a doable diet? To fit in your life. And that doability is It's different for you, Josh. It's different for me, it's So I think doable is a very custom thing. How can I eat healthy, affordable food And lastly, the most important on a journey that is something. That you can sustain that You know, people talk about fad diets and I think that there is just this it's food, whether it's fasting when And the sustainability is critical. And I think when you get all this place, I think you build a foundation. For your health in general. And we're talking about We're focusing on that. It's a foundation because when you your body in a healthy way, in a confidence builds good gut health, Gut brain access that GBA, we minimize, anxiety and depression mood disorders. And when you do that, your, your, your little two-way freeway going on here. The last thing you want to do is. You know, disrupt one of those proper the, you know, where you're headed. So it's a complicated world, but I it down a little bit to some basic, can all get where we need to be. What do we Josh: do about, and you mentioned in that description, What do we do about live in communities, where they don't And they're choosing fast foods and it's just, it's, what's accessible. Um, and that has to play a part in Dr. Moreno: you know, fantastic question. Um, really, really good question. I think, first of all, we need. Not turn our eye to the fact not going on in other countries. This is going on in our backyard. We need to educate, we need to We need to get people involved. We talk about farmers markets. We talk about teaching. We talk about education. Um, you know, I'm one of seven Classic Hispanic family. There was rice and And, uh, that was our culture. That's what we, we had to do. And my mother, God bless Don't ask me how, but, uh, she did. And, uh, you know, we all came, came out. Okay. I think for the most And your question is such a good one. I think it starts with education. It starts with letting people You know, one of the things I tell like it or not now the fast food Some compliance, right? They have healthy foods. And I will tell you, and Josh, if you or breakfast, we can drive around And I will find something that is That goes for breakfast, lunch, They're there. It's choosing it. Right. How do we make that right choice? We know right from wrong. Go to McDonald's and just go through and the, and the fries and the whole But there's also some healthier versions. Is it the cleanest best No, but it's better. Right? Another one of my sayings Josh, you're gonna get sick of. More of the good, less of the bad. It's not all one way. We all know right from wrong. We all know good from bad. How do we get ourselves How do we get ourselves to go towards More of the good, less Micro habits. Change those thought processes. Next time you're forced into don't let them rush you. And then they say, Hey, gimme your order. You know, next in line. Right? Take a look at the menu, scan it. We get caught up in this idea This is what I'm gonna get. Give it a second, take one step further. Look at the menu at home before you these success potential and start So I think education, I think community each other, you know, more than. We are struggling in, in our country, And I'm out in San Diego We need to reach out to an I've been a part of this group for 27 To support the community to And non-members it, it It's about community. It, it doesn't matter where you all part of this same community. So I think we have to, you Provide resources. Um, and we have to introduce today, which is hope, right. Hope and a little trinket of an idea. If someone can take one little nugget of use tomorrow, I think we've done our job. What about, Josh: uh, I get through the middle of I'm feeling down. I'm gonna go get myself a chocolate bar. Does that stuff, does that work? Does it not? Dr. Moreno: It, you know, here's Fast, high, fast, low. Okay. , you know, you, you get that burst right. It's sugar. Uh, and, and it, it gets you going, in, in, in the, meanwhile, not only like that, choices like that, and I'm in a second that are gonna give you Sugar high sugar bombs like that fast, this burst of energy and then it boom Um, so rather than do that, You know, I, Yeah. Caffeine got a bad wrap. I really think that Now you can't drink eight But as long as you're hydrated, So if you had a little bit of a, a, sugar, but I'll tell you one thing gives them a lot of energy water. Good. Old H two. Oh. Water is really, really important. And I will tell you this, and I want you to do this next time. You, you know, you we're, a lot We're stuck in our, our home office moments arise where you need that. Pick me up, get yourself a glass of blueberries and take a five minute walk. That's it. A five minute walk, hydration, and getting that blood. And a little brain food, right? Maybe some walnuts, some almonds, cheese, um, a boiled egg, right? Little so there's a lot of good options. You wanna minimize the sugar is a fast, high, fast, low. Josh: So when do I need to talk to health and, and that balance Dr. Moreno: Well, I think it, it, it, it's You know, I'm one of these guys relate it to nearly everything You know, it starts with nutrition and again, that gut brain access that we So it starts with those things. And the whole point is that you sooner rather than later. I don't think it's ever It's something that's foundational Everything, how we feel, not how our bodies perform for us. So have that conversation early, We talk about hydration. We talk about movement. We talk about stress management and Those are my four pillars, If I'm, may you focus on those four and building block to build as you go. Josh: I assume it's for all ages, right? We, we focus on, on children and middle aged and doing, working from Dr. Moreno: it's never too early. And I think it's really important to create these good habits, to and teach good from bad, right. More of the good, less of the bad. So yeah, I think we need to start. And unfortunately, now that we're In kids that are 10 years old, sometimes traditionally we used to call this adult And that term is migrated now because the We're battling the F We're battling things that I tell my patients, you have to focus Respect the things that you don't there, but don't be lulled into those whatever one of these big industries. So yeah, it's starting And, and unfortunately You set these principles, You, you build a healthy body it's just the sustainability any good Josh: place that you would recommend Dr. Moreno: nutrition and so forth? Well, so kp.org has a tremendous amount And I, I think, you know, again, Um, cuz I've been part of this a half decades, but uh, Really, I out there what we try to preach. And so I think kp.org is tremendous and I personally am. The, uh, one of the physician called positive choice and positive We, we work with members and back to what I was saying, it's You know, positive influence wellness, um, all of these things. So, you know, I think KP is a um, positive choice in San Diego. Again, it's positive choice.org And Hey, you know what? I always tell my patients, if you're team effort, it's a group effort, uh, it's your healthcare provider, uh, or a now's the time we need to reach out and I need some help. And, uh, you know, it's our duty as, uh, So I, I think that's, uh, I. Josh: Dr Moreno. You are inspirational. You are fantastic. You don't look like you've been and plus, so , it must be what Dr. Moreno: you're eating listen, if we ever meet, um, and I, if we you're not the same guy saw that camera. This is a different guy. Josh: I am gonna take you up on Dr. Moreno: yeah. But we'll do it. We'll take that. Listen. Yeah, you, yeah. You and eventually you're gonna like better and, uh, you know, trust me. They're there. You gotta just look. Josh: Perfect Dr. moreno. Thank Dr. Moreno: you so much for Uh, my pleasure. Thank you. I really appreciate Josh.