Hello and welcome to No Effort November, a series [rushed mumbling] Gonna be lots of flickering lights throughout this video, fyi. This, [click] if not the weirdest light bulb ever made, is certainly the wildest light bulb ever made. It's called the Balafire and just in case a quick glance at the box isn't clear enough, This novelty light bulb was produced by Kyp-Go Incorporated, the company founded by Bob Kyp. He was dedicated to the preservation of carbon filament light bulbs and in 1950 founded his company (right here in the Chicago area, as it happens) which manufactured reproductions of various antique light bulb designs. But in 1964, he had an idea. And it wasn't this. It was this! This bulb, called the Gas Glo, was an attempt to produce a realistic flame effect I've long had a soft-spot for this sort of thing - you may recall I covered neon flicker flame lamps in the past. While they're really not useful for any uh, not terribly realistic it's still a neat idea. These days, since LEDs and microcontrollers are so stinking cheap these new light bulbs are gaining in popularity which are... well they're something. I don't love them - these aren't warm white diodes, plus you can usually notice a pattern in their behavior pretty quickly, I probably have unrealistically high standards, I was entranced by how they managed to make I even tracked down a product called SimFlame which is a thing - if not the thing - which makes that particular magic happen. This is a plug-in version of the SimFlame and really all it is is a fancy dimmer switch which Incandescent filaments offer a natural shift in color emperature as they dim down so if you simply frost the glass of a light fixture Jerry's Electronics is still around and you can still order these if you like, in fact they've been updated to support LED light bulbs, Though, as I later discovered when I started getting into actual hurricane lanterns, this effect isn't actually representative of the This, though, it actually is. The flicker of an oil lamp is quite subtle and, well, It also produces about as much light And how is it doing that? Well, through the magic of buying two of them, Before I switch it on, you'll notice the filament is very long And it's free to move around a little bit. What I'm sure you have noticed is the weird black chunk of something on a stick, positioned right in the middle of the filament. That is a magnet. Just a simple magnet. Now, you may know that when current flows through a wire And the filament in this light bulb is a wire which will have current flowing through it. So once we switch it on, the filament will create a magnetic field which will interact with the magnet and create an attractive or a repulsive force But because the electricity that powers stuff in your home is alternating current, the direction the filament will move will constantly reverse. And that produces this effect. The filament is essentially vibrating thanks to the magnet and alternating current. The shape of the bulb restricts the filament's movement you can actually hear the filament hitting the glass if you listen real close. [faint tinkling] And while the effect is pretty tiny, it's significant. The source of the light is physically moving and so, the amount of light which leaves the bulb Even staring directly at this clear bulb, And the frosted bulb makes the effect... well I won't say more convincing but it changes the character of the effect in a useful and pleasing way depending on what sort of light fixture you're sticking it in. But then, in 1968, Bob decided to let things loosen up a bit. The Balafire bulb is basically the same thing as the Gas Glo bulbs - But the matching flame shape of the glass envelope was swapped While the Gas Glo bulb physically prevents the filament from moving very far, the globe of the Balafire is large enough that the filament can never touch it. And the result... is that. An absolutely wild light bulb where the filament is just flying all over the place. It really does look quite a lot like a small fire inside of that light bulb, This really is a mesmerizing effect especially if under the influence of the sort of substances I have this, of course, just in a standard lamp socket but these were often displayed in fixtures specially designed specifically to display them. They might take the form of a mirrored and some pretty groovy acrylic cuboids shrine? I dunno, I'm not old enough to have been there. And speaking of mirrored you might have noticed that the glass is somewhat mirrored. While I can't say for sure, I have a hunch that this was is literally the same exact thing as the Gas Glo bulb. If you could see clearly into the bulb, it would look identical. Then again, it also just looks pretty cool and a lot more interesting when it's shut off than a simple red light bulb so maybe I'm just being too cynical there. You tell me. The box claims these light bulbs had a life of 500 hours which seems quite pessimistic for a lamp which is burning the filament at such a dull brightness until you remember that the tiny, fragile filament Ever heard of metal fatigue? This is both really cool to watch and really painful! That's not good for the health of the filament, though for what it's worth the patent mentions that an aged filament (one which has already been subjected to higher-than-normal voltage I'm sure that helped keep these Then again, I found some forum posts about these where Certainly if the filament is being driven as gently as it is in the Gas Glo bulb that's quite dim and evaporation of tungsten is going to be very, very slow. But it relies on getting very lucky These don't "burn out" in the traditional sense where a weak spot forms after hundreds of hours of pushing tungsten almost to its melting point, instead the filament just mechanically fails at some point. And, well, that's really all I've got for you today. Just a couple of weird old light bulbs. Bob Kyp passed away in 2011, but shortly before he died I'm assuming there was a logistical or technical reason for that - the mirrored red sphere looks so much cooler than just a normal light bulb and I would think they would have wanted to do that again if they could have - but it was still nice that it was revived. Now, these are collectors items and are worth around $100 each. I believe Kyp-Go is now defunct, But I was genuinely delighted to learn that apparently Kyp-Go was who was making the antique carbon filament bulbs Though I'd be remiss if I didn't mention my channel icon. That is a photograph of a FerroWatt bulb - one of the newer companies who got into the reproduction "Edison" bulb trend long before it exploded into what it is now. Or maybe what it was a decade ago. I don't remember when it peaked. Anyway, it looks like they, too, are defunct. Which is kinda sad, they had some of the best reproductions. Including a glass-tip. For what it's worth, though, most of those so-called "carbon filament" reproductions And that means they tend to last a lot longer than they seem like they should - it's like being permanently on a dimmer set quite low. However, they're horribly inefficient and produce an they're not great at all for general illumination. Uh, but anyway, the end. wildly smooth jazz ...for old-looking but still electric light bulbs. Light fixtures! [clears throat] I don't love them, these aren't warm white diodes, ohf shoot. ...thing if not the thing which makes that par... crap. I have this of course just in a standard lamp socket But I was genuinely telighted to lear - ahhhhhh Yeah, we're gonna be done by the end of the day! Oh, that reminds me because this one was so short There were a few, uh but I'm just recording this section in case I have to pad it that's some movie magic for ya. cutting right when i said cut. i'm so clever makin' funnies like that