If you have a job interview coming up, I want so you'll sound smart and you'll look interested Now, before I do that, I only want you to Don't just ask questions in your interview in a video and he told you that you should Only ask questions that make sense to you, Because if you ask every question that I mentioned awkward moment for you and your interviewer going to be impressed. So, how do you know what's a good question Well, you want to ask questions that are going you want this job or not. If it doesn't, then it's not a good question. Now, I created another video on this topic; in an Interview and those are all the 'Me I'll probably posted at the end of this one. But in this video, we're just going to focus you make a decision about whether you want For starters, never ask stupid questions. Now, I know you've been told your whole life, Don, you can ask anything. Yes there are stupid questions and you don't I'm just going to show you the right ones You only want to ask questions that are going you want this job or not. And when you go into the interview, you should You shouldn't have already been decided that You should ask them questions, grill them hit them with some questions that are going Let's look at some questions that you might Remember, I said might. Only asked questions that feel right for you. Don't ask questions because I said to ask Make sure they help you qualify the employers Okay? First question; Can you tell me more about This is your chance to learn as much as possible You can decide whether this is a job you really By learning more about the day to day tasks, specific skills, strength are needed and you been covered. Next one; Who do you consider your top competitor Now, you've got to be careful with this question. If you go into Amazon and you say, &quot;Who is at you they're going to say, &quot;We have no competitors. We are the biggest ones on the block. We buy up our competitors&quot;. So, you have to be careful. Again, if you go into Google and you're interviewing; to be like, &quot;We're at the top. Where are you?&quot; So, you have to be careful if you ask who It's probably better if you're interviewing that's not national or international or as Be careful with that question. And this goes back to ask only questions that to work there or not. I mean, if you're interviewing at Amazon, at Amazon and if the asking who their biggest to help you make a decision about whether No. You already know you want to work there. So, don't ask them that question. That's a stupid question to ask Amazon, but Makes sense? Okay. Next one; What do you like best about working This is a really great question because it it gets them to tell you on a personal level, trying to convince you and sell you to come Because they're like, &quot;Oh, yeah. This is a great place. The company really cares about the employees. We have company picnics, we have profit sharing. It's a very warm, family type of company and There's selling you on working there. But asking this question, you can put them you on coming to work there. They're convincing you to coming to work here You want them to try to convince you to come I don't think you can go wrong asking anybody Next one; What do you think the most important So, what does that really mean? This question can often lead to valuable information It can help you learn about the company culture a good fit. Alright, number five; What are the biggest So, basically you're asking, &quot;Are you guys What are you struggling with?&quot; This question can help you uncover trends areas where your skills could save the day. So, here's the great part about this question. If they tell you some of the problems that step up and say, &quot;Hey, I understand that problem I had that problem at my last job. Here's how we dealt with it and it worked Here's the solution&quot;. So you're basically acting as somewhat of showing them that you understand their problems can solve those problems. When you show them that you're a problem solver, They want to hire someone who has ideas about Because if you think about why are they even they're looking to hire someone to solve problems They have problems, they are looking to you is. So, if you could prove that you know how to that you understand the problems, you're back So, next one; How do I compare with other role? This can be a bit of a tricky question. This can show that you were insecure when This can be risky because you don't want to However, if things are going well, you've help you see if there are any concerns or can show them why you're the best person for Now, typically, when I ask this question, This is not one of the first questions I would I would ask near the end of the interview, and if I feel comfortable asking this question; It just depends on how I feel in the interview So, if I'm feeling a little uncertain about me, then I might ask, &quot;How I compare with But if I'm have a good, strong interview and even ask this question. So, again, do it if it feels right for you Don't just ask the question because some guy question. Alright, next one; What are the next steps This is a great question. Now, you want to ask this at the end of the you feel comfortable, you like them, maybe are the next steps? Where we go from here? Are we going to have second interviews?&quot; And this will get them talking. This will tell them that they might say, &quot;You We have a few more people to interview or You're the last person. We're done interviewing. We're going to bring back second rounds of So, perfect! Your follow up to this, depending on what up with you in a couple of weeks&quot; or whatever. Time your follow up with whatever they tell And the whole time, when you ask this question, internal timelines; this would keep you from Like they say, You know what? Were not going to make a decision for two Then this is valuable information for you other jobs a little bit more freely knowing with an answer for two months and if you get a couple of weeks, then that's great. You don't even have to worry about these guys. So, you have to play it off and you have to Let's move on to the next one. What are your expectations for the role during I love this question. I almost always ask it. This will show them that you are putting yourself and you're saying, You know what? Where do you guys see this going? What would you like to see from me in six And then that's going to create another conversation you want to handle that depending on what Alright, next question. Have you determined the salary range for this Now, I'm going to tell you, there's a whole Never talk about salary in a job interview Most people who say that, they don't know I'd like to ask this question the very first So, when they call me up on the phone they Are you interested in this position? We'd like to bring you in for an interview. I might ask, Hey, what's the salary range a salary range for this position? and they'll If I haven't asked this question yet and I of the first questions I would ask. If I did ask it in the first interview, I And it would be because I felt very comfortable me move forward with this employer. Let's say I'm looking for $80 thousand and and they say, Well, the salary range is I'm just going to raise my hand right there This is not for me and that's why I like I can find out if I even want to go to the But if you didn't do that, if you didn't find first interview, near the end, but only if If it feels awkward for you and you're not don't ask it. Just don't ask it. Save it for the second interview if they call But it is a fair question, it can be a risky Some employers, I don't know why, but they why. I mean, you're there to talk about what you services for money, so it's good to know what If you ask and they get insulted about you the right place for you in the first place; I don't know. But it's a fair question to ask. Save it for the end of the interview. So, next question; Where do you think the This is one of those questions that maybe on the company. So, if you go to Amazon and you say, Hey, They're going to be like, Well, we're going So, you have to be careful who you ask this decision about whether you want to work there So, if you're into it and Amazon, does it years? Is that answer going to help you decide whether I don't think so. If it's a small company, maybe they have 50 and you're not sure where they're going. You know what? Maybe they invented a new technology and it's ask and say, Hey, where do you see yourselves Wheres this technology going to take you What's the next level? ask a question like this is to decide if their Like if you disagree with where they're going that as criteria to disqualify them as a place they're going maybe like this new, cutting informed decision about whether you want to So, this question; maybe you want to ask it, you and the answer has to help you make a not. So, maybe youll ask it, maybe you don't. Next one; Can you describe the company culture? Good question. You can almost always ask this to anybody; It doesn't matter. Now, if you ask it at apple, What's the that the culture at Apple is pretty laid back So, maybe you want to ask what the culture figure that Apple has some micro cultures, in engineering, sales, product development. I don't know, I've never worked there. I'm just guessing. But big companies will have micro cultures. So, you might want to ask what the culture or often so the same. Or if you're interviewing at another company a fair question. What's the culture around here? Could you describe it? What do you like about it? What don't you like about it? Now, again, the answer to this question has there or not. If they tell you that our culture is very tie every day at work. You might say, You know what? That's not the place I want to be. That's not the culture I want. I'm looking for something a bit more relaxed Or maybe you are looking for something that's you interview at Apple and you'll like, What's yeah, it's really easy here you're like, I want something more serious. So, you go interview with IBM they're like, Our culture is very formal and we're very what we do and that's the place you want to be. So, use the answer to help you make a decision Alright, next one. What are the biggest opportunities for the So what does that really mean? The answer to this question is going to help and where they're going. And again, does this help you make a decision Maybe it does or maybe it doesn't; I don't For some of you, I know the answer to this you want to be. Maybe they don't have any big opportunities They just kind of sailing along the status maybe you want more, maybe you want something time, that the company is out there trying It depends on your personality and what you're So, maybe you want to ask this question, maybe So, I've just giving you 12 questions that Some of those are universal and you can ask how comfortable you are or some of them might that you need to make about the job. I do have more these questions in a Complete I've got a whole bunch of about 30 or 40 different These are not 30 or 40 questions that you determine your own list of questions. Because your list of questions that you want somebody else's. So, only ask questions that are important about whether you want to be there or not.