(mysterious music) - [Presenter] Computer think of this. (&quot;Intel theme music&quot;) Since it was founded in 1968, Intel has dominated the chip market. - [Voiceover] This symbol outside means you have the standard inside. - [Presenter] It was the by revenue for 25 years and it's still America's - [Voiceover] Intel. - [Presenter] But then came AMD. In 2022, the longtime in market value, breaching a - It was the first time - [Presenter] In part, can be traced back to one risky and expensive decision AMD not just for the company, So how did AMD finally catch up to Intel? July, 1968, Silicon Valley. A small group of engineers founded Intel, a startup dedicated to chips, which are essentially Intel prioritized and didn't report any sales Meanwhile, 20 minutes down a former coworker of those or Advanced Micro Devices. AMD was making chips that focusing more on keeping Then in 1970, Intel came out with this, the first semiconductor memory chip. A year later, it was the best in the world. AMD's hardware didn't sell the same way. - AMD really came up as company that was making so like maybe a little bit So they kind of came in second especially when it came to - [Presenter] CPUs are basically chips that solve problems. Here's how they work. First, the base, a flat piece of silicon. Silicon is a semiconductor, but can be made more conductive like phosphorus or boron. On that silicon piece, there's which turn currents on and off. These strings of electronic and come together as binary information. That information goes In simplified terms, the and shoots out an answer. Those answers help determine like opening a webpage If the chip is the main brain, the core is like a tiny second brain. By 1971, Intel released the first programmable microprocessor, The company churned out creating industry standard - Back in those times, it this combination of marketing itself well and creating some of the to become the powerhouse - [Presenter] By 1997, Intel of 84% of the world's computers. It had 10 times AMD sales, and six times its manufacturing capacity. - [Voiceover] Now anyone can have all the brain power they want. Just look for a PC with - [Presenter] Going AMD's market value lagged behind Intel's. Fast forward to late 2014, Lisa Su with turning things around. Before Su's tenure, the it would be sold and laid off workers. So behind the scenes, Su began - I hope you guys have your money ready. We've made plenty of processors. - AMD released a new design for that beat many of Intel's benchmarks. First, the transistors on the chips called Zen Architecture. At the same time, AMD rethought how chips themselves were made. Intel had been focusing answer questions really, really fast. AMD decided that for some of its chips, it moved to chiplets. Instead of having one big silicon chip, there were multiple small connected together and - That strategy conferred in terms of power but still performed very well - This chip redesign that gave AMD an edge. - And that really helped AMD return to more of a leadership when these products launched in 2017 - Experts said that comparable AMD CPUs were less expensive and - Our competition is priced AMD Ryzen 499! - By mid 2018, its market cap had shot up to over 30 billion dollars. Almost exactly five of Ryzen in 2022, AMD for the first time, but it Still... - It reflects the investor sentiment about the future of the two companies. Clearly, investors see in the future for AMD, given - [Presenter] Then the sales of PCs, which drive CPU usage, slumped. Shipments in the second quarter of 2022 dropped in the steepest In July, Intel posted in more than a decade. A month later, AMD surpassed - Intel's trying to aggressively correct its technology path and become, you know, the undisputed leader again - [Presenter] While AMD was its revenue increased by 14%. - AMD is a little bit than Intel because it's smaller and AMD does not have any like Intel does. That kind of gives AMD to this environment, perhaps that Intel is making. - But AMD may face even more challenges after the US government on some chips in manufacturing equipment. CEO Lisa Sue said- - [Su] It is minimal impact on - [Presenter] Intel is building to help keep as much of - Where the oil reserves for the last five decades, where the fabs are for is more important. - [Presenter] Whether its own against Intel will depend on how well its innovations have laid the groundwork for the way forward. (mysterious music)