Your confidence We've tested and perfected and easy to follow techniques the perfect prime rib. Let's get it started. So we're going to prep our herbs, It's going to go with this prime rib, Quick smash makes it so much easier I'm going to take this mince pretty far when this mixes with the salt You'll see. We want to really rub it in and it helps Even going toward liquid. So now I'm going to actually a little bit of a scrape with a knife. The Himalayan pink salt and a five pepper blend. Nice. That's our rub. Ready to go. Oh, look at the quality on this. That's what you want to This is specifically four bone So this is the Chuck end. And this would be a full prime that would go further this direction toward We're going to reattach them I like to get my knife right along the bone here to start. And then also this is where we're going to It's going to go through here So I'll take my knife and go this side to kind of Seems crazy to take the bones off. And we're going to roast it with the bones We want seasoning So I actually want the seasoning, seasoning all around the outside, And it's going to make it much easier. We take this to the table and carve it. You can have your butcher do this I think you can pull it off yourself. So where'd we meet back here. We just pull that off. We got delicious back ribs. Actually, a little bit of excess fat here. You can trim that now just a little bit. I don't like the waste, I need four or five pieces to tie this. So I'm going to make sure I have enough pieces to be like this Let's see from here to here, probably just need four pieces, In excess for sure. More than you need. Nothing worse than having a string that's too short. That would be bad. Yeah. Yeah. If you didn't Now we're going to take this rub, We're going to use this whole thing Some of this is going then it's going to go back together. We'll tie it like this. The reason I don't season it all right now is because the strings Between the bone where it's softer, So go twice around. And if you go twice around like that, see the spirally, it'll stick tighter for you. Or you can have your friend So that's how you can do One more Tying the roast is going to give a nice even shape to the roast, and when it cooks. Take a look at get rid of the excess Lets cut that off. You'll see how even it is here. Let's just line those up. That'll give us a nice even shape Now we put the rub all around this roast. Really rub it in. The salt will bring out the moisture and then it will start to bringing with it This seasoning will have more of a chance all the way through if we plastic wrap it All right, we've unwrapped it. As this roasts and the fat renders So I'm going to go potatoes All of them kind of cut in half I don't want the whole woody take kind of loose sprigs, Some thyme, kind of the same thing I find this to be the perfect medley. Rosemary, Thyme and Sage. I'm just going to put just to get them a little wet. There's going to be enough fat from this but just to get them started so it's not dry in the bottom of the pan. Fitted with a rack going right over it to have circulation So we're going to put it in the oven side up to protect it so we can have even And this will go for about an hour Okay. We lift this out down, down. We're going to visit these potatoes. Looking good. Add a little salt and pepper to them. Our roast is at 75 degrees internal. And we're going to finish getting the crust on this side, See how that needs some crust? I'm going to put that on the top Beautiful, good crust on the outside. We're going to let it rest. 20 minutes. This is important that we let this rest because we want that juice Patience is important. just to the touch, Now you can go to the table with the roast put together like this is your prime rib But I think you've got to come to the Now the potatoes are family style. We'll put a platter of potatoes out with the prime rib are for your four favorite people. Let's slice in. Here we go. Let's do the reveal. That's a beautiful prime rib. This cap muscle And so a little I don't mind a little bit of transition That eye, beautiful pink. That's what you want. Perfect prime rib. So I'll finish it with a little coarse and that's all it needs. Perfect prime rib. Wait till you make this at home. See you next time in the test kitchen.