Official state dinners in which the sitting and heads of state are a grand elegant Presidential state ranged from plain and simple often influenced as much by as who was occupying The menus often reflected the or sent a political message to to eat, drink, and be merry. So today, we're looking at what served at state dinners. But before we get started, be History channel, and us know what other you'd like to hear about. OK, time to play Ulysses S. Grant hosted the on December 22, 1874, the last king of Hawaii. But a big fancy shindig It was actually that Turns out she was sick for simple foods, what he was So she hired restaurateur as White House steward to This kicked off what official state dinners, to newspaper columnist, were multi-course meals that and sweet meats, along to accompany the soup Diners then enjoyed a followed by the third Additional dishes included rice pudding dessert. Diners also imbibed throughout the meal, We're going to need a few to wash down all that meat. Herbert Hoover although he reportedly had Supposedly, he even shared his But who hasn't slipped every once in a while? They deserve it. Questionable table manners didn't like to eat alone. For formal affairs the president and his wife One of these dinners of fish, cold lobster, beets, breast, endive and spring The menu was offered in April 1931, who by the idea of cold lobster. President Roosevelt to King George VI and at his home in New York, sounds like maybe they and finished the evening But the actual reason behind is less whimsical. Remember, he came into office When the Roosevelts moved they adopted a and cut down on waste to serve For example, they cut if there was a There was no fruit Sweets and desserts were Entrees were often in what might be considered meal if it weren't for the Side items included such as lima beans the stuff your parents had On one occasion, the marshmallow covered sweet must have been the result with the penny According to surviving menus, although Cuba's Fulgencio to a whiskey sour in 1942. The White House, they When President Harry S. Truman he was known to serve and strawberry Yeah, you heard that right. Though the Fritos the snack demonstrated President Other items on the menu when in 1951 included baked because a princess can't just Like many of his predecessors, was a fan of simpler foods. Unlike many of his predecessors, When the president hosted and the president his green turtle Apparently, Eisenhower as a member of the Foot clan. His taste did expand When the president hosted Frederica of Greece showed a growing sophistication some personal charm, like shrimp cocktail and brown bread sandwiches, and saltine crackers. The president of the on saltine crackers with should make you feel d'oeuvres at your next party. The Kennedys, along with changed the game a little bit. When the Kennedys entertained, and included only four courses. Oh my, four. How scandalous. This was done to leave cigar breaks for the men, and Meals included French inspired like Tournedos Heloise-- steak in black truffle sauce-- and roast sirloin with greens and straw potatoes. President John F. known for serving the first dinner. One of President Kennedy's took place at Mount The president served a meal of mimosa; poulet chasseur, and raspberries brought from the for the president of Pakistan. Eh, no jelly donuts. That's weird. Chef Verdon stayed when Lyndon B. Johnson but not for too long. Apparently, President Johnson's LBJ's palate tended towards really wasn't Verdon's thing. The chef wasn't shy about either, especially after the West German chancellor for a After the Johnsons served beans, Verdon made a point of stating at the White House, serve barbecued spare ribs in white gloves. Well, maybe you don't, Frenchie. Richard Nixon's state dinners than LBJ's. At a dinner hosted by the the menu included imperial and stuffed zucchini. That's a pretty fancy nothing compared to Nixon hosted more in which he served stuffed chilled lobster; Bordelaise, steak in wine cheese sticks; apples with almond cream; Port Salut cheese; and raspberry ice Maybe instead of, &quot;I'm not &quot;I brought a cook.&quot; Tough to tell with his voice. President Jimmy Carter was when it came to his meals. His state dinners were as as for the food, with the Panama Canal and hashed out alongside the meals. The Carter state along the same pattern light courses supplemented followed by desserts. In what was the biggest with more than 1,300 guests, the dinner on March 26, 1979, diners cheese straws, roast sirloin and hazelnut mousse When you want to broker peace, Ronald Reagan had some great as president, which makes sense. He was an actor. Images of John Travolta dancing at the White House of Hollywood and Washington, under the president, although technically a state dinner. Nancy Reagan was in the planning that overseeing menus and making Nancy also managed the to the traditional Items like pita contrasted with that had characterized the The Reagans also served that reflected their roots. Pita bread and wine Turns out you can take the but you can't take Hollywood even old Ronnie Reagan. When people think of George the first thing is probably the thrown in his honor during which he of the Japanese prime minister. Hm, I wonder if it But President Bush did try to have they hosted their own and innovation by adding much like the Reagans had to the meal template. When Queen Elizabeth visited the United she was served lobster, and elaborate desserts made by Mesnier, including a carriage similar to a for the royal family of By all accounts, the George W. Bush didn't really He wasn't really a dancing, or staying up stomach about a the entire time And when he did find himself he kept it simple. When he hosted the president on September 15, 2008, they lamb, potatoes, spinach and pudding for dessert. What W's kitchen it more than made The final state dinner of served to the president was a bit more elaborate. The menu included seared striped bass, roasted shallot sauce, crispy potato cream, to name a few dishes. Michelle Obama was very childhood obesity in America, hosting the first of several The event brought together for a food summit of sorts, by kids, all to highlight the although you know had to have snuck in some The only thing kids care less is math. The Obamas loosened it up a bit though. The Obama White many of the traditional into state dinners, serving a to the prime ministers of Iceland, and the president Foods included dishes like served alongside aquavit tuna with watermelon, as well as red wine braised and thyme dumplings. When President Barack hosted the president the visiting head of of Hawaiian, Mexican, and were ever featured at Apparently, it wasn't quite It turns out Donald serve platters of fast He held his first state hosting the president The elaborate menu from parts of the United States Diners enjoyed with tomato jam, buttermilk Carolina gold rice jambalaya, with ice cream. That sounds like a So what do you think? Which president would you Tell us all about it And while you're at it, check from our Weird History.