Questioner: So, Sadhguru, what about Sadhguru: See, obviously Our ideas of god may vary from culture to culture, different people around the world have but why we came to this idea is this - we all crawled out of our mother's wombs and you see a new born child how he is looking (Gestures) (Few Laugh). He is asking, "who-what-what the hell is all this? So much creation!" Do you see question marks in his eyes? "What-what-what-what? So much! Who do... did all this?" Obviously first he looks at his mother. Well, the mother delivered you Then you look at your father. Well, obviously he can't do all this. Then you looked at every other adult around you, Then being human beings we say, He does all this." I'm sorry ladies, he's a man (Laughter). Because we are human, But, it's a fact that we did not create this, isn't it? Neither this nor this (Gestures). We did not create this, we meddled with it. We meddled with it, we muddled with it but So, we need an explanation. This is a choice you have, do you need an If you explore, you will come to one kind If you come to agreement with some explanation the only choice is either to believe it or disbelieve it. If you believe it, you will become confident. It'll not bring any clarity. It'll bring you confidence. If you dele... disbelieve it, you will be confused. If you are joyfully confused, it's very wonderful, but most people don't know how When they get confused, But the most wonderful thing in human intelligence is Everything that you do not know you believe. This is serious problem. We've done terrible things to each other continuing to do it even now, 'isn't it?', across the world. Because I believe one thing now if I let you live, my belief will suffer. The best thing is you're dead (Few laugh). Yes (Laughs). Because you believe something else is the truth now both of us can't live in one place. We can pretend for some time. When it comes to real issues, we can't be in one place. Why is it, it's so difficult? If you really have a working intelligence, you must be able to see what I do not know Is it not very human and very wonderful to see, what I do not know, I do not know, If you see "I do not know" - Only when you see "I do not know," If you see "I do not know," the longing to know, the seeking to know and Everything that you do not know you believe. You have to be only among your kind. If you are with another kind of people either That's all it'll lead to. So, this is something that we have to come to because human intelligence is at its best when it does not know. If I just think I know, I will become stupid If I see I do not know, intelligence is full on, isn't it? You want to keep your intelligence You're saving it for another place (Few laugh)? No, I want to know because it looks like that. A lot of people are saving it for elsewhere. No, you need it here. If you need it here, please look at this and see. When you see "I do not know," you become Participants: Yes. Sadhguru: When you think "I know," you do Yes or no? Participants: Yes. Sadhguru: If you really see "I do not know" You have no fight with anybody, isn't it? Participants: Yes. Sadhguru: "I know" is always a fight. So, in the yogic culture there is a phenomenon. I'm calling this a phenomenon because today, this evening you but if you invest some time and energy We identify with our ignorance, never with our knowledge because it doesn't matter how much you know, still what you know is a miniscule Participants: Yes. Sadhguru: But your ignorance is boundless. Yes or no? Participants: Yes. Sadhguru: So, if you are identified with your ignorance, If you are identified with your knowledge, you will become a constipated human being (Few laugh). Constipated means it happens little by little (Laughter). This is how life is happening right now. Little by little it is happening. It is not happening in a beautiful way. It is little by little we have to strive to We have to do so many things to experience If you want to just live here drenched with in your body, every moment of your life, then You must come to terms with your ignorance. If you come to terms with your ignorance If you are ignorant you naturally pay attention, isn't it? If you pay enough attention, you will see we still do not know one atom in its entirety. We know how to use them, we know how to break them, we know how to fuse them, we know how to make them explode, but Yes or no? Participants: Yes. Sadhguru: So, if you pay enough attention Well, he asked that question - this is all I did. When I was just four, four-and-a-half years of age, I suddenly realized I don't know a thing. So if somebody gave me a glass of water I'm just looking at the water because Well, I know how to use the water, Even today you don't know what it is. If I find a leaf I'm staring at it for four, five hours. If I sit up in my bed I'm just staring at My dear father being a physician, I'm a... I need psychiatric evaluation (Laughter). So, this boy is simply staring at something all the time. My problem is, I look at this I still don't know this If I look at this, I'm just looking at this So, if you pay enough attention, this universe Whichever door has been opened for you in your life has opened because you paid attention Yes or no? Participants: Yes. Sadhguru: That's the only way it works. Now if your attention is such, it is not seeking anything but it's simply attentive, it pays attention to everything, it does not decide an elephant is more important than an ant, it just pays attention to everything because this is the nature of creation. If you look at an ant - have you paid I spent a lot of time with them (Few laugh). Believe me it's one of the Yes or no? Participants: Yes. Sadhguru: If you had a car like this you know, you could It's such a fine machine. It's not a simple thing. If you pay enough attention to the ant, you will realize whatever created this ant, it did not pay Yes or no? Participants: Yes. Sadhguru: Then who the hell are you to decide, It is just that you have to sharpen your ability to simply pay attention. If you pay enough attention - is it true this body, this body was created from inside? Yes? Participants: Yes. Sadhguru: So, whatever is the source of creation Participants: Yes. Sadhguru: Is it? Participants: Yes. Sadhguru: So, when you don't know what is you may use, in English language, in this part of the world, you may call it god. It's just your explanation Because you have no explanation for the creation, We have thousand names for that, all right? But fundamentally, we are trying to explain Is it true in your experience the source of Participants: Yes. Sadhguru: If it's functioning from within you... If it's somewhere up there and you missed it, it's okay. If it's happening from within you and you missed it, Hello? Participants: Yes. Sadhguru: If the source of creation is throbbing are you not a tragedy? Participants: Yes. Sadhguru: So, my entire life and work is Thank you (Applause). Thank you very much (Applause).