Ow! Who even hangs pots and pans from the ceiling? That is so dumb. Just need to cut my sandwich in half- *slicing noise* Uhhh! That's going to leave a mark... Now where are those STAIRS- Ow! *grunts in pain* *Makes sounds akin to a monkey as you can hear several things break* Ughh- Found 'em... Forget this stupid monster, the most dangerous thing in &quot;Bird Box&quot; is the second story... Hello internet, welcome to Film Theory! Forcefully opening your eyes to the mind-scarring truths hidden in all your favorite movies. So Netflix has really is really hitting out of the park recently, isn't it? Between the 'Choose your own adventure' movie &quot;Bandersnatch&quot;, and the totally-not-&quot;A Quiet Place&quot;-rip-off &quot;Bird Box&quot;, there's been a lot of binge-able theory fodder coming out of the ol' *Netflix Sound DUN DUNH* And while &quot;Bandersnatch&quot; might seem like the one that's more up my alley, considering the video game theme and all that, it's actually &quot;Bird Box&quot; that I wanna tackle first, mostly because the movie had one question that I think we all want answered: what the heck was the monster? To catch you up, &quot;Bird Box&quot; follows a group of people trying to survive a world wide catastrophe in which people are driven to kill themselves after they witness some 'thing.' In order to survive, you have to keep your eyes shut, or else wear a blindfold, leading to this iconic imagery from the movie, and all these other really dumb &quot;Bird Box&quot; challenge videos on YouTube... It's a really cool concept. Just like noise was the dangerous element from &quot;A Quiet Place&quot;, sight is the thing that gets you killed in &quot;Bird Box&quot;. But the frustrating thing about the movie is that you never actually get to see the monster. It's never made explicitly clear what exactly is driving everyone to this point of madness. So that is my goal today, to use all the clues that we see (and don't see) throughout the movie to rip off the blindfold and expose the &quot;Bird Box&quot; Let's look at what we know. From the opening moments it's made clear that when most people see whatever it is that they're seeing, seconds, look for the nearest garbage to hop into, or pane of glass to leap limited to in-person appearances. Greg, watches security cameras, sees the thing, It's important to note though that this isn't true for everyone. About midway through the movie, people who've seen it and don't &quot;These psychos from Northwood...&quot; &quot;It's a mental institution for the criminally insane.&quot; &quot;They took us outside and they forced our at the creatures.&quot; It seems like all these already insane prior to looking at the instead left to worship it, serving as everyone around them to open their eyes So, beauty must be in the eyes of the Gary draws of the thing after he's seen people who see the thing include: and It's not outright terror it's just more confusion. And lastly, we can deduce that whatever it is does have a physical form, considering that we actively see it proximity sensors in an early scene, but interact with the world, considering it itself, instead relying on its devotees information, but where's that leave us? possible explanations to test in the mythology, it's full of mentions of the form of your worst fears or deepest we know that that isn't true of the &quot;Bird responses of and Those responses don't scream &quot;oh, this is loss I've ever experienced!&quot; More just not have worked out, but don't worry, Charlie has a lot more hypotheses that we can put to the test. - mythology. All different names, but the I know it's the end of the world, and I you're even more melodramatic than I am. don't mean the end of us, plus you've things that are very different and all currently in, so let's quickly knock 'em from the Zoroastrian faith, one of the practice today, with its origins in the &quot;Encyclopedia of Demons in World personification of sensual desire and to cause people to sit back and watch as were busy getting their &quot;woohoo&quot; on in the work here, but clearly that's not the demon. Surgat is another one that he eliminate. Coming out of the Christian all locks', which directly speaks to his lock in the world. This makes him a if you're clumsy with your keys, but where the entity that's killing everyone Moving on, the Puca is an Irish into different animals and plays pranks horse and taking people for a spooky appear to be all that violent. Seeing it and there are plenty of stories where Another easy elimination, which leaves us honestly this one seemed like a good fit... Chinese fox spirits with the ability to often taking the form of a person's dead believe the opposite of what's true, like your blindfold and see them because but that immortality requires them to could really work here in the case of solid case for 'em being our mystery entity, they can pass through walls. Well, send So Charlie in the movie took a lot of shots abandon that writing project of his and like he had a lot more success there. So now, it's my turn, and honestly, after looking at all the various behaviors of can truly encapsulate it all. That said, I lores that have combined to create the the first, let's look again at Gary's to be a bunch of random spooky pictures, definitely see some key themes emerging. which is his artistic representation of every time someone sees these entities. as well as the ones of just generally scary left with: a bunch of pictures of Face', and 'Elephant Nose.' Let's focus on like Davy Jones from the &quot;Pirates of the creature that one would describe like If you're familiar with your horror history, you'll know that Tentacle Face belongs nightmare Cthulhu, a name that I'm sure might not know a whole lot about, so about him. Cthulhu, created by author H. P. Lovecraft in his short story 'The Call of Cthulhu', is what's known as a Great Old space and now sleeps under the oceans of Earth, waiting to be awakened. But not only does fish face fit what we see in the creator of &quot;Bird Box&quot; describes his that a man would go mad, lose his mind, if ...became like a monstrous concept to me, to think of infinity or something the and what if that idea was actually, like, infinity is on the porch swing outside you opened the door...&quot; Mind you, this the earliest days when his book started author realized that he needed to be a talks about his story. So the monster, as inspired by infinity. That's interesting, Cthulhu mythos is human insignificance of infinity. Look no further than the outlines this exact premise. Quote: End quote. Now, if that still doesn't sound like it matches &quot;Bird Box&quot;, just wait. humans come into contact with one of go mad. Their brains aren't able to seeing, and they literally go insane, but A subset of people become worshipers of &quot;Bird Box&quot;. To quote from 'Call of Cthulhu': And that's just Cthulhu. Lovecraft has a whole series of monsters drawings that we're seeing. Elephant Face? That's a lot like the design of Chaugner Faugn. Horny? Definitely close to the have creatures based on the concept of Gary's drawings, inspire cults of that literally drive people insane. Monsters of the Cthulhu mythos match practically all of our requirements. explanation misses a few major marks. are to us: nothing. We can't be bothered. the sea alongside Aquaman and Ariel. That or urgency in opening doors in &quot;Bird Box&quot;, chasing around a few humans on a 42 hour boat tour. It's just a waste of his, and quite frankly, most of the other issue here though is the &quot;Bird Box&quot; power of the dead. Up until this point, I've been dancing around one key issue here: the fact that the entity can mimic the And not just people it was responsible moments of the movie, we meet, and quickly lose, a woman named Lydia. As she sees the monster, she calls out: The twist is that Lydia's mom has been thing started attacking Earth. The movie this is a huge detail that's critical thing. It's also critical to know that the dead. In an effort to trick boy and the entity mimics the voice of Mallory, our protagonist, who is still very much alive. So what's happening here? But theory, do me a favor and remove those blindfolds for just long enough to hit that subscribe button. We have a lot of down the pipeline, so if you've enjoyed making it this far, then subscribe to get horror villains, like we did with Michael gonna happen in upcoming horror movies coming out in a couple weeks now. If subscribe. It helps out the channel a lot. of the way, let's finish this mystery up. the physical being that people are powers and motivations coming from? Well, there's strong evidence to suggest that these elements are inspired by The belief where the faithful, both living To use the original Bible verses, 1st Thessalonians chapter 4, verses 16 and 17, quote: Consider this: what if Lydia, calling out mother in the afterlife? And if Tom end of the movie, encouraging her to open All of these souls seem to be caught up they would be encouraging others below them to join. If that was truly the case, and you have all these worthy dead yarn ball, it would be a beautiful sight, is despite their drawings suggesting why are only criminals left behind on God's commandments and don't merit going up to heaven. They're not rapture material, you could say. And not only does gives clarity to a detail that's easy to insist on opening the eyes of their 'em. I mean, if the monster truly wanted of humanity, why wouldn't they just do it? It's so the victims can bear witness. In put on bearing witness to God's power. Even Gary seems remorseful that he kills off Douglas without him getting to SEE &quot;Sorry that you didn't get to see. It is beautiful. So beautiful...&quot; How about the whole 'not opening doors' thing? Revelation 3:20: and I hear you, I totally everyone taking their own lives? If this cardinal sin of the church? Yeah, yeah it Rapture-like situation we're talking effect. I mean, think about it. bunch of bodies just kind of rising up make a whole lot of sense, does it? Maybe chosen answering the call to free their doing stuff like garbage truck hopping also noticed the odd motif of pregnancy. Olympia. Is it a coincidence then, that when referring to the day of Rapture, the on like labor pains to a pregnant woman? It's a weird coincidence, right? Now obviously, there's an elephant in the room: why would the blind be left yeah, the meek shall inherit the earth. I dunno, not a perfect theory. Like I said earlier, I don't think it's any one monster or A rapturing Cthulhu - a literal octopus probably get. There's just a lot of weird fill, and in the end it's really more purposes of the story, which, gotta What? People coming up with an original at the very least my explanation of an what they were gonna put in the movie. early version of the monster that got as not seeing the monster was, not seeing better than that. But hey, that's just a see more horrific Film Theory action, beat Michael Myers. Or, if you want to see check out our series on Salad Fingers. you're gonna see today. Now if you'll I gotta get in &quot;Bandersnatch&quot;. I'll see