I love Mark Wahlberg, but it would take him three f---ing days to draw that steel out. Hi, my name is Neil Kamimura. I'm a bladesmith-blacksmith from Hawaii. My business name is T Kamimura Blacksmith. It was established in 1932, Today, we're going to be looking at some blacksmithing scenes of some movies, and we're Robert Downey Jr. has It looked like he had practiced. He was standing close to the anvil, and he's basically So, cold forging is not using heat to make it pliable like clay; he's actually just hitting steel cold. I don't quite understand, for one, why he has the since he's cold-forging it. I don't know what he was doing, 'cause the steel had no color to it. He was probably forging it at low heat, just getting it to work. But he's cooling it off They love the steam. It looks like he's holding a cup of tea because the crucible isn't hot. I personally don't think it It would have to be a wax mold that you cast from both sides with sand. It wouldn't just be and then it makes a perfect, polished, electronic-ready ring. I would give this a 7, only because I like &quot;Iron Man.&quot; Rambo: You know what you are; what you're made of. Oh, boy. This is the one that I absolutely hate the most. And it's not because I don't But the problem is that, That's a shop that so there was somebody in that vicinity that knows what they're doing. Two, Sylvester Stallone sells a &quot;Rambo&quot; knife every release, and he has knife-maker friends. I'm friends with Jason Momoa; I would never let him do in a million years. And he's using a ball-peen hammer, like, out of a mechanic's chest. A ball-peen hammer is a My hammer's 4 pounds. And I'm pretty sure he so I don't know why he Rambo: What you're made of. See, right there, he just All he's doing is putting markings in the bottom of that thing. So, here's your anvil, right? You have the horn. So sexy, right? You got this horn, you got this nice curve And then you have the Then there is a 1-inch square hardy hole, and that is meant for You have to remember and you're just banging on a square hole, you'll flip it over and you just have square-hole marks all over it. I don't know why they don't tell him, &quot;Hey, buddy, hit on the Why do you keep hitting it over the hole? Rambo: When you're pushed. When you take steel at that temperature and you quench it in 5,160 should be quenched in oil. But it doesn't need to be quenched, because he's obviously not done forging it and didn't make anything but a pancake on the end of a leaf spring. Two, it's some magical water, because he quenches it in and it's still hot, which, that is also not realistic. You put it in water, it would Maybe he just sucks at forging so bad that it was so thick that so it still held its heat. I hold this to a higher accountability, as every &quot;Rambo&quot; movie, he's forging. How many &quot;Rambo&quot;s is there? Like, five f---ing &quot;Rambo&quot;s? How has no one been like, &quot;Hey, You should not do those scenes anymore&quot;? Or, &quot;Go take one lesson to do it.&quot; I give it a 1. F--- &quot;Rambo.&quot; Like, I love the movie, I just don't like the forging scenes. So, the fact that he with two taps of a hammer, it definitely wouldn't as you are hitting edge to edge. But at least they took the Some of them are pinned, and and then the pommel is what holds it on. But you definitely can't just take it and be like and then it comes off. You know what I mean? So, when you're melting steel in an open-faced crucible one, there wouldn't be It would be the most That's one. Two, the would need to be hot. That is just black, so it didn't heat up, but yet somehow, the sword is which is the most ridiculous thing ever. Swords that were poured and casted like that were bronze. They weren't steel. It takes about 3,000 degrees to melt steel, that kind of steel. Bronze is a lower melting temperature, and so that was a lot but when they do cast it, On both sides was it casted, and it fills up and makes a perfect mold. The sword would look like so that's just bulls---. I don't quite understand how they got one sword and melted it, and you've somehow made You actually lose mass as you melt steel like that. I would definitely give that a 4. The thing that I did like about this scene is that they had it actually and he was breaking the mold out of it. There's many different techniques. You can cast an ax because it's generally not made out 'cause it needs to take a lot of abuse, versus, like, a chef knife of carbon steel because it Axes are brute force versus razor sharp. I've never seen a steel butt forge weld like that in one hit, And if you ever put wood it would disintegrate. You don't hold it to such because it's not real. A tree dude is giving I mean, you can't take it too seriously. I don't understand why he but there's no way you could 6. I don't know. For all his big muscles, but at the rate he's swinging, it would take him three f---ing days to draw that steel out without any breaks. Like, literally, it at that hammer swing. It's the weakest swing I've -- I mean, it's pretty bad. He loves the hole too. You see They all love that hole. Nobody wears a glove on because it's dangerous to with a glove, because it will But if you are going to wear they need to be a glove that you can shake like because once that leather gets so hot, it will cook your hand You see people freak out, and It will cook your hand like an oven. Evan: Are there things Right there. You see, generally, you don't quench &quot;finished&quot; forged blades that look like a road That thing curvy as, crooked as can be. Once it quenches like that, it's done. You'll have to slowly take the work -- nobody ever would quench a crooked blade. Two, he's only heating the tip. So, basically, he's heating this much right here, so only this part of This would all be soft, it would catch a warp. Traditionally, in Japanese weapons, the blade is straight as forged. There's a clay on the from getting hard, so it and then only the edge is exposed. The edge is getting hard, and that's what creates of a samurai sword. So you do not go in f---ing and two, you don't forge the bend in. It's actually quenched, and through the heat-treating This is the best part of all time, where he cuts a steel pipe. [laughs] Swords do not cut pipe. People think that samurai swords are the baddest things on the planet, and they are, for their time. But that doesn't necessarily and that it can cut through no, they were actually, of mild steel in them. A lot And this movie is about him That's not how traditional test a finished product. And they are a culture you're not supposed to even They would not take it and It would be the ultimate I'll give him a 2. If you look at the first initial scene, there's one, two, three, four, five, six pieces of broken sword, and then when they go it's only two pieces. So, flux is, it's like borax. So basically, as it heats, that cleans it so that it As you're forging and you're hitting it with a hammer, it would never maintain that fuller. And the fuller is that curved spot down the middle of the so as you hit it, it The correct way to fix would be to take the cut it up into smaller and forge-weld it again You can just tell by their swing that they've never touched And it's not nearly hot enough to just butt-weld a forged blade together. To forge-weld, it's at It's not orangey, it's white. 6, because they were actually forcing air into a coal forge. They were putting flux on So another, once again, And then he forges it. I have no idea what he's doing or what kind of oil they put They're putting either and they're putting it on the hammer so it creates this whole fire, but they don't care about whether or not the steel was actually hot enough or where he's hitting it on the anvil. Look at this! Just the tip is hot, look. And then we're going to Oh, Lord. So, what happens is, when and you quench it into oil, the reason why they move it up and down as they're quenching it is because what it does is it's so hot, it creates a vapor jacket and so it's boiling all so you're not actually rapid-cooling it unless you're introducing So quenching it into snow, it would just instantly melt around it and then not touch it at all. I still sharpen knives on a stone, too. Maybe not a stone like that, but, I mean, they and was like, [laughs] I would rate that a 5 just and they didn't know any better. As she's hitting the anvil, she's like, tap-tap, then hits the anvil. Like, you're not even You don't need to pump your brakes. It's the most ridiculous thing ever. If you ever see a video of me forging, I'm swinging a 3- to 5-pound hammer, and, yes, sometimes when I move the blade, I have to keep my hand I don't understand how It's, like, a log-cabin nail. So, this right here is my forging stamp. It's done hot, and it's pressed in. I just hit it with a hammer. Yeah, I give it a 4. It wasn't hot enough at all to forge-weld, and that's basically what As you're forging it it takes out the impurities. They're trying to hit it, and they can't even keep it on the anvil. But how they turn that little puck into a half-inch-thick plate when they swing a hammer And so why make a plate that's You can't forge-weld it. Look at it. It's just rocking on its own. You only want to open because how would you to forge-weld that together? You would hit it here, and and then break loose here. You would hit it here. You want constant pressure of reduction. I would rate this a 3. I don't have a favorite of any of them. I don't think movies in itself have ever captured it. It's just annoying because it affects me. They're like, &quot;All you It's not that hard.&quot; And I'm like, &quot;B---, I swing I sacrifice my body to swing a hammer. They think I just pour So, hopefully now, this where they might actually do a good one. And if you enjoy this video, you should click right