Hi guys, thanks for tuning in to another I'm Ian McCollum, and today we are taking a look at the Franchi SPAS 12. Now I did do a video on this about 10 years ago, and today's video is going to be so much more improved over that one. We are going to take this apart, and and where it came from, a lot of really good So first off of course, the SPAS 12 is in movies, in video games, and It's very popular with entertainment media It's got metal heat shieldy bits, it's got this strange hook on it, And it's become a stalwart in Now this is one of those instances where in addition to being visually distinctive It's a heavy gun, and it's a but it is a very durable, And it's one that has seen quite a lot Especially with Special SWAT teams and military So its development began in the This was a gas-operated and Franchi wanted to develop something more So they took the Franchi 500, and they gave it a backup So there are a bunch of different Gas-operated guns are good, but you with the amount of gas And law enforcement are going to need to fire Everything from full power to relatively low power, less-lethal rounds like And so the idea of the pump-action for those light loads that aren't going This was never intended to be or a semi-auto shotgun, This is a semi-auto shotgun that has Because really, you don't really want to be operating At any rate, Franchi's original iteration The biggest ... functional like the Franchi 500, has a recoil spring Which means there was no way to That was a feature that law enforcement to make the guns compact, to be able And so Franchi redesigns the gun a bit, from back here, to around Now that would have a inside the receiver, which you'll see With that modification done, It goes into production in Italy in 1979 and it becomes a pretty with law enforcement and military units. ... Like I said, it's durable, and especially in the pre-internet era, are not immune to the pull of In late '82 [Franchi] arranges an importation deal through a company called FIE, and they are You see a wave of in 1983 reviews in gun And for about 6, 7 years things go great, But that all kind of comes to an end in 1989 when George Bush senior signs that prevents the SPAS 12 from being So FIE of course has major and ultimately what happens to a new importer, AAI, They devise a slightly different version of Franchi at that point actually It's still the SPAS 12, but it goes from being to being the Because it's now definitely a sporting gun because And along with it, it's now because the folding stock was a check mark And the magazine capacity is or 5+1, down from an That allows the gun when the US assault as opposed to just an when the assault weapons ban So we'll talk about what But first, let's dive in, let me show you The SPAS of course looks super cool, It weighs in at about 10 pounds unloaded. It has a 21.5 inch barrel, there is a That's distinctive because of course the magazine But the vast majority of these that came into This gives it an 8 round capacity, At the front end (and I'll just take this off This will use Franchi It comes with a cylinder bore barrel, But you can replace that with the ... We have a pretty tall front blade sight because the rear sight has to be mounted So we'll look at that in a moment, Moving back a bit, we have the The button here is what allows you to swap it So there's automatic mode, push that in, And what's actually happening First off, in automatic mode the handguard And secondly, when you it is actually rotating the gas system and So we'll take a look at that Receiver markings are SPAS 12, Luigi Franchi SPA out of Brescia, made in Italy. These are all There is a second style of receiver is about the same size as the Luigi That is sometimes interpreted SPAS 12-L is not actually a thing, that L when you see it is just an abbreviation On the other side you have the import There we go, FIE Corporation out of Miami. And then there are a batch of Italian The one that is particularly relevant But ... those are the letters &quot;AT&quot; in a box, and that is a date code indicating that this The SPAS 12 was made with both a fixed And there are a couple of different Some, including this one of course, that actually locks into the rear sight So to deploy it you are just going to And then you can lift And then it is locked in position by this And again there a couple Some of them will actually have sort of so that you can just slide the stock down This one doesn't, you have to manually And if you want to refold Now this thing is in here This looks like a sling swivel, this is actually ... Like, at the SPAS 11 stage there was actually that you could use to actually completely They ended up getting rid of that And they filled it in with a polymer piece, the moulds on the pistol grip. It's not a particularly resilient plastic, it's not the same material that they And so be careful with this, they are I wouldn't use it as a sling swivel. On that same note, there's another piece because ... in fact in this case of the SPAS 12 that were produced It was just a simple there was a plastic element here And when you pushed the grip safety in, it pivoted that bar out of the way That was apparently removed on law enforcement and military And again rather than change they just inserted a plastic block, basically, OK, back to the stock for a moment, we have so that the whole stock can And of course then you have the hook. You can just push it in, and in fact if we rotate it up And ... by the way, a lot of owners did that Its purpose is to allow you to and shoot the gun one-handed while Not a whole lot of people were actually doing The hooks are actually kind of hard to find today, Anyway, with the stock completely folded Do note ... there is supposed to be to prevent the stock from wearing And unfortunately I don't have that buffer, I showed you the front sight, It is a gigantic ghost ring aperture And then there's a little notch at the bottom You actually use that line that up with the top of the Aright, and last but not least that brings us This can be a little bit of an intimidating gun because it has to have all of the controls So first off we have a cross bolt safety When these were originally actually made, they had The problem is that lever And over time they that if you engaged the safety, when you disengaged it could actually just discharge spontaneously That's obviously a really bad thing, there was a recall, This is pre-internet, and so there are a fair amount If you have one with a lever safety, don't rely on it. ... You should always be pointing But be extra sure that ... if you when you take the gun off safe, make Anyway, this has the And there is also this second safety, that you can use as And ... there are times when So you are going to be running this no matter what, So right now I have the gun in manual mode. You can see the handguard is lined And if that is forward, ... If I want to manually open the slide or I can push this back and then Now it will lock open when I also want to point out, because there's a recoil you are actually fighting the recoil spring So it is not the world's greatest pump action, again, Once I have this open, I can then go ahead and That is the slide release, Now if I switch this to automatic mode. Push the button in the bottom of the stock, Now when the quick safe is forward, If I want to manually cycle it that prevents it from firing and And then it automatically re-engages that safety. So ... backwards for this case, and when I cycle the bolt, So again, it can be a little complicated Lastly, we have this button on the This allows you to open the bolt without having And the reason you would do this is if you but you want to fire one round Typically that would not be less lethal, typically a less-lethal shotgun is only It might be that you have buckshot So use the magazine disconnect eject a round of buckshot, drop in a slug Alright, there are a couple of different different orders you We'll go through the method that's because that's probably Start with the magazine They are often pretty tight. that sits against ratchet teeth That prevents it from and it makes that cool clicky noise ... So we can take this off. You then have your magazine And the follower. When you put this in you want this end of the Now we do want to start (sorry, I should have Once you pull out the magazine holding the whole front end And so we can actually just slide the Leaving the receiver, the magazine tube, Be careful because this is While we are here note that there is an O-ring And it needs to be there, this is important, So you'll have to pay attention The gas piston goes in first, then the O-ring Now I'm going to hold this to control it, and I'm going to push the slide That's a big spring, but In fact when you're shooting the enjoyable, slow, kerchunk sort of noise to it. ... Alright, the next step is to To do that, you are going to so that you can actually slide And there's a little divot when it's lined up with a lug on So there's that semi-circular protrusion When it's lined up you can And then you can pull the bolt, the The ... heavy action spring, sorry, comes off. And we are left with a Alright, we can also then take the pistol there's this big screw sort of lug on the back. This one I know is already a bit loose, But in the US a nickel will fit that nicely. So, you've got that big plug and a washer. And then ... the stock Next up, and this is well but we can also take out the fire control unit These are not captive, and they Once you've got them this loose (you don't actually once they are that loose you And the reason we would replace the buffer And I mentioned this because there is no longer a recoil spring And they needed something to prevent impact Those buffers do wear out in time. And when they wear out and then you will start this guy, into the back of the receiver and you There's a little hole at the back here, I'm just going There are two different This particular one is conical, The only reliable way to know which your gun Happily, MidwayUSA When I got this gun, the only thing which would have done nothing, so very glad And ... like it is not an and you push it down like that, Alright, continuing on, we can by removing these two screws. You have a short one in the front. And then I'm going to push the button, And then forward, right at the end of the And there we've just got Alright, now if we look at the front here, in the plastic in the And on the gas block So if we look down from the receiver end, This is ... automatic mode, And when I flip it this way So that's all it is doing when It is just automatically opening If the gas ports are open, by its clean-ish gas rings this is essentially your gas piston. It connects to the So this is always locked which is in turn ... locked That lug sits in that little slot. So this is why in manual mode because in manual mode you are You're just doing it by hand instead of having And if we take a closer look at the bolt, you'll see there is a moving element So like many shotguns, it is When it is in battery that lifts up. And you can see when it's in battery is when this That lifts up ... and it locks into that recess That's why this hood is on This obviously all is made out of steel. And that allows the receiver because it is not actually taking They were of course making these customers around the world, And overall they made a grand total including 18,000 that went which may surprise you, it is Egypt. The Egyptian army and police were Now they discontinue it in 2000 because they are Fundamentally the same system, but instead of this rather And with a detachable box magazine Both really cool improvements, I have a separate video on it that I will There are also a couple of other There's the SAS 12 which is a pump action And then there is the LAW 12, So if you didn't want the weight and Franchi had you covered on Ultimately Beretta buys When they do, the SPAS 12 is And as far as we know Beretta discarded all and there is no chance of the SPAS 12 So they are a fairly scarce gun I mean there are a lot of them here, because of how commonly used they are in And they are in addition to that, fundamentally really actually Which may not always be the case with guns Anyway, hopefully you guys enjoyed the video. Thanks for watching.