So say you're trying to make a hexaflexagon that the key to getting a smoothly flexing And that reminds you of a trick you learned See, the easy but inaccurate way to fold paper in half again, and in half again, and then a snowflakey-looking thing, or you could fold snowflakey-looking thing, but real snowflakes whereas this thing has 8-fold symmetry, which something in 2, and then in 2, and thenin amount of folds and 2*2*2 is 8. Wait that's not right... let's just put in that extra fold... 8. Anyway the point is that to get 6-fold symmetry thirds, which you can do by kind of messing Just like when making a hexaflexagon. Except that if you stop there you get 3-fold more time to get six fold symmetry. And that reminds you of an argument you were the kind where someone says something that they're right because they have this logic-flavored in the matter knows is completely disconnected in 2 and then fold that in 2 and then that yes 2*2*2 is 8, but that doesn't mean it's has only 4-fold symmetry and maybe you should of repeating over and over all the reasons defensive about the backlash from people who Ahem. Anyway, the hexagon connection makes you wonder make a hexaflexaflake. You could think about it first or you could experience that with paper snowflakes if you apart so you figure something similar might more folded edges, like with a snowflake you you try that with a hexaflexagon it will soon But you figure you can probably cut a blip without it falling apart. But can you still flex it? Ummmmm... yes! Except your center seems to have decentralized, again with this new center, right? And now we know that when we flex it this center will come back. Or not. Both the centers can just hang out on the Ok so maybe you annotate your centers so you yellow center, and pink center, which makes to a hexaflexagon and each side has its own side, the yellow center belongs to the yellow center, and those are the three sides of a uh... or maybe there's a pink side with all the time, of course there's a pink side center and of course there's a pink side it would make sense, or maybe not? Let's just say the pink side with the yellow unobserved, as in practice it seems to be... But anyway when you fold the hexaflexaflake line up and it doesn't matter which center cut everything all at once instead of opening Of course this theoretical possibility should your math is a good way to check your thought And mathematicians often visualize real-world when they write down notation, like, the thing what gets written on paper, just like how going on in their heads when they say words. But sometimes you accidentally connect ideas write down 2*2*2 and be thinking fold in half, snowflake! And the more you connect that real-world idea it seems that three folds in half makes an wrong you might be so used to connecting it you could be wrong, especially if you're inexperienced conjectures, so maybe you're theory and why should you have to listen to people anyway, and that's a recipe for getting why everyone thinks you're full of baloney. But you know you're right, you know 2*2*2=8, people insist that 2*2*2=4 you challenge them that's just because they're just closed-minded Which means you're better than those "I means you'd feel shame if you were wrong, your ideas then they would know you're right makes them extra wrong, and the tiny voice evokes such feelings of shame especially now how much better you are than them, and that actual-snowflake-folders hurt you which makes everyone who claims to have ever folded a 4-fold symmetry is lying, I mean, maybe they or maybe they counted wrong or someone switched You don't claim to know all the reasons but you start a forum for baloney snowflake reasons why actual-snowflake-folders are so who agree that folding a piece of paper in and you all tell each other constantly how the authority who should be listened to and listen. Anyway I hope you enjoy this fun holiday craft. See you next year!