I thought, okay, something's I said to my friend, "Something is I'm always joking. He said, "Yeah, sure, I remember getting up from my chair The bar was here. I looked from above and lots of people around them. Mr. Pranjic, when you were 16 years old, that still haunts you today. And you thought long and hard talk about it in public. Thank you for deciding to do so. I believe that every experience report so to speak. For many people who have experienced to categorize their experiences So, please tell us under which this experience occurred. Thank you very much. I thought about it whether I should tell it or not. But in the end, I put the fear aside How did that come about? As you said, it was in 2016, I was born in Bosnia My parents and I fled to Germany And we were in Germany until the end Then my parents That was the post-war period. My circle of friends and I one thing after another. And then there were also drug contacts. That was normal back then. I was 14 and we all smoked and drank. As I said, drugs were added. It was cool at first, Now we're having a ball. Exactly, that seemed great to us. Of course, when you grow up our parents had problems with us. I have to say something about that. It's almost a miracle that I'm still Because before my near-death Car accidents? Exactly, car accidents. A car accident happened about four It was a miracle what happened. I have to explain briefly. There were three of us, We decided to fetch alcohol To cut a long story short, we left straight into a wooden pole A head-on collision? That is correct. Back then, in Bosnia, the They probably still are. We drove straight into one The driver flew 100 meters out of the car. He had no shoes on. Miraculously, all three of us Everyone who saw the car thought there was no chance Five minutes before we got something very strange happened for me. We were just about to drive off. My best friend He always sat in the back. He never had any problems, I, on the other hand, But that night, I said, "No, I'll sit at the front." But he really wanted to sit in the front and I pulled him away Then I got in and he pulled me out. He wouldn't give in. We argued, we spent 20 minutes arguing. We were drunk anyway. The driver was angry too. "What are you doing? I realized that the situation "Before it escalates any further, He didn't want to, but then he agreed. We both sat in the back We drove off and two minutes later, and crashed into this wooden post with the front right side of the car. When the car was pulled out we realized that the car had been to the rear as a result of the impact. Nobody would have survived that. No, no one sitting And it was the first time that nobody And this episode had a significance Until then, I didn't care about anything I also never had any specific faith. I didn't have much to do with religion, although I am But after this accident, It couldn't have been a coincidence. Something or someone I had always secretly believed even though I wanted But now, for the first time, I seriously But after the accident, And about four or five months later, How did this come about? It wasn't an accident. It was around half past eight, We should have been at school, Back then, it was normal to skip school, go to your favorite cafe I went to our favorite cafe I sat on the barstool He was drinking coffee Then I realized that It was nothing special. But then I realized that my left foot, I thought that was normal. Then it went on. Like when you get pins and needles, The hand was numb. It started to go through the hand and up through the foot I thought, what's going on now? I didn't want to panic. Lack of sugar? You need to eat something. It's nothing. It'll pass in a minute. Just like you tell yourself, Then I started pinching myself, I couldn't feel anything, I thought, this is not good, When it got here, I thought, this is not good. I said to my friend, "Something is going to happen to me, I'm always joking. I remember getting up from my chair, then I saw a picture from above. The bar was here, I looked from above, I saw someone lying down There was a stool and a whole bar, I didn't know what it was. The next moment, I felt like I was ... ... in the universe, the best way It was like I was in the universe, There were no there were just That's why I felt like I was flying. But I don't think I was flying, it looked like something The stars were connected with loops. I thought, if I'm flying, Then I asked myself, what is this now? What is happening now? Then came the thoughts and the answers. You ask questions and I asked myself, what is this now? And the answer came, you have died. So, I died. So, then it was over. Did you realize beforehand No, I didn't know that. I saw the picture. Someone is lying there. I recognized a friend, He had long hair. He was bent over the body, I didn't realize it was me. It was only when I saw myself what's happened now? Then the image came back, I was gone. But that seemed insignificant to me. A small thing. You would think, wow, great. It was just okay for me. No stress, no problems, But then I realized, I can't go yet. I had a lot of Suddenly, I realized all these problems, I was now consciously aware of them all. But that was okay too. It was okay. So, you have simply become or your circle of acquaintances? Everything I thought This, that, no, I still have I was aware of all the problems, They weren't important. Then I looked ahead again. The stars I felt that I still had hands. Then I lifted my hands up. I felt that I had hands, That was strange. Then it occurred I still felt that I had a body. and there was nothing there either. Then I asked myself, if I'm not there now, but I was there, more aware than ever, then what am I? The answer came immediately. Everything that is. I was everything that was ... ... and everything that will be. It sounds strange when I say that now, I am the whole, the entirety. Then I felt something from the it was more of a feeling. A brightness. I wanted to turn to the top right, which I am describing now. When you do something good or When you can be proud of yourself When you hold the door open for a woman. You know the feeling. Pride, joy, goose pimples. That's exactly the feeling I got. It then doubled, I started to expand, I just thought, what is this now? And where were Where are they? It was like my problems, Pain, fear, I knew these feelings, Then I heard my name at the top left, once, twice, three times, I stood on my feet in the bar with all shocked. I thought, no, no, why? I suddenly felt a great sadness, Everyone said, "You're alive, We couldn't wake you up, Had they undertaken Yes, it took five minutes, They slapped me, splashed me Then the colleague looked at me, said, "I thought you were dead, I only had one thought. I don't want to be here anymore. No, I don't want to be here, Then an ambulance What happened medically? After the examination it turned out that I was suffering The doctor was shocked, he had rarely He was shocked that I was still alive. Then I had to take these After the hospital I came home. But this sadness stayed for months. I couldn't get rid of it. During the experience did you never feel here or return? No. I heard my name But the worst thing was this ... ... all that is. I couldn't do anything with Then I thought, there are two possibilities. Either all the people my parents, my friends, all of humanity, are holograms or computer games. If I exist alone, But that was out I thought to myself, The second possibility was All of this is me. I am interacting with myself. But I thought, that can't be. How can I be the other? How can I be all the others? All the cruelty in the world. I could never be cruel. Then that was out of the question too. Both possibilities No, I said to myself, it can't be. You can't exist alone. That's impossible. You fell over. It was a hallucination. Can you summarize it like this? You have experienced something, which was completely But in thinking about it, there was simply no way What I experienced that I am everything that is. I couldn't explain it to myself. I couldn't tell anyone either. Who was I supposed to tell? They would say, you're crazy, So, the easiest thing for me It couldn't be. But this experience I could never figure it out. So, for a few years that was It was a hallucination. Exactly, that was I was able to talk myself into it. But what has stayed with me is the happy feeling when I have found that when I do something good for someone. When I stand up for someone, something good for a professional colleague. Why should someone break themselves If I have the opportunity Many people don't do it But if you free yourself I do something good I don't expect anything in return, and then I feel As a gift, so to speak. Exactly, as a gift. Not as strong but it's there. I can still feel it. That was the most Can you summarize it like this, the experience has Yes, I would say so. To this day, this feeling Just like the interview now. I thought long and hard about And then the fear immediately came back. No, you can't do it. If friends or family see this, Then I ask myself, will I feel this happy feeling and perhaps help And then it came. Now I'm getting The feeling comes back. And then I thought, okay, if the That's why I contacted you. So, you lived for a long time that you were just hallucinating. What made you change your mind? Did you find someone The last 18 years I realized very quickly to feel this happy feeling again. Perhaps that is But if someone has the opportunity instead of doing something then they will opt for the 200 euros. I have also recognized this danger. Looking only at yourself instead of endeavoring that triggers this feeling. Of course, this puts me in danger when I have had many difficulties and have also been dismissed But I know exactly why the world Why there are wars, Because we are afraid. The fear of losing your job So be careful, don't do anything. This realization has weighed on me. Why can't people see that? It's so obvious. The world is the way it is There is always fear behind it. Exactly, that's what With friends and at home. But there are no more problems for me. I live the way I want to live For me, I have achieved everything. You have become fearless. Not completely, When I'm afraid, I want to know Then I find it, ... and feel a little freer again. It's a challenging process. But a lot has changed in my life. I often just hear from people, I came across Thanatos TV on YouTube and saw an interview with someone. After that, I thought, okay, Until then, So, you didn't even know Not directly, I'm a roofer. You don't talk about things like that. I tried to talk to someone but I realized I'm not afraid of death. I said, "No, it's not like that. We're not what we think we are, But they didn't want to know. I couldn't explain I was no longer afraid of death. People who hadn't experienced That was understandable. Then, I heard the stories of other I'm not crazy. What I experienced Over the past two years, I've read and on ideological issues. I wanted to know about the theory of relativity, I wanted to find out what It's fun when someone We all talk about energy, ... a simple explanation for this. Exactly, yes. After the car accident you mentioned, were you already thinking about No, not in that way. I simply orientated myself I want this, I want that. Before the near-death experience, I wanted everything Afterwards, the blissful feeling How do I experience it again? I was almost addicted to it. What can I do to make it come back? It's still there. And two years ago, I also began to deal with the That unity experience. Exactly, I delved deeper it was actually right Looking back today, how would you say this experience I've thought a lot about my experience. I always tell people, I was at home. Everyone can imagine the Be it the sea or the mountains, There are no problems there, But there is a small catch. There is no other child "Let's experience something together." You're all alone. But there are lots And that's wonderful. The exchange with others is important. When we're alone, we can be We can live happily, But there's no one to say, We have a lovely There are so many people. That has become very valuable to me So also that life here Very important, exactly. Only here can we experience About my experience, I realized that it's not me but rather that everything that exists, The real life is in the interaction. Everything lies in this interaction. Do you have the impression in this interaction in the sense that everyone of experience? Definitely, yes. I believe there is help, but no direct interference. I believe in free will. We have free will. We can do this, or that, For me, free will exists as it is. But after my experience, I've had several more accidents, A gentle help. If you are on the right path then you will definitely get help. Has your experience changed, deepened Would you say today generally speaking, more spiritual? More spiritual. Looking back, your near-death experience Are you at peace with yourself? Oh, yes. I've achieved everything I set out to do, I've also had some difficult times, I've felt that everything I get up in the morning And when I come home in the evening, I have everything I've ever wanted. I've been saying for years Life is beautiful the way it is. I also advise many people to simply say, life is beautiful It doesn't have to get any better. You don't always have Precisely so, yes. I think that was Thank you very much for the interview. I thank you.