Joe Pass is one of the most influential jazz guitarists to ever pick up a guitar. He was incredibly skilled, so it's almost impossible to copy him. But even if you don't spend months transcribing and learning entire songs, there are still some important lessons to be learned from his comping. And this will help you even if you play much simpler chords and stop you from getting stuck with just playing chords from grip to grip without any feeling or without making any music. It really surprises me that I come across people, even online teachers, who tell you not to play what Joe Pass is playing when he's comping like this. But I'm sure you can tell for yourself what works and what doesn't work. I'm gonna focus on how Joe Pass is comping behind Ella Fitzgerald in this video. They made several albums together, and to me, they really defined how to play in this setting of a guitarist comping a soloist. Joe Pass demonstrates pretty much everything you want to know about comping. And I also found some clips of him describing how he thinks about it, which I really think adds another dimension to the whole thing. The most important part of jazz is rhythm. And when you're playing behind a soloist in a duo, you need to make sure that the groove is clear and swinging. So check this out and see if you can hear how Joe approaches this. I've got the world on a string Sitting on a rainbow Got this string around my finger This is a real jazz tempo, that slow medium, that's just sort of the most jazz tempo. Again, it's also a very difficult tempo. But here, I think the chords are pretty basic, so most of it is just some shell voicings. And then for the rest, really standard stuff. So the drop three voicing, another sort of shell voicing bass one, and then a single drop two. But of course, the point here is that he's playing sort of that really solid quarter note groove. And mostly just chords on the beat, really just. And then occasionally he will split up the bass note and the chords for some rhythm. So in this case you have, for instance, the E flat seven. Now there's a part of that that is the bass note, and then you have a chord above that. And then you can do. And he does the same thing on the C minor, so. And of course, he also has a way to add fills in this setting that I'll get to later in the video. Now this is so strong that even if you just play the basic shell voicings, then you actually have a great take on the song. That is a good foundation to build on if you want to build your own comping. So you could start with just this, and then also add in a bit of rhythm using that split between the bass and the chord. Don't be afraid to just play some clear quarter notes and use that as a foundation to build on. That's clearly what Joe Pass is doing here. And there are two other ways that Joe Pass lays down a groove in this setting. Both are sometimes frowned upon, which I find a bit strange, but the second one is probably sort of the most famously associated with Joe Pass. But check out this one first where he's really laying down and setting up the groove for a love for sale using a simple Charleston rhythm. Really simple, really basic, but it definitely works. This first chord is maybe a bit funny. It's like a Bb7, but there's no third in there. But that kind of becomes clear in the next bar because here we get the third, but it's used as a bass note leading into the rootless F713 that follows. And then he goes to this B7 sharp 11, which is of course there just to go back to the Bb7. He uses this groove as a template for the A parts with a few variations in there, and then changes to this other type of comping that not everybody approves of, chords and walking bass. This really demonstrates how great this technique can sound and also how Joe Pass uses it in a very flexible way. First, just playing the full chord and then moving up the neck in steps. And then here adding on the Db, the third of the chord, adding an inversion, moving up to the Eb7. And you can really see how the bass line is a simple stepwise melody moving from one chord to the next. Even on the Abmaj7 bar, he first plays the Abmaj7 and then skips all the way down to a leading note, which is this A, to catch the Ab7b13. It's all about being practical, and that's quite clear on the Db7 bar that follows that. So we get the Ab7, and then he moves to the Db7, playing the chord, and then just going down to the fifth, really just sort of the most simple. bass change that you can make, but it still works as a walking bass, so. And that's of course an example of that you need to be practical to get the whole thing to work. That is as important as anything. If you can't play it in time, if it doesn't sound good, it's not worth anything. Let's move on to some fills. G-Baby, Ain't I Good To You is a great example of both how Joe Paz gets a standard to sound bluesy and also how he adds fills to his comping. He actually has a really clear concept of how to work with fills, as he explains here. Like making sure that you make the connection to the next phrase. So it isn't like if you play a note, then you're on G, so now you play a fill. It's not that, it's gotta go- With the melody. To the next bar. And that is exactly how he approaches this song, using first a short and then a long fill. And notice how there are also a lot of bigger chords in this song. What makes me treat you the way that I do? G. So in this slower groove, he's not really relying on playing a quarter note groove or just playing that pulse. Instead, he's first playing the bass note and then playing a chord. And notice that this is also a bigger chord. It's really much more about the color and it's placed on a syncopated note. So it's like on the one and then on the one and. Then a leading note to the next root. And he kinda repeats this pattern throughout the whole song. And uses that as the main groove that he's sort of getting across here. And that works really well for sort of that blues feeling. It's a little bit like just repeating a syncopation throughout the whole song. When it comes to fills, then the first thing to notice is that Joe only plays fills when Ella is not singing. So the first example is a really short phrase, only a few notes at the end of bar two. So really, that's just this melody on the A7, which is like 13, flat 13, down to the ninth on the D7. Now, when Joe rounds off his fill, then Ella comes in again and finishes the melody of the A part. Gee, baby, ain't I good to you? And there's a lot more room for a fill here. And I think it's really great to hear how he's sort of mixing blues and jazz and has this turnaround that kinda sounds like a turnaround in C, but then also still leads to that A7 that's the first chord of the second A part. Gee, baby, ain't I good to you? So fills are not only on top of a chord, but also have a function in terms of moving the music further to the next chord or the next section of the form. Joe Pass was clearly a bebop musician in that respect. The long fill in the previous example is sort of very much a melody that is just standing on its own, but he actually also incorporates the longer fills into the chords, something like this. Gee, baby, ain't I good to you? There are a few things to check out here. Notice how he very often plays a chord like the D7-9, but in the beginning, he just plays the lower part of it to just sort of have the basic sound. And then he adds in the high E later just to keep things moving. And that's just a way of staying practical as well. He kinda does the same thing with the G7. But then you get the first fill, and that goes from C6 to C7. So, adding this G7 passing chord, moving up to this kinda stretchy C7 with a high C in the melody. And then with a bass melody, moving to this C7, which of course is a rootless C7-913. And then from here, going to the bridge. In this song, the bridge is four to sharp four diminished. So, in this case, that's an F to an F-sharp diminished, and then back to C. Sounds like this. I brought you a fur coat for Christmas A diamond ring These beautiful open voicings behind Ella. First, the F6. And then to an F-sharp diminished. To Cmaj7, there's room for a fill. And he first plays this. He actually just plays a really simple major blues melody. So, that would be. But then he adds color to it in a way that's quite surprising. So, first we get just a major seven. He's sliding into that, so. And then you get a Db7 and then a C7 and then you get this really nice run with C7 chords down to a rootless F7 so that you can continue and most of us could probably spend a lifetime harmonizing C blues licks like this it's just so elegant seems kind of mind-blowing with all these basslines, chords, fills how do you do all of that at the same time? Well, you don't Joe Pass was very practical when it comes to playing in a setting like this I already hinted at this in some of the examples and he actually has some advice on how to approach it A lot of people think that you're playing bass notes at the same time you're playing chords at the same time you're playing melody and it's not like that it's an illusion you're playing a bass note sometimes you're playing a chord sometimes you're playing the melody most of the time and you're filling so it's all done by doing something with motion and that also fits with what you see in the examples let me show you 3 ways to make it easier to play like this and also help you get the important part of what you're playing across if there's a lot happening in the chords you don't need a lot of fills or bass movement take the turnaround from I've Got The World On A String as an example so when he's doing a lot with the chords he's actually keeping everything else simple so first just Bb minor leading into it really just playing the chord adding a color note, then a leading note in the bass Eb7 repeating that then a passing chord, Amaj7 to take us down to Abmaj7 now first on the Abmaj7 because we're kind of landing here he's following that up with a fill very short and now he starts working with the chords and not really doing anything else so first Db7 Cm B7, Bbsus down to A7 and then another bass melody to take us to the Ab7 in the next A so really once he starts working with the chords so it's Db7 to Cm7 to B7 to Bb it's all pretty simple they're not complicated chords in any way it's really just 4 note or 3 note chords most of them are actually shell voicings and then of course this drop 3 voicing for the A7 the focus is on the movement and it's either a melody with a fill or a bassline or harmony which mostly then means passing chords but then using simple chords the same kind of thing happens here when he moves to walking bass in Love For Sale the movement is what is important and when the bass is moving then fills and complicated chords are kind of just getting in the way for a trip to paradise it's also worth noticing that for the basslines he's pragmatic and emphasizes the movement and the playability over making fantastic intricate bass melodies it's really about keeping it playable you know he's just moving back and forth because that's the easy thing to do then he can add the chord in again and now with a rhythmical variation and then a bassline but then also with an added extra 8th note just to move things along splitting up the chord again going to the tritone substitution and again this is all stuff that's sort of close to each other, it's easy to play and it's more focused on being able to play it in time but also have a lot of stuff happening and also having that movement forward happening all the time and that's really what's the important part here you see it also when he resolves the first two Ab7 so and here he just repeats the bass note because when the chord is being repeated then there's already something happening and he's also in the middle of some chord movement with that half step moving down here so again also just a repeated bass note and that's also taking us down so we have the sort of traveling from F to E down to Eb on the Db and that's really the important thing here you wanna keep it playable so that you can make sure that you can get it across, play it in time and get it to swing we could probably all learn something from that. Another thing that Joe Paz is amazing at is jazz blues and one jazz blues of his that completely blew my mind so I had to spend hours and hours learning it is the solo that I'm talking about in this video. This is one of the best tracks of one of my favorite Joe Paz albums and the way he makes this jazz blues and chord solos on this is unbelievable. It is one of the best places to learn to play jazz blues instead of being stuck with solos that are only lixed with arpeggios. You need to check this out Learn Jazz, Make Music