If I play you this melody on the piano... You might recognise it as Maple iconic courses. But if I take that Well, it sounds pretty different, but it uses this minor key version as a part of its but it's there if you know where to listen. But that's not all! Did you notice the Smash Bros and still sounds the same? And have you ever Today we're rounding up a bunch of and solving them all! Let's get started! Number 1 First, let's talk about Super Smash Bros Ultimate, Now, the Smash Bros games have a long tradition of Destination music track, and Ultimate follows It starts out as you'd expect, with a high But about halfway through, the melody changes made up for this specific song. But that's not quite true. Because you might notice a familiar melody... That's right, the entire main theme is the chorus - it's really impressive how much Whether you listen to this piece you'll hear that familiar main theme! Number 2 Next, let's talk about Mario Strikers this game features 20 main characters, each themes that play when winning or losing. Most made up for this game. But a few of them hide First there's Bowser's theme... And this tune is a rearranged version of the Then we have Dry Bones, And that song references the Tower theme And finally we have Boo, Now, if you saw my last musical secrets because it is an arrangement of the Big These three characters are each pretty obscure Mario melodies. Part 3 Now, while we're talking about to talk about Boo's voice - where When Boos first appeared they didn't make any kind of sound all of that changed. Mario 64's sound and when it came to coming up with the sounds explained in an interview that the average N64 of those sound effects were recorded by Inagaki effect libraries - big CD collections full of Now, when Inagaki was searching for a he came across this particular laughing sound... Inagaki slowed down this sound And sped it up to use as the voice of the Boos. Now by pure coincidence, the man actually Charles Martinet, Mario's voice Martinet had actually gotten some work when you play Mario 64 and hear a boo cackling So, that laugh sound effect was used in various Mario Tennis, even Luigi's Mansion uses that it's in Luigi's Mansion where Nintendo and I think it's actually more recognisable as But in 2004, Nintendo decided to no matter whether Boo was happy or sad, in any clip. Not very versatile... Which brings us Power Tennis was developed by Camelot, Mario Golf and Tennis games for Nintendo. The received quite a bit of direct cooperation from And so, when it came to the voice of Boo, Nintendo record a whole new set of sound effects. Rather a new employee to the company - a sound designer According to Uchida herself, "We sound designers create sound effects. It's well soundproofed, And that soundproofing sure came in handy when Uchida was tasked with recording cackling sounds. Those recordings were processed 20 years later, Sanae Uchida is still the credits for a whole bunch of recent Mario where the Boos sing for the first time! Now, I'm but there's no evidence to the one providing the singing voice Part 4 Okay, this next one is one of my favourites, Between Worlds. This 3DS game is famously set in and a lot of the game's music is made up of soundtrack. Honestly, A Link Between but for now, I want to focus in on Now if you're familiar with A Link to the thinking - hang on, this isn't a rearranged original. But listen to what happens when Does that sound familiar? For Lorule Castle is the inverted and composer Ryo Nagamatsu decided to flip This is super cool, and it's not even this. Famously, Skyward Sword's Ballad of If you play Ballad of the Goddess Again, let me demonstrate it This Ballad of the Goddess reverse trick is super Castle's theme is just as clever and I think Part 5 So, in my last video covering Nintendo sound - "bah bah" - from New Super Mario Bros sound has been introduced into the world of Mario: This was the first piece of music we heard and people immediately began drawing parallels But immediately upon hearing this piece of music, one internet user noticed a familiar sound. That "Immediately recognized the &quot;doo&quot; voices Take a look at Joshua's video. So, the "doo" sound is actually of Jazz Stacks. It's part of a huge which contains hundreds of different Joshua told me, "Omnisphere sound team. [It's] all over many of is an ooooooooold one with a long history And Joshua's right! The vocal sounds library called Vocal Planet - and Vocal Planet "dahs", hums and shouts, and it's remain[ing] unsurpassed as the world's And it was those very samples that were used as part of Super Mario Bros Part 6 Next, let's talk about Mario Kart Wii. pieces of music in this game share the Treeway and Bowser's Castle. At first glance, and their respective pieces of But listen closely and you'll notice a turns out Bowser's Castle actually Maple Treeway melody! I think it's a little Those two melodies are close to identical, but in a major and a minor key! Here's Maple Other than the music, I'm not sure tracks together. But it's a very strange Part 7 Now, while we're talking about Mario Kart, and that's Neo Bowser City - also known as Koopa On first listen, this music track sounds like but it actually hides a huge number of First is 3DS Toad Circuit, referenced here at Then there's Mario Kart 7's own There's also a reference to N64 Toad Turnpike... And finally, this part So putting together all of It's pretty amazing how all of these come together to form a really fun and And there we have it! Those are 7 of easter eggs and mysteries! Now, I didn't talk about the Donkey Kong hear a bit about Donkey Kong Country Returns, people to buy that game, then check out my And as always, an extra special