[narrator] This is a journey across It's a journey through space and time. Along the way, we discover and unearth the remains way up high in the mountains. Dinosaurs join us We meet up with Neanderthals and are on hand to witness that came close We encounter hunters and the hunted. And join Europe on its long journey around our planet. A hundred years ago, people were already aware ancient animals. Again and again, evidence of a much earlier a place inhabited by strange creatures. This was just such a find Bone from a legendary animal. The Age of the Dinosaur had dawned. They would now call the shots for the next 150 million years. Compared to its later relations, the Plateosaurus was a featherweight. Yet this herbivore was still too heavy for the damp muddy ground that had spread over the area bit by bit. The thick gooey silt In modern times, so many of the longnecks that they were nicknamed after the local region. These creatures mark the beginning The bone was only the tip of the iceberg. But let's first take a big step back. The young Earth No sign yet of our blue planet. Little by little, rivers, lakes and oceans appeared. At the time, the primeval was rising up from the sea, the continent lay thousands of kilometers at the equator. [thunder rumbles] Nowadays, this distant era is known as the Carbon or Coal Age. Back then, there was a strange atmosphere Birds did not yet exist. The climate was hot and humid. There was a surplus of oxygen. Higher, further, longer, the fern trees grew Prehistoric giant centipedes could reach lengths of up to two meters. Caudates were the first vertebrates to set foot on terra firma. Within just a few million years, these amphibians had developed legs And for the first time, Giant dragonflies patrolled from above. With four individually controllable wings, like their modern ancestors, they were high-precision hunters. [thunder rumbles] The ancient tropical forests produced enormous amounts of oxygen. One thunderclap was enough to combust. At this stage, Europe was situated at the intersection The collision of the two that could have been as high if it hadn't begun to crumble as soon as it had formed. The forest swamplands were buried Forests repeatedly grew up, only to be flooded once again and covered with sand and rocky debris. A process that took millions of years. Cut off from oxygen, First they became peat, then lignite, or brown coal, and finally black coal. The run-up to modern coal mining began 700 years ago in England. On the surface at first, then, in pursuit of the deeper layers, operations went underground. The energy originally stored in the plants was once again brought to light. The great hunger for energy, literally, undermined The ground below was soon criss-crossed with mine shafts and passageways. Meanwhile, above ground, These installations convert the stuff that growth On the coal mine slag heaps, the primeval forest from down below once again becomes visible. Its remains can be seen that the giant specimens have left behind in the coal strata. The huge fern trees as well as giant centipedes. The trunks of 40-meter tall have also made their mark. So too the dragonflies which, apart from their huge size, are hardly distinguishable The blueprint of the magnificent dragonfly has hardly changed in millions of years. During growth, the young insect repeatedly casts off yet durable chitinous exoskeleton. Beneath this disposable armor, its body is divided into soft segments. After the last shedding, The dragonfly has reached maturity. The descendants of the caudate have not reinvented themselves either. They still spend their childhood breathing through gills. Later on, they grow legs and lungs. Only then, can they go on land. It's almost like watching In prehistoric Central Europe, a massive mountain range once stood here, where now only dwarves remain. Erosion has worn the Coal Age mountain range down to the ground. As the peaks eroded, What remains are the low mountain ranges of Southern, Eastern and Western Europe - the Sudetes, the Rhenish Massif Water often collected in the clay containing watertight strata creating lakes. Looking at the green landscape of today, it's hard to imagine that a primordial ocean once sloshed here. The Zechstein Sea covered a large part of the European continent, from today's Baltic states, across Poland and all the way There was still no sign that a disaster of incomparable proportions would occur in the post-Carbon Age era. Temperatures on land were scorching. Though they were left high and dry, the amphibians didn't go extinct. Those that escaped the arid land lived on and continued to adapt. Rain clouds that developed out at sea rarely reached Without rain, With skin and eggs the reptiles now had a decisive advantage in the hot desert climate. Over a period of 150 million years, mountain ranges were ground down, flooded by the ocean, What remained was a landscape cut through with deep rivers and streams. Mudskippers found their own ingenious way of gaining solid ground. Instead of lungs, which they fill with water that they repeatedly enrich with oxygen by gasping for air. Mudskippers are not the link between fish and the four-legged creatures on land. Rather, they are proof that there are several solutions. It can take hundreds of millions of years for a given animal to make the transition from water to land. Crabs have also made the leap. At low tide, they search As diverse and ingenious as plant and animal adaptations may be, nature is nevertheless repeatedly sent back to the drawing board. By the end of the Permian Period, 80% of all animal species on land and in the sea had gone extinct. It is highly probable that a series of volcanic eruptions triggered their demise. The climate descended into chaos. Algae blooms and oxygen-eating bacteria created death zones in the oceans, poisoning all marine life. Throughout the Earth's history, mass die-offs of this kind have repeatedly led to the loss Even today, evidence of the prehistoric deserts is still omnipresent. In the Palatinate Forest sand and clay deposits have piled up to form 400 meter-thick layers. Once the colorful sandstone also filled all the valleys, covering the entire Palatinate Forest. But wind and water of the highly porous sedimentary stone, creating bizarre rock formations. And the Palatinate Forest isn't the only one in Europe Across the continent, the giant fern trees have been replaced by other species, spruce, beech, oak and pine. At first glance, this sea of trees seems empty and monotone, yet it's actually full of life In the south of the continent, Mediterranean pine forests In Central and Eastern Europe, it's beech, and, in the north, the taiga takes over. But though these forests they ceased being real wilderness Here, forestry and modern hunting shape the face of nature. White stork of the alluvial forests. Initially, a tree-breeder, the birds first took to the rooftops when human beings And yet, since time immemorial, the forest has remained shrouded in mystery. The deep, dark woods are a primary source At night, we can still feel the spirit of the primeval forest. In some places, however, the dream of the ancient forest For centuries, the prehistoric carbon stored in the Carbon Age forests has been rising into the atmosphere from smoke stacks and chimneys, fueling climate change But rows of spruce have also been planted creating fragile forest plantations. A powerful winter storm, however, sweeping through here can often devastate whole woodland areas. When such natural disasters strike, we can only look on helplessly as years of reforestation efforts In the Bavarian Forest National Park, they have established designated areas where fallen trees The forest is purposely left Here, it's open season for pests. The voracious bark beetle can go about its destructive work The beetles lay their eggs in the wood and when they hatch, the gluttony begins. Like a biblical plague, the insects ravage the spruce forest. But every ending bears the seeds however unintentionally. The pernicious pest actually helps give birth to a new, wilder and more colorful world. Fungi contribute to create the virgin forest of the future. With the naked eye, we can't even see the growth of mushrooms that shoot up So, it is all the more difficult the slow pace at which life What looks like a standstill is in fact a state of constant change. Entire continents migrate, animal and plant species vanish and new ones appear. But in our perception, the time spans are so enormous that we can only guess The events of millennia can be compressed into just a few centimeters of stone. At a rock quarry in Bavaria, evidence of prehistory is revealed. As the layers are excavated, silent witnesses from a bygone age repeatedly come forward. Back then, the region rested with flat lagoons along the shoreline, underwater, coral reefs lined the coast. But above the waterline, Welcome to Europe's Jurassic Park. In the Jurassic Period, the dinosaurs had the run of the planet. Skillful fliers, quick hunters and armored giants, they conquered almost every niche, On the islands, which are mountains today, lived speedy predatory dinos, like this Compsognathus, who liked to eat his smaller relations. This savage age With clawed fingers and a long, boney tail, Archaeopteryx. The first evidence of Archaeopteryx was discovered in 1860 in a chalk quarry in the little Bavarian town of Solnhofen. A feather. Soon the first fossilized skeleton A feathered dinosaur, a bird? The finds gave rise to new questions. Charles Darwin had just published his theory &quot;On The Origin Of Species&quot;. Soon the fossil was caught in an evolutionary tug of war. One camp saw it as evidence For others, it was an exotic anomaly, but definitely not a link between species. They were wrong. Every layer of Solnhofen limestone could bring a new fossil to light and cause a new stir. A discovery no one had reckoned with, Archaeopteryx wasn't the first dino But if the little predatory dinosaurs plumage wasn't airworthy, why did they have it? Nowadays, reptiles are cold-blooded, they sunbath to store up warmth. Dinosaurs were believed to do the same but the Jurassic creatures left nothing more than stone to go by. But the stone has tales to tell, if you know how to extract them. Sometimes, very fine structures are preserved deep within the fossils. At Bonn University, researchers are looking In the bones the scientists have discovered similar to those of trees. The core samples from the bones show that in many dinosaurs the rings are spaced at large intervals. They must have grown quickly, as only warm-blooded creatures do. And so, history must now At least several species of dinosaur had little in common with modern reptiles. Feathered, two-legged dinos and feed their young, the similarity is no coincidence. The golden eagle, is a descendant of the dinosaur, likewise blackbird and sparrow. The eagle's habitat looks wizened, weather-beaten, full of wrinkles, as old as can be. The appearance is deceptive, the Alps are a relatively that a mere 200 million years ago was still underwater. Today, traces of the former ocean are still encased The mysterious imprints long posed puzzling questions. These are the descendants from which the Alps had yet to rise up. Back then, much of the Alpine region still looked like a tropical In the south, a deep trench separated the African The sea filled this divide, and the beaches were lined with reefs up to a thousand meters tall. The smaller inhabitants of this sea had to beware of marine dinosaurs. Even in the dark, the Alpine Reef was not a safe place. Nowadays, that sea lies above the clouds. The seabed crumpled up Once 1,000 kilometers across, it was pushed together like a concertina and is now just 100 kilometers wide. The craggy mountain landscape is the result of a collision Here Africa pressed from the south Unbelievably slowly, crumpled and piled up in layers. And so from the bottom the chalk Alps grew to great heights. The ancient seabed from which water comes The constant force of the water wears the mountain away again, bit by bit. Daddy long legs, or harvestmen, have survived for millions of years and are eyewitnesses to these changes. Now, many species are under threat. Human beings The underwater world of the Alpine lakes is no less mysterious than the prehistoric oceans. Here, too, evolution has come up with a highly inventive survival strategy. These clear but nutrient-poor lakes are home to the bladderwort. This ancient aquatic plant has a special way To get enough nitrogen with little crabs and worms. The tiny animals are trapped and then slowly digested in the bladder of the carnivorous plant. In the dinosaur age, the prehistoric precursor of the pike could also be found 600 meters above today's sea level lies the Konigssee. Here the pike and the bladderwort hunt along the remains of coral banks that were lifted up to altitudes far above the timberline. In just a few million years, the habitat has been transformed and with it the animal and plant kingdoms. Living at an altitude of 1,000 meters, the marmot is perfectly adapted Unlike some other mammals, to cool their bodies down. In a warmer climate they would not survive the rigors of the constant turf wars. But how do species develop? How does evolution get down to business? While the Alps slowly rose up, a new and colorful revolution began. Flowering plants came to be and with them insects, some of them specially adapted to a single type of flower. If one did not exist, The insects are attracted and by pollinating the buds they, in turn, ensure the creation of the next generation No one yet knows exactly how this interplay It's a rugged world up here. The high mountain habitat With every meter of altitude, and the diversity of plant life decreases. But the plants that do manage despite extremes of cold, sun and aridity, are true specialists. In this inhospitable realm, where almost no tree species the Swiss pine thrives. They take their time growing and can live for up to 1,000 years. With their sinuous trunks and tough wood, they defy the storms and icy winds that often haunt these heights. The fate of the nutcracker is inextricably Year for year, of the dinosaur painstakingly In the fall, a single bird stows his stash When winter comes, it returns to its storehouses. It can remember where most of them are, Many of the seeds in the forgotten caches sprout in spring, So, the nutcracker doesn't just feed at the bountiful table of the Swiss pine, it also ensures the species' A delicate balance of nature at the edge of the timberline. What was once the ocean floor is now the preserve of acrobats. Under the watchful eye of the eagle, the young chamois blaze new trails. But as skillful as they are at climbing, falling rock and avalanches repeatedly take their toll, The eagles are immediately on the scene. Ibex and chamois on the precipitous rocky mountainsides in search of an essential substance, salt. On the journey of the continent the sun dried out the shallow seas, turning them to salt deserts. The Permian Period oceans also left their traces here Today, those salt strata traverse the rock of the Berchtesgaden Alps. The salt rock veins extend kilometers deep into the mountains and at some spots are up to As the Alps began to elevate, the salt deposits, too, becoming deformed as they were displaced. Their patterns clearly delineate Salt has been extracted in Berchtesgaden for almost 500 years. The drills follow the salt veins From the tunnels, mine shafts extend deep down The mountain water itself does the actual extraction, washing the salt out of the stone. The brine is almost as salty as the water of the Dead Sea. The ancient cycle repeats itself. Water evaporates and precious salt remains. Hundreds of millions of years giving Europe During this time, the Alps have grown to become a massive mountain range. Their peaks are the highest point And the Alpine massif still continues to push upwards. But where there is a mountain range, there will also be wind and water. If it weren't for erosion, the Alps would be 30 km high by now. Every trickle carries the mountaintop pebble by pebble. The precursor to the Mediterranean once covered vast areas of the Earth. It was from this early ocean creating a river that now flows through six European countries, the Rhine. Its story begins 50 million years ago. Its source is in Switzerland, On the descent, the Rhine makes The Alpine Rhine carries along with it sand and detritus, the rubble of the eroding mountain range. Several million tons of it each year. It's all deposited little by little The river is thus filling a depression left behind by Ice Age glaciers. Lake Constance itself by glacial ice stream tongues. When they retreated, they left behind surrounded by high walls of rocky rubble. When the dams burst, to join the still young Upper Rhine. At the Rhine Falls the second largest waterfall in Europe, up to 700 cubic meters of water a second come crashing down. For the river's fish, except for the eel. Its roots go back millions of years. From the evolutionary perspective, the eel is an old model, but one that is by no means outdated. It can leave its element to get past the Rhine Falls via the land route. It's thought that came to an abrupt end 65 million years ago with a meteorite strike. But that wasn't really Its claws are only faintly reminiscent of the predatory dinosaurs of the Jurassic and Cretaceous Periods, yet the dipper is one In fact, all birds are distant relations of speedy little predatory dinosaurs, some of which The gray wagtail but its forebears will hardly into aerial acrobats As everything in the development of life, this transformation, too, was likely a process peppered with intermediate forms and transitions. Just past Schaffhausen along the edge of the Black Forest, woodlands famed The shade of the mountain conifer is home turf for the wood grouse. The male is no flying ace but he does boast impressive plumage. This shows the female that her suitor would be a healthy partner. The offspring of these animals will be a tiny bit different from their parents. Those who pass on their characteristics will define conditions The way of the world It worked! Some members of the plant kingdom have also survived The first conifers appeared way back in the Carbon Age coal forests. The silver fir is one of their ancestors. Up to 65 meters tall, they grow in the hilly regions These trees are a living example of tricks that evolution has employed since time immemorial. The generation of protected, nutrient-rich seeds and airworthy pollen, and all on one tree. The source of the Wutach River is in the south of the Black Forest. Over millions of years, the tireless power of the water has slowly exposed the rock strata. The river cuts through right down to the foundation stone of the Carbon Age mountain range. The environment is ever-changing. The view from above the Black Forest is like a window on the Earth's interior. Here, a continent was divided. To the west, the Rhine Graben, as a branch of the ocean 50 million years ago, when Southern Central Europe was pushed up the ocean retreated, The river chose an unsettled bed. The Earth's crust is especially thin here. Magma repeatedly made Millennia of erosion have sanded down the prehistoric volcanic craters. What remains are the sun-drenched terraced slopes of the Kaiserstuhl. a little bit of Tuscany The extinct volcanoes are a fertile ground for many life forms. [insect chirping] A jungle of grasses and flowers for an unusual hunter, the praying mantis. It's mating season The lizard is completely unfazed by the deadly rendezvous. Unlike its ancestors This collision put an end The crash hurled huge amounts of dust into the Earth's atmosphere. The sun was hidden for months on end. Temperatures dropped significantly. More than half of all species Scientific debate over weather caused the dinosaurs demise will most likely rage on and on. But one thing is certain, the time for the mammals had come. In the shadow of the dinosaurs the first mammals appeared, little unassuming creatures. With the giant reptiles out of the picture the way was now clear for them. Welcome to the Rhine River floodplain of the Eocene Age. It is 10 million years has devastated our planet and Europe has migrated farther north. In the subtropical climate, mammals have come to dominate the scene. Here, where later we now find a lush primeval rainforest. Half of all known modern-day are already in existence here. Birds, fish and insects, too, the entire animal kingdom as the present-day edition. Not the European one, however. Nowadays, many of the Eocene inhabitants live in the tropical regions It's thanks to a volcano that we know exactly which animals When the volcano erupted a 300 meter-deep crater lake was formed. Plants and animals were swept down but instead of being destroyed, they were preserved intact in oil shale. The Messel Pit, Here, layer for layer, a snapshot of a major event in geological history is being excavated. The fossil record tells of life and death at the crater lake. Most likely, poisonous gases had escaped the water fall into the lake and drown. Many fossilized bats have been found. They must have swooped down Today, the Messel Pit and a unique gateway The oldest extant hand of a primate The fossil finds in Messel are astonishingly true-to-life shadows of skin, as well as Sometimes the stomach contents have even been preserved. The most spectacular find to date was made back in the 1980s. A 60 centimeter-long, monkey-like animal with a very long tail. The creature had most likely fallen prey to the same poisonous gases as the other animals [animal mewing] 47 million years later, the little lady primate Now known as Ida, she was long billed as the progenitor of the human race. Although no definitive evidence her body does display gripping hands with opposable thumbs. The tropical Eocene forest, too, was eventually buried Now, whenever we scratch the surface, a glimpse of prehistory is revealed. Here, where the diggers now scoop virgin forests once lined Slumbering beneath the lignite Frozen in time within it, the life of the ancient forests. Much of Western Europe with a fresh layer of ice. Coming down from Scandinavia, the glaciers pushed all the way to London. Coming from the Alps, they made it The glaciers formed and bound so much water that vast areas of the North Sea The Quaternary, was a time of upheaval. There were repeated glacier thaws, with the melt water runoff As the cold retreated northwards, the animals of the cold periods Forests spread out again. Hippopotamus, elephants migrated from the south Roe deer lived in the immediate in the tributaries Forest elephants now lived where mammoth had previously grazed, and roe deer and wild boar came along to take the place of reindeer. The animals migrated in accordance But something significant had changed. The animals were no longer alone. In October, 1907, laborer Daniel Hartmann [Hartmann] Just days later, an anthropologist visited the sand pit. For 20 years, the researcher had been paying the workers His patience, and his investment, had finally paid off. [anthropologist] Over yonder in the steep face. Hmm. -Uh-huh. This here, that, that, that and this. A-ha. The mandible belonged to a precursor It was given the name The Age of Man had begun. Long before the first human the Middle Rhine was formed. The Alps applied pressure from the south, creating the Central German Uplands. Then, 25 million years ago, the ocean retreated leaving the Middle Rhine behind. It didn't hook up with the Upper Rhine Much later still, human beings came along to make their unrelenting mark During the century of industrialization, the Rhine, as many other European rivers, was straightened along its entire length, reshaping entire regions. The Romans brought the art of wine-making along with them to the south of France, to Germany, to Italy and to Spain. They laid the foundation Merlot and Cabernet. Although the landscape people here live closer On the river island Namedyer Werth, a waterspout shoots up the highest cold-water geyser on Earth. Not far from the geyser the Laacher See. In the Middle Ages, retreated to the seclusion of the lake. They built a monastery But the monks didn't suspect that they were living closer The extinguished fire mountains can reignite at any moment, as can the super volcanoes of Italy. No one can say if it will be in ten thousand years or next Tuesday. The last time the Maria Laach the result was destruction The ash spread as far as southern Sweden For several days, avalanches of hot lava and ash barreled through the valleys, creating an almost 30 meter-high wall that dammed up the Rhine When the dam finally burst, a gigantic torrent of floodwater all the way to the Netherlands, laying waste to everything in its path. [birds chirping] Long before this devastation, an ancestor of today's human beings a large part of Europe Homo Neanderthalensis, the Neanderthal. [elephant screaming] [triumphant yelling] More than 200,000 years ago, this species of human In the coldest periods had forced the Neanderthal Finally, however, the species succeeded in adapting to the cold. The Neanderthal was long assumed to modern man in almost every way. Not so. Neanderthals knew and the best hunting grounds. They were skillful craftsmen, and fashioned clothing The Neanderthals lived in small clans scattered across a large area. But even in the forests survival wasn't easy. The dense woods were home rhinoceros and forest elephants but to lions and hyenas as well. As the climate changed so, too, but the Neanderthals Nothing is known about their language, but the anatomy of their throat reveals they would certainly have been Their hunting implements than those of Homo Heidelbergensis. They used a sort of glue made of birch tar to fasten their knife-sharp flint blades a brilliant invention. Evidence shows that Neanderthals cared for their sick There is still much speculation vanished from the face of the Earth We were long thought to descend But apparently, not all encounters between the two were hostile. The fact is, we do share a portion, albeit a small one, The Neanderthal lives on within us. For the last time to date, a great cold period Now the wolves and the large grazers, mammoth, musk oxen and reindeer, wandered in their millions At the foot of the glaciers, a constant wind swept across the land. It was the northernmost outpost of life. When the cold here got too severe, the herds had to move on. The wolves were always hot on their heels. And they weren't the only ones In the midst of the cold period from the African savanna For days on end searching for fresh meat for his clan. Wolves were among the first wild animals that humans not only hunted The life of the hunters was dictated by the migration of the herds. As the animals changed feeding grounds, the human predators, too, repeatedly moved camp In the summertime, the open steppe But it was almost impossible when the snow and wind covered their trail and they disappeared Every year, the hunters waited for their prey to pass by on migration. But the great herds never to return again. Some species went completely extinct. Others left the land For a long time, human beings took the rap for the disappearance of the mammoth and the Megalosaurus. But the handful of hunters for the extinction of these species. Rising temperatures for the animals' demise. The end of the Ice Age was the start of a geological restart process, because only after the glaciers melted could Northern Europe begin to become the place we know today. The scope and character of the North Sea It advanced farther and farther flooding the vast plains A completely new habitat was born, the Wadden Sea. Fine-grained sand, gray-brown mud and turbid water that's about all the North Sea And yet, the ice desert of yore has become a richly diverse habitat. Twice a day, the tides flood with a nutrient-rich brew. The mud offers both protection and food. Beneath the surface of the mud flats, This is the nursery for many fish that will grow up The lumpfish, too, spawns here. The male goes all out After all, it's not his survival but that of his offspring that will secure the survival After the eggs have hatched, in the safety of the shallow waters The cadavers of the father fish, dead of exhaustion, often wash ashore. In the spring and fall millions make a rest stop at the Wadden Sea. The area has the largest bird population The Ice Age created an island of life. Far offshore, the North Sea Amidst blustering waves, the island of Helgoland Around 250 million years ago, the red island was still part of a desert. It's the only port of call far and wide for passing air travelers Once a year, the cliffs of Helgoland offer countless visiting seabirds a perfect place to rear their young. In the winter, long after gray seals appear on the beach. The bulls compete aggressively trying to conquer the sections of beach where the sea cows gather Soon after the young are born, the gray seal mating season begins. One after the other the bulls come ashore, vying for ascendancy In the winter, winds churn the sea. Sharp tongues of surf lash away carrying off rock and sand and depositing it elsewhere. The work of human hands Along the Baltic Sea coast Here, where the Ice Age and filled it with its melt water a broad belt of reed marshes and sand flats has developed, neither land nor water. Free of human intervention, large parts of the Baltic Sea shoreline are sanctuaries for coastal wildlife. The broad belts of marshland are the preserve of the marsh harrier that broods and rears its young The chalk cliffs of Rugen are also the product of the glacial ice, which pushed the island The chalk was formed in the dinosaur age from the tiny lime shells of plankton. Under the pressure of the glaciers this material grew to become The warm period covered the chalk The roots of the plants Without this protective covering would have long since After the end of the last Ice Age, the climate warmed up very quickly. The forest returned and along with it the animals we still know today. The people, who up until this time had been nomadic hunter-gatherers, now began to settle But as human civilization entirely new conflicts arose. [shouting] Wildlife was no longer just a food source. For a farmer tending her fields deer were pests to be driven off. For the hunters, the farmers and their fields They chopped down the forests Agriculture, however, With what is known as mankind began a targeted campaign of adapting nature to its own needs. Villages and later cities were built and the population grew apace, because people were no longer dependent on what they could hunt and gather, but could now produce their own nutrition. The wildlife avoided human settlements, retreating ever deeper into the forests. Today's broad, open marshland habitat, on the other hand, But it is here that migratory birds to start their journey south. The flat, almost treeless land provides a good view for predatory birds, such as the marsh harrier, who aim to take full advantage before the summer guests move on. When temperatures have dropped and the migratory birds things go quiet on the North Sea coast, the world's largest marshland area. The place seems as remote and uninhabited as it was 2,000 years ago. Vast forests now covered But along the Rhine modern civilization advanced all the way up to the north. After conquering the Romans right away began The division, surveying and administration of Germania began. Thanks to a sophisticated the Roman roads cut across the landscape in perfectly straight lines. These roads connected the Roman camps that later developed into cities, including Cologne, Mainz and Koblenz. Off the beaten track modern-day Germany is thinly populated. If the forest were still left it would cover almost the whole of Europe. But where human beings live fruit orchards, fields and pastures have supplanted New habitats have been created. Here, sheep, cattle prevent the forest The stork likes to be in close proximity and is the beneficiary picking tasty tidbits Mankind repeatedly carves out Until the early 19th century, wood was the most commonly used material and practically the only heating material. Entire regions were deforested. By this time, Since the Middle Ages, as a grazing pasture and the leaves blanketing the forest floor were cleared to use as straw in the stalls of livestock. Wood and charcoal supplied the energy to fire the ovens of the salt, More and more charcoal burners to produce wood charcoal. Huge amounts of which was needed to feed the booming nascent industries. Where wood supplies ran low, communities and cities passed laws Nobility, too, took action The landed gentry laid claim and took measures for forest but not from ecological conviction. The hunting classes wanted to save their stately game reserves Without the sport hunting the German countryside For millennia, the hunt was an existential necessity but in the early Middle Ages Nobility passed an edict over its forests. The farmers were not only they were not even allowed when it was caught plundering the harvest At that time there was a law that revoked the land rights of the peasantry as soon as the trees and shrubs to reach a rider's spurs. Nowadays the hunt not only serves to control the game population, it's also a popular recreational activity. A certain forest in eastern Germany, does not owe its existence to nobility. Legend has it that the Spree Forest, with its tangle of countless waterways, is a work of the devil. In fact, this labyrinth of water and woods is a legacy of the Ice Age glaciers. Here, concealed in the maze of streams, the black storks raise their young. They live on little fish and frogs that they have to share The Spree Forest alder tree no longer grows in the natural way alone. The seeds that fall into the watercourses are fished from the surface The Spree Forest of today no longer bears any resemblance Man reshapes landscapes that had developed over millions of years. 100 million years ago, exotic animals lived in the narrow estuary of what is now the border of Germany Their chalk shells and skeletons collecting there layer by layer, millimeter by millimeter. This chalk, as well as the sand and stone deposited here by the wind and waters, piled up to create When the ocean retreated, erosion took to the sandstone banks and turned them into the jagged Diving down between the cliffs along the various rock strata is like time traveling of the European continent. And construction is ongoing, as streams and waterfalls continuously change the rock face. As far back as the 11th century, people began mining sandstone. Later, with the development quarries sprung up along the Elbe. The quarrying widened the narrow Rock for rock, the stone was broken and blasted from the walls. Shipped along the Elbe, to build the walls and stately buildings Elbe sandstone is still quarried today and shipped to customers around the globe. Dresden's master builders, have eroded the Elbe cliffs. For the reconstruction they returned once again to the old sandstone quarries. The Hamburg Town Hall as are many of other buildings The Falcons brood here, as they do in the cliffs The animals have long since in the man-made habitat. Today's major cities They often offer than the surrounding countryside. The iconic cathedral and Rhine bridges are unmistakable landmarks Tourists, floods of people, concrete and heavy traffic. You don't think of animals here. But the urban centers Animal immigrants from across the globe have made a new home for themselves adding color and variety to the scene. Our contemporary cities bring Europe's long journey to a conclusion for now. Our journey is over but Europe will travel on We'll never know what direction whether it will one far off day or under the equatorial sun. We won't be there to see and lifted way up high, torn in pieces that sink into the sea, or covered by a kilometer thick But one thing is certain, it will be an utterly different Europe than the one we know today.