The --- We saved a lot of Libyan lives. Now, could we have done more Well, that's always, you and I'm sure that there's but let's look at A complex and highly The international effort We finally have hope that our Coming to you from about to get on a flight and fly to Tripoli, Been quite stressful to even get approval to be led in even though I already That's how you It's a long process. I'll Now we've got to go, get a country with a I've been told by the guy I'm that it's pretty much so nerves are a bit Let's go through Here we are in Here we are in Tripoli. It's insane and I've wanted to come here We're going out right now to Let me just quickly You could see I filmed because I'm here and I don't want to draw attention Flying into the airport because that's actually not The old airport was ----, and but even the one we flew into, half ---- planes, ---- in the Apparently, it's a but yeah, it's quite It's hard to feel. It but you never know, so I have to For obvious reasons, on the edge about any It's just quite a tense I've got my local guy so let's go explore Thank you. Okay, so we've driven and we've come down to the beautiful Hi! He's going to be my Looking after me, right? Absolutely yeah, we'll make Cool and check out the sunset. First impressions of Tripoli You know, obviously, after and seeing, you know, horrifying and you know a failed you know your mind but so far it seems Obviously, I only just got here a couple There is ---- presence and you know I'm sure it's quite but we'll see how we go just really You know, these you don't really think of Lots of local people fishing, we drove Something that definitely sticks You have these and then you have these places that and then you go around the corner It's quite the So this is the castle. It's Wow! It's an absolutely beautiful museum, So, it's the following day. Here we are on beautiful view of the Mediterranean We're about to drive, you know, it's going to be, you know, five, Going to another we're gonna see what see if we can come Let's get on the road We are going to be but we're going to continue into a so it should be So far, it's nothing Okay, so we've driven through It's quite hot here. We've They used to store olive This was like a bank. Anyway, so we've arrived ---- presence on the way considering the Because foreigners a whole force of the local and so I've asked them if I and they're happy to be on film, so it's a good opportunity Okay, so we're here with Abubaker, and we're here Do you like being an officer A hundred percent. And so, where I come People say it's Do you think that I'm safe being He said that the You can see for yourself, Do you feel safe since So, there's your answer. And do you feel safe? He feels very safe, yeah. For people, maybe that see you Libyans in a certain He said that the message is Libya is getting and you've seen Nick, now coming such thing as checkpoints A normal ordinary street. So, it's only going to That's his message to - Shukran. - Shukran. Okay, we have been driving through and we've come up We're driving over Check out the view. Not sure why but there's and then we're on this winding road It's quite the scene. So, as many of you will know, That's where the majority Petrol here is extremely cheap. We're about to go and get some. I'm gonna film the process. I think it's like You just get it off these and I think because we're going it's gonna be about seven hours so we have to load up extra fuel and Interesting thing about Libya it's one of the top 20 biggest but it's got a very small I think there's only around and 3 million of those live in So, you've got so much vast desert Because it's so sparsely populated, opportunities for petrol when and you do not want to run out of Salam Alaikum. So we've come but apparently these and so we've met up with a guy, and he's got two tanks of gas So Abubaker, can you just roughly because it's quite Yeah, so what's This is half a liter of our petrol in Libya is That's across all of Libya, almost free especially comparing like Tunisia and That gives us a up here in the mountains because as you can see Nick And the reason for that all the like Tunisia, Because it's so cheap. Because it's so cheap, and it's sold locally across the So then we have to buy it effectively Where does this fuel No, it could, or when he would go there and and have it save somewhere So he's a small fish, you know, who have hundred thousand And do you think this will the Sahara without getting I think this would I had a problem calculating but this should take us all And so, how much does this cost I don't know. He said So the price has I think so, it's being negotiated Okay. Two dollars. - Two dollars for 20 liters? But if I was in Tripoli, Just about 70 cents but - So, more than double? - But it's still, you know. Yeah, and it's very cheap. I Definitely. And is it quite common for Yeah, in fact, if you go to Zuwara which is they have special tanks designed and literally they will drive to Tunisia and then drive back to Zuwara - It's a good business. You could end up with maybe 100 It's really quite surreal to a few dollars to fill up a massive It's insane. - Is it the spare one we're gonna take it? Is that approved by What's that? It - Shukran. So here we are in the desert. We've pulled over and driven for, I still got more to go. We're meeting a guy here, I think, four-wheel driving or The interesting thing about, you know, the you'll just come across these random buildings it's just coated with ---- and You know, since the revolution, there's and in many different It's obviously very complex, but you know, as you've wherein the parts of the but other parts of the country But yeah, there's so many of these just that have just, you know, Some of them are okay, some It is hot. After the four-wheel driving, we're actually It's like a triangle Yeah, right now, if you were to get a that's where we would be. So, we've driven out and we've come to this spring, and it's 35 meters deep. It's just naturally here. There's locals here It's like a little kind of holiday It definitely looks It's like I don't know So we're here with Moza, and he's driven He walked the tourists take them in groups Before 2011. Okay, and then if some people then he would be the I asked them what happened because it's close, so they Okay, so before 2011, he was able to work in tourism, but now he has to find other - So he's opened like a garage. Yeah, he tried one in Come back, opened here, and he's Is it a hard life out There is no time to sleep. - Right, so just constantly working. He said tourism now is So Libyans have started coming Instead of Italians and he's dealing with that, Apart from economic No, there's anything. From 2013 he said things have been It had a bit after very much different Shukran. So, we've just driven up You can see them in You can see over here in the distance It's quite far, but we Packing serious heat, and lots of ---- We met them and obviously, I didn't film it, but is good to be reminded So many hours driving through the which is actually right next to Please keep in mind that I'm doing the best to see interesting but it is quite controlled of what you We are constantly They're actually phoning and seeing So, we have to be quite careful, and even talking to would be assumed not the their opinion being Mainly what the ---- want I'm trying to kind of, you and meet people and see the modern-day but that has but I'm going to keep pushing, and we're going to see what we Abubaker is a great guide. He's really trying but you know, we can you know, even just we've been told we can't And we've arrived in this huge I'll show it to you in but it's just this I just got lost coming from the and there's nobody here, Huge dining room like we're doing hundreds of From what we've seen, I Please bear with me. I'm trying to show you the best of Like I say in Libya, keep in mind that You're not allowed to Let's continue and I will see you Thank you for watching. Yeah, this country is proving to be really Driving across the desert Nine hours in the it was like 30, 40 degrees, but Okay, in case I don't see you, good afternoon, good evening, and good night from Libya.