- Arthur C. Clarke had a sequel It's called &quot;2010, Odyssey Two.&quot; And at the end of it, an alien intelligence As a group of astronauts they receive the following &quot;All these worlds are attempt no landing there.&quot; Now that was just a novel, but it suggests that already in 1982, we suspected that Europa of finding alien life in the solar system. 42 years later, in October 2024, NASA is actually launching to hunt for signs of alien life. And it's going to Jupiter's moon Europa. There's just one problem, Jupiter kills everything around it. So how could life exist there? And how do you make a probe that can withstand the (suspenseful music) (gentle music) there is so much pressure, that hydrogen is believed to take the form of a metallic liquid. And this metallic liquid an incredibly powerful magnetic field, almost 20,000 times stronger than Earth, if you measure at the same distance away. So if you could see this it would appear twice On its own, that magnetic But right in the middle of it is the most volcanically active Jupiter's moon, Io. The volcanoes on Io's of sulfur dioxide, and every second, one ton of this material gets ionized and trapped inside And the field accelerates these particles to rotate incredibly fast with Jupiter. So they whizz around at over Their inertia actually stretching it out. And this trapped material ejecting even more particles This cycle forms massive radiation belts which span past Europa and Now, for electronics, this In the 1970s, the Pioneer only briefly passed by Jupiter, but the radiation caused glitches, gave the instruments false commands, and corrupted some of their data. Even with modern shielding, a spacecraft within the radiation belts would only survive for So how will NASA's new orbit Europa for over four Well, the solution is, it won't. It'll orbit Jupiter from afar and then swoop in every few and then leave again. And since the mission is going it can use the downtime to transmit it all back to Earth before going in for another swoop. In all, it'll do 49 flybys, mapping almost the entire surface. That's actually how the after the fast and nimble quickly dipping in and out of ports. But of all the places in the solar system to look for life, why Europa? If you stood on Europa's surface, you'd be hit with 5,400 milliSieverts of radiation in a single day. That's 1,800 times more than If you stay here for a couple of hours, you would eventually die But Europa contains a secret. When Voyager 1 passed by Jupiter in 1979, it took this photo of Europa. If you compare it to in the solar system, you'll notice something Every planet and moon has been bombarded by asteroids over billions of years. And most planetary surfaces show it. But not Europa. So why not? Well, something recent, say over the last 60 million years or so, must have been happening on Europa to erase most of these 16 years after Voyager, It spent eight years and its moons. And Galileo's magnetometer picked up something interesting on Europa. Jupiter's magnetic poles, like Earth's, aren't aligned with its geographic poles. So as the planet rotates every 10 hours, the whole magnetic field wobbles. This changing field from Jupiter induces a magnetic field on Europa, and a relatively strong one at that. That means there must be an within Europa that reacts And readings from Galileo indicate that it must be somewhere only 10s of kilometers deep. So what kind of conductive layer? Well, Europa's white surface in a thick crust of water ice. These reddish-brown regions, when observed through a spectrometer, fit the description of a lot sulfuric acid or even bacteria. We need more data to be sure, but recent experiments at when bombarded with intense radiation, turns from white to this same brownish So scientists suspect that there's a whole that could be 100 kilometers deep. Meaning that Europa would as the whole of the Earth. And it must driving geological activity that constantly smooths out and renews the surface of the moon. But the Jupiter system only gets about 4% of the sunlight we get here on Earth. So Europa's surface is constantly so you'd expect the But there's a way to generate heat that doesn't rely on the Sun. And I've got a little Europa's orbit around Jupiter This is because Io, Europa and Ganymede are in orbital resonance. Each time Ganymede completes one orbit, Europa completes two and Io four. Because of that, Io tugs Europa inward on one side of the orbit, while Ganymede pulls it out on the other, making its orbit more eccentric. Now, Jupiter's pull is stronger on the closer side of the So Europa is constantly stretched and squeezed. And you can see how this as I squeeze it. Scientists believe that by the tidal flexing of the entire moon can generate enough heat This effect gets stronger the which is why Io is so volcanically active. So you can see this ball is I held onto this ball at the same time to make sure that it wasn't from my hand. What sort of temperature of - So it depends on how salty it is. So, melting temperature of ice or maybe depressed by 10 if it's a very salty ocean. Similar to cold oceans on Earth. - And how would the flexing differ if there's this big liquid ocean versus if there's no ocean there? - If there's no ocean, Europa should flex by only about one meter in amplitude. But if there's an ocean in there, then it flexes with an So that's an enormous deflection. And that will come out pretty Another argument for how we see these very strange that are arcuate in shape, but like multiple arcs put together. We call them cycloids. Not something you'd expect And we think they form at just the right speed, about and is following the changing stress field of Europa being squeezed as And if there were no ocean down there, there wouldn't be enough of to explain the cracking. But if there is an ocean, then it could explain the cracking. - All that tidal flexing pushes closer to the seafloor. Water flowing through the and it picks up minerals from the ground, ejecting them into the ocean. This creates hydrothermal vents. And where we find these on Thousands of meters below the these vents are oases for ocean life. The lifeforms down here bacteria that feed on the rather than on the energy How long are we thinking - It could be four billion - That amount of time could to evolve in those oceans? - Right, exactly right. Organisms can use methane, Any chemical reaction you can think of that might happen in the as a fuel for that organism's metabolism. So we're not talking about or whales or squids or but looking for single cell organisms. - We were so concerned there when the Galileo mission it was deliberately crashed into Jupiter to avoid the risk of contaminating Europa. But Clipper will not be able to drill through the So how are we going to find evidence for life beneath that thick surface? This is the SnotBot. It's a drone with Petri and it flies right through whale blows to collect whale snot right here on Earth. And zoologists can use the SnotBot to retrieve all sorts of And it turns we can do for celestial bodies too. We've actually captured images of water geysers shooting a moon of Saturn, housing And the Hubble space telescope of what could be similar The hope is that Clipper of these plumes, like the SnotBot, and reveal their chemical composition using a mass spectrometer. But evidence for an ocean Enceladus seems like a stronger candidate, we have actual images of its plumes and we've even flown through them. We are almost 100% certain If we have these plumes on Enceladus and there's clearly maybe why does Europa have your Is there something that draws you? - We don't know how long but it's possible that Enceladus may have just kind of whereas Europa has more over a long time. - Surprisingly, being bombarded actually makes Europa a better candidate. See, those high-speed particles give water and carbon dioxide to form new compounds, like formaldehyde or hydrogen peroxide. And these can serve as food if they can get down that far. - And we have evidence of at chaos zones where the icy and material has been So there may be ways to get down into the icy shell - [Derek] And Clipper on the surface to confirm this. - There's an infrared spectrometer to look at the chemical fingerprints of light bounced off the and map out where the salts are, find if there are organics there. There is an ultraviolet spectrograph that's aboard the spacecraft Are they there? And of course, then can And then there'll be imaging at better than 100 meters So one camera will take swaths of images as we fly over the surface and that's called the wide angle camera. And then the other camera From 50 kilometers altitude, it will get half meter So it'll be able to resolve my desk here if it were on Europa. And then it would be a future mission, like a lander that would go and actually search for - Do you think a lander would - There have been studies that say we can get a lander living on the surface for a month. If we think that's scoop some stuff up from below the depth of radiation processing, and put it into a mass - But the Europa Clipper won't be studying Jupiter's moons alone. The European Space Agency's JUICE mission, or the Jupiter Icy Moon Explorer, is already on its way to Jupiter. It will come to the system and it'll even be doing before settling into a So the European Space Agency will also have a mission - Yes, we're having informal conversations with members of the JUICE science team. What would it mean to at the same time? The JUICE mission will end and Ganymede has its own magnetosphere. Well, we'll be outside So we might say, &quot;Oh, look, there's this big burst And then JUICE might say, &quot;Oh, we felt that over here So we wouldn't have to except talk to each other and make sure that the sum of the whole is even bigger than its parts. - Europa Clipper was scheduled to launch on October 10, 2024, but NASA is waiting for before the spacecraft can take off safely. When will we get the first results? - You'll start seeing distant as we look at Europa from And then you'll see the first in 2031. - So after say 26 years of thinking about a mission to Europa, how does it feel to be so close to launch? - It's a little surreal, This has been such a long time coming. It's occasionally hitting is going to be up there in the It turns out that, during a Europa Ocean Conference in the late 1990s, NASA actually video-called And after showing him plans to explore the faraway ocean world, Clarke finally gave NASA (monitor whooshing) Europa Clipper is a perfect example of the amazing things we can do when we set ourselves ambitious goals and work together with But I think we often get and forget just how much of an impact we can make on the world. That's true on a society-wide level, like these big international but I also think it's true You yourself can probably than you think when it comes to making the world a better place. And today's sponsor, 80,000 Hours, wants to help you do just that. They're not selling anything. 80,000 Hours is a nonprofit that can help you work out positive impact in the world, Career advice typically that suits your preferences. But what if you really care Well sure, they can tell you but these aren't your only options. Which is why 80,000 Hours have done over 10 years of research into how to find a career and also feels satisfying. They have everything from to a podcast on the world's and how we can solve them. They even have a curated job board with hundreds of high-impact And everything they So if you want to make a difference with the 80,000 hours you then sign up now at There's a link in the description or you can scan this QR code. So, I want to thank 80,000 and I want to thank you for watching.