Venus is a beautiful, elegant planet; seemingly wrapped in a soft cloud like a blanket. it's clear why it's named Venus, the Roman and you'll find quite the opposite. Scorching are what you'd actually find on the surface. deadly, and its acid-laced environment what do we know about this beautiful yet Hi I'm Alex McColgan, and you're watching makes this planet so unique in our solar you could want to know about Venus. to see where this planet fits into our solar and it's our closest neighbour. Its average roughly 108 million kms. It doesn't vary as it's the planet with the least eccentric orbit, closest approach to us, it is the closest of any Interestingly though, this is not when it's we only see the night side as it's between us sunlight refracts through the atmosphere. It's shape in the sky, and when this happens, it is moon. As such, Venus is commonly misreported as Jimmy Carter reported having seen a UFO in 1969, Countless other people have mistaken Venus brightness. I recently had the pleasure of looking the crescent shape of it was very visible. it may make you wonder if Venus ever eclipses the is yes, but surprisingly, very rarely. Transits but every pair only happens once every 100 or but if you didn't see that I'm afraid the for this rarity is because the orbiting plane of Venus only catches up with Earth every 584 or although a spectacular and predictable sight, chance to see it once or twice in our lifetimes. and with this, Venus is no different. But unlike or in other words in a retrograde rotation. Not rotating once every 243 Earth days - slower than than a Venusian year, a Venusian year lasting 224 my recent Mercury episode (which you can check of the planet. Because of this retrograde rotation is considerably shorter, at 117 Earth days. This on Venus in one year. I just want to give you at the equator the planet is only rotating at most spherical object in the solar system, after compared to the rest of the planets, but it billions of years ago, or tidal locking with the Its mass and size are very similar to our as our sister or twin planet. Venus is one of rocky planet. Its diameter is slightly smaller 12740km, and its density is 5.3 g/cm3 the gravity on Venus is only a tenth weaker than But this is where the similarities end. Because is 92 times greater than that on Earth. That's reason for this is because the density of Earth's. And fit that amount of gas into a space and you can understand why it's so densely packed. combined with sulphur dioxide clouds, you're left system, with temperatures of 462degC at the surface greater than Mercury's, even though Mercury is solar radiation that Mercury does. The difference retain the heat, whereas Venus certainly does. the temperature remains fairly constant. much heat. But like a thermal flask it retains tilt of only 3 degrees, it also means seasonal Wind speeds aren't very high on Venus's surface, but because of the thickness of the atmosphere it small rocks and dust across the surface. On the faster, reaching speeds of 300km/h. These winds at to five Earth days which makes the planet look is. The cloud layer itself sits above the thick sulphuric acid droplets. Sulphuric acid, just as a just adds to the hellish nature of Venus, although The clouds on Venus are highly reflective, only and because they cover the entire planet, it space. These clouds are also capable of producing as common. Recently it has been discovered that like on Saturn. Now Venus is the image on the quite differently, and Venus only has one storm, Saturn image is a separate storm, with the main is at an altitude of 59km which is just above the about the atmosphere of Venus. Because at about be are tolerable byfor Earth standards. Even The only problem with a person actually being an airtight plane or something like this, the Now I want to head back down to the surface some real photos of the surface thanks to the 60s to 80s. The probe Venera 7 in 1970 was the send data back, the previous attempts resulted in Venera 7 probably fell over on impact, and so at the surface, which was 475 degrees. Venera 8 quite clear, with a visibility range of about altitude meaning it was suitable for cameras in ever image of the surface of Venus. Venera 10, 13 imagery, this time in colour, as well as a lot Since then, there have been a number of probes radar, they're able to see through the cloud cover definition. The surface of Venus is dotted with a It has 167 volcanos which are over 100km in Earth is the big island of Hawaii. This doesn't but this is due to the fact that Venus has plate tectonics releasing heat and renewing least being 100 million years). Venus on the other its crust is estimated to be about 300-600 million occurred. The theory is that the mantel under the through the crust, covering most of the surface is made up of cooled lava plains, and there are one form or another. There are also 900 impact than 3 km in diameter. This is because anything burn up before it even hit the surface. magnetosphere. Venus doesn't have its own it was first discovered as Venus' composition is it's hard to say why this might be; although a Letters" 2017 suggested that perhaps it was Venus' history. Earth had at least one massive possible it played a part in kick-starting an impact - perhaps this explains the lack of a solar and cosmic radiation interacts a lot with lightning and an induced magnetosphere. Solar wind the atmosphere meaning that Venus has a tail, this tail can tickle Earth when they are in this tail isn't visible with the naked eye. But I'd just like to say thank you so much I have a lot of other videos about our other So be sure to check those out! Our Solar System and there's always more to discover. But for now,