- Microwaves get a bad wrap. Some folks think they're unsafe. Others associate them with And finally, there are some folks who just think they're unnecessary. My team and I are here to tell (upbeat music) Now you can't believe the it can't do everything but it can do a whole lot more When I develop recipes, there are so many times because it's so good at Who wants to dig out a pot to to a boil or turn on the oven There are right ways and and in order to make the we really need to Be sure to hit that like Microwave ovens contain a and that magnetron, it Those are the things that Microwaves are a part of and when you think about that spectrum, you should know it has two sides. There's a safe side, and then On that safe side, like visible light, radio There's squarely on the safe side. Manufacturers have designed on the inside. Why would you want them on You want those microwaves heating up the food that's inside the cavity, not whatever's out here. Now microwaves can pass in order to allow you to see they will put a mesh on that door. That mesh has holes that are small enough that the microwaves Obviously you can't see microwaves but you can hear when a Magnetrons don't generate microwaves of various power levels. Instead they're just on or off. So when you go to adjust the what you're doing is on and how long to be off. Microwaves only act on Their heating may be the top When you run a microwave at full power you're bombarding the surface By reducing the power level you're giving it a little break. During that break, heat in the surface it'll have time to move The result is more evenly heated food. I'm gonna demonstrate how useful that power button is with My goal is just to soften I am gonna microwave this and if you're listening carefully you'll hear that magnetron flip off right around 30 seconds on right around 11 seconds. (magnetron whirring) And there it came back on. Got that. This looks great. This is nice and uniformly softened. If I had microwaved this at full power I would get hotspots where and cool spots where it's pretty solid. Reducing the power level is one way to help food heat more evenly. Another way is to just Annie Potatoes best baked sweet potatoes use this method really effectively. It would normally take about of sweetness that she and it all starts in the microwave. She puts her sweet potatoes in there and they microwave for Every three minutes they get flipped and that helps them heat up They'll spend an hour in a 425 degree oven before they come out. We slit 'em open, give 'em If your microwaves are of an inch and your food is there's no center that's not being heated. Take beets for example. These dense vegetables but when you microwave them after cutting them into they cook through quickly and evenly. So we've established that on the surface of the food. But what's happening at a molecular level? Unlike you're your oven which heats whatever you they only heat certain components of food. Specifically, we're and to a lesser extent, Microwaves will cause and that vibration, it translates to heat. Molecules that don't vibrate, Why does this matter? Well, when you take in order to get solid blocks they get locked into place into place, microwaves Microwaves don't do anything to ice. Let's do an experiment. I've got an ice block here. I've put a hole in the top and I'll put this whole After that, I'll use this with this blue water. Then we'll turn this microwave on and let it run for about two minutes. What we wanna see is how with ice and water. (plate grinding) Yikes. What happened here, of the water onto the plate, it's still pretty much the same. It hasn't changed. What has changed is the it got hotter and it This is what happens when you at full power. What little bit of water is there it'll heat up and it'll But everything else nothing happens. Now, you've probably experienced this if you've tried to some parts boiling hot, How do we do this properly? I have some frozen creamy It's one of my favorite and I'm gonna microwave it at (upbeat music) Nice and creamy, hot all the way through. I did it. I reheated frozen soup. Microwaves are for more than In fact, I can use this to the next level. Let's talk garnishes. One thing that distinguishes from so much home They can add pops of to the simplest of dishes. When I was a restaurant by the bucket full and they were fried, fried fried garlic, fried leeks. They were delicious. Now, when I want them at I can make a reasonable I don't have a gallon of oil To garnish this soup, I'm gonna I've got a third of a cup of and to that I'm adding some capers. This is a quarter cup of and padded dry. Just gonna give this a quick shake to make sure they're submerged. They'll go right in. And I'm gonna microwave for five minutes. I'll stop halfway through When you're microwaving a liquid, you don't need to reduce the power, because heat transfers through than it does through solids. Whatever it is, your microwave frying. It's really important to use a big bowl. When you're frying, you're in the food into steam, of bubbling and boiling, that bubbling and boiling So I'm looking for these to darken in color and for them to shrink slightly. Awesome. These are gonna come out of the oil. One other thing to keep in mind whether you are frying on the don't put wet utensils in. You'll cause more of that boiling over action and it could get dangerous. These capers are looking really crispy. I'll let them finish get this soup into a I have my fried capers here and I also have some of that oil. When you fry garnishes, a lot into that oil, and it's So I'm gonna give this a quick drizzle and a nice little sprinkle. This is so good. The white beans are creamy and smooth and just subtly earthy. And then right on top is this punchy oil and these crisp briny capers. Now of course, fried capers aren't the only thing you Here at Cook's Illustrated, we make a lot of garnishes For fried shallots who want a thinly slice about three shallots, add 'em to your oil. Make sure you use a large that at full power for about five minutes. You're gonna get in there to help them brown evenly, you'll transfer them Season them up while they're For frico, you're gonna and grate it. Spread one tablespoon of cheese onto your plate into a little disc. Pop that sucker in the microwave and let it go until After they come out, you're to a cooling rack where they Frico are great crumbled or just eat 'em outta hand. One of my favorite compound A quarter of a stick of to that you stir in orange zest, honey, almond extract and salt along with the rest of Give that a quick stir and then At that point, your butter that you can whisk everything together. This orange almond compound butter it's great on toasted English We even have a recipe for Great for ice cream. You're gonna need granulated and lemon juice. Microwave that mixture until Let it hang on the counter Then just whisk in at a time because it's Once all that cream is in add a tablespoon of If you feel like you need to jumpstart or you just wanna whip up some a microwave might be your best bet. I'm hungry. I love soup. What's your favorite microwave technique? Let me know in the comments below. Be sure to like this video. Subscribe and check out more great recipes and techniques