- If there's one thing it is lobster from the (lobsters clattering) In an average week we are processing, I would say anywhere between five and 600,000 (lobsters clattering) It's always grounding to remember that those lobsters you're catching sometime within the next week will be someone's dinner (gentle upbeat music) We're gonna haul some traps but the majority of my traps are out here, out behind Richmond Island, which is off the coast of Cape Elizabeth. So the first thing we do every morning is grab our fill of dead This is like the gas station stop. Most of my money on a is spent on dead fish. This is a pogy or a menhaden. Lobster is the economic Communities rely on this Without the lobster fishery, Maine would be a very different place. (bright music) Right here, we have John Nobody sells more than this guy right here. These fish are actually used for production of fish oil sometimes, and that oil is what the lobsters smell and sense underwater. That's what attracts them into the trap. - The stinkier the better, as Curt says. We're gonna catch a lot (upbeat music) - So they smell and see and they crawl in through these It's difficult for them to get back out, and this is a requirement on all traps is to have a biodegradable escape vent. Traps are designed to and other critters, whether right out of the trap right there. (upbeat music) Everybody has their own buoy colors, and that's how we identify These are my buoy colors right here, green and kind of a tan color. We are in 20 feet of water. We're gonna see what we All right. So here we have two lobsters, Females grow wider Males, they put more energy This right here is a crusher claw, and then its ripper or has much sharper teeth. That is designed for of those same clams and muscles. What she's doing is breathing Lobsters also can pee out of their faces. There'll be two streams of water that it shoots right at you. That's what they do in the wild to kind of establish dominance. So two male lobsters will end up just literally This is our measuring gauge. In Maine, the minimum size for a lobster is 3 1/4 carapace length. We take this tool, start right And if it were to touch the it would be legal size. This one goes past the carapace, so she goes back into the ocean. And the minimum size is designed so that by the time they've they've had the opportunity to breed for at least one or two years. So this one right here, legal-sized. That's a nice pound and a Oh, finally. Four, if we're doing four it's about five pounds of trap. It's a really good average So then we take our bander take the bander, put it over twist, pull, and it I get bit all the time, and honestly it's the smaller lobsters that you gotta watch out for. They use like a ratcheting pressure too, so it kind of pulses. Not a good feeling. So Ready Seafood is a company that was John and Brendan. We grew up on the coast of Cape Elizabeth starting at a very young but I can assure you it's if you are gonna do this for a living. So this is a female lobster So obviously, when we we have to throw back into the ocean. But before we do, we're into this tail flipper right here, and that signifies she's a proven breeder. So if she's ever caught even if she doesn't have she's illegal to keep. So we're gonna do this quick, and you can see that notch And female lobsters will to over 100,000 eggs, mostly depending on their size. (bright music) This is actually the shell of Molting is the process Imagine if we had to shed in order to grow. That's what every single lobster does. When this part of the and a lobster will actually out of its old claws, and it will pull right out and start over with a very This right here is a baby lobster, probably one or two years It takes a lobster five to Two to three years old right here, probably six or seven So the baby is gonna find a nice hiding spot, and we'll see you in three or four years. - [John] That's right. Ooh, crab infestation. They get to the bait very quickly. Last trap of the day right here. We're gonna set this one back, head for the barn, and This is a generational fishery. So much of what I learned, Really, the key to that is to ensure that not only will there be a but a next generation Overall today, we hauled and probably have 40, 45 pounds. So much of what we do is ensuring from when it is harvested, right up until it greets We have two holding tanks, each capable of holding of live lobster. These holding tanks so by holding them in cold water, we are preparing them for their journey by bringing their metabolism down, by bringing their oxygen consumption down, brings their stress level down. This is the first stage right here. This is our purge tank. So lobsters come here, immediately go into this So in this facility right now, we have about 150,000 pounds of lobster. (pensive music) These lobsters here have a So these lobsters in this their next step is our (bright music) So once the lobsters reach kind of the first step in their journey is on a conveyor and through our stunner. (bright music) And a stunner is designed specifically for killing lobsters humanely. Essentially, it sends an electrical charge through the lobster and kills them instantly. (lobsters clattering) So after the lobsters have been stunned, they're broken down right here. Tails go in one direction, claws and knuckles and bodies and legs go up this conveyor right (bright music) So this fun piece of and separating our raw in-shell So there are sensors in that conveyor that actually weigh each individual tail. Depending on that weight, they get shunted off and then sent over here to get frozen. (bright music) They enter our nitrogen tunnel right here. So this is essentially a pizza cooker on the other side of the (nitrogen tunnel whirring) This is probably the highest-quality way you can freeze a lobster tail. It maintains the quality of and they are frozen solid This piece of equipment with the city of Saco. So we're talking insane pressure. We can go from zero to 45,000 That pressure kills all those bugs associated with breaking food down. When you put lobsters in there, that pressure separates so we can produce our (upbeat percussion music) The machine actually separates so that when we get it here, you can see that meat literally just falls right out of the shell. (upbeat percussion music) If you ask me that personally, I love the claw and knuckle meat, and tender, and briny, and (upbeat music) This right here is our steam cooker. It's about the size of a subway train. The temperature inside is constant, different products are brought (upbeat music) and then they enter this which is 38-degree water and essentially stops the cooking process. (upbeat music) Those bodies and legs go on our mince line where we produce minced lobster meat. (upbeat music) (lobsters clattering) And then the rest of this line right here is all team members picking It goes through two where every single piece and make sure that there of shell or cartilage. (pensive music) We have a great machine to utilize more of the All that body meat and and meat that gets stuck on the would just go into the waste stream. And with this, we're able to produce of minced lobster meat that otherwise would be a waste stream. It's 100% lobster meat, so you can use it in to arancini, to lobster egg rolls. (lobster shells clattering) So this is one of the coolest And these shells are full of all kinds of good stuff. My goal in the next 10 years into the most valuable part of this plant. They are full of chitin and chitosan, and other mineral components That chitin and chitosan is antibacterial. It can act as a biopesticide, We're working with scientists looking to develop rechargeable batteries from the chitin and chitosan So everything that we that is gonna be sold fresh is packaged, weighed, sealed, but nothing leaves here for two days. We send samples from each lot of lobsters that we produce out to a And until we get those results back saying that product is okay, it stays here for food safety reasons. We're really proud to supply a lot of local restaurants with their lobster meat. And so being able to work with chefs in the culinary side of lobster is something that we're - 61 and... - Eventide is an amazing restaurant. They take our lobster product and they put their own spin on it. - So we receive lobster every morning and our commissary will And once it's processed, it comes up in these five-pound bags. We start by heating up Get it coated in the butter, The richness of the butter, all of that really just It needs a little bit of Put it in our house-made bao (upbeat music) It's delicious, well-balanced, We sell about 700 lobsters People come from all over to get them. (upbeat music) (indistinct chattering) Two sandwich, dairy-free buns. (upbeat music) - On a daily basis, you're up early out on the One of the things that I love most about being on this planet is and harvest lobsters. (pensive music)