When Seneca claimed that the wise man is safe "What then? Will there be no one who will try to do an "Yes," said Seneca, "they will try, He argued that the wise man is too far removed throw at him would retain its power of harm He compared such pursuits to an army of bowmen They would shoot high up into the sky; their the heavens and fall back on the ground. But despite Seneca's plea for inner strength other people's malice, Serenus argued that the wise man in the first place. And let's face it: if all of humanity would world be a much better place? But Seneca disagreed and said: "You are were inoffensive, which may hardly be." Well, doesn't that remind us of the current you say seems to offend someone somewhere? While the idea of an inoffensive world may Seneca saw that it's most likely unrealistic. People always seem to say or do things that much in the power of the offensive as the However, the problem with Serenus' wish our control. If we, for example, wish to exterminate all for grave disappointment. There always will be assholes spouting offensive And the emergence of social media and massive everyone and their mother can deliver their their visibility. And so, the number of people who get offended grow. Even though foul language may be offensive, occur as long as humanity is around, especially Hence, if we don't want to be offended, work; it's like carrying coal to Newcastle. Therefore, Seneca repeatedly emphasizes in being defeated by other people's words or So, it's not about defeating those who offend people, which lies within our power, according The question is, of course, how can we pull This video focuses on Seneca's Stoicism, When comparing the known Stoic philosophers is probably the most popular. His Meditations are accessible and resonate his thoughts and struggles. His reflective nature, combined with being which is also the case with Epictetus, who In contrast, Seneca, though a significant He was a statesman, philosopher, and dramatist. His varied roles contributed to different politics. Even though he had a prominent place in the the heights of Marcus Aurelius. However, he came close, as his authority over years of reign. Lucius Annaeus Seneca, also known as Seneca Spain. His father, Seneca the Elder, was a famous Helvia, came from a prominent family. Seneca's education was in rhetoric, but After a successful career in Rome, Emperor due to accusations of adultery, where he remained consolation to his mother. Seneca created a variety of writings on Stoic Aside from in-depth essays on topics such he also wrote many letters containing profound He wrote in Latin, which indicated his literary would still write in Greek. In this video, we'll focus on one of his as On the Firmness of the Wise Man. As a Stoic, Seneca strived for a state of external circumstances do not disrupt or, But, from Seneca's perspective, what does Is it akin to being an emotionless rock in Does it mean being completely indifferent In his work, On the Firmness of the Wise Man, equanimous individual, the sage, would respond further in this video essay in-depth. How does one become undefeatable? Seneca's views on this matter align with undisturbed in the face of the external world. Being unshaken by outside circumstances, undefeatable see as defining characteristics of what it However, that doesn't mean that the wise events pass by in utter indifference, basically Stoics aren't emotionless, which Seneca the famous letter to his mother. There is room for emotion, and the application least specific positive feelings integral I've dedicated an introductory chapter to book Stoicism for Inner Strength, which contains philosophy. So, no, being Stoic isn't being emotionless. Being undefeatable isn't about being as It's about avoiding what the Stoics named circumstances. The passions are emotional responses to these thinking. These could be anger (or prolonged anger in prolonged and excessive grief because of loss, objects and people. I've created an in-depth video about these So, the absence of these passions entails From the Stoic point of view, a person is can shake his unperturbedness. Regarding adversity, being undefeatable means circumstances, whether it's someone insulting or someone punching you in the face. But when can we speak of injury? What does it mean to be injured? In his essay De Constantia Sapientis, Seneca But what does he mean by that? When is someone considered injured? Is it when you're physically injured, for Or is it when someone verbally insults you, Or are you injured, perhaps, when you suffer to illness? This may surprise you, but as far as Seneca in themselves. The injury doesn't lie in the action done but in how we position ourselves toward this Seneca argues that what makes a sage isn't to attempt to injure him and that his life finds himself in situations where he could Such a person may also be calm, not because is so darn easy, devoid of difficulty. Put such a person in some difficulty he hasn't probably fade quickly. It's like putting some spoiled rich kids the shoes of ordinary people. As their strength greatly relied on their continue flourishing? What makes a sage is his inner strength: the circumstances. I quote: In like manner you may know that the wise type than if none is offered to him, and I not subdue and the violence of the enemy does amid a slothful people. I say, then, that such a wise man is invulnerable how many darts be hurled at him, since he End quote. According to Seneca, a wise man is beyond Whatever life throws at him, he will bear "The invulnerable is not that which is never he stated. Again, we cannot control whether or not the beyond our control. Even if we possess immeasurable wealth, power over all existing media, we cannot control However, we can develop the ability to become to misfortune. How can we do that? According to Seneca, we can pull this off of the adversities we aim to conquer and "trusting Let's take a look at different life situations we could conquer them according to his ideas. In his work, Seneca tells us about Vatinius, at and hated." Vatinius was also a witty and clever jester was under much scrutiny. According to Seneca, he had more enemies than But because Vatinius didn't care what other self-mockery, none of his enemies could hurt In a way, Vatinius is a bit like Diogenes because he didn't care about anyone's As he didn't attach himself to anything, Being offended seems fashionable nowadays. Some people take pride in sharing with the and they don't go out of their way to explain It's probably coming from a good place (but based on how they think the world should be that calling them out would change anything. Aside from this phenomenon, we generally see In Seneca's time, this was also the case. For example, he mentions slaves preferring how much people loathed it: something Seneca mind and thin skin, as an insult doesn't the strike of a blade. Seneca came up with a highly straightforward he explains in this passage: Do these things befall me deservedly or undeservedly? If deservedly, it is not an insult, but a who does injustice ought to blush, not I. Someone has made a joke about the baldness of my legs, the shortness of my stature; what sees? End quote. Let's simplify this. If someone says something you don't like an insult? According to Seneca, it's not. It's the truth. But what if someone says something you don't Then, again, why is it an insult? It's just nonsense. So the person who said it has more reason For example, I'm a pretty short guy, and I used to get very angry about this; how dare Also, short-shaming seems to be one of the these days, which adds a sense of injustice It's unfair! But Seneca would just wipe such arguments Listen, man, what insult is there in telling You're a short dude! People are simply pointing out the obvious they're stupid assholes. Don't let it get to you, Einzie, and you'll End fictional quote. According to Seneca, the wise man stands above If he lowers himself to being affected by He won't feel safe anywhere he encounters him. Insults will be injurious; words will be darts His inner tranquility will depend on the whims for them to leave him be. He might as well isolate himself from the Seneca's philosophy of firmness doesn't It goes much further than that. Being undefeatable in the face of mean remarks when experiencing physical harm is 'next As opposed to insults, physical harm is an mentions so often in his essay. But when reading closely, it becomes apparent a stab wound, still isn't quite what Seneca Sure, we can't deny that the body is injured. But despite this, the actual injury still Seneca states: We do not deny that it is an unpleasant thing our limbs, but we say that none of these things We do not take away from them the feeling cannot be received while our virtue is unimpaired. End quote. A wise man's ability to endure suffering Therefore, physical harm won't cause him evoke anxiety; he remains passionless, unshaken With such an amount of inner strength, the cannot use physical harm as a means of manipulation, Epictetus later worded it beautifully in one put him in chains and fetter his leg, but Considering the magnitude of physical pain, of encountering it that most of us experience, to do. Having an undefeatable resolve not to speak even superheroes struggle with, let alone So, it undoubtedly takes practice and patience "Think that the wise man belongs to this practice, have acquired strength to endure Seneca's undefeatableness doesn't stop And let's face it: one wouldn't be truly tortures or Cicero's sarcastic remarks that one's lover breaking up with him. From Seneca's point of view, a true sage He states: He who says that the wise man can bear this within certain limits, does wrong; for Fortune End quote. Seneca doesn't ascribe the wise the hardness such as losing loved ones, but is conscious She may shed a tear or two after losing someone it and heal her wounds. Hence, after his banishment to Corsica, Seneca console her afterward. According to Seneca, trivial misfortunes the At most, he laughs at them. Beyond minor to major disturbances, Seneca greatest misfortune of all: death. He not only saw the acceptance of death as inevitable part of life), but he also argued misfortunes would be easier to endure. He states: If we accept with an undisturbed and tranquil the angry laws and the most cruel masters fortune's dominion is contained--if we know not an injury either, we shall much more easily disgraces, changes of abode, bereavements, man even if they all befall him at once, much him separately. And if he bears the injuries of fortune calmly, men, whom he knows to be the hands of fortune. End quote. So, what do you think about Seneca's philosophy Have you experienced moments of strength and Please let us know in the comment section. Thank you for watching.