So called "Barbarian" forces often get the short warfare. We like to focus on the self-proclaimed over their enemies. This comes across almost all get stereotyped as mere hordes of poorly equipped charges or underhanded ambushes. While there may truth is far more nuanced and interesting. In this greatest "barbarian" foes, the Germanic Warriors if you'd like to lead your own ancient army it's a free-to-play pc game with tactical here players customize their own powerful warlords to then command armies of over 85 diverse units siege battles between teams of 15 players where rams towers and artillery while defenders respond the gameplay stays fresh with themed seasons the latest season 8 dynasty for instance draws unlocking the brand new longtang region and hao as new units to recruit like the kajal monks the in addition season 8 brings a brand new siege support the channel and play the game today to unlock a free 7 days of premium access which bronze coins and honor as well as additional The origins of the ancient Germanic warriors when Indo-European peoples Here they settled among the earlier populations morphing into a series of tribal societies culture of Germania which will be Geographically speaking we are looking at the the Netherlands, and some of its peripheral an accurate border around this group. The term census would struggle to categorize the shifting Europe. Scholars today attempt to do so through linguistic roots. Ancient authors meanwhile didn't foreigners into fairly arbitrary classifications. as a border between the Germanic and Gallic speaking Boii lived far east of the Rhine and So how on earth should we go Well we just have to embrace the lack of a look at things from the bottom-up. After all Ideas of nationalism or a unifying the lens through which they saw things. Rather This began on the family level. Such a on a self-sufficient farmstead with and a fence. Within a day's walk would be several more closely packed together for cooperation when we see more and more of this consolidation occur more intensive agriculture, animal herding, or salt, and peat. Celtic style oppida even rose However by the 2nd century BC these appear to unrest in the region. Broadly speaking though we northern lands was quite sparse and the Germanic This in turn meant that there was or even city-state as might be seen Instead, such higher level forms of organizing Basically what this looked like is that within able to forge personal bonds between a similar phenomenon occurred whereby one or more leveraging their social network for political become a sort of regional shot-caller. This same creating a rather intricate and dynamic hierarchy. would form a clan and a collection of clans would usually numbered in the low thousands. Leading Again, who ran the show was highly and the current political circumstances Those in charge were certainly powerful but social basis of their rule kept them in check and force their will on others. Rather in this more relationships that necessitated a give and take War leaders for instance didn't hire soldiers. of influence to take up arms for them Let us now take a closer look at the These men came equipped according to their often involved a long sleeved tunic made from wool and belted at the waist. Over this the that could have doubled as a blanket on campaign. This was largely due to the relative poverty of believed it also may have been due to an iron archaeology has done much to dispute this. In fact over 150 smelting furnaces and could have easily Whatever the case, much of this higher foremost into the hands of the wealthier For defense, these most commonly wore iron though it appears more popular among the eastern we see a similar pattern where many of the rank This may have been a point of pride their status affirming hairstyles like the and chose to wear a helmet might have donned a However we also have evidence of some quite Plutarch for instance records that Germanic noble great feather plumes that were crafted to resemble The last piece of defense was the shield. how cheaply basic variants could be produced. rectangular and hexagonal. All were made of metal bosses. From our records it seems many reinforcing the likely theory that it could double these also varied greatly. Cheaper ones were took on a more elaborate character owing to the Shield patterns were often used to show one's for instance mentions how Germanic cavalry bright white shields.Other times we hear of as with the Harii who were known to paint For offense, most Germanic warriors Its importance was so ingrained in the culture he was presented with a spear before a tribal assembly. The main battle spear However the tribesmen were also famous for be wielded both as a close quarters weapon were significantly less common. Some estimate around the 1st century AD which later increased to This increased adoption of the sword is in part occurred in Germania combined with their increased For instance we know that the tribes became contractors and other sources as these appear in record. The longer Spatha was a particularly these arms sales in late antiquity began to crack Germanic warriors also used all kinds of weapons. and even long knives while for long Now that we've fleshed out the we can look at their role within When a Germanic tribe went to war it did was no standing, professional army. Rather what warriors by way of the social web we previously would be your tribal chiefs and highly influential more often than not elected a single war leader. followers to join them. Tribal chiefs turned and so on down the line until the muster was First to answer the call would be the personal best equipment, often provided as a reward by to professional troops. Overall though their answered the call to arms would be your everyday As these armies slowly coalesced they do NOT unit structure. Instead they organized familial, regional, and tribal associations. The end result was a force composed of an eclectic shapes and sizes. It would be up to the leaders proper fighting force. For example in his battle divided his army into seven contingents separated tribes. Who would lead these sub-units remains that they likely would have also chosen Yet while most tribal armies may appear rather of standardization taking place. A prime example many Germanic armies. This was the title given which drew members from each district in a acting as a close support force for the army's Such horse runners added much needed tactical Caesar when he encountered them during his Gallic was later expanded to serve as an organizing became more sophisticated. This evolution with the Roman military either in battle We see this really start to take of the 1st century AD when Arminius led a wide its during this period that we hear Tacitus "For Germans, they have much they promote their picked men to power, and obey note their opportunities, check their impulses, regard fortune as doubtful, valour as an and only given to systematic discipline, they Their whole strength is in their infantry, with iron tools and provisions. Other tribes you As the years went on, the Germanic even more organized as they became Many of their sons went to war for the Thus by the time the western Empire fell they of its former military power. The organization of be covered in another video. For now let us more When it comes to training, there is not much on this matter. Furthermore it appears that place by which we might assess how the It turns out that this was just not necessary to fighting. Hunting was a common practice and were fairly common. Thus a warrior mentality Within every family, most fathers, uncles, would therefore be many experienced family members As with most cultures, it's likely this would have wrestling, and weight carrying as well as shield. In addition this was probably accompanied of Germanic warfare involving a shield wall. unit-level training was not very common outside very much on the individual. But that isn't to For example Velleius Paterculus has the following "By continuous training Maroboduus brought the body of troops safeguarding his empire in a short time raising them to such a level As was the case with the army's were also greatly evolved through increased Now let us move on to the topic of battle tactics. The stereotype of tribal armies like those of the nothing more than a frenzied frontal charge. enemies of the "civilized" folk were categorized great at first contact but quickly diminished While a gross overgeneralization truths about the method of warfare One major aspect of this has to do As we discussed they were built upon a mobilized class, that could not afford to be away from As a result any massed call to arms had leaders to achieve their aims as quickly as Admittedly this dynamic was also true for other made worse for most tribal armies as a result On a strategic level this hampered their marginally improve the lifespan of armies in the maneuvers difficult with only the most simple hear of several cases where a Germanic commander to be undercut by army elements that broke ranks think that this is a uniquely Germanic or even and many other of their contemporaries So with all that said, what would be the tactics in a pitched battle? Well this would first phase would involve the Your average warband would do so by These were often wooden poles that held up of such a prized item would bring great disgrace these would be moved into a battleline with the Kings, chiefs, and their retinues would often The army's flanks would be guarded by cavalry and The second phase would involve This might include duels between champions most important element would be the much like we see between rivals in nature. The overall size and its confidence. This would instruments, and war gear. In this regard, practice of the Barritus. Tacitus describes it as their shields in front of their mouths to create waves crashing into a rocky shore until it finally did not retreat in the face of this intimidation Often this occurred at the very peak of the each warband charged into the fray in While modern media often depicts this as a should be reminded that our sources often point While not traditionally organized, they a coherent battleline. Afterall the greatest emphasising the importance of fighting As further evidence of organized Germanic tactics units often transformed into wedges. Such army's social structure where chiefs and the spear's head with the rest of the Wedges seem to have been made up of anywhere from traditional, linear charge would see their force helped concentrate their efforts, dramatically This was made even more true by the fact that many Thus once the tip of a wedge became engaged, this plunge in. Such tactics went hand in hand with However should the attack falter, a wedge was particularly ill equipped for conducting a in later years when they began to adopt Roman As a final note on tactics I wanted to touch on that the Germanic tribes were masters at it. Yes they pulled off a few spectacular ones against they felt they couldn't take them in a head on tactics and asymmetrical warfare are a matter In these matters the germanic tribes were We have many examples of their ambushes failing traps. At the end of the day the hit-and-run and as soon as the tribes they almost universally reverted to their It will be hard to speak comprehensively about as this is such a widely defined like the very specific Sacred Band of generally about the broad strokes of Germanic Much of this history is unfortunately lost to comes from outside sources. As a result we can occurred among the people of northern Europe this veiled conflict when he mentions hearing where an alleged 60,000 warriors perished on the so called "civilized" world, we first hear when several tribes migrated into the Roman sphere unstoppable, inflicting a series of crushing The battle of Arausio in particular saw the Cimbri in the worst defeat since Cannae. They and their when Gaius Marius brought reform and We next hear of the Germanic tribes in intervened to oppose their moves in Gaul. Caesar and his tribal allies in 58 BC at the Battle of warbands finding initial success until legionary would actually cross the Rhine in a lightning in what amounted to a mere publicity stunt. The next encounter with the Germans occurred in tribes crossed the Rhine into Gaul and defeated Augustus would dispatch more forces that kicked The effort featured numerous campaigns of Battle of Teutoburg Forest and its aftermath Ultimately outright conquest of Germania would be periodically launching campaigns of intervention The degree to which this was possible varied spilling out of the area in times when Rome's period imperial armies tended to come out warriors thanks to their superior training, However we should also note that this success forces into Rome's own armies over the as the period of Great Migrations starting tribes push into the lands of the Empire. It's a but which will unfortunately fall outside For now I hope this overview of the history of the simplistic stereotypes that often Let us know what units of history A big thanks to the Patrons for funding the and artists for making this episode possible. Be sure to like and subscribe for more content