- The Milky Way: a galaxy but one that is unimaginably ancient. For some 13 billion years, it has drifted through of the cosmos, watching the very universe as well as changing herself. In many ways, the current era represents a kind of She's far less active maybe less magnificent to having now swollen in a mass over the eons through the cannibalistic But like talking with a parent, what must those younger There are billions of other possibly thousands of civilizations sprinkled across the swirling But what about those early times? What must it have been like to have lived in the formative years? What must it have been like to have been the first ones to awaken? We do not know when or even if other civilizations emerged in our galaxy, but to provide some context of we're gonna dream of another civilization in those early years, a people that we'll call the Imins. They will serve as our vehicle, our guide to the science and conditions such a civilization may have faced. The story may be a fiction, but it allows us to work through the very real science As we will see, though, being first isn't always as appealing as one might naively think. And in fact, it may even come a poignant tragedy to the whole affair. (winds whooshing) Let me take you back to a The Milky Way as we know it as it's still in the process of forming through the gradual mergers of many dwarf galaxies. The dominant actor of these mergers, known as the Milky Way Progenitor, is just 5% the mass of the modern galaxy, a seed of what one day will grow into the behemoth that we know today. Imin children would contains less than 10 billion stars and has a fairly typical clumpy shape, for the Milky Way's beautiful spirals had not yet formed either. Looking at a star chart, the Imins would find themselves located near the outskirts To the Imins, this made perfect sense. Throughout this time, a much higher proportion of immense cosmic engines that would regularly explode The radiation produced by that it could extinguish entire planets of their resident life, even from distances of Since the density of stars was much higher towards the galactic core, it made sense the Imin home nestled within the the benign Stars were generally more and so it's perhaps no surprise that the Imins lived on a world orbiting a bluer star for it was 60% more massive and thus burned hotter as a result. Whilst humanity would classify the Imins never split stars Rather, they thought of Because of this heavier star, the stellar luminosity than that of our sun, which explained why their planet was nearly three times than the Earth is, for only here was it cool enough for liquid water to remain As a result of this their star ironically appeared Although the Imin home world received about the same from their star as the Earth does, the radiation had a different profile, producing far more high energy radiation, in particular blue and ultraviolet light. In early years, this UV light kickstarted experiencing much faster mutation rates than those seen on the Earth. Life here soon developed photosynthesis, which came to thrive under this blue star, but so intense was the that many plants and indeed animals here had evolved blue pigmentation, reflecting some of the blue light away as there was simply too much otherwise. Having developed in such an environment, the Imins could recognize far more hues and tones of blue than we. They had dozens of names that the human eye could Blue was seen as the color of life and red the color of death due to the color of the Before the Imins developed they would look up at the night sky and see it littered that they interpreted to penetrating the cosmos itself. But they also saw proliferating their sky, which they once believed was from battles between Centuries later, the Imins would realize that these were in fact as stars were forming at than the Milky Way that we know today. When the Imin astronomers they were considered heretics to many of their religious leaders with often dire punishments. But over time, Imin culture accepted that these weren't regions of death, but rather regions of birth. The home world was about one which stemmed from the younger You see, the cosmos was and so there had passed far less time for stars to manufacture the heavy elements needed Indeed, there was about than the modern era. The Imin system was the fortuitous product of a particularly metal-rich some 2.5 billion years ago that was just 300 million years The region had enjoyed being fertilized with metals from numerous And whilst many of the stars were not well suited for But it was a lean system. The porosity of metals in the cosmos meant that giant planets Instead of a Jupiter, the Imin system's most massive planet was a roughly Earth-mass frozen wasteland in the outskirts of the system, and then a few of the minor dwarf planets scattered between them. The Imin home world's lower mass had some important ramifications. Its smaller size meant that it cooled far quicker than the Earth, and so even though it was Imin geologists believed may soon shut off as the crust was in the process The lower mass of course also It about 75% Earth's diameter, had 56% of the surface area, and a softer surface gravity We can imagine that Imins would've evolved with lighter frames perhaps having a slender, tall figure. Since surface pressure is the air would also be With less oxygen to breathe, perhaps the Imins would've evolved a slower metabolism to adjust, perhaps even having as a result of this. The lower surface gravity had a weaker hold on its leading to a puffier gaseous envelope. As light passed through the greater column depth and scattering of light within it, leading to a bluer sky. This also led to more protection from the damaging ultraviolet radiation from their home star. With a deeper atmosphere, the ozone layer afforded from UV light too. But even so, UV flux was than that of the Earth. This radiation damages cells, and threatens life so much that initially all life on the Imin planet had developed underwater or underground. Eventually, the land was conquered though when a new genetic that could repair both single Within the cells of all Imins, damaged DNA is moved to a where nucleotides from the could then fuse and repair it. Many billions of years later, a similar mechanism would within an extremophile bacteria known as Deinococcus radiodurans. For thousands of years, Imin culture, society, and They developed mathematics, and studied the proto They discovered many wonders Amongst the billions of stars around them, they would witness countless supernovae, tidal disruption events, and watch stars wink out into black holes. The cosmos was gloriously generous when it came to high energy events. Within the center of their galaxy, they discover one gargantuan black hole and another slightly smaller Further afield, they'd see galaxies binding, smearing, as gravity inexorably To the Imins, the universe was a cosmos where merging and but a place that was and largely hostile to In all of those wonders, the fervent maelstrom of the Imins eventually Imin astrobiologists had reasoned were the best place to look for life. Specifically, they hypothesized that stars of similar mass to our sun would likely not produce to foster the rapid mutation rates that their planet had experienced, something that the Imins to enable intelligent Higher mass stars were also no good, surely too short-lived. After all, their own star the end of its main sequence lifetime, and probably only had about before things turned sour. The Imins were an inherently Their slender form made one that only survived through and their superior intellect over the rest of their biosphere. Solitary confinement was fatal to an Imin, so torturous that they would die in the face of prolonged For them, the search for for others like themselves, was a deeply seated compulsion. It wasn't just a scientific question. Their entire culture became increasingly The fear of being alone was so keen that whenever an Imin scientist warned that it was a possibility, it would spark mass outrage and backlash within their society. Ironically, in the midst of their scientific search for alien life, this resistance nurtured a parallel vein of denialism and anti-science Within their society, a sense of depression and science began to hint something very special about their home. Some of this anxiety was but at the same time, the underground use of narcotic to provide a momentary reprieve. Amongst these, most potently had a unique and effective with apparently no side effects. This led to their eventual legalization and ultimately ubiquitous This wonder drug soon found use in many parts of industry too, particularly for refrigeration thanks to its low CFC production and use saw an unprecedented and was aggressively marketed in a hope to quell public anxiety. Yet even numbed, the obsession for life in that it dominated Imin culture by now. Across the planet, many that schools cannot teach that there's anything unusual that it must be typical and life was therefore surely common, just waiting to be found. Eventually the mediocrity principle became a central dogma of but in quiet moments many Imin scientists would admit despairing of the growing contrarian evidence. For by now, their that planets like their own and that much of the galaxy simply looked too violent for life. Yet publishing such findings The insatiable thirst for alien life was frequently exploited for personal gain by many members of Imin society. These bad actors would tell the world what they wanted to hear: that a nearby planet had or they'd received a from another star, or that they'd interacted with aliens or alien technology directly. Eventually, the truth of these fallacies was of course revealed, causing the anti-science as trust increasingly broke down between scientists and the public. Around this time, a group of Imin at new observations of Their luscious, thick ozone layer that was so crucial in from their star's high UV flux was seemingly disappearing. It was soon realized that that the wonder drug that their society had was the root cause. CFCs were destroying ozone molecules and had already started to form a small hole above the planet's poles. Their work took years to with many refusing to print But to the dismay of the scientists, the discovery was almost with society carrying on as usual and science outlets preferring to discuss the latest UFO sighting instead. Science literacy was so poor by now that many simply didn't and certainly didn't The Imin meteorologists were accused of performing mental gymnastics, or that this was simply a natural cycle, or that no ozone was actually fine because the planet when life once lived underwater anyway. All the while, the hole in the ozone layer In these days, there was a historic They summarized decades for bio signatures and techno signatures as well as their deep understanding by now of the stellar population around them. The inescapable conclusion was that they were most likely alone, most likely the first. Coupled with the pressing problems plaguing their society and ecosphere, any optimism for alien contact But some of the Imins at or at least one of a sort. They might not be able to have a two-way dialogue in but they could have a one-way dialogue. Imins could preserve their knowledge, culture, and achievements and transmit it to future civilizations. In that way, at least someone Someone would know that they once existed. In the years that followed, a growing movement came together for what became known as a kind of time capsule design to preserve Imin knowledge and identity even if they were facing It never became more than a minority, but these Imins through the possible options, They worked tirelessly Volunteers from across or just to try and support this Last Hope. As the ozone layer crop yields plummeted, leading to famine, ecological refugees, and regional conflicts Imins found themselves imprisoned within their unable to go outside At night, they'd wander still smeared with red blobs a reminder that they were The ultimate fate of the Imins, But regarding their final I'll offer one last comment. The Imins were the first by quite a way, and their time capsule for many billions of years. They knew that this was likely true, so had to design something without any moving paths, yet something that could somehow transmit information across the galaxy. And so the Imins placed a roughly 500 kilometer orbiting structure around their star, a thin sheet of material whose very shape would reveal its artificial nature. As this sheet eclipsed distant civilizations might and see something strange. Their first idea was something so obviously different that it would be clear But for many Imins, that A triangle didn't convey their science, their art, their philosophy, or what it was like to be an Imin. And so the Imins devised a swirling geometries Like a fractal, one could begin with a and learn some basic information. But the closer one looked, the more details, spokes, and nuanced structures In one of their greatest achievements, Imin mathematicians of encoding entire volumes of information within these intricate shapes. However, the largest structure was just 500 kilometers but that was tiny compared to blocking out less than 60 billionths of the star's brightness There wasn't much hope let alone the intricate spokes and structure embedded within it. But the Imins had a long game. They knew that their star would die, eventually leaving that would be not much So if the structure survived until then, it would now block out a respectable 0.2% of boosting the amplitude 34,000 fold. Sadly, the Imins never saw but they did witness the launch of their automated 3D printers that would go on to in the centuries that passed. The final product wasn't perfect. In some places, the robots made mistakes without any guidance from their masters. Yet more, as the star the radiation levels were deforming many of the the Imins attempted to encode But the basic shape remained, and within it one could decode messages from children across the planet, and extracts from their Flash forward to 11 billion years later, the modern universe. The white dwarf that was has now cooled below 3,000 Kelvin, making it barely detectable In truth, the Imin structure was never conceived to last this long. Over the eons, abrasion cosmic rays, and micro meteorites have battered it into a floating through space. Perhaps many years later, we can imagine an astronomer detecting the dim light of a relic of the early universe. Squinting at that graph the astronomer might a strange decrease that Perhaps there's a held breath, as the astronomer pushes the seeing what shape could Maybe, just maybe this is the signal they've been looking for all these years. And then a sigh, another dud. It's just a cloud of probably just fragments The screen shuts down. The astronomer leaves. And the Last Hope Project is never detected again. The universe is vast, merciless, and largely hostile to living things. The Imin story that I We do not know if there was or indeed any time before now. And quite likely alien would be far more alien perhaps in ways that What I hope this video gives you is some insights into our early galaxy and the consequences of these But also I hope that this about the fragility of life and the path of our own civilization. Our story hasn't been written yet. We get to choose what comes next. And much like the Imins, already we suspect that our Our fate, like theirs, is inexorably tied to how we treat it. The jewel of the solar system, So until next time, stay (warm music) Thank you so much watching, everybody. I just wanna take a quick moment to give a big, big thank you to our latest Cool Worlds supporters. That is Graeme Benson, Nicholas Gebben, and the Rand Corporation. In fact, I'll be giving a talk at Rand in Santa Monica on March 7th. Details down below if you If you too wanna become then you click the link up If you haven't already, And until next time, have a cosmically awesome day out there.