(upbeat music) - I made a video a while back about the interesting It's called how to move but really it's an excuse to control our eyes, 'cause But I actually glossed over Consider this perfect and think about the way So your eyes can move So you've got two muscles here and here, the top muscle pulls your eye upwards, the bottom muscle pulls your Your eyes can also move So you've got a muscle here This muscle pulls your eye that way, this muscle pulls your eye that way. But you've actually got two more muscles. So you've got six in total. You've got one on the top and The top muscle pulls the bottom muscle pulls In other words, you can roll your eye. Now if you think about the you've got pitch of an airplane, the yaw of an airplane and So these muscles roll your eye. In other words, they rotate your eye around an axis that But why would you need to There are two reasons actually, the first reason is to on your retina. That's really important for clear vision. Actually, it's why when you and up and down, your eyes It's a counter movement that maintains the orientation of your eyes. So they're always as you move your head around. That maintains a stable and reduces motion blur. The same thing happens from side to side, your to maintain a stable image on your retina. It actually happens in steps. So your eyes smoothly and then smoothly rotate And it repeats that as you tilt your head, it's a bit like if you're on a train and you're watching the world go by, your eyes will smoothly follow and then smoothly follow the And again, it's to maintain a It's not that easy to see unless it's really bloodshot. So lucky me. The second reason is to I've created a stereogram To view the image you and overlap the two pencils, and it should pop out as If you're watching this on a big monitor you might need to step back from the one until or make the or switch to viewing on a phone. Hopefully, then you can to overlap those pencils Pause the video now if you But now I'm going simulate your I want you to see what happens. Because at the moment, the bottom of the pencil and the top of the pencil But look, as I rotate one of those images now the top of the pencil and the bottom of the pencil You have a false impression So it's important to keep with each other for In summary then there are two types of this torsional eye movement. There's this type called cycloversion that maintains a steady And there's this type called cyclovergence that maintains good depth perception. What's really interesting seems to be an evolutionary exaptation. So an evolutionary adaptation is a trait that solves a certain problem. But an exaptation is is co-opted to do something else. And this trait of being able evolves in our ancestors that had eyes on the sides of their So by the way, prey on the side of their heads like this. So they've got wraparound vision they can see predators coming. Whereas vicious predator animals have their eyes at the front like this. (dog bark) So they lose that wraparound vision but they gain that extra depth perception. So think about this prey animal here as it pitches its body it needs to maintain a So the eyes counter rotate in its head which I've tried to demonstrate It's not perfect, but it Kind of, so think about what in the prey animal, the And as those eyes evolve to point forwards it's equivalent to that, So this eye movement that was evolved to maintain a stable image on the retina has been co-opted to maintain There are two bits of that this cyclovergence movement of the eyes is an exaptation. In other words, a co-opting in our evolutionary ancestors that had eyes on the sides of their heads. The first bit of evidence is that there's a vestigial behavior that remains in humans. A vestigial behavior or a trait is just a thing that we retain from our evolutionary ancestors And in this case, it's that when a human bends their eyes actually do move very slightly like that as if their eyes are and they were trying to stabilize It's only very slight. I wasn't able to record it on my camera, just with me in my studio, but it has been noticed experimentally. The second bit of evidence is that certain neurological will cause a patient to of their evolutionary ancestors. In other words, when the patient tilts forwards or backwards, their eyes do that cyclovergence thing. And you know, and not just but like properly doing it as if their eyes were on And that's because within our brains we have the neurological framework for the behavior of our And then on top of that we processing to subdue that behavior and get it to do the thing It's as if you've got this legacy code in your brain that you have to maintain. So you just wait a software And if that patch gets broken then you revert back to It's kind of a metaphor for within ourselves there's that says just replicate, And then on top of that you that subdue that behavior. But if any of those control then the sound reverts back to that ancient behavior I read some really where they were able to train people to voluntarily twist their eyes around, which is amazing really after just like 10 days of practice. It was, I couldn't really figure and what I could figure out it seemed it was gonna be really difficult like it needed like, you know flashbulbs and like special equipment So I wasn't able to do that. Instead and I actually, I did not just to cheat. I did it in three different ways. So the first way was to wear a helmet with a camera mount and and then just, you know tilt my eyes so the camera is on my eye like that. The second way was to literally just stand in front of and then stabilize that footage and after effects to remove the rotator. And finally, I just looked and filmed that. The reason I wanted to is because your brain based on feedback from There's the equilibrioception or sense of balance that you have. In other words your inner ear that tells you the relative to a gravitational field also tells you about acceleration So your brain knows about in space, and it can feed that information back to your eyes to tell them to rotate. It can also get information from what's coming into the eyes. So if what the eye sees is rotating then your brain can and tell your eyes to to keep a steady image on the retina. How important are those two things? So by putting a camera on my head mounted like that with a that's all I could see. So when I was tilting my head I was only getting information Compare that to when I was in that scenario, I was from the eyes. But when I simply stood and tilted my head, I was I was getting information and information from my eyes. And what I found was, you get when it's just the information you get much more rotation when it's just your sense But the most movement you get is when you have both at the same time, which makes sense, right? Because that's the most likely way someone is going to is because their head's rotating as well. So there you go. The weird evolutionary This video is sponsored by NordVPN. I always say that with VPNs it's something that you for yourself and decide that you would find useful. A VPN encrypts all the traffic It then decrypts it at some later point and then it travels on You know, whatever website Your internet service provider, or, you know whichever they can't see your traffic. It also gives you geographical anonymity. Because the services that you're using can't tell where you are. All they know is the which you can move around So that helps with things like certain video services. So if you're transmitting like names, addresses, passwords and it's not already or you don't wanna have whether it's encrypted in some other way, I recommend you Investigator. I'm saying all this really quickly 'cause I also wanna talk about NordPass, which is a password manager. I sometimes get this comment of like, yeah but if I upload all my and then that service gets hacked then they've got all my passwords. Your passwords are encrypted and then sent over to the So if an adversary got hold of that data, they wouldn't be able to decrypt it without your master password. And to be clear, NordPass either, that never leaves your machine. Nothing is 100% secure. You have to compare the security and convenience of different options. Like another option is just to have the same That's incredibly convenient And there's a spectrum of options that you could have an encrypted that never leaves your computer. That's really secure The information security people that I've spoken to tend to agree that a password manager of security and convenience NordPass is absolutely free, and NordVPN is great value especially if you use my URL promo code, go to nordvpn.com/steve that gets you 68% off a two-year plan plus one month absolutely free. Don't forget to use promo Checkout NordVPN today. I hope you enjoyed this video. If you did, don't forget to hit Subscribe and I'll see you next time. (upbeat music)