Today's world of heavy duty diesel trucks is four-stroke engines. But, that wasn't always not too long ago, where it was two-stroke diesels we're going to rewind the clock and take a look at what makes them so good. Let's get into. And to we first need to rewind the clock and take a Back in the late 1920s and early 1930s, General as the stock market crash of 1929 massively Now GM was looking into a handful of different diesel engine manufacturers at that time, that's even had the opportunity to purchase Cummins to purchase a company known as Winton, as well how much different things would have been if but as they say, hindsight is 20/20. Between GM, named Charles Kettering, they took existing Winton improved upon them massively, mostly working Winton became the Cleveland engine division with stationary power applications. And one year after take all the R&amp;D that they had already done and shrink it down to a smaller platform. One that use. And to do this, they needed to put it under known as Detroit Diesel. And that takes us to 71. And although the Series 71 was based on the diesel engines, the Series 71 wasn't just a it was an entirely new engine platform, something new Series 71 engine platform, it initially came a three cylinder, a four-cylinder, or a six And by 1938, Detroit Diesel had massively ramped about 700 units, 700 engines, over to GM's Truck in 1939, they went ahead and sent Series 71 for themselves. Fast forwarding a little bit, the 1944, a whopping 62,000 of these engines were started to shift in America. Where transporting done by rails and rail cars, things started preferred way of transporting goods around the Federal Aid Highway Act of 1956, which massively travel. By then, Detroit had also introduced the Series 53. Both of which were also two-stroke the two-stroke diesel engine came from. It's time because it's pretty interesting. Now, rather a bit differently than a four-stroke diesel, as or just a four-stroke engine in general, there's ignition stroke, and an exhaust stroke. But, ignition, and exhaust all happen in two strokes four strokes and two rotations of the crankshaft. with the intake port of the cylinder located rather than an intake valve at the top of the With the intake stage happening at the bottom into the cylinder like a four-stroke engine does, of forced induction just to operate normally. there is still an exhaust valve on the head, as by effectively just cutting the strokes in half, the same time. As the piston reaches bottom dead opens around the same time that the intake port is by forced induction also helping to push out the video, you know where Detroit Diesel came from, and you know how it works. The question is why two-stroke diesel as compared to a four-stroke is not only simpler with fewer moving parts, and easier to manufacture. Granted, the weight of the road truck applications, but it is still a is a very very loose term here, because the that little three-cylinder engine came in at over something you're going to be swapping into your also comes the benefit of reduced maintenance, because when your truck breaks, the money the physical size is small, and there are twice as the power to weight or power to physical size a four-stroke diesel could offer at the time. And than it used to be, having the ability to run on and low quality fuels is a pretty big advantage, availability or quality is a concern. And with the 71 Series, how the Detroit Diesel two-stroke simply good. And it became even more popular after Series, which is the V variant. With this new offer engines with more power than ever before, giving you more choices than ever. The options 16v71, and much later on, the 24v71. So, if the it's compact, makes decent power, has loads of Why aren't we seeing it on the road anymore? The emissions. Two-stroke diesel engines, including serious challenges in meeting stricter emissions formed until 1970. So the idea of reducing or wasn't really a thought or concern. And with a can result in much higher emissions of pollutants, with fuel efficiency at low loads with two-stroke engines, which simply means two-stroke engines idle or low load conditions. Two-stroke diesel oil consumption than four-stroke diesel engines, emission standards became more stringent after meeting these requirements became increasingly they eventually just couldn't meet the on-road entirely. So, that brings up a good question here. it's small, compact, makes a good amount of power, couldn't this be modified with modern technology standards? And the answer is not really, no. output of their two-stroke engines by adding wasn't possible to keep up with the demands of the diesel engines, the combustion configuration port before the port is closed, resulting in underlying design exists in the two-stroke engine, demands, it's just not possible. And it's much are kind of being phased out, again, thanks to two-stroke dirt bikes, two-stroke power tools like phased out, again, because two strokes are just a two-stroke diesel engine is still feasible to get around emissions testing in some situations, by a Detroit diesel engine. But, for on-road the EPA's requirements, unless you want to do but I think it's safe to say that the Detroit their other series of engines, are some of the With their massive popularity and the shift for transporting goods across the country, America into what it is today. And partially what is the fact that no other companies from that even competing with the two-stroke diesel engine They had no interest in doing this two-stroke Detroit Diesel quite literally controlled around road truck engines and built an absolutely with loads of them still in use today, although the road trucks. Interestingly enough, though, two-stroke diesel engine is the Soviets. Now, you military to supply their two-stroke diesel engines the Soviets caught on to this, copied it, and the 6-71. Now, as a side note, an industry which not engines built by Detroit Diesel, is the Marine these massive marine engines is that there is no in reverse, they just shut the engine off and the opposite direction. That is definitely not at least not easily, and it's a very cool although Detroit Diesel's two-stroke engines quite literally helped to build America into from military to over-the-road trucks, the the EPA was the beginning of the end for these meet the EPA's demands, and that's not necessarily move on to very very good four-stroke engines you could argue that they had more success with engines, but regardless, it's safe to say we're ever come back to over the road trucks. Let me if I missed anything, anything you want to add, smash Thumbs Up Button if you enjoyed get subscribed so you don't miss out on future Diesel if you want to check that out, learn more