This video was made possible by high-quality documentaries and get the description. This is a Rotodyne. an airplane mashed together, but it's Because when it debuted over 60 years form of mass transport. The quickest way Landing on downtown rooftops and and more economically than any But then, as the Rotodyne looked set to To understand why this machine was so work like a helicopter. A helicopter uses forces air down to create lift.Tilting to move in a given direction. That's the works. On a Rotodyne, the large rotor a motor. Instead, as air passes naturally rotor to spin around like a pinwheel. And wings and a pair of turboprops, much like un-powered spinning rotor lifts more than unique design, the Rotodyne flew faster was far more efficient. And even though Rotodyne could still hover and take off That's because at the end of each takeoff and landing, fuel and compressed ignite to spin up the rotor. Once in off and the rotor would once again spin attracting worldwide interest. Because revolutionize the way we traveled intercity air travel was on the rise. But airplane might only take about an hour, airport. And in many congested cities, the flight itself. One solution was to In April, the new helicopter service is due to open from the top of the Pan-Am building. If the service does come about, you'll be taking off from the fourth highest building in New York. 59 storeys up. it's hoped that eventually the service will carry 5,000 passengers a day. 5,000 passengers who would otherwise be condemned to this. By the 1960's helicopter airlines had Letting passengers and skip the traffic none of them were actually making money. inefficient, operating anywhere from 20 way helicopter Airlines like New York government subsidies to offset going to change all that, bringing costs mile, which would make helicopter wasn't just a better helicopter. With be a new way to travel between cities, The concept behind the Rotodyne dates a pioneering Spanish inventor set out to un-powered freely spinning rotor, his making them inherently safer than motion, the planes would simply glide They were called autogyros. Over the years, they were used in military reconnaissance and even to deliver mail. But by the 1940's, largely fell out of favor. But manufacturer Fairey aviation still saw concept. If the vertical takeoff and be combined with the speed and have something truly special on their British government, the first Rotodyne It could carry 40 passengers 700 kilometers All while being able to land and the aircraft itself. And after 350 proved to be safe and capable. But of For one, the Rotodyne's tip jets made a lot of noise. And that was going to be a problem right there were doubts about whether the often believed to be the reason why the story. After proving their prototype, version. A larger more capable Rotodyne it promised to be quieter. Ferry spent technology for the Rotodyne's tip jets. the engineering team had reduced noise with small orders coming in from around kind of transport. But to get the needed about PS10 million more in funding money they'd never get. Because at the industry was a mess. Too many aircraft and relying heavily on government force these companies, including Fairey caught in the shuffle, competing with a progress was also slowed by difficulties need to reduce tip jet noise even Rotodyne wouldn't be delivered to of each Rotodyne would have been too one by one orders were cancelled. In 1962, pressures, suddenly pulled funding for helicopter, half plane, once promising to disappeared. The working prototype and destroyed. Leaving only a few small The Rotodyne failed to change air travel built. But not all ambitious leaps failure. Take the DC-3. A machine that in earned a legendary status in wartime. This remarkable plane took the skies brothers first flight. And yet, hundreds about this plane's incredible story on with thousands of full-length makers in the world. From history and get an entire year of CuriosityStream the link in the description, you'll also new platform built by some of YouTube's creators make content for their audience recommendation algorithm and annoying access to Nebula by going to curiositystream.com/mustard and using the 'mustard' when you sign up.