Philip II of Macedon was dead. In situations like this the line of succession son Alexander stood well positioned to take Alexander was the second of three sons. The oldest had cognitive disabilities and believed that the younger son, an infant, Either way, an infant king would mean a decades were eager to make this a reality. If the king was weak, they knew that they While everybody was waiting around to see most trusted generals, Antipater, acted decisively. He immediately grabbed his army and marched that Alexander was Philip's intended heir With Antipater's endorsement, other prominent Before too long, a majority of the Macedonian The plot to place an infant on the throne The next several months were a flurry of activity, changed. First, Alexander had taken all of his father's advisers. Second, after getting some guarantees from happily sitting on the sidelines. Third, Philip's infant son and Alexander's It's fair to say that he died under suspicious As king, Alexander's first act was to announce Going forward, the Macedonian state would and conquest. This made his barons very happy, and may have His second act was to publicly pledge that upheld. This made the Old Guard in the military very of their support. It's always interesting how the crown comes Now that Macedonian power was consolidated, stood with the Greeks. As Philip's heir, the title of Greek Hegemon would honour this title remained an open question. Alexander grabbed 3,000 cavalry and rode south. Near Thessaly, the only way through the mountains When Alexander and his cavalry attempted to the Thessalians had mobilized their army, The Thessalians sent a messenger instructing or not they would let him into their territory. This was a slap in the face! Philip had annexed Thessaly during his reign. This was Macedonian territory, and here they The pass was way too narrow to challenge directly, Alexander agreed to wait, but secretly got mountain. After a couple of days, Alexander's and and before the Thessalians knew what was happening, After some quick thinking, the Thessalians king with open arms. Alexander accepted their submission at face As Alexander continued marching south, ambassadors reaffirm his status as Hegemon. This whole time, the cities of Thebes and they heard that Alexander was marching south his status as their de facto ruler. As with Philip, the Spartans took pride in They sent Alexander a message, saying that follow others, but rather to lead them." As I've mentioned in past videos, the Spartans 1,000 citizens, and had resorted to arming They were no real threat to Macedon. Some have argued that keeping the Spartans unify the rest of Greece. Sure, the Greeks mistrusted the Macedonians, Now that Greece was secure, Alexander made just as his father once did. But there was a problem. The Oracle didn't operate during the winter, The king flew into a blind rage, and according kinda roughed up the head priestess. He dragged her up onto her sacred stool, and her to give him his prophecy. We are told that at some point during this as invincible. Despite the shady circumstances, Alexander Some believe that this story was invented true, the king returned to Macedon literally While Alexander was busy consolidating power, rebellion. These areas had only recently conquered by in the north and in the west were now demanding At the moment, the Macedonian frontier sat Alexander decided that in order to permanently border north, all the way to the river. That winter he gave his army a crash course they marched off to meet the northern threat. Somewhere in modern Bulgaria, at a place called Thracian army blocking their path. The Thracians were uphill, and had arranged of them. Alexander sent his scouts to try and find failed to do so. Frustrated, and unwilling to turn back, Alexander the mountain in a loose, staggered formation. He was suspicious, and guessed that the wagons He guessed right. When the Macedonians were half way up the a push, sending them careening down the slope Alexander had spent the winter training his On his signal, the Macedonians threw themselves heads. The wagons sped down the mountain, and bounced Apart from a few cuts and bruises, nobody Give the Thracians some credit. This wagon trick was an incredible idea, and the unbreakable Macedonian phalanx. But that's not what happened. With their path clear, the Macedonian infantry covered their advance with arrow fire. The Macedonians made quick work of the Thracians, Alexander's first military encounter as campaign was not over yet. When Alexander and his army arrived at the that had been harassing them on their trek middle of the river. They appeared ready to fight if the Macedonians On the northern shore of the Danube there Steppes, cautiously keeping an eye on these Alexander was in a bit of a conundrum. A contested landing would probably end in He had an idea. He had his cavalry fan out and steal fishing He kept the rest of his army busy by having they could find. Under the cover of darkness, Alexander loaded and lead them not to the island, but across They landed behind a crop field, which was By the time everybody had disembarked, the The Foot Companions got in one long line, Alexander personally took command of the Companion to this neutral nomadic army, they charged. The nomads outnumbered Alexander's tiny taken by surprise, and retreated away from Once they were back at their camp, they stopped time by the Macedonians, who, it turns out, The nomads were forced to abandon their camp To Alexander, this was a great victory. He spent some time looting, and then returned The tribe on the island was shocked to discover river. Rather than subject themselves to a prolonged Alexander was a genuinely devout man, and a series of elaborate ceremonies to thank Leading an army across the Danube was an impressive days, other tribes showed up to preemptively Macedonian territory now stretched all the Mission accomplished. The northern frontier was secure. But to the west, Macedonian territory was The Illyrians had offered their submission with where he had set the Macedonian boarder. They decided that this moment of instability When Alexander heard that the Illyrians were He intercepted the Illyrian forces at a small The Illyrians were wise to make their stand positioned. It was protected on three sides by steep hills, This area was only accessible by a narrow Alexander used this path to enter the valley, In case you hadn't guessed it, this was Almost immediately, as if they were waiting hills surrounding the Macedonian position. Alexander had walked straight into an ambush. The Illyrians on the hills kept their distance The path out of the valley created a bottleneck, with an army was an all day affair. If the Macedonians decided to flee, the Illyrians hills and catch them in the rear. What we're basically looking at here is The Illyrians in the fort were trapped by by the Illyrians on the hills. Now, all they had to do was sit back and wait As if the situation wasn't bad enough, the encounter on the Danube, which meant that After some long nights and some long debates, insane plan. The absurdity on display here should give were. This was their great idea: the Macedonians line to make it look like they had more people Then, they ran drills. Yep, that was their plan. Drills. In fairness, they put on quite a show. The infantry advanced, then stopped, then any signals being given. As they advanced, they swished their sarissas a whooshing sound that they could hear all Then, with no apparent warning, the entire their distinctive war-cry and clashing their Incredibly, this was super effective. The Illyrians on the hills had never seen It must have seemed supernatural. Some groups were so shaken that they decided This was the moment. As some of the Illyrians pulled back, a signal charged straight up the hill. Alexander took command of the Companion Cavalry, The Illyrians were completely taken by surprise, a full retreat. The Macedonians didn't lose a single man. Alexander had good reason to be pleased with After walking into a terrible situation, he suffering any consequences. Alexander was now in control of the valley, over the horizon, and his food problem remained He still needed to figure out how to reestablish He left the Companion Cavalry and archers back to the river. After some thought, he decided that a river everybody through the narrow pass. The elite Shield Bearers crossed first, to The Foot Companions followed. All the while, the Companion Cavalry and the which prevented the Illyrians from returning Once the majority of the army was across the down off the hills to make their crossing. With the hills abandoned, the Illyrians returned, river crossing in process. They charged down the hills toward the Macedonian By this time, the Macedonian infantry had had been intended for the siege, on the opposite As soon as the Illyrians entered the valley, By the way, some have argued that this was weapons were used as field artillery. The archers, who were in the process of crossing This barrage was enough to stop the Illyrian just enough time to complete their crossing. You know the expression "it's better to Alexander was lucky. Alexander encamped on the other side of the his supply lines. Now that he was able to receive food shipments, After several days, he sent scouts back to was up to. To his surprise, he discovered that they were nothing. The entire army was just lazing around, not They were acting like they had just won the This would not do. Alexander took his elite Shield Bearers and back across the river. As expected, the enemy army was fast asleep, The Shield Bearers descended on the Illyrian the Macedonians were going tent to tent killing By the time the camp was roused, people were A huge portion of the Illyrian army was were In effect, the Illyrian army was wiped out The next day, when the besieged Illyrians The Siege of Pelium was odd. Alexander showed amazing ingenuity getting to begin with. Nevertheless, the victories here at Pelium, sent a message. A group of Gauls from the Adriatic coast got to establish diplomatic relations with this When Alexander eventually met with this Gallic a chance to grovel at his feet. He asked them a leading question: "what Instead of groveling, the Gauls answered honestly, fall on their heads. Apparently, in Gallic mythology, this was As a religious man, Alexander couldn't help he offered the Gauls his friendship and let His ego did take a hit though, because he disrespectful and arrogant the Gauls were. Bruised ego aside, Alexander had good reason In the chaotic year following his father's even improve upon Philip's conquests. Macedon narrowly avoided a civil war, and losses of any kind. The future looked bright. With the home front secure, Alexander began dream to travel east and liberate Greek cities But if that was the goal, he would need the the moment, their loyalty remained uncertain.