- Hey y'all, I'm in the kitchen, and Bobby and Linton, and Aunt Peggy's over there at the table. Bobby, I'm so glad you're here- - Hey. - 'Cause you know what I'm making. I am making these two children, your childhood friends, Suzette and Amy. - Oh yeah. - And they opened a restaurant in Thomasville, Georgia called Sass. - Mm-hmm. - And those girls have a reputation like you would not believe. - They always did. - People just rave over their food. Well this is their Southern I have just scrambled up, Bobby- - Good. - Because their recipe is a Now I put a stick of butter in, and I'm fixing to chop these - So it's a light dish. - Oh no, this is Thanksgiving. This is Thanksgiving cornbread dressing at its finest. So, anyway, my question to you is do you remember when we took y'all to Atlanta to the- - Six Flags? - Six Flags, yes, and Bob had brand new shoes on- - Oh, and he got blisters, just blisters. - Yes. - Walking around Six Flags. - The only reason that I remember it is because of the pictures that we kept. We are old. We lived in a time when people actually had cameras and took pictures that you had developed, and you had to wait and see them. - Yeah. - Somewhere these treasures still exist. There are pictures of all And I was very young. And Amy was very young. Suzette and Jamie are the same age, and Amy and I are the same age. But, anyhow, judging by the pictures I was about five, somewhere around that. - Maybe. - But I do remember the story about Bob getting blisters (indistinct). That's my phone. - Only Bob would wear a pair of brand new loafers just out of the box 'cause we had been to Richie's. And he had bought him a new pair of loafers. (laughs) and I can see right now. We were walking around that hot pavement, and he's toting his shoes, and looking like this 'cause the pavement is so hot. (laughs) Oh my God. - So crazy. - He was crazy, son. - And he and dad, they would go frog digging. Do you remember them frog digging? - Oh my gosh. And snakes would fall in the boat. I hated when they did that. All right, so I melted a - Yeah. - And now I'm gonna put my And, will you hit on that celery a little bit more? - I remember- it was supposed to be two - [Bobby] You got another stick over here that looks like it's waiting on something. - I just had two sticks out. I just had two sticks out. - [Eddie] There's one for the dressing, and there, I think, two for the sausage. - Oh yeah, I've already Okay, so two sticks, wait let me see. - All of my memories with revolve around laughter. Whenever I think of them I think of us just And usually about our parents. (Paula laughing) Usually telling stories or- - All right, excuse me son, it was two sticks of butter. - Or laughing directly at our parents because they were just so crazy. It was a simpler place and time, Albany, Georgia, in the 1970s, Leesburg, Georgia in the 1970s. - Uh-huh. - [Bobby] It was just, even - [Paula] Didn't have no money, honey. - [Bobby] Didn't have a whole lot, we had a lot of fun. - [Paula] Lot of laughs. Lot of- - Those were good girls, and I'm happy that they're successful. - Oh, Bobby, and they are so much better cooks than- - Say it. - Than Susan and I. I mean they are fabulous cooks, and they've got the Southern, and then they've got Now I'm putting in some garlic, y'all. - Well- Yeah, so they've got two in the culinary department. - Mm-hmm. - You can go ahead and add that to the - Well God rest their mama's soul. - I know. was just a card. - [Paula] She was. - So funny. So funny. - [Paula] Oh my God, she was so funny. (Bobby laughing) - [Bobby] The funniest about Susan Dupuis I cannot tell with the camera rolling. - [Paula] Oh, you can't? - [Bobby] I can't. - [Paula] Well whisper to me what it was. - [Bobby] But speaking of I remember when we would go to the grocery store as a family- - [Paula] Uh-huh. - [Bobby] This was before I had a choice on whether or not I wanted If the car went to the grocery store, then I was going to the grocery store. - We would go spend the I'm gonna add a little bit more garlic 'cause I'm afraid I - The grocery store was And this was in a time, you might not believe it. If there's people out there my age and older, you might remember. We'd be walking in the grocery store, and people would just while they were pushing their. - Yeah. - And they would drop their and just put 'em out with their foot. - That's right. - And keeping walking. And I remember just the just cigarette butts all over the floor. - Uh-huh, uh-huh. Some grocery stores would but most of them just - But Susan, Aunt Peggy's over here, and she's just looking at me like she knows that it's all true. (Paula laughing) What do you want me to do next? - [Paula] Just keep stirring it. We gonna cook it till - [Bobby] Okay, well we're getting there. You got a good hot pot here. - I'm chopping these green onions. You can add these onions and parsley to that now, son, please. Bobby, what we're fixing to do now is we're fixing to make and I've got my self rising cornmeal, my self rising flour, and I'm gonna use my whisk, and just whisk that up. I've got my four eggs. I've got a couple of tablespoons of oil. - There was a little cemetery over there by their old house- - Yes. we used to go over there at night while y'all were playing Poker and doing your thing, and we would all go over there. And we would play this game called- - I'm gonna add my buttermilk. - Light as a feather we would play. - I don't remember, what game was that? - Where you put your fingers under people while they're lying flat on the ground, and you just lift them with two fingers like (indistinct). - Y'all were big kids. - We were just, God it's all coming back. - Light as a feather. - [Bobby] I hadn't thought about But if Suzette and Amy they will know early - [Paula] Oh, listen Bobby, they- - [Bobby] And peace power I don't know if you remember Jamie and Suzette. (Paula laughing) That was their little thing- - Well those girls just love y'all. - Panama City back when Panama City was not what it is now. And it was just small - We'd stay at the Sphinx Motel. - The Fiesta. I remember staying at the Fiesta right there on the strip with them. - Yes. - That was our, you know, it seemed like we were rich. - [Paula] (laughs) I know it, but we were so broke, honey. - [Bobby] We just happened to live close enough to the Gulf of Mexico that we could go on a beach vacation. - It was like three hours from Albany to- - [Bobby] Yep, right there at it. - Oh my gosh. - [Bobby] All right, well that looks good. - Okay, son, that looks perfect. I'm gonna take a little break, and get cleaned up over here. So that is it. Mm, that's good. That is good just raw. So I'm gonna put this in the oven, I'm gonna bake it for about 45 minutes. I'm gonna take it out of the oven, let it cool for a minute, and then I'm gonna get and crumble it up. We're gonna add out sausage, we're gonna add our chicken stock, and we're gonna add all those I love you girls. Okay. So our cornbread is done, and it's delicious. I could eat it just like that. All right, so, in goes our I got a spatula so I can - Goodness. that's the goodness. This is the pot that we and we only cooked it but it looks completely done. In the drippings. So it's gonna be cooking Oh my gosh. I think I have to start That breakfast sausage smells so good. - [Eddie] Mm-hmm. - All right. So now I'm gonna start Then the girls say three to four cups, but I think I actually make mine a little bit more moist than them. That's one, two, three, four. Like I said, I like my All right, was six, Eddie? - [Eddie] That was five. - Five? Okay. So now I'm gonna stir it. Oh yeah, it needs. - [Eddie] Because some eggs go in it too. - Yeah. But I don't put eggs in til last because I can't taste it it makes me sick. So, that definitely is So, that's six. And I think in my recipe I think I use seven cups. So if you want it dry, use less liquid, but if you want it moist use more. Yummy. Let's add a little bit more, so I'm gonna put it all. And now I'm gonna give it a taste. And see what our flavor profile is. It's very good. Eddie, I didn't put any salt in this, but taste that. I don't think it needs a bit of salt. I think all I need to and I think it's good to go. So now that Eddie and I have tasted it, I'm gonna beat up my egg, uh-oh. I'm gonna beat up my eggs. 'Cause I just got an So I like to taste mine before I put my eggs in. Okie doke. Beat those up a little bit. And your egg is what makes it set, and kind of puff. Oh yeah. - [Eddie] So you can go ahead and make this a day ahead of time and just bake it off. - But let me caution everybody because out of all dishes that dressing is the very thing so you wanna make sure that when you put all this together that it's all at room temperature, and then you can Put and then make it the next morning. Do not mix it together while it's hot, and put it in the refrigerator because if it's in a it takes hours for that and it will sour, you'll have to throw it out and start it all over again. So, like I said, you was at room temperature I had to throw out buckets of dressing at the restaurant. Yeah, I had to learn that the hard way 'cause I would make it, and I would put it in buss tubs, Eddie. Oh my gosh, that broke my heart, and I had to start all over again. This is gonna make two pans, Eddie. Which is great. And this freezes really, really well. Now if I was gonna put I would wait until in the So there we go. That's a beautiful little cornbread dressing with sausage. In the oven, 350. Maybe 30-45 minutes. Okay, Mikey, this has gotten ready, this dressing has gotten for me to feed Michael supper. Look at this. Now y'all I put the perfect amount of chicken stock in that for my taste. This is a consistency that to make my dressing. So I can't hardly wait. Ooh, you're gonna be a happy camper. - [Michael] Is it good? - I got fresh apple salad, roasted chicken and dressing. So good. So you wanna taste it, and- - Tell 'em what you think about it? - Thank you. - You may want me to make sausage dressing every Thanksgiving instead of- - Oh, that is good. - Isn't that good? So good. - I didn't get any sausage. - Well it's crumpled up in there. - It is good. - Mm-hmm, isn't that good? And the Thanksgiving I hope y'all will try these recipes. - Mm, that's good too. - I know. That Thanksgiving apple salad is in a custard rather and it's fabulous. - I'll be back. - That's what I was afraid of. (Michael laughing) Love and best dishes y'all. (laughs) Hey, y'all, it's Paula Deen. Now, if you enjoyed this video, and click the subscribe button bell to be alerted Love and Best Dishes Y'all.