Hey, Vsauce. Michael here. centimeters - about four inches. is how much taller on average people are today than they were 150 years ago. early in life has allowed us to better within our genes. big a healthy human being can get given an optimal environment. rarely exceed 7 feet 6 inches. But individuals with endocrine disorders, near the pituitary gland in the brain rapidly and for a longer period of time than usual. who at 7 foot 8 inches is the in America. is Sultan Kosen, who at 8 foot 3 inches tall also holds the Guinness world record for largest hands and feet. ever officially recorded was Robert Wadlow. He was the size of an average adult male kindergarten at the age of 5. in 1940 at the age of 22, he was 8 foot 11 inches tall. was 7' 4&quot;. is me holding a 12-ounce can. Here's Andre doing the same. is fascinating, but what's the maximum, biologically how big can a human get? how big are you really? It turns out that today, now in history, average human height is probably quite near the genetic limit. we may be able to add an extra 15 average, but beyond that we are likely to hit a ceiling. people over 8 feet tall, 2.44 meters, those people would probably need to be a different shape. This is because of the square-cube law. As a shape grows, say, taller, Take a look at this cube. well, sure, it's 10 times as tall, is 100 times larger and its volume, the space within it, is 1000 times larger. Now, since weight is connected to volume, this cube only has one hundred times the but one thousand times the weight to support. So, if you were ten times larger, and still shaped like a person, that is are now, you would need to either have a skeleton or bones that were monstrously thick, But even if you solved the bone and there would still be a whole host of wouldn't scale up fast enough to that large. because their proportions Chris Howard from Earth Unplugged giant, not human proportioned, legs of the largest land animal ever known to the certainty of a complete skeleton, the awesomely named giraffatitan. Discovered in Tanzania and now mounted it probably weighed 20 to 30 thousand kilograms. The Bruhathkayosaurus may have been even larger, but this is controversial because we Estimates put this guy at 140,000 kilograms. and in order to survive long enough to reproduce, an animal would need more buoyancy to than air can provide. blue whales love the water so much. The heaviest blue whale ever measured by NMML weighed in at 177,000 kilograms, making it the heaviest animal we are aware of that has ever existed. possible, because animal size is limited and the gravity of our planet. Theoretically, humans born on Mars could because gravity there is only one third The trade off of course being that their enough for them to ever visit Earth and enjoy it. The point is, in order to have have now, we can't really get that much bigger. Some of the higher estimates of the upper average human height are around 7 feet tall. A person who is more than 9 feet aAd up in the 12- to 15-foot range, it would be difficult to live very long at all. But what does size mean? Where do you really begin and end? their rigid boundaries. it's very common, but of course, when I speak I can fill an entire room and when I shout I can fill city blocks. huge. It's not part of the matter that fits But it's relevant to the question of how big a person is. impact on their environment can a person from their bodies? in his tome &quot;The Seven Mysteries of Life.&quot; The little solid dogs are small, but their sound and smell extend into dream of filling up with their bodies on earth. Let's begin with sound. can your loudest shout travel? The volume of space within which people when you shout. 88 decibels from 30 centimeters away. A shout like that will die out down below in our atmosphere, after traveling about 5 kilometres or 3 miles. might be able to make you out a little but the point is, in space no one can hear you scream. no one can hear you scream. But could they see you scream? at all? the furthest you can see another person is the horizon. that distance is about 5 kilometers or 3 miles. Any further away than that behind the curvature of the earth. in, say, outer space, where moving away eventually hiding behind the earth. it becomes smaller and smaller. actual size of the object doesn't change. is its angular size. space in your visual field an object takes up. Imagine your visual field as a complete circle, 180 degrees of which go from the to the horizon behind you. of 90 degrees would have to be big enough and close enough, so as to take up all to right above you. thumb held at an arm's length away from your face takes up about one degree of your visual field. is 1 degree. half a degree at all times. larger at the horizon, but that's because covered really well. is about one arc minute, a sixtieth of a degree. But given enough contrast, a mere 20 arc seconds across, a third of a sixtieth of a degree. will tell us that with perfect conditions: outer space, no air, no obstructions, bright white, the farthest away a person could see you with their naked 10 to 15 kilometres. Any further away than that and they will of your naked eye visibility existence. But... do you smell that? you. your smell, your scent, might be your largest earthly dimension. You know how animals like cats and dogs wet noses? a rhinarium. really really well. they localize them. allowing the animal to tell the source of the smell. It's the same as when you wet your the wind's direction. A Bloodhound can pick up and trace to you a scent trail that is days old, making your scent imprint on the earth about as large as you can move in a couple days. But the Silvertip grizzly has a sense of smell that is seven times stronger that a Bloodhound. These guys can smell things from 18 miles away, nearly 30 kilometres. the largest bubble we could draw around you and still call you, because it contains things that you omitted that can be things. But if we include everything you emit, well, fundamentally we're limited to the edges of earth's atmosphere, hydrogen, helium, which escape into space, not much else leaves. There's no medium in travel through. Which brings us back to light. The human body emits light, Most of it is infrared light, heat. though it's about 1,000 times dimmer than the eye can see. do emit is tied in some way to your circadian rhythms, meaning that around 4 p.m. everyday, you are literally visibly the brightest you will be all day. electromagnetic radiation. keeps going out into and through space, which of course brings us to Australia. If you're not subscribed to Derek's channel Veritasium I don't know what you're doing with your life. and he recently made a video that I have The smallest possible piece of light is a photon and the human eye can kind of perceive individual photons, But some frogs can see individual Now, in his video he explains that, its angular size gets smaller and you're so far away from the Sun that you But it's still there and it is still emitting light that can reach your eye, except now that light has been spread so thin see, it's just individual photons. The Sun is still there, it's just less frequent. Sometimes a photon hits your eye, sometimes nothing and sometimes a photon again. Well, the same thing happens to radiation emitted by you. and he calculated that the human body, would also be reduced to merely a few individual photons. Further than that and your size would no longer get smaller, it would just remain individual photons flying through space, they are, after all, indivisible. your physical size is limited by geometry and biology and gravity. vocal and fragrant size can be bigger but it still limited by the size of Earth. But your light, your personal glow, isn't really bounded by anything. The photons that you are emitting right anything, have no reason to ever really stop. And they can continue conceivably past universe, making you, in a way, completely huge and kind of immortal. And as always, thanks for watching.