Is it a full stop or a period? What does sarcastic from your briffit? Join us for a period as we punctuation in another Words Unravelled. Rob Watts from the YouTube channel Rob Words. books Once Upon a Word and Words from Hell. origins and impacts of punctuation, aren't we? few question marks around the origins So, where do we start, Jess? with punctuation itself, shouldn't we? Yeah, the word itself. So, what does it mean? don't know the Latin pronunciation on that pierce,&quot; and it's related to words like pungent, which is what punctuation is essentially doing. word for the markings that you put on texts, like vowel sounds and such. In English, we call the Mhm. when it became, you know, de rigueur to use foreign caught on instead of pointing. One of its earliest to Psalm pointing. So, these dots and marks could be sung or chanted in a certain rhythm. comes from these notations, particularly One of my favorite origins of punctuation there is genuinely a question mark over the origin but the one that I like the most is that it's the punctus interrogativus, which is this sort of intonation, and below it there's a point, which is of go up in their intonation, then stop--which That's lovely! it described as a lightning flash in terms That is a much better description of it, actually. question mark comes from I don't find one of them is that it is from an Egyptian when it is curious, curves its tail over. I mentioned I recently did a video question what the dot was in that situation. Oh no, that's funny though. I like that. really satisfying, but I'm not so into is that the word quaestio (question in Latin), where they would would put the Q above the O, and then that slowly Which is nice, particularly when you put it mark, which is that it's from the Latin io (yo, by putting the I on top of the O, and then that I like these ideas, but I don't know--I One of the fabulous things about although it's pretty self-exclamatory, it means for a short period of time (and I'm sure well-read people), they were called shriek marks. printers, for exclamation marks, didn't also called them--I don't know how to say this alliterative term for a dog's appendage. if a question mark is meant to look like a cat's I can also imagine that being extended Yeah, exactly. our pages, even if it is only their back ends. uh, living out. You have been and I have been calling it an exclamation point. and it won't be the only one that we come There's, uh, what do you typically A full stop, which I think is, uh, certainly more, um, firm, I think, than period. I think period is arguably the more, sort back to the very earliest regimes of the Library of Alexandria in ancient Greece. with coming up with this mode of marking texts a top dot, a middle dot, and a bottom dot, each of The longest one denoted the longest period other two types were called comma and colon. punctuations as well, although what his original punctuation marks were. setting off phrases, while instead of necessarily is--just to clarify--meant to denote that period Because the very first punctuation wasn't about when you should sort of pause for breath or speech. And actually, that's why it was dropped, Cicero, the historian--the Roman historian--said read out loud is the rhythm of the text and not breathe. So, that's why this regime that's set returns when Christian scholars start wanting God as accurately as possible and leave as And actually, it's so much of what, as you've of the punctuation that we use now originates from misunderstands what they're going on about. commas--although, you know, period denotes the its literal sense kind of also implies, like, a you know, as far back as--it's a Greek word--and as in a sentence or a line of poetry. what colon means, then? a part of a verse or a poem, presumably a a Greek word literally meaning &quot;limb&quot; or &quot;member,&quot; So, these all--essentially comma, periodos, but of different sizes. And they were all words the word comma is something that we've applied was originally labeled the comma. used to be much, much longer. It used to be more which speakers of French and Italian and other comma. But it's just sort of shrunk over time and I said, that is just so... Yeah, yeah, and it's got a lot more That could be--and I'm totally conjecturing than I do--but that might be why sometimes we of lines of poetry on a single line, you'll Right. Makes a lot of sense. breaks are an interesting thing, aren't they? you know, like spaces between words are actually wasn't always that way. Like, the Greeks and the words--they just wrote in one long line. You would want to maximize your space. hadn't thought to do it, you know. So, you'll see the words--there isn't a space, there's a dot--just But, you know, for ancient Greece, you would to be able to work out where the words are--you But, you know, it only becomes a routine thing which is kind of amazing to me--that we weren't you can look at text from before then, and But similarly, line breaks are a new thing that someone had to decide to do, Uh-huh. history behind it. In medieval writings, you'd just continuous writing--a little mark either that looked like what we call a pilcrow now. &quot;to write beside.&quot; And then, in the 17th the word came to refer to actual breaks in the suggesting that we should imagine one. today called a pilcrow, is actually a No way! So, in Old French, it was pelagrafe, and that variation was misunderstood in English as pilcraft, which itself was corrupted to pilcrow. Oh, that's amazing. So, so when people they're basically saying the same The original symbol was called which--oh my goodness--means &quot;header&quot; or &quot;capital.&quot; as well as capitulate--to bow your head, right? right? Your cap, for example. A captain. Oh, isn't it, where there's all kinds of Off the top of it, anyway. But the reason why scribes would write in black to start with the capitulum--this C with two lines through it. It But it's--so it's like the pilcrow, but imagine written in a different color normally, and it they would write it all out in black, and line where there was enough space for someone capitulum there instead. But eventually, they in there, and you just had an indented paragraph. faded faster than the black, and it just it wasn't--there was this capitulum The hyphen, right--that's got a Greek One of my most popular videos of all time is different types, why they are the way they are, uh, like, journalism and whatnot. hyphen one of them, and then you've That's correct, yes. So, the hyphen and it's used primarily--some of this will vary guide, even within the same language. is used to create compound nouns like and then adjective phrases like keen-minded, phrases like twenty-six or forty-two. either side of it, right? guides also have no spaces on either Ah, okay. So, tell us about the em and en dashes. I did want to clarify: hyphen literally you remember which one it's supposed to Yeah, because originally they were crescent that went underneath two parts of part of the compound ended and another one began. without spaces between words, of course. So, let's see. The next longest type of dash is an an en dash is used in place of the word &quot;through.&quot; like &quot;page 26 through 143&quot; would use an depending on your style guide. would probably wouldn't put a space Okay, so I was wrong about that. Sometimes the em either. In AP style, which is the one but some house style guides remove the spaces. We should say--we're saying em dash and the letter m, or n, the letter n, right? is all kinds of complicated. They're called en (e-m-s) are units of typographic measurement. An em corresponds to the width of a printing block could be half of a lowercase m, but in practice, are not always half the width of lowercase m's. the M block in some typefaces, but not always. exactly double the width of an en, right, because at the bottom. So, there is a more reliable and airtight rule for digital fonts. And it's that the width of an And this is--like, anybody in our, um, comments the point size,&quot; and it is in most cases. measurement. So, for example, 12-point Times New And usually, an m is also about 12 points wide, So, usually, that corresponds. But also, a lot of the time, so they end up all over the place. how--so, the en dash is essentially the little pieces that letters are put, you know, en dash is the width of one for an N, and the em Kind of, sometimes, and not really. So, the em dash creates a sharp break &quot;Goodness gracious--etymology is real-life &quot;Goodness gracious&quot; rather than a comma because clause in the middle of my sentence--like the one I see. Is it also what you would use for an using ellipses? Indeed, especially if you want, like, a sharp than science in the way that they are applied, One of the nice things about punctuation Always. There are rules, aren't there? They can be. can add meaning to your writing in unusual ways. She, uh, she made particular and frequent use sentences by creating, uh, jarring cut-offs and So you can see writers have certain marks. Actually, here's a thing I read the even though it had been invented by the time he short," so it's giving the idea that, uh, yeah, That's neat. It also--do you know at what point it started So if you quote someone and you pull out a part of then you would replace it perhaps with the brackets off on that, wouldn't you? least in the style guides that I used--again, something that's changing whatever a person with or without brackets. two dots in square brackets as well to show To get to the point. The point, yeah, exactly. Two Point one issue that many uh, solve throughout history, um, with And there are many attempted solutions in different contexts--and none of So I'm going to use, uh, both sarcastic because many punctuation solutions that have been For instance, the interrobang, which uses one of uh, double-meaning words for an exclamation Spectre as a tool for copywriters to convey not just a surprised question, right? exclamation mark and a punctuation mark. of the other, sharing the dot. today--like most of the solutions we get, uh, alternating capitals and lowercase letters. So you your O's. Or you could use tildes around words for And then, in online spaces, some people will a slash S, which, uh, echoes the structure closing a closing tag implying sarcasm. it would be necessary to flag up sarcasm. I think Actually, to be honest, I can't see why, You know, there was a punctuation the percontation point. You know about this? It's just a backwards question mark. question--a question that doesn't have a yes or no but eventually, it went on to mean a rhetorical answer. A bit like the interrobang, but it's just And it--well, I mean, at least to some extent--it which is backwards because you read Oh, do you think there was confusion? Do you I doubt there's much overlap there. I think it that is pointing or that is, uh, flowing mark in the opposite direction as well. and question marks at the beginning of sentences That was recommended by the Royal fully adopted until, like, the 19th century. first proposed in 1668 by English clergyman John of a sentence to denote irony or sarcasm. I always wondered whether the Spanish 'cause it might be good to know when you're Yeah, I do like the emphasis at the beginning I'm not convinced it's necessary for a question. is a question until you get to the an audiobook reader or narrating something. Let's see. A couple other ways that irony can scare quotes. That's when you put quotes around word nerd is running a podcast over here. anyone at all--hopefully--right, in that instance. found a use for, and sarcasm is perhaps the You know, italics lean one way, as if written if you imagine a left-handed writer writing that can be done on a computer, but it never A good reason to use--what do Yeah, I guess reverse italics. But it could be used for sarcasm, I think. and I think it makes perfect sense. like that you can switch between them and that right context--you could also use regular like, you're so smart, you know. kind of doing the job, isn't it? There may be more than this too, but one more that French poet Alcaanter de Brahm, who proposed an--it was swishy, backwards question mark is what it looks Irony? the French have experimented quite deeply with There's this guy, um, his name's Herve Bazin, and he wrote a book in which he proposed a load really lovely love point, which--it was but sharing the dot at the bottom, sort of as if they're about to kiss. And that with lots of other ones as well. something as well, didn't he? can't remember what they all were. I've actually of it, but I think I got--I want to read what of them was called, um, the doubt mark. And and pointy--which I suppose is kind of what It's questioning. Um, yeah, he's worth looking up--Herve Bazin. Oh, yes, let's, because they are often They sure can. one of which is almost certainly true. But you and I've seen it in our comments before Go on, tell us. Let's debunk something. in the past, including etymologists, that the, is meant to be a contraction of his, with the became the king's crown by means of contraction. lack of evidence and because it fails to and other pronouns make no sense. So, generally I did find examples of that structure. I found another where someone had written Mars his heart. hypercorrection, and that someone has the apostrophe should not be there, and that it's that it's a contraction of something. um, the term apostrophe is from the Greek, omitted letter has been sent away or banished from the words in his or some of the letters in his. with contractions like you're and can't uh, it is removing a different letter there in many cases, and it's the letter e. there were no apostrophes, and possession So, if you were talking about a lamb's fleece--the lamb possessive by adding an es. The knight's then, with French influence, this e was which showed where that e had been omitted. Middle English, always that e. Sometimes The clearest examples are in Canterbury Tales, Yeah, I--so, I mean, would we be up for going could we just--could we just get rid I kind of like it, but I agree that it causes a Oh, man, I still sometimes get that comes out of the end of my fingers wrong. but it still ends up going wrong. I know what I'm doing, but sometimes and--uh, endlessly frustrating. possessive plurals? So--or words ending with s? hard line on stylistic choices, but I write for a and I just have to go with whatever they tell me. not? People will die on that hill, and I'm like, I have to write in AP style for my journalism. a marketing team--a lot of times it's within their the air, and I'm like, I will--I will follow the Right. So, I--I was looking into what different dealing with a proper name ending in an not s-apostrophe-s, but then others, like is that if you say the s, then put it there. As a man with an s at the end of It's Rob Watts's house or Rob Watts' house? natural to me than Rob Watts' house. It sounds like saying Rob Watts' house. because my name might be Rob Watt. I would say Jess's bookshelf. Yeah, yours is an even better example Yeah, Jess's bookshelf behind her is full behind. That sounds--sounds really goofy. In Jesus's name. quite a common setup, right? Jesus takes Really? Yeah, he gets--he gets talked about a lot. So, Jesus gets his own rules. Walk on water; But to answer your question--which I would little bit here again because, um, I--typically, I probably would have said I would just say, simply an apostrophe. But now that I'm thinking I would probably add the s. I--I tend to go with the idea that I will write just want to be consistent, because that is a on the person. And, sure, ideally, punctuation--if something that is standardized rather than can see why just going with the apostrophe, no s, It does get hairy, though, a little bit too, Um, so let's say I'm talking about the dog's a singular toy. But what if I'm talking about I wouldn't--I wouldn't say the dogs's toys. Oh, well, you just say the Exactly. It's just--you know, Both dogs' toys. There you go. pronounce--like even if you added an additional do a single apostrophe at the end, then it would It's an imperfect system. You mentioned earlier the Oxford comma. Can So, when I say dogs, cats, and bears, um, I That second comma is the Oxford comma, so named assuming--the style guides of Oxford University. and, which is actually what I was taught second-to-last item when you've got and before the ambiguity that comes--that can come about--doesn't For example, if you said, uh, I dedicate this Are you talking about--am Exactly. Exactly. And it seems an unlikely better examples where it--it could happen. people get very worked up about if you don't, wrong if you don't put it in there. But I don't subscribe to the Oxford comma regime. when they are needed, and then itself--suffices. Just go for clarity, you know. and--and the letter and, um, the symbol we call an Oh, that's difficult. I wouldn't call it punctuation. Yeah. so it's arguably a logogram. 'Cause a logogram was where you would put more printing. And it's where we get our word logo. that doesn't really fit with the time--but it's a describing this to me: the Google logo, right? a G and L and E--or rather--rather than a G and L and E every time, they would instead And that would be called a logogram. And, yeah, And an ampersand is the word et, isn't it? them. And we use ligatures like that all the scribbling--or at least I do--um, I draw something but looks more like a ligature of e and t. I--I do just a sort of But the name ampersand is interesting, I think the story of that makes the case I--I would agree with that. Um, it means the symbol, and the ligature of e and t considered another letter of the alphabet. for another video and, uh, found a--it's it. There's a page from an American schoolbook telling you how to recite the alphabet. Like Pompeii--the city of Pompeii--has Oh, brilliant. Yeah, we should say, meaning &quot;and.&quot; One of the reasons for the sort of to ampersand but sometimes contracted to ampassy the long name was because the symbol was also So, for example, an early symbol for etc., which by the letter c, which you still see sometimes. Yeah, maybe even a little dot after it as well. else attached to it. Any more for any more on Just a tidbit more, uh, and that is the tit. the way? Like, you do something to a T. The T in the phrase to a T and this is the word for the dot on an i or a In fact, tit also appears in the King For verily I say unto you, Till heaven and wise pass from the law, till all be fulfilled. paired with jot, originally a word meaning and later referring to a short written mark the smallest letter of the Greek alphabet. English is jot or yot, which absolutely reflects which was a y sound rather than a j sound. Uh, tell me. in handwriting, an a, u, an m, an n, and an i one of them from the next. So they put dots above That's darling. I love it. And the J itself is--is just an adaptation swingy bit on the bottom so you could tell of that letter and the consonant version It's so neat how these, uh, I do have one more thing that I can you might say, and that is the Grawlix. No, I don't know what that is. It sounds So, uh, when you see a sequence of marks replacing a censored swear word, um, it Um, and I will--I will tell you who, um, introduced the chapters in my book Words from Hell. If of it also says the bleeping end using a Grawlix. would like to, uh, pluralize this--sort of of Comicana when artist Mort Walker, the Grox to a wide readership. They existed It's possible one of his editors came up with came up with a number of these terms and may in the '60s, but Grawlix is thought to be imitative -ix ending perhaps echoing comics culture, where cartoonist culture of the early and mid-1900s. other, like, symbols with goofy grawlixes didn't necessarily have to be comic artists would also do, like, scribbles But--but often, they were eventually translated to, of symbols. Definitely the first time I came And basically, they're just a visualization going to put a beep in. Just to run through a couple of, uh, Mort Walker's blurgits and swalloops were the curved lines who were excitedly waving their arms. when a character has swiftly darted One of your favorites. Indotherms are the wavy lines rising Plewds are the droplets of sweat that emerge And squeans are the starbursts and of a character who's been hit on the head. So much fun. Jess, I think, um, it's time I think that will about do it and Very good. Thank you very much for watching or and we'll catch you in the next one.