Somewhere in the desert there's an ancient city city in the world. Hundreds of apartment buildings Modern skyscrapers are made of concrete and made of mud. Who built this city? Why are the is the old world city of Shibam. I've been picture. At first I didn't believe my eyes. comparing it to a modern place like Manhattan, The city is 330 by 240 meters. This is about part of the densest city of the United States. densely populated. And it's way older. They were the Roman Empire. It's also special when you brick across the region. But nowhere do they build What I found even stranger is how abruptly the the desert. There seems to be plenty of space by. So why did they build so high? Going into with curiosity. It's about wanting to know more I think you're going to like the sponsor your doom-scrolling device into a learning tool. during the day to really build a learning habit. from disciplines like philosophy and psychology lessons. Everyone learns in a different way. But to really help you understand the topic. And of this app. It makes me want to come back to so you can easily get an idea about the topic. and even on the science of happiness. It's the Year. I'm really enjoying it. If you want to you can scan the QR code on screen or go to also get 20% off an annual premium subscription. Shibam is in Yemen, a place you've probably over wider war in the Middle East, explosions worst humanitarian crises we've seen in almost attacked another cargo ship in the Red Sea. of famine. But I wanted to show you a different I reached out to every filmmaker from Yemen I And eventually, I got in touch with Mohamed. Mohamed visited Shibam and talked to adapting to a harsh environment. Of an ancient And why this city might be in danger. But before we let the in the middle of the desert? The geography orange and red is where people live. Most of lives in the west. In the mountains, where you in places like Aden. The middle of Yemen is a in the cracks of a plateau, you can find human have been created by something humans can't live the wadi Hadramout. A wadi is a riverbed that is the river flows. That water can be stored to have been settling close to wadi's all Shibam became an important step in a huge caravan between Africa, the Middle East and India. It's Shibam was mentioned in Greek sources and was part of many kingdoms to European explorers. It took until 1893 They saw a city that rose from the desert, like It was Shibam. 500 houses all crowded together I found it interesting that some of city to Chicago instead of Manhattan. in Chicago was seen as one of the had a skeleton made of steel. But in The people that settled here had to do with degrees Celsius. There are not many trees to use it can only be used for foundations. So the people mix sandy soil with some clay and straw to make 8,000 bricks a day. A house they build can stand And maintaining this city is a constant process. The material they use influences weight, the foundation of the homes is wider. The to 30 centimeters at the top. After laying the This can be a challenge for higher floors. The top lime plaster. This helps to make them waterproof. high buildings act like trees, limiting sunlight as an insulator, keeping the heat out. And the wouldn't you just put white lime on the whole becomes a status symbol. The most important like these mosques in the city. But there are apartment blocks, the doors and frames are made But building so high also has its challenges. The deal with this? But it's not only residents but Shibami residents want modern amenities The different floors also have very specific uses. was often closed off for defensive reasons. The second floor is for the men as a formal it's the main family area. And also where that are for sleeping arrangements of different why did they build so high? Ancient people liked defend from wild animals and invaders. When the archaeological excavations, people were already years ago. And still, Shibam is much higher than There was a lack of space because 500 years ago something happened that changed away huge chunks of the city. It is these floods the only place that was considered safe the people have had to resist temptation to build have been living here all along. This has led to UNESCO World Heritage List. But there are dangers approached Yemen. This led to severe flooding. Some buildings collapsed and people died. But age-old knowledge of only building on high Another threat to the city is the raging war in Yemen. In 2009 a terrorist The dangers to the city withstanding, it is still around today. It's a It's so connected. There are even passageways It's easy to forget there are so much more to place in the news is an amazing example of the way humans adapt with limited resources in a climate not really Keeping alive an ancient tradition to preserve for the climate instead of making the climate place is a World Heritage Site and has a