Is today your wedding? Not mine hahaha I've been married for almost a year inside It's my friend's Ah, is she still in there? Yeah, she doesn't start dressing until tomorrow. Good afternoon, everyone! Welcome back to the channel! I am now in Tashkurgan China's border city and I am here with Ashu with our luggages and bags and today there is something super exciting and that's why we are waiting for someone because we are going to attend a wedding of Tajik Tajik Tajik but we are super excited now we're waiting for his friend to pick us up and now we are driving to a small village which is about fifty kilometers away from here we're gonna stay there overnight because the whole wedding is in tomorrow Hello, my name is Yan Hello What's your name? My name is Xiaonu It's called Xiaonu Xiaonu Xiaonu, yes Xiaonu Thanks for taking us there It's alright Now we are in the car of Xiaonu she is a local Tajik girl who is going to take us to the wedding Isn't that wedding tomorrow? Why are we going tonight? It starts today Well, our wedding lasts two days tonight to tomorrow Well, tomorrow is the groom The groom will pick up the bride tomorrow Because we're going to the bride's house today to attend the wedding Well, then tomorrow the groom will pick up the bride. Well, today is the bride's relatives and friends come to dance and congratulations to her bless her Ah, people start with a dance tonight Then tomorrow it's the official one Yeah, that's right. That uh Is it OK to go there directly like we did? It's okay. We don't know them It's okay because you go there with me That uh I saw it online that every day in September and October, there are people getting married. Yes, because September, August and July. It's hot in August and September It's approaching winter since October Turn cold Snowy or something Oh, so they just can't hold the wedding. It is cold Very few people show up So that's why most of us hold the wedding in summer Oh, summer weddings in summer so we pick up two more friends and then there will be another one What's your name? Moerjiang (prounciation) Hmm, (my name is) Yan. the countryside is just so beautiful but we're here see there are so many so many cars and everyone in the village will come here that's their tradition that's how they greet each other You all do this to each other, right? How do you say hello to girls? It's just (like this) hahahahaha They ask us to get in for tea on entering we were served with some hot tea all guests left some gift money in a tray but it wasn't much, it's fifty or a hundred as a token of best wishes That is the process of giving the gift money They are very well equipped so there is a dj who keeps changing the music and then sometimes boys sometimes girls jump into the pool Hahaha When are you going to dance? I can't jump now My shoe heel is too high hahaha Oh, your heel is too high, right? I'm afraid of falling and making a fool of myself haha It's okay. Everyone here knows each other, right? Yes. Oh, that that... These these beautiful woman They are all friends or colleagues of my cousin. Now we So where are we at now ? Now is the most lively part The most people come now It's the time when most people are here Right And then everybody keep dancing Keep dancing Yeah, yeah, yeah, all night long Will jump all the way to one or two o'clock? One or two o'clock?! Wow Is today your wedding? Not my wedding hahaha I've been married for almost a year. inside My friend's (wedding) Is she still in there? Yeah, she doesn't start dressing until tomorrow. She hasn't started dressing up yet. Because you dress so well. Thanks. So the girl next to me, her dress is so beautiful I thought she is the bride but she is not Is it very expensive? Yes. How much is it ? Well, if it's sterling silver add up to more than 10,000 yuan (usd 1400) 10,000. Yeah. that means Did you prepare it especially for this wedding? No, I wore it when I got married I can also wear it after marriage This is what you wear to a wedding Yes, this is what we think about uh... This signifies how we value our friends So we will dress up very well. It's really beautiful. This kind (of clothes) is for the unmarried Yes, and then the clothes like yours are married. Like this. Like this, there are different parts at the back. The hat is different. The hat is different. Yes. OK Some married people also wear hats like this Their dresses are just beautiful. Girls love to dress in bright colors especially in red, they wear a colorful handmade flat cap They clip it onto their hair so that it won't fall If you make me to take a wild guess just by reading the faces I might say some are Pakistani, Iranian Albanian or even French, Italian They're probably the least Chinese looking people but I am in China and when I stood in them I felt as if i am in a foreign country So in this side room it's a kitchen and different food is prepared there is lamb there is potato cooked with meat, there is also noodles and it's so busy guests keep coming in, and in a while I saw a familiar face, that's a boy Artybik (pronouciation) who I met two days ago and who taught me how to dance and this time he came with many friends What's your name? Egbern (pronouciation) How about you? Roastum (pronouciation). Roastum, how about you? Segdili (pronouciation) Selidili (pronouciation) You? Don't you know my name? Can you say it again? Bakhchibik (pronouciation) Bakhchibik hahaha This is Giabik (pronouciation). How about you? Giabik (pronouciation) Giabik How about you? Eliarbik (pronouciation) Eliarbik Your name is so long hahaha Yes Then go to my house and dance I feel embarrassed here. Go to my house to dance I can dance for you. Are you a little embarrassed? What are you embarrassed about? So embarrassing. I listen to whatever you say at home You're a little shy right now, aren't you? Yeah, lots of people. Yes, I just danced with a girl, right? Go away (kidding) So shy Hahaha, you dance very well. Don't be shy. Yes, tomorrow will take the bride away And then there's goat-pulling It's up there. Yes, okay, okay. Then I'll see the goat-pulling tomorrow. OK, will you come over tomorrow? Tomorrow I if you stay at my house today I'll come with you tomorrow. All right. Great, let's pinky swear Pinky swear Thank you. You're welcome. What are you doing? Cut the watermelon I'm new to this, too You are new to this? Give it to the sister It's okay, you eat, you eat You can have it. Eat it, I'll treat you to eat it Our Tajik wedding as a matter of fact, takes 7 days If we include the days without guests it will take 7 days Since we have to clean and prepare things a few days ago. The days with crowds like this will last for three days. Because only after the bride is married we can take the goat-pulling and so on. At midnight a veiled woman stepped into the pool and started dancing she got everyone's attention so the lady who was dancing and who was wearing a scarf is the bride the bride tomorrow and since she will be married tomorrow she has to keep warm and that's why she was wearing a scarf oh my god it's so crowded so that guy clutch a leash in hand in case the crowd wants to push forward he will scare the rest by waving it and push the crowd back After the wedding that food it's pretty simple, boiled lamb and beef fell asleep fell asleep fell asleep My (cell phone) So this is what happens by the end of the day I just crash at the bride's house with a bunch of strangers Is this your son? Ah, is this your son? I wish I had such a handsome son Tonight is my only night it should be in my life the first time with a stranger boy I've never met before we even haven't spoken a single word sleep in the same bed It might be the first time hahaha. but eventually we have a place to stay and there's another sleeping boy then my bed What's your name? Lizhaoleili How old are you? 13 You can play the piano at the age of 13? How long have you been a DJ? I don't know Maybe two years. Two years and then you can do that I am his teacher Ah you taught him Wow! I am his teacher But he also learns by himself. He learns fast by himself. He learns fast by himself. So that's a very young DJ who's only thirteen years old but he's like a pro, he's the best Haha, thanks. Anyone can participate in this wedding not only the relatives Anyone who would like to participate can come It doesn't matter. Right Anyone would like to participate no matter where they come from, anyone can participate Weddings are not restricted to relatives Anyone is welcome to join. You mean everyone can celebrate together So you see that's the sense of a Tajik wedding it's about celebration, anyone can be part of it Do you know English? Right You know English, right? Yeah. But you Sometimes I feel as if you guys can speak some English too Because of the passport, you could say &quot;Passport&quot; Uh, kind of like that Right You have words in English, right? The Chinese Tajik speak two languages, Sarakoli and Wakhi a branch of the eastern Iranian language and in their language Passport is &quot;Passport&quot; mask is &quot;mask&quot;, the same to that in English Eventually there were a lot of us in one shared room we had some fun chats and a pretty snoring night This wedding starts very early around 8 a.m. so I think many people only have like three or four hours' sleep so we cleared the room because the bridegroom will arrive and he will use that room They'll bring their son to my house today Oh bring And bring the daughter Ah, it's the groom's family coming over Yes, yes, yes. They come and the groom will take my daughter away This meal is for them today Ah, it's for them. Yes, yes, yes, yes. Come come come Thank you. Here you go. Please drink. This morning the bride is busy doing makeup and in this room everyone is busy so some girls are preparing the flower petals and her family has just finished making that hat The bridegroom is coming very soon but there is a little change in this wedding because just now a close family member from another village passed away so as a respect, they stopped all the music and to keep the wedding a little bit low key Everyone is waiting for the groom now the kids got lined up and one queue they have to listen whoa they listen to the commands of their parents and some even went onto the roof 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 Arise! Arise!! Arise!!! Our million hearts beating as one Brave the enemy's fire March on! Brave the enemy's fire March on! March on! Onward! It was our national anthem that they were singing The Tajik in Tashkurgan are proud Chinese, many of them have ever many of them have been also in the army before to safeguard China's frontier and many kids even want to be a soldier in the future and because compared with the surrounding regions because compared with the neighboring countries China in Tashkurgan and this place has always been quite peaceful and stable people are having a good life so people are very proud of being Chinese They're knocking the door of the bride with gifts and gift money So when the groom reached in the beginning he stayed in the separate so the groom's family is in this room the bride is in the other room when the new couple stood together the family dusted their shoulders with flower and after a long wedding oath the bride's mom started throwing the candies into the crowds hadn't I been filming I would have gone for the candies too it must be extremely lucky then again the crowd started boiling the center of the living room became a stage inviting the couple to dance So after dancing now I'm sitting with everyone else because now it's time for lunch Happy birthday to you How old are you? I'm 25. 25 years old. What's your name? Uh, Eram Happy Birthday! Eram apparently sounds like his birthday, so people are singing Lunch is the favorite dish of the Tajik, pilaf Hand-held rice rice with carrot and then just simply beef and when they finish dinner the groom's family will take the bride into the car and they will be soon leaving so that's almost the end of the wedding Traditionally, there used to be an event called &quot;Diaoyang&quot;, the goat-pulling it's a very popular event in Asian Nomadic tribes including the Khazaks, Uygurs and Afghanis and many many tribes in central Asia But today because one of the family member passed away so it was cancelled unfortunately This is more, you see, I gave you less. OK Thank you uncle for this hospitality I'll send you all the photos later. Thank you, we'll give you the photos later. Thank you. Thank you for your warm hospitality You have worked hard these two days. Thank you for your help here. We are very happy to come here. Yeah, we're all happy. This is my uncle's daughter's wedding Hope your daughter has a peaceful and delightful future.