Before we start- a lot of games and movies warnings. TAKE THIS ONE SERIOUSLY. Some of challenging you to not have a seizure. Also, there's a big chunk of this video centered and you'll get a whole bonus essay as well. You know, it's kind of miraculous that "LSD as "LSD Dream Emulator." I say this because almost nothing else about progression, there is little predictable navigation, within the game explains what it is, why it's nothing, except the title of the whole project. Released on the Sony Playstation in 1998, publishers thought that American and European reference, or that the content was simply no idea how to market it. Because it requires and yet the Japanese ad boldly proclaims, What is LSD Dream Emulator, then? It's a spaces, all linked together, seemingly at yellow interior, a window and fireplace and nothing obvious to do here- there's certainly anything, any object at all, and the screen This is it, this is the whole thing in terms bump something or walk down a tunnel and show like this, or if you fall off a cliff, the be shown a chart with "Upper, Downer, Static, with a square placed somewhere between them the next day starts the process over again. However, what this mechanical description you're taken to in Dream Emulator are astonishingly or a sort of pattern-hell theme park, or what jumping babies, or plains being traversed cityscape. Gradually, these places, like in The field full of international landmarks. everything continuously warps, the music different themselves lose their grip. Once I walked field, except the grass and rocks and structures text. Once a sumo wrestler chased me through Once I found a woman in a red dress in the her head fell off. The pulsating intro to Dream Emulator gives Limbo the Silent Dream, In Lunacy the Savage has led some to claim that hey, the title refer to drugs. But it does, of course. The that "LSD goes back to that LSD, the one Francisco and so on, like what we all said mind-altering psychedelics. But it's also The inspiration for Dream Emulator came from Playstation. Sato said he was repeatedly driving if, when he hit a wall, he "would be launched each level from a desire to teleport all over of Sato's own dream journal. The soundtrack, was released alongside Dream Emulator in an Although LSD Dream Emulator sold poorly in it's not hard to see why it's achieved It's a weirdo indie, a classic itch.io experiment, existed. Getting your hands on a physical doesn't make it any less remarkable that to be one of the few thousand Playstation "this is not a game." LSD Dream Emulator a piece of work not validated by raw sales talked about the wonderful 2:22AM before, and surreal interludes to Dream Emulator. discs" play in the same surreal valley. shows up to erase your memory is basically Alt-J even used a screenshot of it for one Above everything else though, when I think trailer, THIS IS NOT A GAME. On first blush Treachery of Images, this is not a pipe, except denies its entire medium. But a more accurate in a way, recognize its status as a game. this is not a game," that it's simply to categorize it would be meaningless. But that doesn't mean I'm not going to In 2012, Stephen Lavelle released- It's a free game you download from his website- It's kinda like being in a club- Okay sorry let's go somewhere quieter. Slave Stephen Lavelle, also known by his studio known for the puzzle game Stephen's Sausage his website between 2008 and 2022. One such on August 8, 2017, in which the player moves imagery, environments flowing into and on or the other and jump, but never slow down. done exploring, then press escape to quit." released on June 6, 2017, a sort of browser of Player Unknown's Battlegrounds. Or there's released August 5, 2009, where you control small circle with a camera for 38 seconds. Slave of God, released December 30, 2012, Dream Emulator," but it wouldn't be hard Slave of God is a nightclub emulator, a deafening, centered in an otherwise confounding interior float around the club or thrash about on the through the colors and shapes, you might fall like gorillas, or glimpse a little floating Most interesting is the sound design, which but is also strongly locational- wander outside In the bathroom you get a robotic series of electronica, and way back in the corner the down from above all the particles, look down There's even less overt "gamification" no chart to show your supposed progress, no personalities. If you want, you can try to but nothing much happens if you do. Slave a reckless use of textures and particles and website with 400 other such experiments- a title which had physical copies stocked television. The similarities between the two differences in scale and support and corporate Increpare's website or itchio make it easier but the lack of such a website in 1998 meant got to be more mainstream than anything Lavelle though, another thing released, released wide, of these titles on whether you could possibly The most traditionally "interactive" part Draw "art," it tells you, with black lines Draw "Your purpose." And then from these produces...a mountain. This is Mountain. This dotted with trees, a changing time of day. thus far, this is it. You don't even need rotate and zoom in or out, or you can let on this piece of land is over as soon as it's Mountain was made by David OReilly, who already and would go on to later make Everything- Museum of Contemporary Art in LA. It was published an improbably big splash for what you could, screensaver. Ian Bogost wrote about it in you are Mountain. You play as the abyss between of The Verge wrote about the strange emotional Miranda wrote for the LA Times that since "leaves the player with plenty of space there is." Like LSD Dream Emulator, the imagined mechanics important than the actual programming. The mountain lends it a sense of individuality, actually mean anything. Dream Emulator arbitrarily or Dynamic, and Mountain tells you that your "forgiveness." Mountain presents a number of "mechanics" that's how we understand "games" to way out. If you click on the mountain, birds space junk fly into the mountain- a horn, they'll make noise. Even mashing the keyboard and all of it matters because there is nothing you get out what you put in. Alongside the glowing critical reception to it...was, and what to do about it. Ben Kuchera seemed like a prank OReilly was playing on in it was assuming a thoughtfulness onto Mountain in response, Michael McMaster wrote that Mountain be explored, to which writer Austin C Howe Form" which reads: "Everything is a f**king of how to think of Mountain, and maybe more labeled a "game," was tackled best by writes: I think there's a desire to see Mountain its poetry, with its random objects, with come out and say it: There's nothing special mountain, and if we wanted, we could try to That flips the relationship onto the player. that mountain and what it does to me, and witness it. It becomes a game of endurance. close it in boredom? This idea of the flipped relationship, of the audience relates to it, is generally my that's a Mountain or a play or a big red is that its strange level of interactivity, that question of reflection more accessibly biggest impediment to appreciating a piece it is to keep walking, to glance over, see the split-second decision to not slow down Because Mountain has been given the title that video games are something to be interacted comfortably. The most easily identifiable wrote, "a game of endurance." But endurance when confronted with art you can't immediately I know that for some, calling a piece of art that being saddled with the label of game with a piece than a more traditional, more what the "theme" of Mountain is, but I and that game, forcing conversation with a one of my favorite things in the world. Mountain has gone through a couple overhauls graphics is now available on Steam and the adds achievements like "use all the keyboard away from its introspective nature. But there a buttonless arcade cabinet, for example. art full circle, Mountain got its own museum Japan, a sort of steel topography housed a its sheer scale positioning Mountain as a in an intimidating metal structure and without "exhibit" may have removed some of the Over the past several years, we've seen video games have received big exhibits at Many other museums have uploaded fully explorable around the Guggenheim in Google Street View, In 2016, the Museum of London commissioned the fire of 1666 that visitors can freely these are great (I actually used to teach I find more fascinating are exhibits created to hold them back. Released just a couple months ago by a creator named Louis, Monuments to Guilt is a fairly museum format. Monuments to Guilt introduces a few brightly lit rooms that feature dozens some new way to prevent people from drawing to lay down, others are uncomfortable to sit impossible to use the quote-unquote bench to it as a game- could quite easily be a sized, hanging benches are supported by wires, infeasible part is the benches themselves. paired with the exact coordinates where you guerilla captures, remade from third-party included with the express consent of the designers carry the prestige of a nice, high-quality funding and permissions it'd take to pull On some level, Monuments to Guilt is completely nothing you can do to directly impact the highlights the point. Plastered on the museum not touch, no photography, no eating, no drinking, may seem redundant, or only present for verisimilitude. for that. Of course I won't sleep, it's sit, it's just a bunch of...benches... The the space that this exhibit occupies, it's or, not interact- with it. A room full of against the rules but against the laws of maybe most clever of all is the perspective. on this footage- that's not an editorial does too, like an eyelid except it stops not remain unusable throughout the whole experience, frustrating in how much usable space it denies designed for discomfort, designed to remove of Exclusionary Design. The Museum is gamic, and it uses that denial to further its point. Louis' project was never, as far as I know, impressive how closely it sticks to real museum But there's one more thing I want to talk to exist in real life, and yet is one of the I've ever played. Everything just managed "It was going to be a huge red construction constructed so that it looked as if a brutalist architecture of the Victoria &amp; Albert Museum of London like an ice pick into Trotsky. Jutting 21 years after the release of Kid A and Amnesiac, Not intentionally. They just couldn't do its structural integrity, couldn't make heavy enough, alien enough. And then in 2020 and the idea for whatever Thom Yorke and Stanley in 2021, they, along with developers namethemachine one of the wildest museums to ever virtually The Kid A Mnesia Exhibition (still not really the biggest production I've talked about by, you know, Radiohead, the exhibition almost seen by millions more eyes than Dream Emulator, combined. But Kid A Mnesia is no less challenging I can't help but admire how weird and evocative for LSD Dream Emulator, the opening moments not a game. It's instead a museum, I suppose, into a welded shipping-container structure is bottomless pits and infinite stairways moving. I like Radiohead quite a bit. I've listened what's kind of incredible about the exhibition of the songs there are. The National Anthem drums and anger in concert with each other, there but broken apart, separated by the virtual the exhibit room labeled "The National Anthem" and 100 haphazardly stacked televisions. You center and yes, there are the drums and the pay phone in the corner with Yorke's digitized of Everything In Its Right Place plays only looking at you like you should be embarrassed as anything in Dream Emulator, the skeleton of notes detach themselves from the walls floating cube suddenly swerves directly into certain floor tile. By setting the "album" in 3D space, the of Kid A Mnesia almost physically, demonstrate whole. It's doing something with the tracks audio- spending just a couple minutes in to do a museum exhibit to begin with. And why, whether they knew it or not, this had individual special effects pale in comparison a whole, a space that doesn't make sense, bigger on the inside than the outside. There's a pyramid floating in the overgrown Look if there is one thing you take away from of you, it is to download the free Kid A Mnesia atrium. I'll be here when you get back. For most of my music listening life, I haven't beautiful music videos. But listening to music, that I kind of end up resenting any video literal imagery to what was previously a kinda in the pyramid does not feel like a music either, not like I talked about with Mountain. somehow pulled out of my brain and made manifest rest of the museum has refused to play a complete, the pyramid makes the obvious interpretation emanates out of the void as pictures fragment and Whose Army creates a zoetrope of a single be completely overwhelming. This Is Not a Game, in that it's so different is meaningless. I am being hyperbolic, of course. Despite it's fairly easy to call all of these pieces of God to the indifference of Mountain to they resemble our more mainstream understanding because framing each of these titles as games can't help but grow into emotional engagement. your method of understanding as whatever the And you might hear that and think, "okay, any museum a game? Is photography a game? just a youtuber! My thoughts don't have a game! Everything's a game! Everything's Hmm...how do I do this transition...I've the polar opposite of this one. Recently I 2, and rediscovered one of my favorite mechanics and so I did in a completely separate video a whole other distinct thing for me, both a lot too gory to put on YouTube. [&quot;Even in experience. The speed and chaos with which ways your powers can be combined.&quot;] service, created by video essayists like me, it, and it's a thing I believe in wholeheartedly. of this essay where I can actually play the other creators release whole, well-produced instantly be wiped from YouTube. And it lets which now total nearly seven hours of fully Unlike the video you just watched, there's about to say "unlike the video you just nature of art," but that's not true. Somehow, of art as well. Anyway. Nebula is cheap, you get an incredible amount of bang for your my videos to get through! Clocks ticking!