Hello, and welcome to Aviation Deep Dive One of the least known patrol aircraft of one of the most successful - the PBM Mariner at 80 feet long, and performance - yet it's smaller and older counterpart, the PBY Catalina. Designed to complement the Catalina in service, many aspects, though ultimately it would be To better understand the roots of this fascinating to 1937. US Aircraft companies Martin and Consolidated fiercely competing for aircraft contracts, Navy specifications - though by 1934 Consolidated so Martin had to look elsewhere to secure Briefly delving into the civilian aircraft M-130, it would ultimately be turned down Boeing 314. Martins failure to secure contracts was more than being indicative of any issues with the had been producing were in their own right, - it was the golden age of aviation and many in the sphere of seaplanes. Begrudgingly, Martin turned back towards flying else to turn. In 1936, when a new Navy Specification came set to work. The aircraft would of course need to be a and handling characteristics - whilst also having the facilities to house By 1937, a design had begun to take shape to be a direct successor of Martins P3M, which Which over a decade of technology and experience a thoroughly modern design. Featuring a large, capacious and sloping hull, two radial engines, the aircraft was also to defend the bomber, all intended to armed The design was certainly impressive, but presumably interest, and ordered a single prototype be even be built yet - perhaps hinting at how on this innovate new design. In the interest of saving resources and speeding a small 3/8th size model to test flying characters one. This was, to a large extent, indicative of to go through. Having difficulties securing contracts, and Depression, the company simply couldn't without a guarantee of selling it. So a small scale model to test out the flying to them. This 3/8th model, designated the Martin 162A a single man, whilst the two propellors would to the two outboard propellers with belts. Ready for its first test flight in December with the water and took off. As Martin had hoped, the model was stable, This only served to confirm officials confidence to produce the first full size aircraft. 15 tons of steel later, in 1939, the first The aircraft was, aerodynamically and hydrodynamically this time had somewhat set the bar for American Advancements in the understanding of both less drag and better handling, both of which many ships. She would powered by engines on the frontier radial engines - with 14 cylinders and producing but necessary to lift the enormous aircraft The XPBM-1 would fly on the 18th February some testing, general flight characteristics the 3/8th model, with one notable exception. The design of empennage proved to be problematic, which made control during certain elements After some revisions, Martin kept the attachment at a significant angle to give a level of wings, and of course gives the aircraft its Another fascinating design choice of the aircraft in the enormous engine nacelles. Whilst most other flying boat designs opt this feature would allow for significantly a higher carrying capacity. Sold on the design, the United States Navy aircraft even before the first flight - the would begin to equip US Navy squadrons in The aircraft, at 80 feet long, 118 feet in a giant of an aircraft - it was also protected in nose, dorsal and tail turrets, along with Carrying up to 4,000 lbs of ordnance up to weight of 25 tons, the Mariner was essentially In it's initial service life before being Catalinas - would undertake what were called lanes - where their excellent range and very design features not often considered on combat Staying airborne for up to 14 hours at a time, which consisted of four bunks and a full kitchen meals - crews often commented that it often Immediately following Japan's attack on in a new chapter of their history - and set They were used as anti-submarine aircraft Atlantic and Pacific in search of enemy vessels U-boat on the 30th June 1942 - throughout with the sinking of ten U-Boats. This new role however, meant that even the factor for the endurance of the aircraft - especially sufficient for days at a time. The PBM-1 also had another issue that needed excellent for reducing drag, proved to not sea, and would occasionally break off. This prompted Martin to begin development floats for stronger, fixed position versions, by almost 75%. Modifying a single PBM-1 to this new version, miles, though ultimately only one would be 1944. An update was still considered necessary however, of 1940, the Navy ordered 379 immediately becoming. The government too financed the construction their output. The main difference was that the new 3 variants horsepower, fixed and strengthened wing floats, increase the carrying capacity to an astonishing Other changes included new powered nose and The first few PBM-3s retained the original changed to a four-bladed propeller when it considerably. A number of PBM-3s were in fact sent to Britain GR Mark I', but upon testing the British and tiring to use for long patrol flights, The Americans however, would use them extensively tasks. Seeing a lot of combat in the Atlantic, and also play an important role during the battle after the islands capture. One particularly incredible story from a -3 Scott Fitzgerald was ferrying one over Arizona Considering it unsafe, and without any water Willcox Dry Lake, and aside from some scraping undamaged. The Mariner was then stripped off a non-essential specialised beaching gear, turned into the San Diego with no further trouble. This particular machine was from then on known Later in the war, in the Pacific - the Mariners 4th 1945 a Mariner piloted by Jack Christopher B-29 at sea. The waves, however, were too rough to land and life rafts for the downed airmen, whilst night - until a ship came and rescued the The PBM could also be found often engaged lb payload could be put to good use against By the time the end of the war had rolled record, and at the time was considered as Development did continue in the post-war, &amp; Whitney R-2800-34 radials producing up to to mount RATO for rocket assisted take off. The ultimate variant would be the PBM-5A, tricycle landing gear. These aircraft would continue to serve well Maritime patrol platform. In this role it would continue until eventually the P5M Marlin - the last US squadron retired life. The PBM would have some success as an export during the 1950s, Australia, Netherlands and - though ultimately Uruguay would be the last Generally, however, the aircrafts reputation - and the smaller Catalina began to eclipse This wasn't helped by a number of high profile years, where it began to quite unfairly garner Further cementing this legacy was the fact a Mariner was when a PBM-5 from US Navy Squadron to search for the infamous missing Flight Its entire 13 man crew was lost, and it became suffered no such PR issues following the war. Ultimately, only one PBM Mariner survives - a PBM-5A amphibious model which currently However, the original 3/8th scale model designed survived, and is on display a the Baltimore The PBM Mariner was an excellent aircraft, as a company to survive. A legend of its day, and contemporary of the comparative obscurity, and is often relegated Nevertheless, the aircraft was reliable, liked - serving around the world for as long as in some cases. The Mariner has well and truly earned its and an American legend. Thankyou so much for watching this video of Consider liking and subscribing for more weekly us on Patreon - see you in the skies.