November 1939. Germany and the and Germany is at war with France and Britain. Europe and sets its sights on Finland - but the In August 1939, the Soviet Union and Nazi Germany includes a Secret Protocol dividing Eastern power can act as it sees fit. As planned, and while Germany turned west, in October the Latvia and Estonia to allow Red Army bases Finland, formerly part of the Russian or Finnish Campaign as the Soviets call it, will Finnish-Soviet relations have been rocky Russia in 1917. Both countries suffer while the Communist Bolsheviks win in Russia a younger Joseph Stalin's efforts to help the acquire the border region of Eastern Karelia, but a 1920 treaty agrees on the pre-1917 border Moscow, though, still regards Finland as fears the Soviets' territorial and despite a non-aggression pact between the two Eastern Karelia (who had briefly rebelled in who fled to the USSR after the lost the civil to reclaim as much as possible of the former to eastern Poland and will later do in the Baltics Finland and the Baltics are a possible springboard especially Leningrad, though whether this security Stalin and his Foreign Minister, Vyacheslav Molotov present the Finns with - allow Soviet bases on its territory, - give up territory on the Karelian Isthmus of the Rybachi peninsula and; In exchange, Finland would receive twice as The Finnish government under the Soviet demands. Military Commander while Foreign Minister Eljas Erkko doesn't, in Hanko and the Karelian forts would also make by the more powerful Red Army, even though France and Britain, who are at war with recommend that the Finns reject the Soviet attack is unlikely. Germany tells the Finns Germans because of the Nazi-Soviet Pact. In the though it's unlikely Stalin would be satisfied The Finns hope for support from their and the League of Nations will deter Soviet Army attacks, it will take time for campaign against Finland will be as quick as Lev Mekhlis believes Finnish workers liberators. Moscow considers the Finnish army as "Who would help [Finland]? The Swedes? way in hell. There'll be a fuss in the press, aircraft, cannons, and machine As both sides prepare for war, the Red one of its positions on November 26, an international investigation. On November 30, and the Winter War begins. seems one-sided. The Finnish army is small, as with 500 guns. They're short artillery, shells, and have just 30 tanks. The air force has just 114 planned expansion up to 4.5 million men. 425,000 2800 guns, and over 2000 aircraft. served in the Tsarist or German armies in and the rank-and-file are well trained. and most are skilled in outdoor survival and Civil Guard and the Lotta Svard, whose all-female and munitions production . Morale is solid: will we find the room to bury The Soviet officer corps is weakened poor - especially for winter fighting and skiborne power don't know how to work together. The radios, or winter gear. Morale is also low, "The troops' political awareness and morale Soviet government has always said [...] we do not have started a war with Finland [...] If we explain they will object that no one attacked us. I myself have been resolved." (Zimniaia voina 172) draws up the Soviet battle plan. He envisions a Line on the Karelian Isthmus to push towards Soviets hope to drive north of Lake Ladoga, and in two at its narrowest point. Supporting attacks expects his troops to achieve victory by Stalin's worry that the plan underestimates the terrain Soviet authorities also deport ethnic Finns living The Finns have been preparing for a Soviet Line makes use of the swamps, streams, of stopping Soviet thrusts towards the Finnish The Soviets also set up a puppet Communist even though he has little popular with the legitimate Finnish government, only even those who supported opposite sides in the survival rather than over territory. Radical "Now it wasn't a question of whether we were [within Finland] that we had built and done our a morning that will never cease to radiate its At the front, Red Army units cross the border, and reach the Mannerheim Line along the From December 6, the Red Army repeatedly but Soviet infantry and tanks hold tight marshy terrain in the area slows the Soviets inflict heavy losses - the Soviets have The guns fire a mixture of shrapnel against the usually breaking up an assaulting force make the most of the terrain and river, and The tanks are a particular challenge satchel charges, and even pry off tracks with alcohol with cloth fuses known as Molotov a comrade's lone action against a Soviet tank: toward the last tank. It hit just behind the reflecting the surrounding area with its enveloped in fire and Kivivirta said, 'Broiled Soviet attacks in the area peter out by December also fail. This is the area where famous Finnish given the nickname The White Death, though he's Marksman. He claims 500 kills, which would make An even more dangerous White Death for Red temperatures drop to as low as -40 degrees, capabilities are severely lacking , the Soviets simply freeze to death at their positions. The take their toll on Finns like Vesteri Lepisto: grenades produced in seven different countries every time we used them. Our most aggravating right in front of the enemy lines to set up gloves and we dared not make any noise. Everything So the Finns have stopped the where a stalemate sets in. Elsewhere Near Lake Tolvajarvi, Finnish units counterattack and broken ground make it hard for the Soviets The Red Army had nearly cut off the defenders cold and hungry soldiers are enjoying sausage stew force of Finnish staff officers and other inflicts heavy casualties, and stops the Soviet machine guns, and T-26 tanks. The so-called victory of the war, and they suffer 350 In central Finland, the Soviet 9th Army's 50,000 but it is inexperienced and poorly trained . It so it advances in long, vulnerable columns Suomussalmi, which it takes December 7. That day, "The evening was extremely beautiful when the Russians attacked it. White snowy fields the northern lights were calmly shimmering. Then military guns, the flame rising to the height of of eternity. Why did this happen, why did the and what servant of the devil sent Russians here, to destroy our Homeland?" (Keskisar'ia, 85) overextend themselves. A mixed Finnish force Guards, who counterattack and cut the vital up. Over the next several weeks, the Finns apply and other columns. Motti is a block of firewood, similar isolated blocks so they can destroy them Finnish units move quickly through the thick hamper Soviet firepower, and the confusion and move up enough rations and ammunition. Soviet starving, and freezing, and they never next ambush will come. Groups of Red Army but the Finns cut them down or make them as they cannot move and have no shelter or food. break out but the Finns wipe them out by January though his superiors have him executed later. victory - they stop the Soviet inflict about 25,000 casualties while only along with other valuable equipment and weaponry. available fight hard but cannot stop the The Soviet invasion has ground to a halt, "The war in Finland is a serious autumn campaign in Poland. " (Rentola 14) of Nations expels the Soviet Union at the start losing prestige and is internationally isolated. Finnish cities, especially Vipurii, Red Army adapts - critics of the original Timoshenko take charge of the war . Timoshenko but for now he stops frontal assaults, and orders Reinforcements bring troop numbers up to 600,000 The Finns do not have any more reserves, though 12,000 foreign volunteers join the Finnish Britain, Norway, Estonia, Hungary, Italy, and Norwegian resistance leader Max Manus and British, Americans, Italians and Swedes also send Sweden contributing a unit of Gloster Gladiators the volunteers nor the military aid is enough On February 1, the Soviets try the Mannerheim focus more on the Viipuri Gateway, a marshes around the town of Summa. Soviet guns fire and Red Army troops also storm the entire length the Gateway. After ten days of vicious fighting, the Soviets break through, and send Soviet artillery officer Nikolai Voronov "[...] a hurricane of our bombs and shells observation post. After the artillery had infantry and tanks simultaneously attacked time the enemy did not hold out. His and he began to retreat. The strongpoint The Finns fall back to the Interim Line by February 28 , and although fierce Finnish of the front where they are still motti-ing Army drive towards Viipuri and Helsinki. some British and French politicians argue potentially alongside Norwegian and Swedish ally of Nazi Germany. British Prime Minister "sublime and superb" and French Premier Edouard of 50,000 troops. London and Paris do discuss a naval attack on Soviet ports , or attacking perhaps sparking a Ukrainian revolt. But they The Allies, though, are already at war, politician Alexandre Varenne have doubts: our principal concern. If we are to be brought we'd have to be given a reason to do so. And Norway and Sweden also refuse to let Allied to German threats . Still, Stalin is afraid and wants to end the conflict as soon as At the front, Finnish troops put but the Soviets force them out and destroy much of admits that the situation is lost: present state of the Army is such that nothing but further debilitation and fresh On March 12, 1940 Finland and the USSR sign over. Finland gives up 10% of its territory, Finns flee the annexed regions. It must also 50 years for them to use as a naval base. About 25,000 Finnish troops are killed and 43,000 and 264,000 wounded. The Finnish air force and while losing just 53 of their own. Soviet bombing Finnish resistance, and partly convinced Stalin to back off from regime change in Finland. But even limited "Defeating the Finns is not a great task. [...] the technique, tactics, and strategy of the great Finns. That is our main victory." (Kilichenkov 41) desire to attack the USSR - he sees it as proof Army, and the Soviet Union is unprepared for war. experiences a national trauma. The suffering of the ethnic cleansing of the annexed regions leads "[The Finns] are not mean, they just really them harm in the past. God forgives, Less than a year la ter, the two The nature of the Winter War the vastness of the battlefield and the Soviets made it one of the most unique conflicts battles like Suomussalmi or Tolvajarvi their disposal while the Red Army had to If you want to experience what it's like to make check out Winter War by Wargame Design Winter War is a hex based wargame that from either the Finnish or Soviet side control of meticulously researched squads and take the environments of each of the beat your opponent. Winter War can be played Head over to wargameds.com/pages/realtimehistory discount off Winter War. That's just $29.97 be delivered via direct download and your purchase of Battles, extensive documentations for to customize the game and a digital copy of https://wargameds.com/pages/realtimehistory to get We want to thank Sofia Shirogorova for her help about the Second World War in 1940, check out our and the Battle of France. As usual you can find below. If you are watching this video on Patreon couldn't do it without you. I am Jesse Alexander the only history channel that doesn't want to