Transcriber: Martina Giambattista Would you believe me if I told you that self-doubt is one of the best Seriously. Right now, some of you But as I learned the truth about So today, let's go on a little journey Let's explore: what is self-doubt? How does it show up in your life? Self-doubt is a mental conversation your ability to find a desirable solution Such as: What if I'm not strong enough to handle What if I don't know enough What if I never find Do questions like these Self-doubt can silence your intuition and steer you away from even finding You end up following the should voice, which is a confusing combination of And while there may be a lot of wisdom, there are also a lot of outdated views in your evolution as a human being. My first major encounter with self-doubt and asked myself the question, I felt stuck and full of self-doubt because so many of my classmates I had no clue. I got my inspiration like most high from Hollywood. I watched the movie "Catch Me If You Can". Do you know the movie? This guy had zero self-doubts. I watched Frank Abagnale go the world while making so much money That's what I wanted. No, no, no. I didn't want to be a con man. I wanted to be a pilot. I could see myself wearing surrounded by beautiful women, and finally feel like Only, there was one tiny, major problem: See, if you failed the test, you never got another chance And 95% of the thousands Can you imagine the self-doubt? Who am I to even try this? No one in my family What if I fail? I learned something profound. In the pursuit of bigger dreams We tend to build an identity who always comes up with great solutions. But how do you feel when you don't? How do you feel when things are not moving How do you deal with the part of you that feels anxious, Most of us push it aside. We rationalize We don't like to talk about because we think it makes us look weak. So, when you remove all of the glory that comes with pursuing you uncover a daily reality We feel lonely. Lonely because we think that people if they truly knew how we felt. So we end up alone with our self-doubt, trying to figure this Lonely, because if you remove who are we really being? Loneliness is I felt lonely and I shared He made a few calls I was invited to ride on I was embarrassed. I thought, talking with him it will make me look like I don't have Yet somehow I found the courage And what he told me transformed my life. He said, Only those who are courageous will find the support That conversation gave me A year and a half later, Yeah. (Laughter) The first thing that I learned is that I had to share my self-doubt And it was like riding I was ready for takeoff. But I wasn't cleared for takeoff, because self-doubt had other plans. I felt completely out of place, constantly comparing myself to my peers while I didn't seem to fit in. My motivation for becoming a pilot I wanted the money and the status I did something meaningful I wanted out. And I was too scared to admit that I was suffering to the point And then I remembered who told me, Only those who are courageous will find the support that allows while still feeling self-doubt." When you have and reveal your doubts you build a greater sense True human connection sparks Have the courage to reveal to remove the control Key number one to overcoming self-doubt is to share your self-doubt so you can find the courage to continue. I decided to open up about my depression, and then I decided to quit What I feared was But what I received was love Even though the pilot career I still learnt how to fly During my lowest moments, and it was like finally coming home, I too would guide people to free that is holding them back. Here's something else I discovered. There's a big lie in the personal You must become fearless You may have heard this one Remember we started with the idea that self-doubt is one of the best things I wasn't going to keep this to myself. There's nothing that has you doubt I should not doubt myself. It doesn't matter what your track Heck, you might have even written As long as you're living fear and doubt will be And the more you resist the fact the more power doubt has over you. That's because your mind between what you want It will always give more power So it's not the doubt It's your relationship with it. When you approach self-doubt as the enemy, Yet if you view it as a friend, it can So consider this, what if every time you instead of reaching for that snack or checking your phone to distract you decided to give yourself love. What if self-doubt is really calling on That means breathing deeply. Giving yourself a hug. Reassuring yourself Filling your self love tank where you can give yourself regardless of what the world looks like. Wouldn't that be freaking amazing? So, key number two is to develop a loving so you can go Are you beginning to see how self-doubt You might not end up becoming a pilot. You might not marry your first love. You might not get that dream job. You might not achieve that lofty goal. You'll find something much more profound. You'll realize the true power within. Understand this: in striving to achieve desired goals, are the positive emotions True freedom comes when you no longer to give you permission to fall in love When you can love regardless of your achievements, That's because loving yourself So, the next time the doubt comes, who wants to remind you Often learning takes a little longer After I had decided and just discovered my true calling, I still perceived self-doubt as my enemy. I was too scared to fail again. It would take me another seven I kept looking back at I should have known better from the start. I gave up too soon, I'm a quitter. A guaranteed formula to staying blame yourself often My friends, not knowing how to deal with That's because when you think about your brain will scan past events That may sound something like this, "Hey, bro, remember that time when you invested all of your savings into Yup. That time dumbass. Never gonna happen again. From now on, Your brain really wants But what if there was the pain of my past does not determine Have courage to proceed, there is a way. Forgive yourself for your past failures. Now, that may feel scary You may feel because you admit you let down your guard. As Mahatma Gandhi noticed, Forgiveness is a sign of the strong. Forgiveness means because your brain will tell you One of the biggest being, I could The fact that you acted the way to know that you couldn't have Your mental, physical and emotional state So it's not your fault. And you couldn't Because you've had the experience, you now possess new insights Now you're responsible to decide with the wisdom you've harvested Will you let it be the weight of the past Or will you use it to be wiser, Choose to be wiser. I challenge you to decide to forgive Let go of blaming yourself. Give yourself permission to express a new level of confidence, which will drive you So key number three and go for what you really, really want is to forgive yourself for so you can harvest the wisdom from them. As I learned to forgive myself, I found the courage to do what I do today, which is truly what fills my life With the keys I opened the door to free my mind from And if I can do it, you can do it, too. On the other side of self-doubt, is the person you've been Remember, loving yourself because self-doubt only exists and your heart has no illusions like that. The most important journey in your life is the one you take from your head And that's why self-doubt i (Applause)