A country on the north-western edge of Europe. A mix of islands, highlands and lowlands. A country of romance and unique traditions, to the south. A nation of three different languages, its the millenia, delivering some of the greatest This is the land of whiskey and haggis, Nessie This land could only be Scotland. Scotland is a country within the nation state part of the island of Great Britain. It is comprised essentially of three parts It has a rich history and culture, quite distinct and such is the depth of this distinction set of videos, despite Scotland not being I do use the word "country" correctly, of the United Kingdom, and is the legal term greater nation state. In this, the second of a two part presentation geography, its national organisation and state and culture. If you haven't yet watched Part 1, regarding do so to gain a full understanding of Scottish If you like these country summary videos then so you don't miss future episodes. The word Scotland means land o1f the Scots, But the word "Scot" has a more complex Presentation. The geography of Scotland is a contrast of one side and tamed lowlands on the other. It forms the top half of the island of Great two British Isles. The only land border is with England, although since 1707, one can pass through uninterrupted. To the east is the North Sea, and to the North To the south-west is the North Channel of With a total land area of just over 80,000 of England and 14% larger than the Republic If ranked globally, it would be 115th largest the United Arab Emirates. The mainland spans latitudes from 54deg to reaches as far as 60degN. The car journey of on the mainland will take you about eight widest point would take around five and a There are four island groups off the Scottish In the far north we have Shetland Islands, the Outer Hebrides and nestled within the coast, the Inner Hebrides. Due in part to the almost constant winds blowing almost totally devoid of forest cover and Instead they are covered in low lying shrubs The Highlands of Scotland form the northern considered to be one of the last great wildernesses They too are largely lacking forest cover, temperatures are too cool for the growth of the grazing of cattle, deer and sheep that So, like the islands most have a covering The highest point in the British Isles is Ben Nevis, meaning "Cloudy Mountain" in It can be climbed in one day, as I did just British Isles are not truly mountainous when ranges regularly exceed three times this height. The Highlands are split in two by the almost running most of its length. By contrast, the central and eastern parts of the population is found, and when not urbanised, Finally, we have the Southern Uplands that is comparatively sparsely populated, and has centuries. Like the almost all of the British Isles, can occur year round and where the variation and warm summers. That said, there are significant variations as the prevailing wind direction is westerly, deposit their load on the rugged western coasts Curiously certain sheltered parts of the west palm trees reminiscent of the tropics. The reason for this is that Scotland is directly current of the Atlantic which is responsible latitudes, but in particular for local spots by surrounding hills that prevent cold winds bring frost. One last comment of Scotland's geography very subject began. The rocks of Scotland have been examined for and it was here that the Scot James Hutton, postulated that the earth was probably much thought at that time. Scotland has a population of around five and comprising only about 8% of the total UK population area. Notably, it is less than 10% of the population Over 80% of Scotland's population are white parts of the UK and between 2-3% being of In the 2011 census, Scots were asked how they 62% said Scottish only, while 18% identified only. This demonstrates that the Scottish identity a union with England for over three centuries. Although recent DNA studies do not show a English, Scotland nonetheless has the second at 6% with only Ireland at 10% having more. Redheads are associated with Celtic peoples, and Roman sources. English is spoken universally throughout Scotland, English speaker outside of Scotland is instantly However, there are more subtle regional accents being notably different to Edinburgh despite These accents, and the Scottish accent considered language of the Middle Ages, where English of the lowlands at that time. Since the Union of 1707, however, Scots rapidly as backward or denoted one of a lower class. Remarkably, though, the Scots language today people, predominantly in the east and south For a native English speaker such as myself, rate with when reading or listening, it is true dialect of English, that most universal separate language, and is indeed officially Scottish Gaelic, by comparison is now only in the Outer Hebrides, a variant and survivor from Ireland in the early Middle Ages. You can hear all these English accents, Scots in the description. When it comes to religion, just over a third adhering to the presbytarian Church of Scotland. Half that number are Catholic, while just Glasgow is the largest city in Scotland, with a third of the total Scottish population at Next in population is the capital of Edinburgh, Both are within the densely populated lowland Scotland's third city, however, lies far Aberdeen has a metro-area population of about oil industry. Scotland's position as a nation today is and Northern Ireland, or UK for short. It is one of four "countries" that compose Wales and England. All of these countries send members of parliament national parliament, for terms that cannot All countries except England have some form or parliament that has varying degrees of affairs within that country. Of these devolved assemblies, the Scottish and form a rather long and complex list. For instance, food safety, education and agriculture pensions and drug policy are not. Most importantly, defence and fiscal and economic While this may sound like a federal structure, and indeed the 59 MPs from Scotland can still, the national parliament that might only affect There are some areas, however, that have forever Scottish law, for instance, was never harmonised procedures have always been different. Within Scotland itself, like in the rest of authority level. There are 32 such authorities, ranging in to the six councils that collectively encompass \In the Cato Institute's latest Human Freedom the events of 2020, Scotland, considered as is very high. Like most countries during this time, personal of lockdowns imposed by the governments of outbreak. This aspect can be seen in the UK's score The Scottish government was free to pursue those of England, and I will note here that for longer periods. On the economic side, the main weakness is within the UK, with tax rates now being at The flag of Scotland is a white saltire, meaning It is also known as the Cross of St Andrew The saltire forms the blue and white part The white saltire on a blue field has been since the Middle Ages. The Royal Arms of Scotland is a red lion rampant Dating back also to the Middle Ages as part with the English arms when James VI of Scotland so it takes its place today on the official That said, a special coat of arms for the Scottish Lion pride of place on the main shield. On this arms, the latin "Nemo me impune me with impunity" - a motto dating back The Scottish economy is an advanced mixed countries. The estimated GDP in 2020 was $US 205bn, which, 50th largest in the world, and around the Once a hive of heavy industry, in particular declined in the latter half of the 20th Century, in the service sector. Scotland's most famous export is a certain I refer of course to whisky ('uisge beatha', the distilled fermentations of malted or germinated Distilleries can be found across Scotland, in the Northeast, and Islay in the Southern In 2018, Scotland exported over PS4bn of whiskey. Oil was discovered in the North Sea to the production began in the 1970s, peaking in employer within Scotland, a generator of tax largest export. With such distinctive natural beauty within of castles, palaces, and the unique historical to find tourism as a significant industry An estimated 3.5 million visitors came to contributed about 5% to the national economy. Scotland has a very rich and distinctive culture blend of Celtic and British influences. In terms of architectural treasures, Scotland The oldest of these are the Neolithic villages stone age ruins in Europe. Then there are the Old and New Towns of Edinburgh. The unique old city centre of Edinburgh once during the 16th and 17th Centuries, and these walk up the Royal Mile to the spectacular hill, its outline dominating the city skyline. Just to the north is the "New Town" of the city's expansion of the 18th century testament to the days of the Scottish Enlightenment. Not far away is the Forth Bridge, a colossal steel, and completed in 1890. The bridge, my personal favourite among all length of 2.5km, with the two central spans Subject to the salted winds of the Firth of painted so much that when a crew supposedly so much time had elapsed that they must start And so the expression "painting the Forth to a task that would continue without end. Scottish cuisine is famous for two things. Haggis and... deep frying. Ok, so the deep frying is a big of a dig at outlets for putting almost anything in batter Perhaps this once started out in the tradition cod or haddock with chipped potatoes that the best in the world from my own experience. But the eclectic denizens of Glasgow sought fried sausages and chicken then suddenly jumped And what about the mysterious haggis? Is it some rare creature found among the glens Actually, no, it is just a mix of sheep's oatmeal and various spices, wrapped in a sheep's I can see you all now rushing to Scotland Something perhaps more palatable, was the or cookies, composed simply from butter, sugar And we have already mention the giant in the whiskey it is those of Scotland that are internationally music in Scotland and often as Britain as The bag, traditionally made from the stomach allowing them to breath independently and base set of chords emerging from the top three melody played from it. Where you find a bagpipe player, you're hallmark, the tartan. Tartan is woven wool cloth made into cross signatures that would define a particular Both tartan and bagpipes came from the Gaelic having their own tartans and their own bagpipe Tartan was worn by highlanders when they went a kilt, and today, on formal occasions and in place of trousers in a suit. And what creature lurks in the dark waters Of course the Lochness monster exists, right? Well, I'm sitting on the fence on that one. But what is certain is that it has become mysteries, rivalling that of bigfoot of North The first record of a supposed large beast as far as the 6th century, but the myth came the supposed beast taken in 1933, later proven Various sonar and other scientific surveys any large beast living here, so either Nessie active imagination, or she is very good at As for sports, well, Scotland brought us one pastimes. I refer to the game of hitting a ball with Golf first appeared in Scotland as early as 18 holes being developed in St Andrews in being the Open Championship taking place in For a country with a relatively small population, an astonishing number of inventions that have the world. The usable steam engine by James Watt has were the first to bring us the modern road refrigerator, the flush toilet, the encyclopedia, the seismometer and the oil refinery. Antibiotics, logarithmic mathematics, modern of temperature, colour photography, and numerous or significantly advanced by Scottish scientists. And as for famous Scots, past and present, And that's Scotland. I hope you enjoyed this presentation of its Please like and share this video if you enjoyed your thoughts in the comments, especially out anything you feel is important. If you haven't done so already, then please icon so you don't miss future episodes. You can also support future development of click the "Join" button below the video. Thanks again for watching, and I'll see