Transcriber: Zsofia Herczeg Everyone says you have to get ready And of course you do. But what they don't tell you psychologically. Who knew? But it's important First, 10,000 North Americans and every day for the next 10 to 15 years. This is a retirement tsunami. And when these folks come a lot of them are going to feel without a clue as to what to expect. Secondly, it's important that you will live one third So it's important that you have that there will be significant and challenges that come with it. I belong to a walking group Our primary goal is to put and then we go for coffee (Laughter) more important. (Laughter) (Applause) So as we walk, we've gotten into the habit And one day, the topic was, "How do you squeeze How's that for 7:00 in the morning? So we walk and we talk, and the next day, But the question stayed with me because I was really having I was busy enough, that I was doing very much I was really struggling. I thought I had a pretty good idea of what success looked like but when it came to retirement, So I decided to dig deeper. And what I discovered was focuses on the financial And of course, they're both important So I interviewed dozens and I asked them the question, "How do you squeeze What I discovered that can help make sense of it all. And that's what I want You see, there are four distinct phases that most of us move through And as you'll see, In the next few minutes, you'll recognize and if you're not, you'll have a better idea And best of all, you'll know the most gratifying, and that's where you can squeeze Phase one is the vacation phase, You wake up when you want, And the best part For most people, phase one represents Relaxing, fun in the sun - freedom, baby. (Laughter) And for most folks, phase one and then, strangely, We begin to feel a bit bored. We actually miss our routine. Something in us seems to need one. And we ask ourselves, "Is that all there is to retirement?" Now when these thoughts and feelings you have already moved into phase two. Phase two is when we feel loss, and we feel lost. Phase two is when we lose the big five - significant losses We lose that routine. We lose a sense of identity. We lose many of the relationships We lose a sense of purpose. And for some people, Now, we don't see these things coming. We didn't see these losses coming in It's like, poof, gone. It's traumatic. Phase two is also when we come divorce, depression and decline - both physical and mental. The result of all of this is that we can feel You see, before we can some of the positive aspects you are going to, in phase two, feel fear, anxiety That's just the way it is. So buckle up and get ready. Fortunately, at some point, "Hey, I can't go on like this. I don't want to spend the rest of my life, perhaps 30 years, feeling like this." And when we do, we've turned the corner to phase three. Phase three is a time of trial and error. In phase three, we ask ourselves, "How can I make my life meaningful again? How can I contribute?" The answer often is to do things and do really well. But phase three can also deliver For example, I spent a couple of years until I finally got tired (Laughter) You see, one year the board decided rather than the traditional daisies. (Laughter) And we got yelled at. Go figure. I thought about law school, And then I completed a program It all went nowhere. I love to write. So I created a program That program has met (Laughter) It's been a rocky road for me too, Now, I know all this can sound bad. But it's really important to keep trying and experimenting that'll make you want because if you don't, there's a real good chance feeling like you've been hit by a bus. And that is not a happy prospect. Not everyone breaks through to phase four, but those who do I have ever met. Phase four is a time But phase four involves like, "What's the purpose here? How can I squeeze You see, it's important that we find and that give us a sense And my experience is that it almost always Maybe it's helping a charity Maybe you'll be like the old coots. (Laughter) (Applause) Yeah. These folks took a booth and were prepared to give their advice to anyone who came by. So one of their first visitors was a kid (Laughter) on his tablet. (Laughter) They did the best they could. Or maybe you'll be like my friend Bill. I met Bill a few years ago In the summer, we golf together And in the winter, we curl. But Bill had this idea that we should exercise He believed that there was and experience in our group, and so he approached a number of folks and asked if they would volunteer to teach some of the things to others. And almost invariably, they agreed. Bill himself taught two sessions, one on iPads and one on iPhones, because we were smart enough to know had been given these things (Laughter) by their children, and that they barely knew The first year, we offered nine programs, The next year, that number with over 700 folks participating. And the following year, and had 2100 registrations. Amazing. (Applause) That was Bill. Our members taught us They taught us to paint. They taught us to repair our bicycles. We tutored and mentored local school kids. We set up English-as-a-second-language We had book clubs. We had film clubs. We even had a few golf clubs. Exhausting but exhilarating. That's what's possible in phase four. And do you remember the five losses The loss of our routine and identity and relationships and purpose and power? In phase four, these are all recovered. It is magic to see, magic. So, I urge you to enjoy (Laughter) Be prepared for the losses in phase two. Experiment and try as many different and squeeze all the juice (Applause)