Silent Sitting 13 October 2020 [Mooji] Namaste. Thank you for joining today. This silent sitting today will be in honour, of my Master Sri Poonjaji, Papaji. And I would just like to welcome you all wherever you may be in the world today. Thank you for joining. It is very simple. Those of you who have participated I have nothing planned, as in what I will share. It will only come and flow So, I just ask you to sit comfortably and allow the guidance to take your attention back to the very source, our original nature. Just this. May you use today, this moment, again to confirm and to reconfirm Not as the entity that lives in the mind, which we are often referring to as ourself, which is only the sense of personhood, but that light in which the personhood or personal self is itself seen. But just relax and allow the guidance again to unveil or to reveal the truth in you as your own original nature Thank you. As I have started before to say, wherever you maybe in the world, that we also take Papaji's darshan today. Same, same. At the end of the session as an indication that This has nothing to do with your inmost state, which will just, even to say it continues ... I say this because 'continuing' is almost as though it has a stop or a start, but the Self is before stops and starts. It has nothing to do with any quality it is our self and home. Thank you. Om. [sound of the bell] Om. So right from the outset, you are simply naturally aware of being here, being present. Of course the body is here also. Is the body meditating? It is simply here. It's the vessel and vehicle of consciousness, Whatever thought or feeling, sensation, ideas, they may come. And as they come, they also go, unless attention, identity engages with them, then they will stay around more. Whatever appears, be aware of this, but don't log into it, don't identify. Simple. You are simply here. In the silence of your being, the silence of the presence that is here, it is not personal. If any sense of the personal appears or is felt, it is just a feeling, just a habit of mind. You are aware of this. Stay only as the awareness. Simple. To hear my words that say, 'Stay as awareness', or, 'Remain', is even better ... It is pointing to an awareness It is not a doing. It's more just Is. And you can confirm this without words. So you're not doing. I say this because sometimes in the mind even the idea, 'I am meditating' ... It is OK, When nothing is held on to ... Don't worry if they appear momentarily. That's not the same as holding on to anything. As you come to accept this, to try and suppress any feeling or thought. There is enough power This is what is meant by, 'Remain as you are', meaning don't follow any thought This has been the habit of mind. Don't worry about that now. Simply the sense of here-ness. You are here. Not because the body is here only. It's not the body that is saying, 'I am here'. It is consciousness. Notice that we are not engaged with thoughts so there's natural effortlessness, You are not doing this. You are becoming more aware. Don't mix these states of doing and being. Activities arise in the space, The activities are subject to time and space, they come and go, but your being is here. This is the greater. It is empty. Limitless. Desireless. Without intention. Without need. As you become more appreciating of this, as you become more aware that there is not a 'you' in this, the sense of yourself may be included in it, but cannot be defined as being personal. Look. There is no waiting. As you come to see more that This simply is, and has always been here, it will not matter that or even if the mind is moving. You will see that all things arise and fall, appear and disappear naturally There is no need to be involved, And trust. When an action is to happen in awareness, there is a natural knowing the appropriate actions Trust this. Notice this. So, we are just here. Not waiting. Not going or coming. Even any intention to concentrate on the Self ... There is the Self, it is here. Simply not giving attention to the things The natural awareness of Self reveals itself. No intention. Be above the clouds of the mind. You are beyond fullness, No concept, no idea defines What Is. Rather, they only appear or point to. But you are. And imagination is not required. No help is required from the mind. Simply by not engaging with thought activity, or even personal identity, one finds oneself just like this. Peace. Spaciousness. But even peace is also perceived. Don't reject peace. Silence is perceived. These are not 'doings'. Although you are in a deep and it's not sleeping, it's not bright, it is naturally alert, naturally present, without action or intention, remaining without intention. Confirm the sense 'I am' itself, there is no need to cling to even this. You are not asleep. Notice this. You are not in a state of distractedness Pure and clear. Being aware that whatever appears in the mind, whatever appears in form, whatever appears also disappears, Identify with none of it, also. Then you will be not disturbed. Let activities come, let them happen, This is natural. But activities are unfolding in your silence This is not a doing place. Notice this. Now, now, let go of everything. You are not a container, Hold on to nothing at all. Notice that you cannot deny awareness. Cling to nothing. See you are still fully here as awareness itself. For awareness there are no favourite concepts. There are no categories. No definitions. Pure. The body is not a problem. The senses are not a hindrance. Let all things flow inside your stillness. Simply aware and awake. There are times when it may feel that But look what effort is being spent now. SImply you are. Efforts are coming with mind and intention. Hold no intention. You are not trying to stop a world, you are simply remaining as you are. Look at that natural harmony between activity and the silence of being. There is no contradiction. Don't mix the two. They are really one. One harmony. This is not a special way of being here. Sitting or standing, to the left or to the right, Awareness has no front or back, neither inside nor outside. A very rare discovery, yet, timelessly present. Do not trouble your mind they come and go. Neither chose to act or not act, and you will find guided by the Self. If a sense of tension should arise in the form, the mind might say, 'Well, what is this? It is simply a sensation. It can do nothing to awareness. It is simply given the room to arise, to appear, and to move on, like all things. You are the unending awareness. Unbound. Silence without intention. Boundless and free. There is not a special kind of awareness, there is just awareness. Though it is said to be space-like, Space appears in it also and is perceived in it. It is not inert. It is not a void. The pure intelligence of the Self has manifested all the beauties in the world. All things, when seen shine in their own reality and beauty The silence and the peace are the perfume of the Self. It also imparts health and wellbeing Sometimes a kind of busyness, a noise may fill the mind space, it appears. But without identifying, if you stay only as the formless Do not make the mistake of identifying, 'Oh, this thing is happening to me. Just simply notice. Stay as awareness. All storms come and go. Awareness is not shaken. Look. See. Confirm. Remain at peace. You cannot become good at awareness. You can only be at awareness. Not as an action taken, but by an experiential recognition. Just like now. You are here. Notice that whether effort is there or not, awareness remains your constant self. Natural. Formless. Because of this formlessness your inner sight is open and free. We only have the sense of being stuck when we take up a shape. Nothing is wrong with shapes. We can function with shape. Remain the shapeless within the shapes, then they will be momentary only. They also come and go There is nothing special about this moment, except that you are giving attention to your Self. Underneath all the activities of the world this is your true place. In the play of time and change to do this and that. That is perfectly fine, especially knowing this, There is a kind of oneness about all of this. And what joy is in this discovering. The psychological activity of the mind until you leave it alone and remain as the impartial, formless witness to it. Keep at this. Don't be discouraged You are always the same. You are always the same One! Know this, confirm this, Beyond even forgetting, you will come. Be one with this knowing. As soon as the attention turns away and rests and is one here, you may feel a sense of sleepiness but these are the last puffs of smoke arising from the mind becoming still. Let that happen. For you, as awareness, nothing changes. Just a molestation is coming to an end. A long dream is coming to an end. Do not worry about the things of this world. It is only a signal Do what comes to do, what feels right and true, but do not lose your natural composure. That is real effectiveness. Then like this, actions, reactions, interactions play their role naturally, inside your stillness. With increasing practice smooth, natural, harmonious, in the end. So don't be disheartened by how things around you, Remain rooted in the Self, as the Self itself. There is no need to lose your peace. Don't let the mind steal your peace, or rather, cover it up. Look now. Your being is like space, without edges, without restrictions, pure. Don't look to the activities of life You are timeless awareness, ever-pure. Even the momentary play of personal identity appears in the space of the Self. But look, it also changes, You are not that which comes or goes. Notice this. You are still here, That constant place is the Self space. You are not looking at the Self The very looking arises in the Self. Confirm. Confirm. And again be reminded, you are not waiting. Not expecting. The Self cannot be late. It cannot even be early. It is the pure God. Purer than the concept of purity. Imagination is not required. I have guided you here can be directly known and confirmed without the use of imagination because now you are in your oneness. When are you not? When attention goes, by habit, then we come back into the state of dream. You imagine yourself to be merely the body and the conditioning And how easy it will seem for a while, but stay put in the place and the tables will turn, things will change. Whenever you are back at your original place, everything falls into place. How natural! You may feel, 'Wow, what was that? I was distracted, heavily distracted.' Only as you are coming up, waking out of this state of the mind you recognise, 'How deeply asleep I was, and how much of an illusion it is. For how can I ever be that which comes or goes?' Apparent, relative, but not absolutely. Is this a state that can come or go Can it wear off? Can it weaken? There is no such thing for the real. Effortlessly perfect. That is the God-Self. While you are visited by, even from time to time, be devoted to the Self. Offer all things to God. Be raised back up There is no need to reject the world, but transcend, transcend it. Meaning, transcend the desires which are perishable. Of course, But don't dream for them. Don't cling. They cannot stay with you. And even this present sense of being personal, itself cannot stay with you. Remain as this, the One. So, remain conscious of being, without intention, or waiting, without expectation. Look! How easy you can confirm now. How did you get here? Well, you are always here. But by giving attention we dream separation. So remember, though the senses, let your attention remain inside your heart, You lose nothing, ln fact, you become more awake a beautiful harmony, a stillness of presence, All in the most natural way. So give time to this. If you spend even five or ten minutes being conscious of consciousness, it will almost give you and clarity of being. And you will be reminded that This is not merely an idea. It will be experienced in you. Confirmed in you. How wonderful. How blessed we are that even while this body is here and warm, blossoming in your natural awareness, transcending the impulses of the mind. Peace, tranquillity, love, openness become your inner climate, your natural dynamic state, Bless that you all transcend the impulses and the turbulent ways of personhood. Rest as awareness. Let it be so. Om. Many of you, you know these words, some may call them 'teachings', and in your mind But it's not to know, but to be. Because otherwise, the mind will feel, You may be able to speak But these pointers must combust into pure Is-ness. It will pervade. It will be emanating out of It will appear radiant in this world. Its power is real. It is not a philosophy. It is not a belief. It is the power of the presence! And it is the presence of the power, of the true. How to be established thus? Continue confirming your place and with lessening interest in what appears. It's not the objects that appear but the subject of the perceiving, from where the seeing itself is arising also. If anything can be seen, it is in time, It is being observed. Let it be observed without identity. And if there is a feeling of 'I', that is also observable. You can be none of this. You have the power to confirm. Even the very functioning of witnessing itself becomes perceivable, in the infinity of the Self. Confirm, confirm, confirm in silent understanding and recognition. Nothing happens for the awareness itself. And in the realm of apparent happenings, how momentary, There are no bookmarks for writing on water, Do not depend on the memories They are fickle. Let everything play. Awareness becomes not the function of witnessing, Witnessing happens effortlessly and without attachment to the things appearing. Yet at the same time, whatever actions are required of the body, they are performed, No stains are left inside your being. Watch this. A natural gratitude arises inside the heart also. And the magnificence is recognised. The true life is not about just knowing. It is too easy Knowing and being are one. It is important that I say this to you, because it is very easy for thoughts 'Yes, yes. I've got it. I know it now.' And then the 'I' slips in again Watch him. However subtle his play, Remain as the Self. Honour your seeing. Dissolve the mind in the great seeing. Get used to Self-attention, Self-awareness. It's the beautiful way. Thank you. You will hear the sound of the bell. It is only a signal that But what I am sharing with you, what I am pointing to, will never end. In this world, among so many beings, and able to confirm this more and more. Jai Papaji! Om. [sound of the bell] So, not waiting. Already here. Om. [music] Copyright (c)2020 Mooji Media Ltd. No part of this recording may be reproduced without Mooji Media Ltd's express consent.