When I play Mario Kart online, I always pick Look at the skill level in this room. Thanks, person or high VR person? I don't even know. How they're bagging. They're probably good. People crazy, and like, they're pretty good offline. when I'm recording, for some reason, I feel like and instead of being Waluigi Stadium winstreak what we get here. Star golden, not good enough. yeah, we're gonna see if my luck continues to be this is the next time I'm playing Cheese Land offline races between then. Oh, I'm not gonna make have a shock in fifth. I don't even know what to this. I get the bullet, I don't get the golden Okay, I smuggled the shock in fourth last time and first place just got blue shelled. You know could have been a severe misplay by me, I don't into sixth place, yes. Or like as far back as gonna do some bagging right here, lap three start This is not good when the shock just happened, but okay, this is still winnable. Never mind [laughs] first place! [laughs] Oh, so I didn't have crazy but Cheese Land, that's just how Cheese Land one of the best bagging tracks in the game. a fast combo today. I've chosen specifically to the topic of the video. I was just curious about Waluigi Wiggler except one more speed. So it's was the old meta. But for some reason, people which is very interesting. But I'm gonna try and is so high, you do want to do a lot of bagging. situation where you get hit like that right at the just because I have such a huge speed advantage at the front right now. This track is a lot like at the start of lap three on Cheese Land, and this that. Like, if I lose my bullet right here, the right? But it's not that bad. I'm just gonna front-run the rest of this race. I don't need lap three, so I'm gonna try and save the star obviously. Okay, perfect. I don't have to stay uh, I'm kind of getting scared about losing this Perfect, I think I win. I didn't get an item. It's okay it's okay, we got first place. [sighs] regional when the skill level is this lopsided. first started playing Mario Kart online, and I to pick regional, right? That would reduce lag they threw it anyway. I was gonna slow down. I the scenes for how matchmaking works on regional, You know that that doesn't really make sense. And went from last to third, and I'm about to I'm passing. I probably just passed all the low VR already become that big? I really like, usually this happens is if the people are bagging. I just and I was like, if I miss this, that'll be and I can't even do it. Okay, uh, so we're just the minimap, that Kamek is not actually next to minimap on this track. The fact that it's a Mobius work for what you think it does. Like, I can track use the minimap, but look, like, no one's near me. someone's way back there. I'm surprised after a lead. Uh-oh, red shell territory. I'm always so my acceleration is so low, and so I'm not gonna comeback. Oh, I just-- oh no, no, no, that's fine, shell as well. Hold down, hold down. Oh, I almost three times in a row, fake 80,000 VR. There's the first half of the race, and that is, like, if to have acceleration so I can immediately speed going too well, like, I have more confidence in Buggy with way higher acceleration. And the reason back. The items are so powerful that acceleration not even be able to make the comeback. Yeah, I never even do that with one mushroom. That, I if that can even be consistent. Anyway, um, I'm I am on, like, some of the slower combos, even and they can get you safer results. I just feel get comboed, I don't want acceleration in that third? What? I'm in-- I just autopiloted that and I in, I can do nothing and end up in second place. still have red shell protection and I don't need whatever. Got him! Scare everyone behind me? Come you need to use your acceleration stat, that sucks. Wow, wow [laughs] all right, what are real 80,000 VRs, maybe they are good. This is advantage and acceleration low, mini-turbo, those than everyone. Look at me versus this Baby Daisy, it's insane. I just passed them, I just-- I and this boost panel, so the acceleration doesn't luck dodging that. Ha, got him! Got the Birdo. confident with it. I haven't practiced it lately. about 80% of the time, but that is not my current hit that 80% of the time. [Music] Nice, see, I feel like the reason why Yoshi Teddy Buggy is so me backtrack it. So, a little history lesson, back Waluigi Biddybuggy was also very popular, and everyone's just maximizing mini-turbo by using before? Because Waluigi Biddybuggy was also really doing that was because the difference was small here's the thing. The meta of track picks matters uses a fast combo, people are gonna probably be a slower combo, you're at a disadvantage. Now, if who knows if it's objectively the best, but is front running tracks are gonna get picked more if you deviate, like, if you're like me and you gonna happen is you're gonna lose more often gonna like picking bagging tracks when there's dodge the blue shell. I'm gonna go into another and of course, I'm gonna go Yoshi Teddy Buggy. just spectating right now. I'm rooting for Xelif backwards, I didn't even realize. Let's go, let's I have to go King Boo now. Yep! One person above always seems to be one person who wants to clown and like, I don't understand why people play here. tourist in regional. I'm just here to see what all the way the mini-map just spreads out so much so big. It's it's like I want to- well, I guess, why someone would want there to be less chaos in mode. I- [sighs] Okay, now I know for the next and like, I'm so bad at mirror mode. It's... at mirror mode? No, I just want there to not be in mode or something? That would be so cool. Like, adding a whole new mode without actually adding for programming, make it cheaper, but I don't tradition that we have mirror mode. Okay, I have again, it is I can't even blame mirror mode. It's go. And I don't know if the line was correct thing 'cause I was scared to trick, but I have a and they just got hit again! Okay, you know what? I enjoy winning, although I wouldn't classify this room. This is just like me kind of being unfair I don't even know if the Peach player was the one gonna try. How do you do this? Bonk. Nope, nope the orange mini turbo version of the shroomless come on. Please let me win! [laughs] Okay, lab this room. That is so funny that we were the only a responsibility now because since I have made since I made a video on it. I've actually gotten been enjoying using my combo, which is awesome! I now I feel a responsibility when I play- [laughs] a room with someone who's also using this combo, good because they don't always get good results, is who's using the combo. And Felix, I'm going for try to get a top two with King Boo. Show all these I'm gonna get rid of these bananas so I can't-- I I'm rooting for you, Felix, but I can't really go. Um, once I was past ninth place, that's when of getting better items. So, like, in ninth place, of people have told me that the the items in this true. They're partially distance-based. Distance available, but, and see, that's why I got that in Boo! But if you're past ninth place, if you're just can't... Not get anymore, and you're forced Ugh, I was hoping for a moment it wouldn't come away fast enough. [sighs] I think I could have a second place- oh, Felix is getting third! Let's lab rat! You know what? That's basically a top left in this room. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait a on King Boo as well. I missed the startup boost. Teddy Buggies in this room. Okay, so I'm I'm in a item stuff. Yeah, see, I didn't want to be like next to everyone's items and get hit. Oh, King Boo so I don't get bumped as much, but doesn't help let's go over here. And take this shortcut. was really bad. It can be hard to make comebacks like a star or a boo because the path is so thin like you have to have to drive right by them, it just makes it like impossible sometimes. Okay, face. I'll use one mushroom. Actually, where use comeback wasn't too hard. Oh, they're right behind considered using the super horn even though I was third, and that would have given me a huge lead. I should have used it. Okay, all right, it's I'm not. I'm gonna toss these, I really want didn't get one. But this is also really good in gonna do. Third place is pretty far from me, for this double box. No, that banana was so well I was gonna take the shortcut and win even if the Dad got to step it up. Where were you guys all We have to be able to beat them. Okay, so I'm missed the full startup boost. Let's get--oh, I in momentum. Wasn't expecting that. Like, jolted and they're based on my expectations, so I or it's just I was really not where I expected are definitely gonna toss stuff on the bridge. It so glad I'm in first place. Just watching people got the coin. Come on, why are you throw--I'm also my boy! I don't know if I can still root for you I really hope we end up with top two, but he's Okay, it's okay. This is a great section to get I'm in a glider. Uh, I should have went for the really bad decision. Oh, this isn't lap three. and I'm only getting orange mini-turbo. You know, room where you're probably better than everyone too much lately, and like, while the competition whoops, I didn't hold the L button. I'm making I'm still in first place is because I'm playing you, game for giving me a good item there. But, I don't know if this is enough. Get my speed not getting punished for my mistakes. Oh, that you can clearly see the skill level. I can feel uh, the rooms that I often play in because I they were all big mistakes. But I got blue shelled I went around the thing in the wrong direction afterwards so the thing that happened afterwards like I feel like I would have gotten seventh people over 20,000 VR. And so that's actually a levels. It's not just how much advanced tech are make, how consistent are you in your gameplay. in Mario Kart Wii I would have fallen off there. stayed on the track because of the momentum. Okay, number one thing that would uh, make you better right? So that's the prerequisite. Uh, take You first have to know all the tracks, you the next most important thing, in my opinion, is a race. So after every single race, just count up have to do wrong if you were playing well. And if it depends on your level. For me, for me, like, more than one mistake per in a race, don't expect because someone out there--you know, there's 11--oh, playing against you, and one of them is gonna have one of them probably didn't make a mistake, and you should be able to make some mistakes in Mario fine. But you're racing against 11 other people, if you make a mistake. So I recorded all that in in regional at 2 a.m. Because in worldwide, it's out there? Nooo, they're playing on Cheese Land people playing at this time, regionally, I mean. I game. But it's not even all the sweatiest, like and everything. Like, they're all here. That's good at this track. But it's 2 a.m. I'm not good gonna go around for coins in that case. [Music] know if that was slippery road or not 'cause if it Luckily for me, it wasn't. No coins for me to a little over-alignment, it's okay. That was gonna shortcut right there. Okay, that mushroom complicated with my controller and it's not reset been coming out. Um, yeah, let's go. [laughs] I'm this before. I'll fully explain it sometime but I with soft drifting. Toss this. Okay, I need to get right there? Oh my, mini-map is off, everything destroyed everybody. I'm gonna keep destroying. Piranha. [laughs] Okay, my mini turbos are coming after all that, we're in second place. [laughs] I don't see a path to victory but oh, I'm playing race. [laughs] This is so fun. Don't you guys realized because I said that? The average gamer is have that in my head because when I was younger, and we're still gamers. [laughs] Explain that. school night. Like, everyone has different work you guys sleeping? There's school. It's not the that forward. Okay, this is like, it's really bad we go. [laughs] There's a glider section. I can't though. Get my coins up. I only have one coin as nice though. I can watch for a blue shell. Take item box. Okay, well I just messed that up. It's 2 that, that was pretty smart though but oh, this lines perfectly. Okay, that's so scary. I'm gonna away. I already have protection. A mushroom would not what you want to see. Oh, I'm catching up to Normally, I'd be so much more annoyed at myself nice, nice. Wait a minute, wait a minute, my shell showed up and I have a mushroom! [laughs] wasn't pretty but we showed them who's the most I'm playing another race. [laughs] It's 2 a.m. I had a good race, I can definitely win again and I can't end it on a bad race, you guys know what gamer mindset. Non-gamers would never understand. they basically don't even exist if you think Velocity so I'm glad we got this track again. I a mushroom, that's fine with me as long as you I, I really just don't have the brain capacity to to play a nice race. I, I should be time trailing ramp, it's so annoying, you like bounce up and is everybody? Okay, oh no. Oh, that worked out, can I stay in the glider? Yes, that was perfect! you stay in the glider, you get sent forward the mistakes that I made when I did this [laughs] could pull a red shell and end me right now, it would be smarter for them, to uh, hold it but Blue shell, idiot [laughs] sorry I'm toxic stairs. Come on, I need to win this. One red I'm so happy about that, take that 77,000,