Professor Paul Bloom: yesterday's--I'm sorry, One is that somebody came up preference for your own language fortunately, this sort of infant She knew the answer. newborn babies finding that out they favor their own language--over other languages. listening while in utero, to the rhythms of their preference for it. I talked very briefly about a was--said at a moment where at a police officer, and a police officer was killed. with murder but I admitted I turned out and was kind enough Well, he went to Wikipedia and found out the answer. found guilty for murder. pardoned. 1988, which is really nice But they did it into a movie. Okay. for the first part of the language lecture and then move attention, and memory. was--We first talked about then moved to some detail about language including phonology, We discussed the ways in which it does, including the fact that science or sounds to convey and that languages exploit a recursion to put together these limitless set of meaningful We then talked about remarks about the developmental the emergence of language from really good at learning language whose brains have atrophied, dead. animals. about language, use--possess the same sort of And if not, can they learn it? doubt at all that nonhuman systems. is not a matter of controversy. &quot;language&quot; to mean is obviously &quot;yes.&quot; language. though in the more technical, has the properties that we using English and ASL and background, the answer's almost Animal communication systems categories. of calls, so vervet monkeys, have a small list of calls to &quot;attack from a snake&quot; or &quot;attack There is a continuous analog So, bee dance, works on this way. location of food sources but syntactically structured way. dance corresponds to the And then, you get things like as birdsong. real sense is phonology, combinatorial systems or Now, this much is not There gets to be a lot of This is the summary about It gets more controversial when primates trained by humans such Nim Chimpsky, you may well have seen on the venues. controversial. while nothing in it is I think Gray is actually a too believing in the claims abilities of the animals. for instance, even if they can be said to be learn very few of them. years of training to learn, child who could learn a word in The utterances often have order limited and lacks the recursive And in fact, controversial. chimpanzees--trained chimpanzees you often see on TV and in sampling. very impressive but if you take tends to look like this. utterances just taken at random: Drink, eat, me Nim. Tickle me, Nim play. Me banana, you banana, Banana me, me eat. me give, eat orange, Lila Gleitman once commented child spoke like this, screaming to a neurologist. here, which is, chimpanzee to learn a human We don't normally expect one associated with another species. get around and some birds but there's not an active can use echolocation or dogs And I think one reason why you &quot;well, of course chimps must be because you might be caught in about language. &quot;Look. because chimps are so smart.&quot; &quot;they are smart but we know We know that the human capacity result of smartness. due to some deficit in their don't speak or understand a So, the smartness of demonstrate that they should be You might also point out nearest evolutionary relatives, so you--one would expect on the unreasonable to expect us to them. we split from them a long time different from chimps. years either way and that's more capacity to evolve. that the study of nonhuman interesting. personal opinion I'll raise From my own opinion, try to teach chimpanzees, a human language like ASL are It would be as if a team of and tried to train him how to It might be enjoyable but it rich insights. interesting is the study of systems in the wild. language that has delineated the human languages. interesting to attempt the same communication systems used in vervet monkeys and bee dance. language to a close but I want didn't talk about. Intro Psych course is we have to very fast. course that focused directly on for instance, brain, something touched about something that has a large Similarly, and related to this, disorders like aphasias and impairment and dyslexia. perception and production. amazing feat of understanding fraction of a second? from? which is, in many ways, language. language as an instinct. from other things that don't reading. reading is difficult. invention, not every human has And unlike language, tremendous difficulty over many On the other hand, language. language, moving out from speech And the psychology and very interesting. multilingualism. room typically are going to be for how well you learn language two or three or four. encodes all these different And so on. that of the relationship between actually--A few years ago I &quot;Language and Thought&quot; devoted And it's a cool question and it general questions. for abstract thought?&quot; question is to look at creatures chimpanzees and see how smart It might be that they're in which case it would suggest abstract thought. it might be that they have which would suggest that abstract thought. question. does the structural properties affect the way you think? you know affects how you think linguistic relativity or the So for instance, looking at speakers of different Korean and seeing whether languages affect how you think. discussed in the readings, and the selections from The makes up--again, Monday--your reading response question and take your best shot What are your questions about Yes. Professor Paul Bloom: &quot;Some people learn languages explain this?&quot; the question both with regard to some children learn language some are very slow - and also learning. through your second language Others are struggling and And there's considerable There's the story of Einstein language and didn't speak at all And in fact, words when all of a sudden he parents and he put down the &quot;The soup is too hot.&quot; astonishment and said, And he said, been fine.&quot; It's not a true story. The question of why and where nobody really knows and it's There's a slight advantage for Girls are slightly more but it's not a big one and you see it statistically. If your parents learned other languages quickly, But an understanding of the or the cognitive bases or the an open question. Student: What happens Professor Paul Bloom: around the world than the where kids are exposed to a What happens is children learn Children are very good, of distinguishing different sound system and their rhythms them. than one language. average state of affairs around Yes. people who are right-handed Professor Paul Bloom: hemispheric specialization for And I don't have actually much before, which I agree is deeply If you're right-handed, left side of your brain. left-handed? It varies. side. right side. diffuse. And in fact, right-handed and others Those are really good questions. Student: [inaudible] Yes. that question. it's going to be the last one The question is, language cause you to learn them language?&quot; that it would. mental resources. I use all of it for English. Spanish I kind of got to split. each learned slower. the study of language common-sense view does not Children learning more than one relative--in each of their learning just one language. if I am just learning English learning English and Spanish and you'll reach the milestones in Your extra learning of Spanish There doesn't seem to be any languages. is, &quot;Is there any cognitive In other words, learning multiple languages certain ways. made in Quebec, over the debate over how English and French. case. as far as we know, languages when you're young. I want to move now to the topic and through the beginning of attention, and memory. instead of treating them as there's a sense in which they're You see a scene. looking at it and you're It's coming through your eyes you see something. house. you could still hold that scene And a week later, &quot;What season was it?&quot; This is the story I want to And in the course of this I that go something like this. I want to first persuade you and that successful perception unconscious guesses about the For attention, attend to some things and not amount of what happens in the For memory, there are many The key to memory is And you can't trust some of How many of you remember where Many of you are wrong. persuade you of this because you And you could tell the story. where they were when the towers But clever psychologists on &quot;Let's do a study.&quot; &quot;Where were you yesterday when And they told them. later, a year later, and said, &quot;Tell me about what And they said, was. often the story was wrong. we're going to talk about. I put it really, often wrong about our and of right now. There is a story--I went to was a story there about Marvin guru. words--the phrase &quot;artificial And if you heard the claim that machines made of meat--also him. was doing work on robotics and robot that could do all sorts of And the story goes the robot to see the world. things and recognize people and and Minsky said, It's going to take a graduate it out.&quot; graduate student for a summer Visual psychologists, love that story because the robotics vision and the attempts identify and recognize objects There is, at this point, recognize people and objects and dumb one-year-old. a much harder problem than Well, what makes it such a hard Well, one reason why you might you say, &quot;Okay. problem of how people see. You're in--You're over there And somehow it has to get to you look at it and that'll solve So, sometimes people say, &quot;Hey. upside down. have to get used to looking at That's an interesting problem.&quot; That's not the way to look at any questions. back. How does &quot;he&quot; see? Similarly, although the may correspond to that , of how he actually sees. shooting out there. numbers. This is my iTunes. Here's the right way to think You got the eye, and then around here you have And the retina is a bunch of And the nerve cells fire others. &quot;firing... not firing... to figure out what the world is. The firings of the neurons numbers. get from the numbers to objects events. It's made particularly a retina is a two-dimensional 3D world from a two-dimensional And this is, view, impossible. there--For any two-dimensional number of three-dimensional So for instance, retina, an array of light shaped What does that correspond to in Well, it could correspond to a looking for or it could tilted backwards. which is which. problem is that we have how the world works. assumptions about how things educated guesses from the three-dimensional world. the slides available for this don't want people to cheat, where you could look at the the things I'm going to tell you And I want to give you three One is color. color and brightness. The other is depth. How do you tell a lump of coal Well, that's a lump of coal and and it's from Google images. Well, a lump of coal you say is How do you know? retina--Your retina responds to It's oversimplified, true. and that's white and that's how But in fact, It can't be right because matter of what material they're light that hits it. I fall into shadow and light, &quot;Professor Bloom is changing Rather, you automatically illumination as this is And this could actually be So, you see this display over Take a look at those two blocks. lighter than that one. You might imagine this is than this but it isn't. And you won't believe me until take a look, but they are in I'll show it to you. you but this is the way it There's the close-up. this and this. parts of the environment and Now you say, &quot;But hold it. but the answer is--goes like We know shadows make surfaces We don't know this like &quot;Here's Rather, we know this in that So when we see a surface in that it's lighter than it looks, And you could show this by And you see it as it really is. how the information to your eyes the degree of light coming from information that you use to and come to a conclusion. example: Objects. automatically and intuitively objects. house and birds and trees. It turns out, segment a scene into different the question of how we do it is, But one answer to this question environment that are signals different objects. described as Gestalt principles. When you see things that are you're more likely than not to same thing. That display could correspond objects but you naturally tend You do one with one texture other texture pattern. The fact that this is a closed single object . If you had to judge, shapes, one that runs from A to D to B. that way. one that runs from A to B, to D. If things move together they're And &quot;good form.&quot; In the absence of any other tempted to say that's a single This , because it has lousy it's two things, other. expectations; There's cases where they could But these are useful cues that world, our segmenting of the Here they are summarized . fool you . if you're suggestible, And this is a case where there think that there's a triangle There is, however, If you cover up these little away. in the middle . It's very Matrix. these are cues that there should the regularity of form. You see this and you don't--You thing. the picture and you see, the man is in front of the You look at me and you see the And if you have a terrible this strange creature that's chest and up to a head that's wiggling and the podium staying If you are neurologically back and forth behind a podium. Well, this is really a problem technical reason why vision is but crudely, retina and you have to figure How do you do it? assumptions or cues. the visual system makes that in cases of visual illusions, to perceive the world in a So for example, This is actually a sort of This is the only depth cue that If I look at you pretty close, image I get here are somewhat focus my eyes together to get If I look at you in back, because the further away, static, the closer the images And it's not, yourself, &quot;Oh. It's the same image in my right You must be far away.&quot; automatically you make are in depth based on binocular There is &quot;interposition.&quot; the podium and the podium's not No. front of me? it's right. in front of me? and then it cuts into me. grotesque metamorphosis, sense to say I'm moving behind Interposition. How do you know the guy is Well, because there is--you see lot of the house. How far away am I? you had to estimate how far away figure that out is you know how If you thought that I was fifty further away than I am. dictate your judgments about Usually, this cue isn't Empire State Building--If you go and you look, the tower's going to be depends tower should be. It must be--&quot; And then you'd be There's texture gradient, and linear perspective, second. Remember the problem we had How do you know if that thing and of itself? textures will show themselves smaller from a distance. this could still be a single dots going up smaller. the reason why the dots recede because it's receding in depth. Mueller-Lyer illusion. than this . If you don't believe me, Related to the Ponzo illusion, as--you get illusions named these--this one as longer than Again, it's not. Well, the top line looks longer And one explanation for why is, cause your visual system to make And then you correct for about size. get--We'll get in more detail in lines and they take up the same but you believe that one is 100 feet away, the one that's 100 because your brain will say, much space but it's further something that's closer and And that's what goes on here. for the Mueller-Lyer illusion, away and this is closer based on And the cue is factored in. is further away, take up the same space as this Similarly for the Ponzo There's linear perspective. in distance. than this but they take up the this one must be bigger and you And the book offers more work. illusion that I'm not even going I'll just show it to you based on thinking about these figure it out. Shepard. And they are called Shepard And the thing about it is, If you ask people--You don't lecture on visual perception. &quot;Which of these tables would be you have a thin door?&quot; left. and harder to get through. leaner. What I mean by that is that . you by showing you something which took me about seven hours And nobody's going to believe it. print it out and do it You just take a piece of paper, Then you move it and the same. they called me a liar. yourself in the privacy of your But what I'd really like you to &quot;Okay. Why does this one look longer And the answer is the same Mueller-Lyer illusion and the having to do with cues to depth the perception of depth. this point about perception. and memory and I'm going to together. and, in particular, when memory goes wrong. what happens in cases of So for example, willing to do a little bit of an incredibly little bit. Okay. So pretend you have amnesia. What's your name? Professor Paul Bloom: I'm really glad you said that. you don't have total amnesia. Okay. Okay. your memories. You --So we'll do you. Oh. maintains bowel and bladder everything. Now, I always lose the third So, what I'm saying is that concept. memory, which is what we That's a perfectly rational When I say somebody's losing &quot;Oh. losing their memory,&quot; you don't You imagine the person walking people and saying, And [laughter] imagine them losing their their sense of self. knowing English is part of your and knowing how to chew and you've learned, molded by experience. which is going to come in which is there's broadly two They often run together, lose your memory of the past. the Matt Damon amnesia. is you lose the ability to form And here's a film of a man who He was a world-renowned choir encephalitis which led to brain his temporal lobes, and a lot of his left frontal It could be--It could have been ability to talk. intellectually impaired. and so he lives in this nothing affects him and he happened. cases and it doesn't always but he feels continually reborn And we'll return to this and But there's a few themes here. detail about memory, distinctions in memory when we So crudely, you could make a memory, short-term memory, memory, and long-term memory. your senses. You might see an afterimage. memory. echoic memory for sounds. you even if you're not paying seconds of what they're saying, when somebody's talking to you and they say, And you say, &quot;No. pick up the last couple of There's short-term memory. said? memory--spans for a few minutes. memory. Do you know your name? Your long-term memory store you're not going to lose right When we think about amnesia in we think of a certain loss of autobiographical personal There is a distinction between which we'll talk about it in But explicit, conscious access to. last night. &quot;I had this for dinner last Implicit is more unconscious. What the word--what certain how to walk, that you might not be able to conscious of but still have There's a distinction between memory. facts, what a word means, and so on. is what happened to you. semantic. from New Haven last week, There is encoding stores and different levels of what happens Encoding is getting the memory or you have an experience. memory. memory out. broken, conveniently, where recall is when you just recognition is when you something in the past. I had on two days ago? Okay. to remember but if I asked you, that would be much easier. Now, you could break up, stages. memory is just the stuff that memory, leading to long-term And this stage theory is more detail. of attention. sensations, from what you're I'm speaking to you. How does it ever get in to the What decides what's remembered There's all sorts of things The seat of your chair is You wouldn't say, &quot;Oh. The seat's pressing against my [laughter] certain sort of smell. Your eyes follow him. You'd go mad if you tried to You can't. into memory? does.&quot; crudely viewed as a flashlight, willingly zooms in on something Attention has certain Some things come from effortlessly and automatically. You're going to see an array of One of them's going to be green. please clap. No, not this green one. There's going to be another Okay. but there's going to be an &quot;o.&quot; Okay. Find the red &quot;o.&quot; Sometimes attention is I need a volunteer. to show you colors on the screen colors as they come out. Do you want this? colorblind. [laughter] See. down the colors . Okay. green, blue, blue, red, blue, Professor Paul Bloom: [applause] Okay. These will be words but just Just name the colors. red, blue, black, black, red, blue. Perfect. same deal, words. blue, green -- Professor no, no. Don't--I know you can read. Student 4: Okay. Okay. red, green, black, black, red, Professor Paul [laughter] effect. as you are, your knowledge of the words meant, task. even if you wanted to. read this as fast as you read this, you'd be unable to. There is some work--There are about attention. I'd like people actually--It's seen this before. silent throughout it. you're going to see two teams of One of them is going to have The other one will have black They'll be passing balls back What I'd like you to do is passes the white team does with [laughter] Okay. unusual? Did anybody not notice anything Okay. anything unusual. unusual, watch this again and [laughter] counting, who have never seen anything. counting it's kind of obvious [laughter] among many of the fact that when you have a very small window of on other things. example. movie and pay attention very movie and try to remember this. something odd in that movie? Okay. scarf, the color of the plates among other things. in general, has been called And what it is is we tend to attention focused in a certain we tend to be oblivious to environment. in fact, quite difficult when notice what changes and what So, in this final demo, pictures flicking. what's different between the two [applause] I myself am terrible at these How many people never saw it? [laughter] Good. [laughter] one. [applause] Be honest. [applause] Okay. [laughter] it's part of an extraordinarily what's known as &quot;change And what this means is, we have a very narrow focus of happen that we are oblivious to. in movies, there are so continuity changes. having brought this outside of experiments and I'm trying to them. this great study in the Cornell happened is they would get some through campus and some guy &quot;Excuse me, Sir. Could you help me with And have a map and then the &quot;Sure.&quot; construction workers holding a And these guys were going to characters and then the another guy. walk away, the subject is different person. What's interesting is nobody [laughter] changes sexes. [laughter] experimenter changes races, oblivious to. I think Brian Scholl did this Simons where what happens is a They say, &quot;If you're going to you need to sign the human Hands him the form, The subject signs the form. and says, &quot;Thank you. Goes down here and then a [laughter] People don't notice. which we're oblivious to What's weird is we don't We think we see the world as it that when we're attending to everything else gets blanked And so about 50% of people who before, the gorilla demo, And there's--you couldn't The gorilla study was actually And it was originally done in a to you just because this is the all know what to expect--Oh, Oops. That's actually--If you looked it's a current Yale professor. I'm never going to get my DVD Anyway, I'll show you the other I will. Any questions about attention Yeah. Professor Paul Bloom: Why does it work that way? become very practiced become It's a good question. We know that they do. can't not read once you know how You also can't not listen. extremely boring, it's very hard not to listen. You could put your fingers in your--You also can't shut your them. &quot;This is a disgusting movie. [laughter] question. observation is a right one and a When you're good at something it becomes involuntary and you Okay. One more in back. Student: [inaudible] What now? Over there. Student: [inaudible] Professor Paul Bloom: his accident? He had some amnesia of events remember things. other things about his life. I'll see you next week.