[ Semiauto FAMAS F1 (MAS .223) ] <i>Bienvenue a hommes aux bien, je suis Ian,</i> and today, we are going to take a look This is the standard combat for at least the next couple of These were originally adopted in 1978 by the Although they are actually in the final stages So it seemed like a good idea to take a Because the FAMAS here is one of the very first Now, the very first one of Which was adopted for about 10 never put into any substantial production. And then right about the same time as the FAMAS So those two came in ... So in addition to being a the magazine and action are located the FAMAS is also interesting because it That's a pretty unusual setup to have. Specifically it's lever-delayed, which There are not many examples of So, we will take this apart in a few minutes and The upshot is it makes for a very simple rifle. There's no gas system to deal with, Four parts really, not counting little And it makes for a very appealing Now the French went with a bullpup shorten the overall length of the rifle So the barrel is ... this long. In a normal rifle the end of the This lets you shorten it up. That ... because French troops are spending a lot This was the 1970s, we're You don't have guys simply marching on And giving them a nice short compact Now despite that, they wanted to give it all of So there are actually a lot of features on this It was also designed to use rifle There was a rifle grenade sight here, because this is a semi-auto It has a long-range sight, it has a close-range It can actually be converted from left to Normally one of the major the shooter's face basically So if it's set to eject out the right, and you're going to get a mouthful However the FAMAS, like the AUG at the same Can't do it on the fly, but you to convert this thing from It was equipped with a fire control that was single-shot, safe, It had a burst setting, and then it had a second which would turn the burst Now at this point the French Army So the burst setting wasn't there because burst The burst setting was there totally untrained conscripts And you didn't want them to set it to full-auto If you can mechanically confine a you'll at least prolong the magazine. Speaking of the magazines, these They do use the standard 5.56 NATO cartridge. But at the time France had to be a little different, and in addition the 30 round NATO, are in fact rather longer. And it was thought that maybe this would be too long In addition, the French wanted to Now the disposable magazine with the US/STANAG/AR-15 But just as happened to the French also like the very moment the first magazine because it had been emptied, someone decided, &quot;Yo, wait a minute! That magazine it's not totally useless yet. Let's just go And so the disposable magazines very This ended up causing but I think a little bit more so in the French. Where the magazines, simply they and when you started using them over, So the magazines caused a Like I said, these were The original design process started in 1967, Once it was adopted, it was adopted basically in And roughly 400,000 of these were manufactured. They are the standard ... rifle However, in 1994 the French Navy Now the G2 has a number One of them is it has a full-hand trigger guard, Also, and more importantly, it which is a nice advantage. When you've got these mags, ... it may have made sense having interchangeable But when you start doing a lot and when the original magazines it make sense to go to the The other big change from Now these were originally I don't want to get super technical the 1 in 12 twist is only Well, when this was designed a 55 grain bullet: short, And this rifle works just fine with 55 grain. ... Well, almost fine, it Because this is levered-delayed blowback, when the cartridge is trying to extract. And a steel cased round dealt with These also have fluted chambers to also So the French had a couple of the steel case, the flutes. ... Well, NATO always used brass, but when NATO went to a heavier these rifles kind of had trouble with that. The brass case wasn't as reliable for them, and now the 1 in 12 rifling is too slow of a So 62 grain bullets don't and they're not particularly I have heard, but not totally really also have a slightly different pressure Barrel twist and case material aside, the bullet So the French had to continue to use their own Now the Navy adopted G2 fixed that ... I don't know for sure if they If they did, they did make them, because So the one other benefit that the French is that when they adopted this rifle they used This was the official replacement which was a 7.5x54 calibre And they also used it to replace the MAT 49, which was their 9mm Parabellum The idea was, &quot;We can get an make it a shorter rifle and we can replace both sub guns and rifles.&quot; And they did, and it seems to have Although you'd have to talk to some I think, a notion for how satisfied they As a bullpup? Well, most armies have It was popular for a little while but, like they tend to replace ... The only advantage really that you get and there are a number of trade-offs One important one being you can't really use the You also typically have poor triggers in them, that's been addressed in some but the FAMAS in particular has a You do also have issues When it happens it's ... just not Actually both with malfunctions and reloads, so. There are people out there who practice enough But you'll always have a lot more training time than you do with one where are out here in front of the gun And lastly of course I called this <i>le Clairon</i> in That name of course comes from which does kind of make it look like a bugle. So, having chewed your ear off why don't we go ahead and take this And ... like I said, this lever-delayed Wow! I can actually even get it all in the camera Let's start by taking a look So on the right side of the This is technically the designation of this semi-auto MAS stands for <i>Manufacture And serial number on this is 209B. It appears all of these guns I'm not entirely sure with that indicates. And then on the left side we <i>Manufacture Nationale D'Armes De Saint Etienne,</i> so national arms factory of Saint-Etienne, Made in France, and then imported by Now the magazine release for this guy is located And the idea with these, as with many So you're going to grab the mag, And you can see this is definitely a distinct The bottom of this reinforcing And then this little block on the that hits on the back of the receiver here. So it's a straight push-in magazine. Something I find kind of ironic and humorous is a lot of people got really excited super-fast magazine change option where you Which of course you can do just The FAMAS is actually a And part of that is the charging handle It does have a little lock hook, and it Just grab that, slide locks back, It is kind of nice that this is open to the a little bit better than you could because you do have access in there. Then we also have the folding bipod legs. To use these you pull out They do only have this one length available, So you get the bipod height, or no bipod. The sight here is kind of an You have two flip down apertures. So we've got a large aperture and a small aperture for And you pick whichever one of them The range adjustment is down here. You have a basic 300 ... metre zero, or get it down a bit. Easier to do with the tip of a bullet. But you can see that it raises Now the front sight is just a little But you have to take the so it's the sort of thing you Now there's also this thing on and gives you a little [holder for a Let's take a look at how that On the rear sight, if you open up both like 7, 8mm probably, 3/8 of an inch, open tube. And that's actually intended So you can line up this with this big huge rear aperture. You get a lot of light transmission through it, and it allows you to use the iron Then when you're not using them, this just folds So the safety selector is located This position of course is safe, which makes it And then originally you had a semi-auto on On this civilian semi-auto version of the rifle, There is one other cool little just like This is designed to be big but maybe not with a really big or maybe not if you're wearing some So if you need to have you can actually pull this off of its little peg, rotate the trigger guard around in front. It's got a little slot that it sits in. And now you can run the trigger with like an Lastly let's take a look at the bayonet. Unlike most bayonets, there is Instead what you do with this is you between this tab in the front, The rear tab is spring-loaded And this actually mounts So I'm going to slide the rear ring on, ... This front lug does line up And then it locks on A little bit rattly, but that's kind Alright, let's look at taking this thing apart. It's actually very simple, it's ... all pushpins. We have one pin that holds on So I'm going to push that pin out. It just comes free, it's not a captive pin, Then I can pull this forward, up, and off the rifle. It's kind of a little clumsy here because I've Next up, we'll pull the magazine. And the next thing to come off Same thing, we have another pin here. Just push it through from this side. These are very much like HK pins, they have a little There's that pin. And then this, this one's This is just a plastic housing. Actually ... We'll set that aside. Now we have the trigger and we have two more So you can use the tip You can see they put a little Or you can actually use one of the other ... These two pins are captive, so I'm And then there is my fire control group. This one's really simple, somewhat more complicated ratcheting This doesn't have to bother And then lastly we have the bolt. because it does have a The recoil spring is in this tube, this is just a hollow tube with a recoil So what I want to do is which is what locks the ... That's all the way out, now the bolt Once we're down to this level you can see For example, the rear sight elevation adjustment. You can see how that works here, it's just ... an eccentric cam to push So you'll notice the barrel profile changes That's because this is actually not the The barrel is free floated in You can see that it's not This lug is just to give something solid There is no actual locking shoulder in this And I'm sure someone's going to see that yellow I believe that's actually a I suspect this rifle has I should also point out you have a Never been used, still feels totally empty. Alright, now we have the bolt assembly, Oop, there's the bolt body, there's the accelerator, there's the Alright, I've got the bolt together here so we You can see that these two and affect the interaction between Now when this is ... fully chambered, the bolt is all the way back And these two little arms are sitting Specifically right there, and right there. So when you fire this, the bolt because of course there's a lot of pressure on it. However, it's locked against these two surfaces. So in order for it to move, Now when that happens it looks But when the bolt's fixed in pressure on these two cams forces the ... These are called accelerators, and what they're because there's a little short lever arm So the bolt is going to and the bolt carrier is going What this does is delay so it doesn't open up enough to until pressure has actually dropped and a lot of the gas has gone along with it. So this is a very simple system, it's clever, it's been used in a few other ... The Dominican Republic as pioneered by a Hungarian designer. But what you've got here until after this bolt carrier That takes time because of the ... inertia ... Now once it's in this position, now these and the whole thing can freely Something else I want to point out in here. You'll notice that there are two extractors. Except that this one on the right it doesn't actually have an This is what determines which So in this case the [extractor] is on this side, ... You see the ejector plunger is Now, ... using this pin you can actually so that the dummy is on this side, just a place That would cause cases to And when we look at the rear stock, you can see I can take this cheek piece, pop it off, and hey oh, it's open on both sides. I can take this cheek piece and snap Now I've made a lefty friendly version. I can swap the cheek piece, and in fact we So I can take this ... and I can swap it around to I can swap the bipod legs, is attached to the left bipod Every single feature of this, if it's it is convertible from left to right And that really is kind of cool. One other little feature in here that I want there's a little rubber buffer pad on the That is a space for a feature version of the FAMAS that On the military guns there's actually that ... buffers the impact of the bolt on I guess they figured for semi-auto, without the As a result the semi-auto civilian Not really harsh, but kind of abrupt, because you are getting more impact of which is I'm going to translate into ... a Now the top of this carry handle is just Yeah this is plastic, but it ... Actually it's interesting to point out, this So ... this lug sits on top of a plug on the front This is attached to the stock but it's not actually attached because the barrel is free floated inside this block. What that means is that the bipod, the bipod being here on is actually free floated So you can put pressure on the and it's not going to affect your zero. That's a clever, interesting One last thing to show you So when I pull the trigger it's just got this long There's our trigger spring. So we've got this hook right there. So that hook connects to this If you look at the hammer here, you which is held in place by this When I pull this forward (I'm going to when I pull that forward, it clears, Pretty simple. Just doing this manually you and travel there is on it, this is not The semi-auto version of the FAMAS, which If you look around on the that only 100 to 125 of these Having looked at a bunch of serial numbers I I know of serial numbers and this is serial number 209, which ... assuming they did a that would suggest that there are at A little more than most people think, but that Now when Century brought these in, They simply bought them from the Interestingly, at the time you could Although over there they were because France had a restriction (or still does I So .223 was not allowed, Anyway the .223 versions that came into the US, obviously they are semi-auto only, ... There are ribs on the barrel here the rifle grenade sight has been left off, the and obviously semi-auto only. Now when Century brought In 1988 they were selling To put that in a little bit of context, they another hot new cutting-edge bullpup rifle. That came with I think 5 mags and a scope, So substantially less than this rifle. And $1,000 in 1988 was quite a substantial So these took several years to sell. Once they did sell out, there were because these came in just before the 1989 US ban So that ban didn't have any impact but it did end the importation of So it's really cool to get a As I mentioned in the disassembly, still out of the box from whoever originally If you're interested in adding if you want to play with one well, take a look at the description text below. You'll find a link there to Rock you can check out their And place a bid online, or come up Thanks for watching.