Most of us don't spend much the dizzyingly huge system and outlets that reliably It's an easily ignored, of the modern world and But, as we move towards or producing electricity, the grid is going to have to evolve too. We're seeing so many countries high targets when it and being climate-neutral. But this is just one side of the coin. It's not enough to simply We also need to make sure and distributed to the end consumers. The grid of today just isn't so a new kind of grid is starting to take shape, the supergrid. The idea behind a supergrid is basically, a grid that connects nations, not just different parts of a country. And the goal is to try and wherever they are generating electricity. It's an ambitious idea and to avoid the worst case But actually building it I have to say, politics is We are still trying to competing each other. A supergrid seems like a super good idea. The question is, will it Since the earliest days getting power where it needs to go has been at least as big a challenge as making it in the first place. And we're talking about the earliest days, since Thomas Edison's first electric grid in Downtown Manhattan in the 1880s. What Edison gave us, that system ran on what's And direct current, you, at only goes about a mile. Gretchen Bakke is a who writes about, among He illuminated office for example, mansions, and But every time you wanted you needed to build a new power plant. And he thought this was fine. He was like, &quot;This will be fine. We'll just build another And then another one and another one. And it was pretty clear was not going to be the long-term answer. And so, that set up the next problem, which was, how can we And the answer to that was given to us by the famous Nikola Tesla, who was quite the guy. Tesla came up with the idea which doesn't just flow in one direction, it keeps alternating back Alternating current, it allows to a very high level, whereas you couldn't do Bump up your current to higher voltage and you can move your There was some early rivalry over this. Edison electrocuted an that AC was dangerous But ultimately, AC was the clear winner. Electricity was finally able to break out of the one-mile barrier. And that's why alternating current became the dominant form of transporting and using electricity world over. And that's the story of electricity. Just kidding, actually, Solar panels or even a wind farm are not a corollary to a They're usually in different places. So coal, we can bring it Wind, we have to build where it's windy. And wind is often happening where there's not that many people. Currently we use alternating current to be able to move electricity, but the problem with alternating current is that if you move it hundreds or even thousands of miles, you lose too much of that electricity. And so, moving it long distances makes it an uneconomical choice. If we can't get renewable we can't transition So, we need a better When we're talking about AC technology become the dominant approach to distribute and to transmit energy. Nevertheless, the DC The opposite is actually the case. Jochen Costman is in charge at Siemens Energy. Yes, that's right, DC power, the loser of the 19th century current wars is making a comeback. The solution that has become a consensus in the industry now is or more specifically, HVDC turns out to be traveling long distances as AC along the way. DC wasn't able to go because you couldn't create but inventions in the past to have the equipment and to generate high-voltage direct current. The engineers here make that generate that sweet, They partner with companies which make the cables themselves, long strands of insulated that can span hundreds of miles. Another important use case is the interconnections of countries to allow efficient energy trading between the countries and the network. The supergrid in a way is Denmark is connected to Norway. France is connected to Spain. Sweden is connected to Germany. Interconnectors let of renewable energy wherever If one country is having they can share some of that That's the idea behind the to be installed, a project called ElecLink that's rooted through the Channel Tunnel. An interconnector allows surplus power that isn't used in the UK to be transmitted over to France. Or alternatively, take and transmit it back to the UK. Phillip O'Gorman and his colleagues have been working on ElecLink and finally transmitted in May this year. We transmit up to 1,000 enough to power a million to You're moving clean energy from a place where it's in surplus to a Certainly throughout the world, we're going to be seeing across the world, across the globe. There is potential for them to do exactly as we are doing now. But in other parts of the world, this idea has run into some trouble. When I was first beginning which was in 2007, there was a thing in America It didn't exist. But anytime you talked to anybody, they would show you this They'd be like, &quot;Here's the map. Here's how we're going to high-voltage DC cables The problem is, nobody a long-distance power line. Like, you couldn't build a There is a surge of renewables being built around the country and a lot and wind resources are in of the country. But building transmission in this country. There is a patchwork of federal, state, local landowner rights that Communities all have to have a say. So TransWest is a that would take about 3,000 from Wyoming into Vegas, And TransWest has been in Part of the reason it's taken that long, the project has had to secure permission from more than 400 and even a single holdout can Ranch owner Andy Maneotis of his land to TransWest, but he's not happy about it. TransWest, they sent a young guy in, pretty pushy, and he'd get with his pushing ya, they were condemn you if you didn't agree with what they wanted. They're just going to take the land and there wasn't nothing you I have no leverage. I think they like to pick that not got the money to hire the lawyers to go to federal court. If he waited and they actually filed eminent domain papers, then the value of like what he could get out of that deal would fall tremendously. I'm really not against because I understand that But it's the way they come in here and now I'm going to be dealing with it, with construction, with I've already got a full plate Just this year, TransWest settled with the last holdout property owners, meaning that finally, after 17 years, construction of the line can get started. And this is one of the more There's several transmission lines that have been going through the process. It's been taking years. They're all held up for different reasons. If we have this mandate to we're going to have to figure out how to speed up the to be able to build it in time. Meanwhile, Asia is trying and more like Europe. Mika Ohbayashi runs Japan's which has come up with a of some of the region's biggest economies. So the Asia Super Grid is a concept to integrate Asian countries. We started to focus on the like China and Korea, we focus, because that that in Far East Asia, there is Mongolia, which has the best renewable That will benefit all Asian countries. In theory, wind and solar energy from Mongolia's Gobi Desert could produce as much as 2.6 terawatts of electricity, more than twice the capacity The Asia Super Grid would link that power to countries that produced more than 1/3 of the world's CO2 emissions. It's an ambitious and but it's not even close to the biggest idea coming out of Asia. There is an idea that's to try and build a global grid. China has a state-owned that has the technology and has built many of them across China. And they want to try and promote this idea of a globally interconnected It's hard to overstate the of a global grid connecting of the world to the most But these proposals from Asia and that might not be I have to say, politics is We are still trying to competing each other. Japanese government has tension with other countries that Countries that aren't 100% to want to link their And with the war in Ukraine their dependency on Russian oil, any notion of a global supergrid is likely to be off the table for a good while. But the way Mika sees it, we are past the point where the actions of individual countries on climate change. Developed countries, like has to be renewable energy, like kind of more than So, we don't have enough time to do it, so I'm already saying, every single cent or every single yen that we invest something for climate change actions from now on. As the grids evolved, we have had to cooperate on Edison's DC grids served and rich people's homes. The grids of the 20th and now the grids of the 21st century would forge links between people hundreds or even thousands of miles apart. But if we can all get used to the idea of being a little less isolated, we might find the puzzle gets a lot easier to solve, which would be super. If we are going to hit net zero goals and have 80, 90, or 100% then there is little chance to do that without having really good transmission across long distances. If we look to our targets we need to accelerate these processes. And I think this is doable. If we enable the grid to deal with this new green energy generation, I do believe that a climate-neutral