It was 2005 when voice actor Kenny James heard of Bowser! This was his first professional voice acting Except - throughout his years of voicing the that stood out to Kenny James, and, uh, not It was a recording session that he would never This is the story of how Bowser's voice So, I've talked about Kenny James before, But what I didn't mention in that video of Super Mario 3D World. This was around 2012 or so, and Nintendo were To make it stand out from its predecessor, the cat bell. Now, the cat bell is a power-up which turns You can climb up walls, you can scratch enemies. But the interesting thing about the cat bell, is that it's not just the player who can Goombas can turn into cat goombas, bullet And, for the final twist of the game, during too gets a hold of a giant cat bell, You have then Bowser climbs up the side of it, cat So, obviously, this new cat form of Bowser Which brings us back to Kenny James. It all started with a regular recording session. Kenny James arrived at the studio where he game. Now Nintendo are very secretive about their about what the thing he was recording was. The first 2 hours were fairly normal, with to make. But then, two hours in, when he turned the in quotes. He turned to the person from Nintendo, and What do you want him to sound like?" And the guy from Nintendo paused, stopped know." In other words, it was all down to Kenny James It was time for some improv! "So I thought, well Bowser's too big to cat, which was more like a "MREOW, MEORW!" And I thought, well he can't just sound that. So it wound up being "REOOOOORWW, RAAAWRLL!" So, that was just a few seconds of Kenny James sitting next to him, voice actress Jen Taylor, That was after a few seconds of the voice, session was for Meowser. It was 2 hours. For two long hours, after already spending Kenny James had to meow and roar again and makes in the game was recorded in one go. And by the time he was finally done, Kenny His throat was bleeding. That's just how much this session impacted Now, after the recording was done, the audio the Japanese developers would decide whether Kenny was worried they'd say no, and he'd Thankfully though, it was approved. Phew! But what about Kenny's voice? Well, whenever Nintendo knew they were gonna would be sure to get all the other voice recordings of these intensive sessions, the actor's And if we're talking about intensive sessions, that's even taken place. After his throat bled, I can't image he'd Which is why the timing was so terrible! You see, this recording session was on Wednesday. And on Friday, Saturday and Sunday, Kenny of the musical Evita. And it's not like he was a background character, Kenny's character was this guy here, Magaldi, directly to the audience. &quot;Where the music loves guitar, play forever So, as soon as the recording session for Meowser his voice completely. He tried not to speak, he tried not to interact Anything that could stop it from healing, So did it work? Did his voice come back? &quot;Hey Heath, it's Kenny James! Hey thanks for stopping by my...&quot; Thankfully, yes it did! Although this was the worst recording session bounce back, and his live musical performance More importantly though, he was able to speak And that would be the end of the story, except You see, you would expect this whole experience I mean, I was actually considering not making wanna monetise someone's trauma after all! But then, I stumbled upon an interview. And, just let me show you. "What are some of your favourite games that "3D World because of Meowser.&quot; &quot;I mean, you bled for one of those. Yeah, I was pretty proud of that big cat, So, contrary to what you might expect - certainly was actually really important to Kenny James! Oh, and if you're wondering how common this voice actors have some kind of horror story never in my life heard one as bad as Kenny But for instance, right before Kenny James Jen Taylor talked about how during one of show RWBY, she had to shout for hours on end No blood though thankfully! And that's the story of Kenny James' most apparently not traumatic for him - just traumatic Stepping back for a sec, if you want to hear place, then you should check out my video to! And if you've already seen it, then subscribe acting and non-voice acting videos coming So, I'll see you then! Ciao!