This video was made possible by Dashlane. Stay safe online, download Dashlane for free On a cold morning in January, 1961 Goldsboro, bomb sticking out of the ground. A second unexploded bomb was buried in a crater Both nukes had literally fallen out of a crashing Had either bomb gone off, they would have fifty times the destructive power of Hiroshima. The fireball alone would've been more than in its path. Nuclear fallout could have blanketed much Baltimore, or even New York. This incident, according to recently declassified Because at least one of the bombs had armed believed that only a single safety switch But as harrowing as it sounds, what happened Throughout the 1960s, B-52 bombers accidentally sometimes with serious consequences. During the height of the Cold War, America weapons airborne at all times, twenty four At any given moment, there were at least a of several routes approaching the Soviet Union. It was called Operation Chrome Dome. A program to keep nuclear bombers on continuous a surprise nuclear attack, America would be And keeping the bombers airborne was critical. Because in 1957, the Soviets launched the Sticking a nuke on top of a rocket was a game Unlike a bomber which needed hours to deliver in under half an hour. And there'd be little warning of one coming, Gentlemen this Air Intelligence Briefing is We've analyzed the Soviet guided missile The Soviet missile development program reveals and forces us to reassess our own strategic to deal a crippling blow. By the late 1950s, American intelligence was in nuclear missile technology. And the Soviet's weren't exactly shy about Khrushchev bragged openly that Soviet factories If true, it meant the Soviets would soon gain could even knock out America's ability to Because faced with a barrage of incoming missiles, off the ground in time. And that's where Operation Chrome Dome came By keeping some of America's nuclear bombers out of harm's way and ready to head towards Knowing this, the Soviets might reconsider. But the program would push B-52s and their Bombers would be in the air for as long as It was risky, and the obvious question at when one of these bombers loaded up with nukes The answer came just three months into the But Goldsboro would be just the first in a of six nuclear bombs crashed back to earth, of consequences. The bombs simply hit the ground without any It might have even created a false sense of Because Chrome Dome missions continued for never had missile superiority to begin with. The bombers were kept flying because unlike submarines, B-52's patrolling Soviet borders But the program would soon be seen in an entirely An accident over Palomares, Spain in 1966 And this time, two of them detonated their There was no nuclear blast. But five square kilometers of Spanish countryside It was the worst nuclear accident of its time, to be shipped back to the United States in Decades later, there were still traces of After the Spain incident, Operation Chrome But it that wouldn't prevent a final accident bombs came crashing back to earth. All of them detonated their conventional explosives, One of the nuclear bombs was never recovered. And that put an immediate end to The Cold War, especially during the 1960s, Chrome Dome is hard to pin down. America accidently dropped 14 Nuclear Bombs. But keeping bombers airborne for eight straight of power between America and the Soviet Union, The other day I was re-watching and hitting Someone in Fuzhou, China had figured out my But it wasn't that my password wasnt strong It was fact that I had been using the same And all it took is one breach for my email was then used to try to log in and likely If you want to keep your data and financial for each account. And Dashlane makes it easy by seamlessly generating you login, on any of your devices. And it's completely free. But you might want to check out Dashlane Premium private, dark web monitoring to scan and alert is leaked or stolen. Don't wait for your close call. Start your 30 day free trial of Dashlane Premium. And if you're one of the first 200 people you'll get 10% off an already great price.