- Hi, welcome back. Certainly glad you could join us today because today is a very Every once in a while when from teaching, I have my son Steve come in and do a little painting for us and today is one of those days. Steve is quite a painter, he's been painting all of he sold his first painting So I'll tell you what, we're going to turn it over to Steve today and let him do a fantastic Steve. - Thanks, dad. Hi, glad you could join me. I've already covered the of liquid white so you want and while you're doing that, they're gonna run all your right down at the bottom of the screen. And let's see, I think a big waterfall in it today, and maybe a big waterfall. So, start off with your two inch brush and we'll go into just a Very light, drag out tap it into those bristles and then we'll go up here. Oh, I like that color. I think blue is my favorite. There we go, little x strokes. Little x's everywhere. Some little dark cloud areas in here. Then maybe a little bit more phthalo blue with a touch of phthalo green. And let's just pull that right in. Just recently came back from California. I've been traveling all over and I ended up way over I really like it out there. Got the ocean right there and got the mountains People are really nice, too. Okay, let's go ahead and I had a spare there, see? I pulled a sneaky on you. And we'll just blend out that light area. Wow, look at that. It gets real soft. I'm pushing hard in areas with paint and areas that I like I go over 'em real soft. Just like that, very light. Very light. And maybe down here in the water just some straight horizontal strokes, just like painting the side And maybe down here at the extra dark, just add a little There we go. That's almost too easy to believe. There we go, easy. Okay, let's do a couple We'll go in with a little and maybe just a tiny Let's go ahead and just Heck, we're not worried about it. Real free and simple. This might sound a little bit nutty but as you're doing your kinda think about the When you're doing a Real light, fluffy. Just like that, like the wind's blowing. Feel that wind in your hair It's kinda like dad says, &quot;You don't have to be crazy There we go. Just real nice clouds, real nice clouds. Whenever I'm painting anything, I'm always thinking to it's coming out, you know? I don't get into a bad frame of mind ever because I know no matter what I do, I'm doing it for me and that I'm gonna enjoy it. No matter whether it's a Leonardo da Vinci or Micheal Angelo lookin' thing, I'm not worried about that. There we go, a few clouds. Then you can just blend those real light, real light. Think soft. There we go. Now lift very gently. Just a couple of hairs across the canvas. And then go across those also very light. I like those little makes it look like the Real gentle, okay. Let's do a mountain. We're gonna use a little a little bit of midnight and prussian blue. That's all in equal parts. And we'll mix that up real good and get a nice roll on Very nice roll. Come up, push in. Oh my gosh, it's a grand teton. I can tell already, look I might have got a little carried away. But more than likely, it Look's like it was, it's coming out okay. You have to do that, you know? Compliment yourself a little, tell yourself you're wonderful. It's good for you. People are too hard on That's just my opinion but when I'm watching the new and stuff, it seems like people almost I don't want to hear bad things, I like to hear good ones. That's why I paint. I can get off in my own little world not worry about what anybody and just feel free. There we go, there's a mountain shape. Now I'll just drag that Try not to get too close you might accidentally that you don't want. There we go. Or maybe you want birds in Heck, it's up to you. There we go, something like that and then let's put a little bit a And a touch of crimson in it, maybe. Good, there we go. Okay. Cut the little roll on the knife again and we'll just real gently Well, I gotta admit it gives to know that you're moving mountains I really like that feeling. I can't think of anything that makes me feel like painting does. It really, really is special. And you know when I yeah, it was a little difficult. But riding a skate board is, too. I'll forget the first time dad said, &quot;Oh, I can ride that skate Well, you can kinda imagine what happened first time he stepped on it. I won't tell you that, though. I don't want to embarrassed dad, you know. (laughs) Okay, let's take a little and a little bit of prussian Leave that kind of marbled, Just about like that. Get a little roll on put a little shadow behind Actually, the less blue Leave a lot of those dark Use the small portion of in those real small areas. That'll keep you out of trouble. There we go. Real gentle, real gentle. I love to paint mountains. I'd say they're about my favorite thing. As I've been traveling around the country, I have seen so many types never even thought of before. I mean, oh gosh. It's wonderful. All the new information I've picked up. Between that and the people you meet, I'd say there's just no better job than being a painting instructor. And I think for anybody that's interested in working with people, it'd be a good idea to join the program, get involved. Become a teacher yourself. Little bit of snow cap Okay. Now down at the bottom of the mountain, we'll just kinda touch it Just tapping into the paint very gently. Just like that and then lift up, lift up. Pull out, pull out, pull I'm use to that being a teacher, you know, saying everything two or Let's see here. Okay, that looks pretty close. Now I'll go in with a I'm just gonna mix this paint on my brush. We'll go into a little alizarin crimson, little prussian blue, and get a little white on your brush. There we go. Oh, I dirtied up my white, didn't I? Okay, now touch right into that color and come in here and push Maybe there's a little one I don't really know. To be honest with you, I'm just making this one up as I go along. Just pull up a few little trees on top and then we'll come in with the big brush and get rid of that lower area. Tell you a little secret. If you get rid of the in the background, Remember that. That's one of the rules And you know, as far as they're very easily explained. In short, perspective tells they get larger and contrast tells us as things get closer they get darker cause they So, see those rules are very simple. You don't have to make a whole book out of one little thing like that. I try to keep things very Pound out the bottom of that foothill, get rid of that bottom edge. See there? Now we got two foothills. One infront of the other. If you want the back one darker, you just use more and less paint on the Okay, we're tired of goofing around here. Let's get serious. Let's take a little bit of and pound in a nice big Wow, listen to that canvas. It sounds like a drum, doesn't it? By the way, I'm part Indian. I know I don't look like it but I'm a quarter Cherokee Indian and I'm very proud of that fact. And I'll tell you what, beating on this canvas to that Indian thing, you know? Sounds like a drum, listen to that. Boom, boom, boom, boom. (laughs) Isn't that crazy? You gotta think of little when you're creating something. Indian's were very creative, still are. Okay, grab and pull, grab It's a clean brush and you'll get a reflection out of that. That's pretty simple, isn't it? And just go across it and Okay, maybe back on these trees, they're pretty far away scratch in type trunks. Just scratch 'em in, There we go. People will think you spent but really we know it Or even seconds. Okay, pull through your paint, pull through your cadmium yellow. You're going to need a drop just one little drop. Cause remember, thin paint Maybe a touch of phthalo blue Wow, that was a big touch, wasn't it? Okie dokie, Very light, very light. Oh, man. We are really having fun now. I love highlighting trees and bushes. So many different things can happen. Look at that. There you go. Hey, let's change that color a little bit. We're getting a lot of green in there. Let's go for, I don't know, in that same color. Crimson, green, and yellow. Look at that, kind of And if you want to make some grass, you can just kinda pop Just use the side of and everything, just the side. Okay, and possibly a little That's easy enough just And as with all reflections, you want to go across that very gently. Soften that grass down just a little. There we go, good. Okay, maybe a little piece of land underneath that. We'll go with a little van Pull that paint out, and then you're ready and touch, touch. Pull, pull, pull to the It's about a 15 degree angle to the right, let's get technical, why don't we here. No, really I don't in degrees and stuff. I'm just trying to give you instruction here. Let's see, a little bit of together and you can Very, very light color. Go across that, it almost looks like snow. And let's see. There we go. Now, if you pull through your paint and kind push into it a little, you can come up here and down on that land, very simple. Don't be afraid to get on the canvas, either. Some people don't like but I think they look really neat. They add texture to the painting and they really make it poke out at you, give it that three dimensional look. Pull down a little bit you have to reflect and remember when you're reflections are only as that's high. Okay, just a touch of your liquid white. Spin that around on that real gentle, touch through it and let's make a waterline. This is where the water's kind Apparently, it's bouncing (laughs) Look at that. Maybe a little bass jumped out here. There we go. That's not bad. Remember, you gotta keep Tell yourself you're good. Okay, pull through your paint like this. Pull through that van dyke brown and maybe we'll make a little, oh I don't know, maybe a Just a little tiny one, I see a little dead thing back there, little bit of the same highlight and we'll touch on that, touch on that. Just like that. And it possibly has a limb or two on it. Little bit of van dyke brown And we'll go up here and on that, oh boy. You know, you gotta have cause it shows reality. And plus, those old nasty everything thing else look There's a place for to have a place in this world. Okay, now you just cover up There we go, get rid of that. Okay, looks just like he's planted. Alrighty, let's make a waterfall. We'll go in with the big brush, get a little bit of prissian on the brush. Very, very dark full load of paint and then we'll come in pull down. (makes crashing sounds) See, you gotta make It won't work if you don't There we go. And a little bit of your liquid white and titanium together. I'll tell you what, I've barely I'm making a mess. Okay, pull across and drop down. Isn't that a fun way to Look at that, comes right over. Comes right over. And do it fast, looks Just like that. Pull in, pull in. Then take the brush and pull out, pull it out. There we go. Then we'll just take a and we'll start in on Just pull it right across. Remember, you're the creator here. You want to throw it in just like you're actually creating a world which is really what you're doing. There's very few times with a position of serious I'll tell you what, my There you go. Yeah, maybe a few highlights on that. Like I was saying, it feels good to be able to know heck, I'm doing all this myself. Creating it all on my own. If I want this or that If I don't like something, There we go. Maybe there's one down here, too. Okay, you want to wipe your fan brush out before you do this. You want to grab and pull That makes these look like There we go. Pull in towards the center, There we go. And while we're at it, let's down here at the bottom. Super dark, chop off the sides There we go. Okay, we could probably have, I don't know, a big tree on the left hand side, maybe. I like big trees. Just mix up your green, Touch, then let's just We are certainly not messing around here. We're crashing in trees, It's cause we're powerful. We can do anything we want. There we go, get that limb out there. Look at that. A lot of this is brush manipulation. You're just forcing that brush to make the shape that you want. You know, after a while the equipment actually becomes It's an extension of your And maybe there's a small Oh boy, that one looks Look at that, gee whiz. Or maybe a bush or two, there we go. Now, a few little highlights Not too much highlight on cause you know they're very, Very dark. Maybe this bush got hit by on the sides there, just a touch. Little grass down under their foots there. There we go. Make them sound effects. Okay, and as a final I believe I'll add a little bit of foam. Touch into your paint, just white and titanium white together. Liquid white and titanium, and push right in there. Look at those splashes It's exciting, isn't it. Makes you feel good. Look at that. And maybe we'll come in with a little piece of root, if you can believe that, hanging off this land edge where the water washed away. Okay, I think that's it for that one. Thank you very much dad and thank you for watching me and we'll see you next time. (calm music)