What happens when we die? Does all experience end of all humanity believes that death is not the threshold, something continues on. The standard are no more than wishful thinking - a product of the ultimate end of experience. I too struggle to in a way that preserves all minds at the point I'm not religious, but nevertheless I don't survival. Despite the many discoveries of modern place. There are, for example, respected there is a not insignificant possibility that an advanced civilization, with goals beyond our do live in a simulation, all bets are off about believe that reports like those of near-death offer possible evidence of survival. In the world phenomena that resist ordinary explanation, deeply anomalous. I actually studied psychology a parapsychology department. The University of of these strange cases was on my undergraduate these cases, I don't reject the possibility that it's real. In the end, it was not strange me that consciousness does survive death. Instead much later, as postgraduate in philosophy. This demonstrate that consciousness is immortal, that is an epistemic illusion, and that following enduring sense of always having existed albeit This argument, which comes from the philosopher impersonal reincarnation, and it is, I think, the death. In spite of this seemingly bold claim, first seem, on some exotic view of consciousness. even if we live in an entirely physical universe, physical laws. To be clear, my own view is that current materialist science has appreciated. But such claim offers the most profound argument for together with its extraordinary implications, argument originates with the philosopher Thomas &quot;Death, Nothingness, and Subjectivity. Clark common error made by secular and scientific then the dying individual should anticipate being Clark lists many secular thinkers who replace concept of nothingness. Clark points out that as though it were a kind of &quot;positive nothing&quot; - subject is plunged, as though into a dark ocean, out, (quote) &quot;... is to reify nothing - make it blackness, and then place the individual in nothingness, to remain there eternally.&quot; (end this logical fallacy. Over two millennia ago the is nothing to us. When we exist, death is not, and argues that when we dispense with this flawed at death, a strange and counterintuitive picture (title) Immortal Consciousness We're almost ready to dive into Clark's profound but before we do, we first need to understand a calls this truth &quot;personal subjective continuity.&quot; we experience our entire lives as one While there are many times in life when we are while under general anesthetic, these unconscious our personal subjective continuity, in and our entire lives exist to us as one continuous nature as conscious beings that we always exist to at its beginning and end by our birth and our billions of years prior to our birth, nor should after death. Instead, Clark argues, that death why we'll now explore a thought experiment which Imagine a world where cutting-edge medical process known as &quot;LifePause.&quot; During LifePause, an and advanced surgeries akin to intricate brain enables, not only the suspension of time, but also and even physical appearance. Now meet our Alex decides to undergo LifePause for an extended LifePause technicians to make any changes they Alex is &quot;Alex Classic&quot; after the transformation first we'll call &quot;Alex 2.0.&quot; In this scenario, Alex 2.0 wakes up with a refined version of the altered personality or some new preferences. Alex where Alex classic had not. From the point of a seamless continuation of the same conscious second scenario. This time the LifePause procedure much more radical alterations. Alex Reborn wakes different personality, different memories, and these stark differences, the subjective experience Reborn, there is no perceived gap or interruption different to Alex Classic, and yet it nonetheless Whether Alex emerges as a refined version, as as in Alex Reborn, the key Insight is that We now move on to the final part of the thought LifePause, Alex is involved in a fatal car resulting in his irreversible, natural death. Now the universe, free from any direct causal link Consciousness &quot;Alex Renewed.&quot; It is here that difference between that which is taking place continuity between these distant conscious from Alex Classic to Alex Renewed does not entail no firsthand encounter with nothingness. there is a seamless transition from one subjective and physicality vastly differ. We simply wherever and whenever it arises in the universe. identity, the implications are profound. Alex The key insight is that death and birth can be the LifePause scenario. And indeed it is the conscious moment of our lives. As Clark writes, extinguished and the next conscious creature a galaxy far, far away) there would still be no that (objective) gap just as easily as it jumps to the first upon awakening. All the boring subject will be irrelevant for the subject as &quot;nothingness&quot; for all the conscious entities consciousness, experience - whatever we call it (end quote) The thought experiment shows that is consciousness itself, or what Clark calls this is quite different to the traditional consciousness will, after death, suddenly discover the continuum of consciousness transcends say that you continue as consciousness itself. And the thought experiment shows just how with all conscious beings. Reflecting on Clark's (quote) &quot;The birth of any conscious being after to your own rebirth. Given your identity as or less assured as long as consciousness persists this idea of a continued consciousness beyond fear the end of life. And yet others might see experiences on offer in reality far too close experiences taking place in the natural world -- of mind that might emerge in the future, or in ours is the experience of the greatest and most actual experiences that exist and will exist, of Several philosophers have argued that and that this fact carries profound ethical You Are Them, the philosopher Magnus (quote) &quot;Why are you the same person when went to sleep the night before? Why don't a dark forest in the middle of the night? It's a view that resonates with both both ancient individualism&quot; put forward by the contemporary there exists only one numerically identical individualism there isn't a distinct entity that wherever there is awareness, there is ... you. will exist in the future, is experienced analogy we can think of this awareness nuclear fusion taking place in stars. There and they are all powered by nuclear fusion, nuclear fusions. Rather it is more accurate to fusion which powers all stars in existence. awareness that underlies the innumerable minds in or soul navigating through experiences. There an innumerable variety of forms. Whether or not we by its nature, transcends individuality and binds The New Age slogan, &quot;We are all one.&quot; is often love. In truth, facing the unfettered identity is deeply sobering. We see that there regardless of their circumstances. We are for in this together. In this sense, the recognition more than a salve for the fear of death. --It is for us to do other than to try to improve beings within the reach of our influence. I and systematic reduction, wherever possible, of all perhaps secondary imperative, is the general beings might consider to be worth having such profoundly challenges many of our human norms and for retributive punishment or what we might call aggression, and selfish prejudice are seen for Death is not an escape from reality. Instead (quote) &quot;... more like the radical refreshment we are that part of reality that becomes we are truly immortal. We can experience death, But it is an illusion. There is no life Hello, me again. I hope you found that what you think about this argument or what die. Please leave a comment and let's have &quot;like&quot; which will help with the algorithm, and about the nature of consciousness, reality, and above and beyond and really support my work patreon.com/wakingcosmos for exclusive updates as create. And a huge thank you to those of Alright! That is about it from me. Thank you for