Lighthouse keepers were notorious for going maybe it was the isolation, maybe it was the monotony of having to keep that light going all the time, or maybe it was their food. Their diet was pretty basic but with a well-written recipe even the basic ingredients that a lighthouse keeper in the late 19th century had available to them you could make something like this Boston corn chowder using a recipe from 1896, so thank you to Trade coffee for sponsoring this video as I make lighthouse chowder this time on Tasting History. So I stumbled across this book called 'Instructions and it was the manual given to all lighthouse keepers in the U.S. at that time. Of course it's filled with a lot of instructions on how to maintain the light itself, how to keep the tower whitewashed and gleaming, how to care for the lens and all sorts of other But near the back I found a list of all the foods that Things like: beef 200 pounds, pork 100 pounds, flour 1 barrel, rice 25 pounds, beans 10 gallons, potatoes 4 bushels, onions 1 bushel, sugar 50 pounds, coffee 24 pounds, and vinegar 4 gallons. They also got butter, salt pork, a number of canned and pickled vegetables, and something called pilot bread. It's sometimes called pilot biscuits or pilot crackers. And I actually have this box of pilot bread that a viewer sent to me, and they really haven't changed since the late 1800s. Essentially what they are is a slightly more palatable version of hardtack. [Clack Clack] They even look like it but they are a little bit softer. I feel like there's a higher water content here. [Crunch] I can actually bite into it but they are very dry. And there's also a little bit more flavor than just the flour and water version of hardtack. So with all these different ingredients in mind I had an idea to go through some of the old log books from different lighthouses at the end of the 19th century to see what they were, what and one thing appeared a lot and that's just different versions of soup or chowder. And so since many lighthouses are in the Boston area I looked to the 'Boston Cooking-School Cook Book' by Fannie Farmer for a period appropriate recipe. And there I found a corn chowder that uses pretty much only ingredients that would have been available to a lighthouse keeper at the time. It says &quot;Cut pork [fat] in small pieces, and try out; add stirring often that the onion may not burn; strain fat into a stew pan. Parboil potatoes five minutes in boiling water to cover; drain, and add potatoes to fat; then add two cups of boiling water; cook until potatoes are soft, add corn and milk, then heat to boiling point. Season with salt and pepper; add butter, and crackers split and soaked in enough cold milk to moisten. Remove crackers, turn chowder into a tureen, and put crackers on top.&quot; Soups and chowders were very useful for a lighthouse keeper because they could make it at one point during the day but then keep it nice and warm throughout the day and into the night, while they kept that light burning. They would have to get up multiple times a night to trim the wicks, replenish the oil and should it be raining clean off the lens and windows which is probably why they were provided with 24 pounds of coffee. Now I'm not maintaining a light so I don't need 24 pounds of coffee but I would make a pot of coffee using the coffee from today's sponsor Trade. Trade is a coffee service that delivers freshly made from over 55 independent roasters here in the United States. Like this coffee which they match to my tastes it is the No. 7 House Blend which was roasted at Boxcar Coffee in Boulder Colorado. And it's always shipped within 48 Hours of roasting so it arrives on my doorstep wonderfully fresh. This is a well-balanced roast with a light sweetness to it almost chocolatey even. It's perfect for me. All the coffee I get from Trade is perfect for me because I tell them what I'm looking for in a coffee. Basically you let them know what you like to drink and how much of it you drink, and then they curate a feed of coffees that are delivered right to your door. Trade's plans are customizable and you can cancel at any time, and right now they are giving viewers of Tasting History a free bag of coffee when you sign up for a subscription using my link drinktrade.com/maxmiller. There's actually a funny story about coffee and lighthouses. It actually comes in the form of a warning from around 1912 to tourists in a certain area who kept going to this lighthouse keeper, and asking them- or asking him if there was any coffee around. &quot;He will lead you in, and in response to your inquiry, advise you, 'Oh yes, they serve coffee here.' The 'serving' is done at a table on which a cold luncheon is spread. Then when it comes to the settling, you pay as much for one cup of the coffee as if you had took his regular meal. It is not his fault as his answer that you did not eat that which was placed on the board. Travelers without number have complained of this rascality of the light-keeper.&quot; Rascality indeed especially because they said it's a cold luncheon so you wouldn't have been able to get this 3 cups of sweet corn. Her recipe actually calls for it turns out that when she was writing the cans of corn were one pound, four ounces. So it's quite a bit more than this, it's about 3 cups. 4 to 5 medium Yukon Gold potatoes, enough to make 4 cups when peeled, and cut into quarter inch pieces. About 3 tablespoons of fatty salt pork. If you don't have salt pork you can just use bacon fat, it's gonna work the same for this. 1 onion diced, 1 quart or one liter of whole milk, 3 tablespoons or 45 grams of butter, 2 teaspoons of salt, 3/4 of a teaspoon of pepper and 8 crackers. Specifically she calls for common crackers which They can still be found in New England today though At the time that she was writing they were much bigger, so you'd need 8 about that size, and so I'm actually going to be using the pilot bread they're pretty much the same and this is something we know the lighthouse keepers had available. So first you need to scald the milk, not scold the milk, bad milk! &gt;:/ But scald the milk and to do that you add the milk to until it reaches about 180 degrees Fahrenheit or 82 degrees Celsius. Then set it aside and let it cool while you proceed to heat the pork fat in a skillet over medium-high heat. After a couple minutes much of the fat should have melted into grease, and then you can add in the onions. Cook them for about five minutes moving them around every so often so they don't burn. You want to cook them until they become translucent and start to brown. Once they have carefully pour out any remaining grease into a pot. It really helps if you use a strainer. Also remove any fatty pieces that might be remaining. Then set the onions aside and add the potatoes to a small saucepan with just enough water to cover them. And let them simmer for 5 minutes just to soften them up a bit. Then strain them out and add them to the pot that has the grease left from the onions, and add 2 cups or 475 milliliters of boiling water to the potatoes and set them over high heat letting it all come to a simmer. Once the potatoes have simmered long enough that they can easily be pierced with a knife. Add in the corn, as well as the scalded milk, and the onions. Stir everything together and let it slowly come up to a gentle boil. And while it does we are going to soften our common crackers which turn out not to be so common. Now if you're using the small ones they really don't need this softening. They're going to soften up a little bit later but the big ones do need just a little bit of time. If you're using something like Ritz crackers or club crackers well don't because they will just disintegrate. But using the larger dryer crackers break them into good sized pieces and add them to a bowl of cold milk letting them soak for maybe 10 seconds and then take them out. Once the crackers have soaked and the Chowder and then add in the butter. Once it's melted add in the softened crackers and let them float on top while the chowder simmers for another 10 minutes or so. The crackers are actually going to help thicken up the chowder and it does take about 10 or 15 minutes so while it does that let's take a look at a few interesting stories I found about the lives of lighthouse keepers. Now the life of a lighthouse keeper could obviously vary greatly from place to place and from time to time, like a person lighting the fires of the Lighthouse of Alexandria 2,000 years ago would have lived a very different existence or the keepers in the movie 'The Lighthouse'both of which take place in New England in the late 19th century. And it's more that period and that location that interests me for the purpose of this video, but even then the life could be quite varied depending on where your lighthouse was. Like was it just at the end of a little peninsula so you could go into town every day or was it more like the Boston Light which is out on an island. This lighthouse first built in 1716 was situated on little Brewster Island in Boston Harbor, and while a relatively short distance from one of the largest cities in the American colonies rough weather and constant work made it so the lighthouse keeper would often have to stay on the island for weeks or months at a time between trip trips back to the mainland. And that was actually the life of most lighthouse keepers regardless of how far they were because even if you could make it back to the mainland you couldn't stay there for very long because you always had to be back at night to tend that light because for the longest time the only mandate was don't let that light go out when it is dark, and it may seem a simple mandate but it was a laborious one and an incredibly important one, not only for the safety of a country's mariners but also for the survival of its commerce. In early America for example all trade with Europe, which was the vast majority of trade, was dependent on keeping those lighthouses going. It was such an important job that for many years the appointments of lighthouse keepers were actually made by the President. For instance it was President George Washington who appointed Henry long to be Keeper of the Cape Fear lighthouse in North Carolina. Washington approved a $300 salary which was quite a bit less than the requested $350 salary but he or whoever was actually writing the appointment said that basically the lighthouse keeper was getting a great bonus in the fact that he would have use of &quot;a good house, well situated for taking fish and piloting.&quot; Piloting here could refer to ferrying people around the harbor or any other manner of odd jobs a person who owns a boat could be hired to do but the problem was lighthouse keeping kind of takes up all of your time, so they didn't have a lot of time for piloting because not only are you taking care of the light itself, but &quot;it must be remembered that the lighthouse keepers are their own cooks, house, and laundry-maids, so that over and above professional Not that he really had anything to cook because he and so he wrote a well-worded third-person complaint letter saying &quot;All these advantages are now entirely lost to your petitioner by his live living on an island where he has not the privilege of raising stock of any kind nor even vegetables... Fish and oysters are at too great a distance from the island for him to attempt to procure.&quot; Eventually his salary was raised to $333.33 which seems to have been enough at least to keep him from complaining anymore. Now he's not the only one that found lighthouse keeping a The lighthouse keeper in the Boston Light, John Hayes, he had to basically run the place like an Airbnb. He would let passing mariners stay for the night for a few pennies and it was only in 1718 when he complained that letting strangers sleep in the only thing keeping ships from running aground outside of Boston was probably not a great idea that Massachusetts Now Hayes lived alone in his lighthouse which was not uncommon but it was also not uncommon for a lighthouse keeper to bring his wife and his family to live with him which was the case of Henry Long who was the one complaining about starving on Cape Fear. He lived there with his wife and children until one of the husbands of one of his children shot him, And he died leaving his wife alone at the lighthouse and so you couldn't let the light go out so she had to take up the job. Rain or shine this meant she was going up six flights of stairs multiple times a night with gallons, buckets of oil to make sure that light kept gleaming. It would have been a difficult task for anyone and some other names were put forward as people who could take over for her should she not be up to the job but a few months in she was doing a great job actually even though there had been several major storms she was good to go so someone wrote her an appointment and sent it to the desk of then president Thomas Jefferson who replied &quot;The appointment of a woman to office is an innovation nor am I.&quot; Now despite Jefferson's refusal to appoint her as there were several unofficial lighthouse keepers who were female at the time, like Hannah Thomas who was the keeper of the Plymouth Lighthouse in Massachusetts from 1776 all the way to 1786, but it wasn't until 1826 that President John Quincy Adams signed off on the first federally appointed female lighthouse keeper. But even then many of the female lighthouse keepers got the job because their husbands died doing it, and this was the case of Mary Ryan. She and her husband ran Calumet Lighthouse which was right outside of Chicago and in 1873 he died leaving the work to her. Well she didn't really want the job but she had been told that the place was going to shut down because Mariners kept complaining that they thought that the lighthouse was actually Chicago and so they would go there only to find out that they were 12 miles from where they were supposed to be, but if you read her logs turns out it wasn't closing. &quot;December 25, 1873: I was supposed to have been informed when this light would be discontinued not a vessel since the 15th of November and nothing to light for and this is such a dreary place to be all alone in. April 7, 1874: So dull, this place is killing me. Wind blowing violently. May 2, 1874: Nothing but gloom without and WITH IN. October 1, 1880: The news is that the light will soon go from me forever. November 1, 1880: This is all gloom and darkness.&quot; For seven years she stayed alone at that lighthouse until finally someone came to take over the job. Now Mary Ryan's depression is not uncommon for lighthouse keepers. If you read the logs of this period from lighthouse keepers there's a lot of melancholy, and it's probably due to the isolation and the monotony of the job. And it was a lot of work, in April of 1835 the first official list of lighthouse keeper duties from the government came out here in the U.S and the workload was a lot for one person. They were essentially responsible for the complete upkeep of a 40 to 60 foot tower often on a cliff above the sea, and if you've ever been near the sea just keeping a fence painted is a full-time job let alone keeping a huge tower gleaming white with whitewash. Also everything seemed to always be breaking and they had to fix everything constantly. It was a full-time job and it wasn't just a full-time day job, but it was also a part-time night job. &quot;You are to light the lamps every evening at sun-setting, and keep them continually burning, bright and clear, till sun-rising. In order to maintain the greatest degree of light during the night, the wicks are to be trimmed every four hours, taking care that they are exactly even on the top.&quot; So you're working all day, cooking, cleaning, and making sure the place doesn't just fall down, and then at night you're not able to get more than a few hours of sleep at any one time. It was grueling or at least that's how it was supposed to be but in practice it seems that it didn't always go down like that. In fact in a report to the Lighthouse Commission in 1851 the author lays out what lighthouse keepers were &quot;to leave their beds at night to examine and trim their lamps- a sacrifice of personal comfort which few of them are willing to make... It is therefore no uncommon occurrence to see a light gradually disappear between three or four o'clock in the morning.&quot; So to address this problem of disappearing lights early in the morning he suggested paying the lighthouse keepers more money as the current salary &quot;will not command the services of intelligent men, such as are required to do justice to a valuable and costly apparatus, when such is entrusted to them.&quot; They also started having assistants for lone lighthouse keepers. And this was the setup that you see in the movie 'The Lighthouse' with Willem Dafoe and Robert Pattinson, and the extra pair of hands did make it so they got the work done but the added company doesn't seem to have stopped them from from going insane because lighthouse keepers were notorious for going insane. Maybe it was the monotony, maybe it was the isolation, or maybe it was the Mercury. See in the latter half of the 19th century the Fresnel Lens had become the standard in most lighthouses, and they were massive lenses that could not only amplify light but focus it into that classic lighthouse beam. The issue was that they were incredibly heavy and so to keep it turning easily sometimes they had mechanical things that would do so but many times it was Then that pool of mercury needed to be ever so often cleaned out by the lighthouse keepers probably with bare hands. And yeah, so it's not known that that's why many of them went crazy but but it's a pretty good guess. In fact the phrase mad as a hatter is often mercury was used in the production of felt for hats in the 18th and 19th century so it could just as easily be mad as a lighthouse keeper. Frankly nothing about being a lighthouse keeper seems particularly good for your health, Mercury, loneliness, dried and canned foods for months on end I grew up thinking that life of a lighthouse keeper was like that of Captain January in the Shirley Temple movie with lots of singing and dancing, I was wrong, but as bleak as the existence may seem at least every once in a while you could count on having a bowl of nice warm corn chowder. So after about 10 minutes of simmering the recipe says to remove the crackers, something which sounds very easy but in reality is a bit of a pain in the butt. And frankly I'm not even sure why you have to do this because as soon as then you serve the chowder she says to put the crackers back on top. And here we are Boston corn chowder from the 1890s. Every time I say chowder I can't help but think of that Simpsons episode where Mayor Quimby's nephew mocks the French waiter for how he says &quot;shau-dere&quot; &quot;Shau-dere? Shau-dere? It's chow-dah! Say it right!&quot; But regardless of how you say it let's give it a try. Get a little bit of everything in there. It's definitely not as thick as a modern chowder would be but it is chunkier meaning like it has more things in it which I like. Hm! That is so good. There is so much flavor in there. It's kind of sweet but in a in a pleasant way like it's not like dessert sweet or anything, but you're getting that sweet corn in there but it's actually more potato heavy like the flavor is more potato than corn but I like it because there is so much flavor and yet it doesn't have the heavy consistency it's not as thick like the milk or cream so I could probably eat more than I would a bowl of regular chowder. Oh but man that is good. Hm! It's the onions. The onions give it that sweetness because basically we kind of caramelize them when we cooked them. I want to try some of this now quite soggy pilot bread. Hmm! :) It's totally absorbed all the flavor which makes sense. That's really good. Actually I really like the soggy pilot bread. Man! That's one of the better soups that I've made here on the channel. That's one of the better soups that I've made here in my life actually, delicious. Now if you've made it this far in the video I wanted to share with you a little treat in the form of a few pictures of my favorite lighthouse keeper ever. He was a French lighthouse keeper around the turn of the 20th century, and his name was Louis Coulon. He was a lover of cats and the then record holder of the longest beard at about 3.35 meters. I don't know anything else about him except that he was French and that he had quite an impressive if kind of nasty looking beard. I'm gonna keep mine fairly trim but I thought he was interesting. Anyway make this chowder it's it's freaking delicious, and I'll see you next time on Tasting History hmm. Hm!