So Excel's finally got new checkboxes; these are workarounds we had to do before. There are so your to-dos, that you can use these checkboxes. let me quickly show you how you can use them. This you are going to learn how to use checkboxes, and cool techniques that you can use together with this is our learning list. We have a checkbox in so let's say we've learned about the FILTER task was done. This is using the NOW function, say we finished learning about the checkboxes, new time added here at the same time. See tasks&quot;? We have now four out of nine tasks done. we have five out of nine done. Also, keep your i.e., our &quot;look forward to&quot; bucket, and once we this bucket. Okay, so that's what we're going to I have my learning list here and added this little add checkboxes. In Office 365, you are going here. There's the checkbox. Just select it, and it it, you're going to see the hand icon, and when mark in there. Notice what happens in our formula when it's unchecked, we get FALSE. Now, this is that behave differently depending on whether our to change the color of your checkbox, you just go ORANGE, I get an orange checkbox now. Instead bar to toggle it on or off. If you want to remove right? So if I just press the back arrow the checkbox is gone. If I go to the cell, I but I get this light-colored checkbox there. So of formatting and cell values. So the formatting thing in case someone unintentionally removes and the checkbox is back again. And if you really or you can just go and clear all, and that clears You can, of course, add multiple checkboxes all at then go and just select checkbox. Okay, so now where we're going to count the number of checked we know that whenever a checkbox has a check mark we are going to be using that in our formula. So on this side, and then later I'm going to show are different ways you can set this up. I'm just we need a range. That's my range. If you're using the table column. The criteria is simple; and I get two because I have two TRUE values here, as well, we get a three. So that's the number going to get the total number of checkboxes that just going to use the COUNTA function. So COUNTA counts text. It counts Boolean values as well. So nine. So far so good. Now I want to combine all in a single cell. So we're just going to reference we're combining values from different cells. Then want to get the division operator; let's put that going to select this cell here. When I press I could add a space between the two, but what the three out of nine, below &quot;completed tasks.&quot; using the CHAR or C function. So I'm going to use the one that you need. Then when you press Enter, can't see it yet because you have to activate in the cell, right? So now we can see it nicely bringing this value inside a shape. So let me just we had here. First thing we need to do is insert Shapes, and I'm just going to go with this one. and the shape outline. Just want to get a thin we're going to go directly to the formula bar, I press Enter, I get my completed tasks shown I complete pivot tables, I get four out of nine, it bold as well so everything stands out nicely. view. There are different ways you can do this, on your worksheet, or you can group the columns let me show you how you can combine the value of I want to create my not completed list, my &quot;look include any items that don't have a check mark. I need is the array; this is what I want returned. what I want included is anything from this column matches, I want nothing returned. I'm just going press Enter, and that's my list of outstanding Query. I'm going to place a check mark here, and a check mark everywhere, I have nothing to look all you have to do is go and insert a shape. just going to draw it out here. Let's quickly is covering our value in the cells, so I'm going We're going to adjust the transparency to be a lot click on OK, and now I can see the values through. it selects the shape, so it's kind of a way of Now we're going to take a look at how we can So let's say every time I have a check mark here, right? I want it to be crossed off. What I'm I want to conditional format, then and add a new rule. I'm going to use a formula &quot;format values where this formula is true.&quot; The these cells are looking at C5 because notice I for the row. I don't want them to all look at but the row should be different, right? It so I have to remove that dollar sign here. Now you do that because the default check is whether it's do here. Then you go to Format and you decide have a strikethrough, right? I want it to look moment I have a check mark anywhere here, I get next thing I want to do is to change the color of font color to be green again. You have to select which in this case is this area. We're going to to Conditional Formatting, New Rule. Again, I'm be the same; we're going to have C5 here, and the formatting that we want to apply here is for so I want it to be a green. Let's just go with two conditional formatting rules in place, we get the strikethrough effect here, and we Okay, I've saved the best for last. Let's see off an item. So the way we're going to do this check whether one or more conditions are true. value of this box equals FALSE. Basically, if We want to return nothing, right? We don't want a where things are going to get weird, but stay with that we're writing the formula in, if this cell function. So NOW is going to return the current we're referencing the cell that we're writing it and I will explain. Our last logical test is going is met and we get to the end, we are going to and what we want to happen is to return the value the bracket and I press Enter, I get a value. I'm check mark here. Even when I press a check mark, not correct, and yes, it is not correct in this an input and an output at the same time. Excel is circular reference. Here's the thing that you need Formulas, for the calculation options for this calculation&quot; and then click on OK, and everything iterative calculations allow Excel to handle such of the cell until it reaches a stable answer or that are allowed. So in my case, default was so whenever you're using it, you have to use it completed our tutorial on how to use checkboxes. your completed tasks, how you can use conditional and how you can use the value of the checkbox in this development. Let me know how you're planning watching; do subscribe if you aren't subscribed