The drug Finally Who are you? Go to hell I got the drug Kill him now I took the magazine Why didn't you kill him? Soto What's real? What's not? You came here for me. or the drug? If it's the drug... I'llcut you in How about that? Forget it I hired you And framed you The world will believe... you planned everything You're my puppet Ihaveallthefun I only tagged along... to get to you But that woman You tried. to kill her Soto I won't let you Stay out of it Whoever's useless. deserves to die You're next What's real? What's not? Soto Come on Let go I have the drug lgo The drug goes too , Soto Action! Sleep tight 2, 1, 3, 3 As simple as that Are you alright? Didn't drinkwater? That'llteach you Bird, you have 5 minutes to download and destroy the data The thermal tunnel leads to the retinal scanner Contact lenses with Karo's retinal data. ... are in the backpack You only have 1 minute What's happening? Sam, come over Look Thai instructions How come? (Thai)Files (Thai)Classified files (Thai)Select a file Hurry up, willyou? Don't move Stay focused (Thai)Classified files (Thai)Select a file Tell me which keys to press F3 (Thai)File opened File opened, right? Just tell me... which keys, right? Listen up U. C. K. Now what? lt reads&quot;brown&quot; Meaning? (Thai)You figure out What's going on? Hold on Mac, your lens is melting Mac, 15 seconds left SX275 liquid bomb Abort mission Can you hear? Abort mission lt'll explode when the liquids meet So run Bird, don't Bird, did you hear? Mac, Bird found a bomb The drug? Mind your own end I'mMrs. Morris, Ihaveanappointmentwith Mr. Matheson Mrs. Morris, Mr. Matheson is expecting you Thank you Madam, ifI might beso bold This piece of perfection... ...is the cutting edge of personalhome security safes in the whole wide world The rich and famous keep their most valuable possessions here Our security system is so extensive. ...that it puts&quot;Mission: lmpossibleI&amp;ll&quot;to shame We have body temperaturesensors surround vision monitors guards on duty around the clock, you name it When the door closes, the safe becomesa vacuum The air is sucked out within ten minutes No living thing can survive Very impressive No wonder my bank in Switzerland recommended you Thankyou Don'ttrythis at home, lady This way please Take your time Thank you Mr. Matheson Yes, Mrs. Morris Could you hold this for me, please? Sorry. Wasit toohot? lndeed, myfingersalmost gotburnt The body heat sensor is reading a living being in the safe! What? Look Mr. Matheson, there's a baby inside the safe! Where's my baby? What? Five minutes to vacuum and counting Something's wrong with my fingerprints What's wrong? Why doesn't it open? Do something. My baby is going to die Who else can open it? They are on vacation Call the police. Blow it open. Special Rescue Unit Evacuate the building. Attention, all security staff evacuate the building immediately Quickly...Come. Quickly... No, I'm staying. My baby needs me You must go outsidel We'll take care of your baby. We gotthe money? Mac No more boring jobs, we need thrills Really? We can count you out No way Don't even... think aboutit We got paid Hurry, he'llbe done soon Bird, your anti-decoder doesn't work Did you turn it on? There'sno button It's onthe top Got it You're here! Open the door I'll borrow money... from. my share What? Food's not ready Where's Sam? l'm busy Get the door Sir, can you sign,for,your bikes? I didn'torderany bikes. Sir, isn'tthis youraddress? They came for you Let Sam out Mac Hi, man Sorry, man. Wait That guy'sfunny How so? Pay him or he'll leave I didn't know about the bikes Whyshould you? We've been with youfor3 years You're still a mystery to us You drivethat old car, why? Who are your ex-partners? What did you do3years ago? And. How much have we earned? Why are you guarding... our money like crazy? You like red And Abercrombie and Fitch And you quit smoking That's all we know about you lsn'tthat enough? What else do you... want to know? You won't tell us anyway Try me Did you have a girlfriend? She died Really? Forget the bikes But why? Hey, guys, do you still want your bikes? Paythe man With what? Thanks, Mac Yes, sign here please Apresent for you You're a loner, so is she News in Chinese In Malaysia, Dr. Lee Man Chuen... sued Dr. Y. T. Kam for stealing his cancer drug S. P. A. T. But Dr. Lee's private jet crashed nearAustralia His family and medical researchers were all killed Dr. Lee is missing Dr. Kam held a press conference and claimed he invented... and ownedS. PAT. A drink? Tea Well? Half- price? Bad money Take it all That's not fair Ijust want your car ll trade it. with a remote- controlled one Okay? Forget it Why half price? lt's noble? You'llfeel better? You're so guilt- ridden You quit drinking quit smoking drive an old car You can't forget the past You can't You'retheone... whocan'tforget Where's Lee? I set up a meeting Well pass if he doesn't show l'm in Hi! Dr. Lee Freeze You're meeting us Positive fingerprint match Help me I don't know whototrust Ican be killed any minute Kam is powerful To get back my drug legally... will be difficult S. P. A. T. contains Chinese medicine The West ignores it But it really cures cancer I've spent 20 years on its research But Kam stole it Make it again Hestole the sole prototype and destroyed all my files With the prototype Kam will be super rich You're jealous Ijust... wantto save lives Ilost my family and great partners Our,condolences Where'sthe drug? Probably at Karo's laboratory He needs to reconstruct the formula The prototype. must be stored in this... zero- gravity container Or it'll be... contaminated Good luck Here's the plan Igetthe prototype Bird downloads and destroys all data Sam and Michellecover us Your passports... This name is terrible I'm Thai again I'm Thai every time What's wrong with that? Right Stop (Thai)Don't mess with... (Thai)my sun glasses Easy, haveadrink No way That water was drugged Boughta new toy? Yes Aresonance,tranquilizer Once drunk. ltwon't drug people... unlessit's stimulated... by a frequency lt's called cyclotron resonance Awesome Where's the water? (Thai)Put it down (Thai)Hands up Don't screw up this&quot;Mission Noble&quot; Mac will locate the zero- gravity lab Thank you What'sup? l workhere Your card doesn't work Vision fine and clear Tranquilizerenters the watersupply The sonar and radiation signals Mac sent. located the zero- gravity lab Mac's remote- controlled car is 200 yards outside the tunnel The ice coating should have deceived... the water purity monitors Mac, disturbance signals I'm cancelling today's program Uptonow Dr. Lee is still missing However The police have abandoned. searching for his body There are rumors accusing us of Stealing S. P. A. T. But the fact is I invented S. P. A. T. together with you all After all Dr. Lee was a great scientist We'lldedicateaminuteofsilence to him Surveillance bug landed on Kam All preparations done Hide yourself Can I have the light? 1, 3 Karo's retinal data recorded... and transmitted You wanted to meet I need a partner Two weeks ago You stole Baseball Card T206 Your only failure... happened 3 years ago You were caught But a week later you broke jail You worked in Japan and in North Korea Now you're a clerk at Karo's lab You're after the drug You're a spy But you're greedy We both love money Who hired you? Dr. Lee Before the crash? No lmpossible He died in the crash What do you want? Dr. Kam, Ihave good news for you What? Everything is ready and set The S. P. A. T. will definitely pass... the Board of Medicine without any problem The court will only award us the right when Dr. Lee is dead We couldn't find his body How the hell am I supposed to launch the drug? Then I think you should be very careful of where you gonna put the prototype Thank you You may leave now The tracker I planted below Mac's car. ... shows he stopped at 10 Jalan Ampang He and that woman Are they making out? What do you think? Can you shut up? Here's a low- security warehouse owned by... the secret service Why put Dr. Lee's body here? The secret service doesn't want... Kam to take over the drug Michelle, calm down We might have met a fake Lee They stole his hands and. fingerprints This can be fake too ldon'tthinkso We'd better... get out of here Bird We can't leave the drug... in Karo's hands Why herthen? We're partners That's why She's your partner? She has leads on Kam You don't Idon'ttrust her ldo But why? Someone iscoming This way Bird, come Bird Soto Sir! Drop your guns Don't runl Worried? Having second thoughts? Whoever can get the drug. is my partner We've got no time, concentrate Your team... looked out for you You left them Just like that? You're suspicious? Don't be my partner You left them That's good enough Good, partner What's your name? Panadol I'm Listerine Someone's here Satellite surveillance spotted. them entering the building... minutes ago Get them back here Dismiss S. P. AT. was... ...government subsidized Idon't have it l know You want my help? Find the drug for us But you arrested me You're the best. man to find the drug Ineed. that woman's help She's that important? Don't waste time 3 days Kam hid the drug So we hired Mac's team Their attempt... forced him to strengthen security on the drug Now we know where the drug is Can they steal it? If they can't that our fault Plan B Not stealing it tonight? Tomorrow Igot your message about Mac... changing plans I'll get the drug and call you Kill him then I love you I love you too Go back to where you belong Come Take care now What's behind this wait? Are you scared? You ditched us But we want to tag along You have no say Fools Go out and take a look OK What's the matter? Engine problem Get thecar Clear the way for Mr. Kam Mac planted the bug nicely Mac, Ifeign taking their bait Kam will be pleased and take off There's only one route left He's coming to you Waiting for someone? You know who The drug The drug Finally Who are you? Go to hell I got the drug Kill him now I took the magazine Why didn't you kill him? Soto What's real? What's not? You came here for me. or the drug? If it's the. drug... I'llcut you in How about that? Forget it I hired you And framed you The world will believe. you planned everything You're my puppet Ihaveallthefun Ionlytagged along... to get to you But that woman You tried. to kill her Soto I won't let you Stay out of it Whoever's useless. deserves to die You're next What's real? What's not? Soto Come on Let go I have the drug lgo The drug goes too Soto One more thing What? Damn Nothing's left Nothing How ironic Ourmoney! They couldn't open it They didn't have anti- decoders Funny eyes l'msorry Damn Yourcar Even thieves ignored it Yourcar? New carsl Thieves like those Too bad I'll kill them