This is the story of a huge A story about but above anything else, Eye-watering The rapid expansion of on cheap credit. The meteoric rise by one man who that he could do borrowed enough money. This is a story of of China's, and largest real estate developers. A property developer of absolutely nowhere and within The most indebted in the world, Evergrande Group. If Evergrande would definitely become China's This story goes to the as the prime locomotive For decades the property anchored China's economy. You can't underestimate how is to China. A third of China's economic For other countries, the ratio would fall The reason for that one of the most ever happened in human history. A great migration of people from of China. Hundreds of millions of sons, of Chinese farmers, where they were earning were earning 1,000 years Absolute subsistence wages. They travelled four or five and there they began working the workshop of the world. In the 1990s, when Evergrande of Chinese people China's urban population in 1998, when the housing as of the end of last year. Now there are more people are in the countryside. Before 1998 every would get a flat for People who lived in were allowed to buy at really a peppercorn amount. Chinese banks began issuing development loans to Every single person that moves to a city needs to And someone's got to Construction workers, who mostly account for more of China's total workforce. Land sales, which will account for almost a fiscal revenue. It created the perfect biggest ever property boom. Evergrande was founded It was absolutely Hui Ka Yan was really good and capitalising on this trend. Developers like Evergrande, of them, built China's almost from scratch this massive historic Owning your own home after a I guess, is a massive A middle class that now This was the absolute crucible over the last two decades. Hui Ka Yan, he just rode it. He just rode it from He began building all kinds It's why it was able to So it started from nothing. Within 10 years it had From 2004 to 2020 Evergrande's at an annualised the fastest growing companies He's really been a poster boy out of Chinese real estate. Hui spotted the opportunity apartments. Instantly became a big success. In 2017 he shot to fame by clocked $42.5bn. It's quite a departure People who've met him charismatic person, an He likes to hire people from top to be his personal look like a westernised boss. He also was very political connections. You need those to get access to more credit. He cultivated very with Joseph Lau, a whose company had lots of He was also part for when Xi Jinping visited You don't just to join those sort So it definitely made those political connections. The chairman of Evergrande's He has lived this lifestyle Chinese billionaires. He's got a luxury He had a superyacht. He was quite a He loved to mix with some of the in Hong Kong, even from the UK. In 2015 when his soccer had won the Asia Prince Andrew, Jack Ma over at One of the ways in which he with some of these tycoons was The folly of his seen than in this huge sprawling Project Castle, to build this Palace of in one of the most overdeveloped Ten years on it's a Evergrande went from nothing with over 1,000 projects across mainland China. Over two trillion renminbi of It's a business model that lends Real estate developers from local governments. Local governments are a key They are the people who to build an industrial park real estate So these developers build apartments on the land, to customers before The homebuyers need to Evergrande has to other areas, cost the projects to be anger these homebuyers. This arms race between encourages them to move Once you inject that into it, The Chinese government has tried limiting the use of It's one reason that offshore markets, became so attractive. But Evergrande took advantage from global investors for It just seemed so to become too big to finance. The last two decades seen an unprecedented period by the property boom. But now a lot of people is running out of road. The growth rate of has been above 3 per The rate last year has dropped. So that era of in the cities for migrant The ratio of empty apartments per cent and as high as 40 in some small cities. There are enough right now to house greater than the population Newer developments were without a lot of consideration I've travelled to where you go to a suburb and of apartment blocks. Carry on for five, 10 minutes still going through after apartment block I visited one of the most in the middle of the desert, It was quite strange, necessarily jobs there. Housing affordability among the worst in the world. It would take more than 50 income in Beijing to buy The ratio is around and 10 years in New York. Policymakers, led wouldn't allow that to happen. They realised that you can't is often unsold by using ultimately will not Developers always on more debt, which prompted In about August 2020 about the three red lines. Three debt ratios must follow to gain First one is a liability to per cent, which is too many liabilities. Evergrande has over The second one is a net per cent. That's essentially a compared to equity. And the third ratio is a of more than one, you've got more cash than A vast majority of were not able to meet They lost access to credit. It has changed the mindset not to lend too much to developers. At the same time the to quietly slow down the Evergrande can't It also can't borrow from banks. How could it pay off the loans? And that's where the problem is. These three red lines a sudden stop in terms of using A huge part of the in any Chinese that the government is going to if things go wrong. This is still a by the Communist party. China saw, with shock, the collapse during and after created by a It just couldn't afford to itself. The government is taking a on excessive leverage. Evergrande is the poster The Chinese property market The wealth management investors, You've got the local governments who need it for financing. You've got the that's trying to control trying to control the economy. You've got ordinary citizens from Evergrande and You've got construction on Evergrande for their income. A whole supply chain within China, but that are providing the goods and Some of these blocks have making the tower sort of One of the first been pulled out entirely, The really big one that and made the tower list, the ability of to borrow in many It's not so much just that ready to crumble. In many ways it But the Chinese property machine This is really, in many We've got bank lending, still in the tower, and in the tower. These are areas where be fundamentally vulnerable. If those Jenga blocks it really would bring the and it would bring the to its knees, many more developers all over the country. What we might be the kind of teething happens when the most powerful begin to unravel. If that's true then this is and we're not looking at We're looking at a In the summer it was going to default. Hundreds projects, in hundreds of ground to a halt. In September 2021 there was Evergrande missed payments on The wealth management is where ordinary people and the money is usually often to companies And these people, hadn't got their money back. They descended on the in Shenzhen. We don't know where And now we go to Shenzhen This was the point from it might be a crisis to, About a week later they just on one of their dollar bonds. It's the first time developer of this on its offshore debts. And the entire bond market for collapses. These are some of the world's investment funds. When it comes to investing everybody expects to Other property are going to really struggle on offshore markets. People no longer trust we're issuing bonds offshore, That's all completely changed. The offshore bondholders into this company on the that China just would never would never let its Some people might it meant for the entire There's a lot of talk about how potentially allowed The scale of Evergrande's $300bn is 2 per cent of GDP. So the idea that there could be and the whole thing could go one, would go on and, two, would have on China's property Evergrande will probably It would be the ever in China's history. Investors around the world by Evergrande. It led to this sort In the wake of Evergrande we've and companies getting into companies which have issued international bonds. There are comparisons that are Brothers collapse, which in the US of 2008. The big question for is when's the The most indebted property defaults on its debt, it We've got our crisis. We just don't know how which is why there's and worry in global markets. The question now remains whether will spread over to China's There are obvious similarities. The Evergrande story is a story debts. I don't think we're going meltdown in China saw in the aftermath The Chinese government to contain the fallout. That is a really key difference The situation with the Chinese Everyone knew this These are high yield bonds. So many people had called to happen that it seems crazy did put so much cash Massive investors from BlackRock their funds invested They ploughed into an already because they believed let its construction or Turned out to be nonsense. Whether or not they're able to reflect whether or investors will have One of the big in the collapse of Evergrande Where were PwC? They had a Big Four audit signing off their accounts, that management had And then, suddenly, halfway tells its investors be able to meet its The audit regulator in launched an investigation Evergrande has of this critical juncture It changes the outlook for of economic growth. Building bridges, building has been such a profound not just for China, but for It is a very big by Chinese policymakers of to fuel economic growth. According to the IMF, China's growth, between more than double the States in the same period. A small fluctuation, a few can have an impact And it is a few that Evergrande is now chilling It's difficult to overstate the cast over property in China. It's been a byword that couldn't fail, prices Thousands of ordinary have made investments in the but it remains to be will get the homes been promised and, paid upfront for, in full. It doesn't look good to in extreme wealth when you're trying to that you're looking It is a monumental I think it's lost trust. I think it's lost We see it time and again billionaires stripped that they lead. The Evergrande fallout for China's economic model. It might be seen as where China's growth model to something Greener growth investment an economy that's less susceptible Evergrande matters And Evergrande has of this critical juncture We've had two decades of by the booming property sector, the end of that boom. You can't just grow the economy and borrowing.