Inside a Dyslexia Evaluation. OK, come on in Zeke. OK. Have a seat over here. Thank you. How are you feeling today? Good. How do kids get evaluated for dyslexia? In this video, you'll get an inside look at an actual evaluation. Watch as Dr. Matthew Cruger, a psychologist in New York City, reevaluates Zeke, a second grader with dyslexia. You're not hungry right now? No. And did you sleep OK last night? Not really. Are you feeling tired right now? No. No, so you'll be OK to do some of the stuff In terms of school, can do you like the best? Recess. OK. The test you're about to see in this private clinic are similar to the ones used in public schools. Whether public or private, by trained specialists who ask questions that are designed to systematically find a child's I want you to try your best, and I think some of the things you'll do, you'll find interesting. Some of them you might find to be just sort of boring tasks, but all of them are pretty short. So if you are working on you don't have to feel to be over pretty soon. They're just, basically, that we can work together to get done. OK. Breaking down the tests. Oral language skills, Now I'm going to say parts of words and I want you to tell me what words those sounds make, OK? Listen. Ligh-ter. What word is that? Lighter. Pen-cil. Pencil. D-ice. Dice. M-o-st. Most. Now I'm going to say a word and I want you to say Say matchbox. Matchbox. Now say matchbox without saying match. Box. Great. Say cupcake. Cupcake. Great, now say cupcake without saying cake. Cake, cup. That's right. Say joyful. Joyful. Now say joyful without saying ful. Joy. That's right. Say spill. Spill. Now say spill without saying ss. Ill. Most of us acquire so we hear the sounds and words and we're able to play with those sounds and very effectively with others. Dyslexic students or for some reading problems that they can engage in conversation just the way most everybody else these foundation skills, skills, we notice that there are gaps in their capacity to do And that does lead them, some problems when they're and having to associate and then being able to sort of manipulate and play with those sounds. Repeating nonsense words. I'm going to say a nonsense to ask you to say what I said. Just repeat the word exactly Are you ready? Say ub, ub. Ub. OK, good. Icks, icks. Icks. Good. In the category of tests that that look at phonological awareness, nonsense word repetition I want to look at their ability and words. And so I start but I get to more complicated items, like beeseewaloonup. Because I want to see if to hear all of those sounds and words, and to be able to sort of sequence them and blend them together effectively. Prebuderic, prebuderic. Prebuderic. Excellent job. Beeseewaloonup, beeseewaloonup. Beeseewaloonup. Excellent. Those are skill sets that The capacity to see that and being able to carefully attend to them, and play with those sounds, together to synthesize a word for reading. Squerchelous. Squerchewous. Squerchelous. Squerchelous. Excellent job. You did really good at and making them sound right. Good. Rhyming. Do the words cup and pup rhyme? Yes. Do the words hit and height rhyme? No. Do the words pill and fill rhyme? Yeah. Do the words mush and soup rhyme? Yes, wait, no. OK. Do the words home and phone rhyme? No, wait, yes. OK. Wait, no! Sorry. OK, that's a tricky one, huh? Sorry, yeah. Home, phone. Home, phone. No, they don't rhyme. No, OK. Do the words hide and mine rhyme? Yes. OK. Tell me a word that rhymes with monkey. Tunky. Tell me a word that rhymes with pride. Tie! And tell me a word that rhymes with nut. Fut. Good. I don't know if that's a I have never heard that as a bad word, so maybe. I'm not sure. Identifying the I want you to listen and tell me the two words that start with the same sound. Mark, bark, mud. Which two words have Wait, can you repeat it? Of course. Mark, bark, mud. Mark and bark. So I asked him to identify which words had the same beginning sound. Like, I might have said the And I want to know that he can hear that bun and bark have the and that they can discriminate that they heard. Now I want you to know, mark and bark are good rhyming words, but mark and mud actually both start with a m sound. Oh, yeah. So that would be the one Oh, yeah. All right, now try this one. Bun, band, sun. Which two words start with the same? Bun and ban. Excellent. I'm really looking to show that they can in words, and that they can then start to play with those words and sounds. So that they should be readily able to match the initial sounds in can be thrown off, because words have irregular forms or and are really not able to Now I want you to focus and I want you to tell me which two words end with the same sound. Frog, pig, duck. Should I say them again? All of them. Listen again. Frog, pig, duck. Oh, frog and pig. Great. Wash, crush, catch. Wait, what? Wash, crush, catch. Wash and crush. Excellent. Rapid naming. I'm going to give you this page here and before you start, I'm I want you to name the colors Start here, go across the first row, and then keep on going, OK, what color is this one? Purple. Purple, OK. Are you ready? I'm going to time you, go as quickly as you can. Blue, purple, green, red, yellow, purple, blue, red, green, red, green, yellow, blue, red, purple, green, purple, yellow, red, blue, purple, yellow, blue, green, red. How many seconds? 15 seconds. What? It was excellent. Students who have dyslexia, many of them are going to have phonological problems. Many of those students with automatic retrieval of word labels. Their experience is often the sort of tip of the tongue phenomenon. They know the word, they but they can't easily retrieve it. So they're often much and sometimes have to retrieve words that Now I'm going to have that has some objects on it, OK? Tell me what these objects are. Cat, train, heart, house, tree. Good. We want very simple have the capacity to Name these objects as Starting with the top to the end of the last row. OK, are you ready? Let's go. Cat, train, heart, house, tree, train, tree. Cat, heart, house. House, heart. The students who have great difficulty with rapidly retrieving those word labels are often headed for They will look at a word in print that they've read several very well, but they the painstaking process of sounding it out because it just automatically Reading. Common words. I want you to look at this printed on it, and what I over here at the top and read the words across the rows, OK? Just read them one after the other for me. At, on, if, cap, I mean, cup. the, dog, gee-rul. Gill. One of the tests that I give them is a measure to read single words. I want to see how well they and I want to see how decoding strategies to deal I also want to see just how many words they have accumulated, C-andle, candle. OK, good job. Keep going on this last row. D-different. T-touch. Ray-them, ray-them. Great job. Nonsense words. Start here and read these words going across the rows. Da, da, p-pie. P-pie. Fim. Hapt. Jool, fram, wen, gusp, gasp or gusp. Gasp. OK, you're doing a good job. Gusp or gasp. They want to hear them read nonsense words, because I want to look at those basic skills for I want them to be able to discriminate and carefully hear all and to have the capacity their utterances in line with those words. OK, and read this last one. Swex, swex. Excellent. Fluency and comprehension. OK, now I'm going to ask This is a story called &quot;Clothing,&quot; OK? I want you to start here at your own pace, OK? You ready? Go ahead. First, my top. My top is what. Skun, skin, sung. Ah, ah. OK, that's second. Keep going. Second. First, my top. My top is what second. My pants, my pants are down. I put them, my, on. Meh, mal-fulm. I'm just going to say mouthful. That's myself. Myself. All the myself, all by myself. OK, great. What did the child put on first? His top. OK, good job. One of the other areas that's of learning disabilities, language-based learning with the automaticity of reading. Weh, oolks. Wells, whiles. Wells, wells. Whales. Whales dive deep to look for food. The word is, and the is in their head, but they and so they make errors along the way. It leads them to be slow and we want to identify those weaknesses. And we describe them as because a student, when they're tends to read at a slower pace. It's much more effortful, and to call to mind words know and recognize. I would live right wit in the woods and run from here to there. Fluency is probably the area so that students who are can read and understand complicated texts, but when you ask them to do it quickly, many times, those students The students who struggle also often are prone to demoralization. The evaluation can be hard for because it does feel to be confronted with their weaknesses. So I see a student like to stay involved at certain parts of the evaluation, so to take a break or time to end early. And I can recognize when I and help him feel good to get through a difficult task. Spelling. Now I'm going to ask you Uh-oh. I'm going to say a word, I'm going to use it in a sentence, and then I'm going to say the word again. Listen to the sentence so So number one is spell the word be. You should be the best you can be. Be. Number two, and. I like chocolate and vanilla, and. I want to look at their by dictation, and in that, to show that they know that are letters and words But I'm also looking at that are novel or new. Knight, the knight was OK, now I'm going to Wrong, the answer is wrong, but yours, my answer is wrong, but yours is right. Wrong. Great, thank you so much for doing that. You're welcome. Writing. I want you to combine So this says the brown dog is big. The dog barks. I want you to put those to make one sentence that OK, and write your underneath that one. The brown dog is the dog, big. Well, it says the brown dog is big, the dog barks. Put those two sentences together. The brown dog is big. The dog barks. OK, put them together in one sentence to mean the same thing. The dog is big and the dog barks. Excellent. Write your answer here. Often a student that I see might be fine to engage in conversation and communicate their ideas very well in that regard, but when they do a writing task, there's a breakdown in those capacities and they really struggle that are grammatically And so we see real struggles another sign of potential to language-based learning. Background knowledge. Now I'm going to ask you to listen as I read you some questions, Zeke, and I want you to answer the questions. In what direction does the sun set? I'm guessing right. OK. How many days are there in a week? Seven. What are the three colors on the flag of the United States of America? I'm thinking three. Wait, no. Three, yeah. What are the three colors? Red, white, and blue. Name a country in Europe. OK. Not sure, OK. Name a reptile. Crocodile. So there's several to a child to understand, really, their verbal intellectual capacity. Their basic sense of Students who have reading struggles may have struggles on that because they're not really information from reading who is a typical reader in their class. Completing the evaluation. When I complete an evaluation, I really want to look back I have gathered. I work in a private setting and the evaluations I that a public evaluation does. I do social history with the family. I may do a classroom observation, and I'm going to measure academic skill sets, emotional functioning. My goal is to provide about what is the nature I want to highlight areas that a student has, because important for directing a road map or a guideline successfully with a student. One of the most important in terms of students who is that we do have tools and methods for helping them improve We really do want to interventions to help these I met Zeke last year at the At the time that I saw Zeke, his deficits were than what you would expect for a student of his intellectual capacity. And they were, he has at with all of the foundation skills for early reading. At the end of the evaluation, needed a very intensive and remediating his reading struggles. You feel very confident that the support that he's getting has His fluency is still an but he's made a number He certainly has acquired a stronger base of words that he He has strategies now for decoding words when he's looking at them in print that he didn't have before, to go back and keep on attacking words that are not making sense to him. Evaluations often can detect problems like dyslexia because they can measure that a child's intellectual capacity and their reading capacity My main goal is not necessarily to tell parents that their of dyslexia, it's to help give them a path so that they can remedy those problems as much as possible, and help a student really function at their best level.