From tiny ants and cute little robots to big superheroes... Good Guys come in all shapes generation's most memorable heroes. is every Pixar Hero: Selfish to Most Heroic. The rules here are simple; we're focusing the movies. Secondly, with just how many heroes a character or two by accident. If that is Finally, we're going to be trying to measure sure, but given how some of the friendlier if they had the power to, we're going to heroes they are, but by just how nice they First up are The Selfish Heroes. These are but are still reliable when it counts. you're bad; it's just that you started just human nature, after all. been stuck in the You Seminar for years due Earth. She spent her past mocking and biting teach her about Earth. She even tries to enlist Sure, it's because Earth keeps getting her by her to complete their Earth passes, and about how she has no purpose, explaining more from going to Earth and living their own lives Joe Gardner's body to finally realize just rebellious streak planning on causing trouble getting this low. Hope that her new body leads Up next after the least good hero here is Good for her! Seriously, we said it once, mentioned. Merida is one of the most selfish in an unfair situation with her freedom and anger at her mother and her plan to change is a rough start. Plus, why wasn't she more Anyway, while she does grow into a better rocky start and it taking a good while to here. is getting ranked the third worst spot. Thinking him. Sure, in the first movie, he learns to and to stop thinking about himself like he in the sequels, he pretty much keeps relearning Mater after he accidentally made him lose why he should hear his friend out and stop ego to beat Jackson Storm momentarily pushes he has to let go of his selfish nature and and deserve forgiveness if they are truly it just makes him look daft and egotistical. to the pitstop for now. we're entering the territory of characters selfish. She is a student who is proud of That said, she slowly started to yearn for crushes to wanting to go to concerts, she she doesn't realize it yet. However, once more and more angry and desperate to hold bit more selfish with this new power, from others to leave her alone by using her red to stay on her mother's good side. She does and go to the concert to apologize to her her past, but really, she's just a normal what she wanted. monster has been underneath the sea for too on the surface. Befriending Alberta, the two the Portorosso Cup to win a Vespa to travel to his friends, he does have a selfish moment to force his hand. He does end up apologizing to sink him a bit for that stunt. This French rat stands out from his family in life and French cuisine. He's more into piles. When he gets a chance to cook, he doesn't on originally ditching him after Linguini to help him learn cooking skills, but after fight back by leading his family back to the Linguini was going there to apologize to Remy it lightly. Still, he does come back and lead the food critic, eventually getting his own he is still reliable when needed. he's been left to his own devices more or under his wing, teaching him what he knew is a bit more shallow than he wants to admit, always looking out for Luca, even exposing would still hunt them if they're found out. the rain would expose him alongside Luca apologizing his buddy is safe from sea monster hunters. expect at first glance. Linguini is just a regular chef who wants Remy is the one who cooked the soup that everyone him but offer to let him stay in his house have to keep on stealing them, even if they trusting of Remy, letting him pilot his hair Sure he does get a bit selfish once he finds but he does try to make amends to Remy, and His goals may be selfish in nature, but he's Out of his toy form, Buzz Lightyear The Human self. This space Ranger is dedicated to the he could be. However, after an accident that on trying to achieve hyperspace and get everyone happily settling there after around a century, that formula to create the hyperspace fuel those years ago. The real thing keeping him Even when he is working with the other rangers himself, and the very idea of being forced even when he's helping them. This is especially team of rookies, talking about his own past make him more accepting of those who struggle grow to appreciate them and help them, so toy self. a happily married husband to Ellie, life has house now at risk of being repossessed by his wish alongside his wife's request, he up into the sky to fly to South America and bit of a pill and is more emotional towards Charles from burning it rather than saving at him for his anger and blind desire to deliver Falls, as he's focused on preserving and wife's wishes. It's when he finally goes that he discovers her desire for him to never on new adventures that he realizes his mistake Dug as his new pet. He may have experienced couple of years of good deeds left in him. character, Bo Peep. In the first two movies, to stop being paranoid about everything; from toy anymore, or even losing his hat. However, development. After being sold from place to by herself and how to survive Gabby and her a more independent streak, which isn't a with her not thinking of warning Woody about where Forky is being held up, forgetting all kid's life, and giving up on Forky after Woody's dedication to saving Forky because Gabby getting a second chance at making a Afterward, with Woody sticking with her, she the two of them helping toys find homes. While characters here, she's still a good toy. Ember. The newest Pixar heroine in Elemental, legacy and becoming the next owner of his customers, she ends up accidentally bursting Wade to close the shop. Ember ends up on a during her adventure, she finds out that she on her own path. While she is going around because she's afraid of them both hurting away. Eventually, she decides to follow her and become a glass craftswoman. She's a that your feelings are valid in terms of respecting As the first of the Lightfoot brothers, we the two, Ian never really saw or knew his somehow meet him. On his birthday, he gets magical staff, a Phoenix Gem, and a visitation until Barley interrupts him. Ian and Barley Gem, with Ian slowly learning to bond and as a screw-up and even fought with him after behind. However, he does slowly realize that even sacrifices his chance to meet with his to him. He's a nice kid and capable of learning On stage next is Miguel. A wannabe guitar music because of a personal issue with a former by his family, he ends up stealing a guitar throughout the movie, he learns that there for the crowd, becoming more respectful of He even ends up helping Hector not only reconcile help his family in the living to remember It's a family story that leads to character Sticking with the musical theme, let's talk passion lies within music as well. Teaching finally get a chance to play for a real crowd, on edge, he's focused on not only trying into his own body after 22 ends up in his and 22 forging her own path as she learns the life he's missing out on. Even if it a fight with 22, he does eventually realize and goes back to the You Seminar to properly she earned back, before willingly going to chance at life, but he still was willing to for that. We hope that this second chance Ending our first category with a scare, we he's more focused on himself in Monster's on a team. However, he's more of a team Mike is the brains behind the operation, quickly how to best use them. Wanting to be a scarer that moment he scared the dummy in the final scary, he's able to at least be on the sidelines in Monsters Inc. When the place switched to and Chief Executive Vice-Deputy Administrative was surprisingly effective at trying to keep that the workers were happy, even if he did for some amenities. Still, he's a good friend Which brings us to our next category. The be friendly towards others but are either in the way. At the very start of this list, we have Joy. somehow both a hero and a villain. Granted it's still bizarre. Sure, she is more focused other emotions in control, especially sadness. with everyone, not just Joy, realizing that brain. And she is still genuinely trying to Riley happy after so many years since she once the big move happened. The problem is the importance of sadness and happiness to Riley's mind. It's a story about growing stable, so her character and growth here make just a part of growing up. Marlin. This neurotic father has witnessed eggs dying before his eyes. With that in mind, being a helicopter parent for Nemo, or in style can be a bit overbearing, but he truly by divers, he goes through sharks, jellyfish, multiple times just to save Nemo. Even then, even going back into the Jellyfish hoard to sequel, he's harsh with Dory after surviving everything to save Nemo and Dory flat out over and over again, Dory endangering Nemo's his anger. Even then, he still goes after to apologize for his outburst. As a fish capable not only his son but also his friend, he truly For our second of the Onward brothers, we show that he truly cares all that much, being game lingo and thinking to show his love, than happy for his brother's successes and accompanies him and his father's legs all fully revive his father for a day. Along the to its fullest. With the flashback in the a father figure for Ian, teaching him all list of things he wanted to do with his dad. stick to the quest theme can cause some rift ideas on a more neutral ground and cutting be better, but he still does treasure Ian in his might to keep them safe. Could go for he's still a good hero. we have the Top scarer, Sulley. While he seems others at first, his life gets turned on its terrified of Boo, thinking that all children to grow fond and affectionate towards her, himself when he realizes he accidentally scared the human world to find a door that can get to rescue Boo and bring her home. Despite jock, he was able to grow out of his phrase Along with Mike, he leads the Monsters Inc that uses laughter instead of screams to power scared like Boo. He's dedicated to making monsterkind. He's a true innovator and a Going back in time, we get to Arlo. Sure, of everything, but we were way too harsh on who just saw his father die right in front one person who he thinks is responsible for how to not only stop feeling fear but grow truly at fault. On his journey, he learns more selfless, and grows to become a father and his cronies, even going up against a flood his father. He may have started his journey his teen years yet, but with his desire to dying and Arlo forcing himself to become more to him the first time. Sheriff Woody. This toy is just as iconic a Pixar film. Starting his journey in the and loved leader of the bedroom, keeping the and satisfied with anything stressing them. learn to accept that he won't always be to push Buzz behind the desk only to knock respect Buzz, ensuring that he makes it back thinks about abandoning Andy to live in the so they wouldn't be forced to live in the to try and bring them home to play with Andy. once he hears about how terrible of a person helps out Lotso in the dump, not stooping Toy Story 4, after spending so long to get voice box for him, he realizes that he can meet new owners, and decides to go with his and help all the toys be given out in secret. and has some moments of being too closed-minded he's still worthy of being everyone's Did we already put her here? Either way, next fish popped up in the first movie, wanting she has short-term memory loss, meaning she what to do. Despite this memory gap, she inherently when she was young, she wanted to give her loved them. As an adult, she still has her when trying to find Nemo or her parents, but and remembering the address on the diver's to Sydney, and of course, her "just keep can rub off on others, helping them either Marlin get closer and closer to finding Nemo, Despite her memory problems causing some problems fish, but a trustworthy friend. meet him, he appears to be a dodgy character, for some reason, leading to him dodging security. explanation. In life, he was a musician who did want to return home and be part of the but got poisoned by Ernesto before he could to reconnect with his family, but they all when it couldn't be further from the truth. in the land of the dead, not even caring if and going all the way to Ernesto's mansion that Hector is the true family man and father Finally, at the deep end of the pool here hero, Wade. This building inspector is dedicated so. Even when he has to hand out tickets to this part of the job, and when Ember talks as a chance to help her out, trying to stop leading Ember to the higher-ups in his business flood door, he's always supportive of her. the shop up and suggesting she form her own desire to keep her happy. He's able to help her during the flood, even letting himself to be brought back due to the whole water but he's still a nice and sweet friend to Finally, we arrive at our last category. The to their core, wanting only what's best Starting up this section, we have the misunderstood she's pretty much just hanging around in do things. This is because she, and all the Riley shouldn't experience, period. After Riley's mindscape, the two of them work core memories. However, during the trip, Joy to be open about their emotions and not bottling to listen to Bing Bong's troubles to seeing by her friends and family, the whole journey to Riley just as much as any other emotion, to stop Riley from leaving and return home, It's a story all about the positivity of shows. superhero before he ends up working in insurance, heroics. From stopping thieves and supervillains rescuing cats from trees, he's someone who to his dedication to heroics, he keeps landing for trying to stop their attempts on their not wanting to spend money on the insurance with everything going against him, he still mistakes down the road. That said, what knocks on his role of being a hero than a family out in the first movie, even when he was sneaking more trouble in the second movie with him to represent the superhero movement and not family man, and when the time comes, he's world, but also protect his family. buddy, we have Tow Mater next. He's a tow can be childish at times can get him in trouble of reality that Lightning needed. Compared for who they are, and not their titles. It's that make him able to connect with Lightning his innocent and friendly desire to help others spy car, using his intelligence and detail found out. While he is one of the more casual make him stupid and only serves to make him Following the instructions in his wilderness explorer Russell. This young kid is looking and become a senior wilderness explorer, he elderly patch. He's just an innocent kid he can be. He's happy to keep Carl company over Kevin, and tries to get her back to her Muntz to rescue her when Carl gets too fixated seemingly just wanting his patch, he does not hesitating to do what's right. Despite here physically, he still has enough morality He deserves the highest honor of patches there Flying in way past his human version, we have version, both morality-wise and movie-wise, into his coding, not having any selfish thoughts always prioritizes what's best for everyone is also, arguably, a better and more compassionate his missions, but what pushes him up is his He works effortlessly to rescue Woody, be tracking him down after he didn't reach get a bit dumber in the fourth movie, which that it shouldn't exist, but even when focusing still uses it to give him ideas on how to Woody and Forky. He's honorable, respectful, a true space ranger that his human counterpart on the other hand? Now that's a more fair Landing into the Top 5, we have the superhero head the most tight on her shoulders, she's keep them safe. She willingly goes out of safe from Syndrome and his troops. The first more focused on her personal family life and until the plot threatens her family and implies still a pretty great mother. The second movie of causing property damage, perfect for returning movie is to help superheroes become legal cared for. She has a strong sense of Justice, instead of letting him die. The only real in the first movie, she still doesn't trust had to stay hidden, but after proving themselves wouldn't be hard to ask for. Maybe ensuring no one is looking at them when they do so still is a good and true superheroine. space explorer, Izzy Hawthorne. Despite her of the few survivors of Zurg's invasion, a few others. Taking cues from her grandmother Ranger like them. Unlike Buzz in the movie, rookies and tries to keep the group together also able to put her fear aside to help out and Sox, keeping him from being drifted out jump the gun and makes mistakes in her attempts a reliable friend and space ranger at the Toy Buzz deserves. Now if only we could say For our bronze medal of goodness in Pixar Evaluator, EVE. Coming to Earth, she runs is possible on Earth. Sure, at first she is Wall-E, she ends up forming a bond with him about the Earth with him. Sure, after returning than Wall-E, but given her directive, it's in the Axiom, she still genuinely cares for safe. After seeing him save the plant and caring for her when in sleep mode, she realizes to put him ahead more often, with Wall-E being him getting constantly hurt, eventually only her mission of leading the Axiom there, but and even trying to get his memory back. In not only getting his memory back, but her of loving and treasuring those close to her Reaching the silver medal on the remake of gold medal holder, Flik. We said it once and of Pixar's most unique films about workers only real crime here is not immediately stepping the fall from his accidentally ruining the still does try his best to make up for it, to find warrior bugs to help the tribe. Even he still tries to find a way to work with revealed" scene and exile to get him to planning on killing Princess Atta, he goes him and want nothing to do with him, eventually he is on the verge of death by Hopper or the to help increase his fellow ants' lives. Refusing even when they flat out want nothing to do from the grasshoppers terrorizing his colony helps Flik stand out, and become a true dedicated Colony. to be the Waste Allocation Load Lifter: Earth just dedicated to the job of cleaning up the However, he slowly has a growing desire for tapes, and when EVE comes to town, he gets time. After she notices the plant and goes her up, Wall-E not only stays by her side get her. Sure, he does make some accidents in the repair bay, but they are just accidents be seen as selfish for just wanting to be his curiosity and appreciation for others positive impact on someone's life, save teaching them that there is more to life than and teaching them about looking around and the spaceship provides, he's able to make What puts him above Flik, aside from that that he had when letting Atta take the fall, for over 700 years, and never gave up his and excited to learn about anything that catches towards others he meets even if they don't or I guess in this case, track wheel, forward. years to become a spiteful vengeful robot on a dangerous planet where he watched other to become a beacon of positivity for others dedication to making others happy, even letting return to Earth, that makes Wall-E shine. role in saving humanity, brought life back goal or others. For all these reasons, we medal for Pixar Heroes in terms of morality.