Before we get started, just letting you know merch for sale at the merch store. I'll Space seems pretty fundamental. To build a universe, in. Many, maybe most physicists now think deeper. And perhaps the most existentially is just the inward projection of an infinitely see how that can actually work, and what the "realness" of this universe. You could argue that the job of physics is elements of reality. The most basic building which everything else emerges. A little while that status. Isaac Newton certainly thought if space might actually be an emergent phenomenon. We've even seen some examples of this in to modern loop quantum gravity. We've also emerge as the inward projection from its infinitely principle--which we spent many episodes building pretty intense coverage of this wild idea. holographic boundary to try to understand this way. This will set us up to do a couple able to understand how gravity can emerge and how the fabric of space may be knit together themselves don't exist in our familiar spacetime. Feel free to watch the old holographic principle to summarize the core stuff for your convenience. place--with Steven Hawking and Jacob Bekenstein holes. Normally we think of thermodynamics many particles. It's the study of emergent say, a room full of air molecules. These are not have. Another key thermodynamic property is entropy. of hidden information in a system--information isn't reflected in the observable, macroscopic has a high entropy because all of the particles' a few thermodynamic properties that I can We wouldn't necessarily expect an individual After all, black holes are practically particle-like. collapse of matter and are surrounded b y the black hole from the inside. That includes to form it. Jacob Bekenstein realized that three properties--mass, charge, and spin--almost exact fact that gets us to black hole thermodynamics, The difference between a black hole and an made by the extreme clumping together of the of a black hole--and the number is huge because of the stuff that fell in. Bekenstein and They found that there's around one bit of on the surface. This simple formula was really surprising--and to the holographic principle. See it's actually to the surface area. Intuitively we might be hidden in any region of space is proportional in that volume, rather than a bit per tiny represent the maximum information density bound. And that applies to the whole universe--the volume can, in principle, be encoded on its But it's one thing to say that all the information but the holographic principle goes way further. as really playing out on that surface. More spacetime with its own particles and fields encoded in the patterns that play out on that one dimension higher. It's as though the "bulk"--emerges from the dynamics on its The journey from black hole entropy to the and Leonard Susskind. But it was Juan Maldacena how this could work in detail with his AdS/CFT about the nature of the AdS/CFT proposal in AdS/CFT is valid for a negatively curved universe anti-de Sitter or AdS space--quite different cosmological constant. But AdS/CFT is still a powerful tool for exploring use just one part of this proposal--the CFT the laws of physics that play out on the boundary--that encode the universe in the bulk. A conformal field theory is one in which the about the size-scale of the objects in the the field that interact with each other in interact in exactly the same way--as long This conformal-ness gives us a way for the the boundary consists of many Planck-length or 1--empty or full. You can have small-scale is independent. Or you could have larger-scale are, as we say, course-grained. Because it's experience the same physics as the smaller on many scales, all behaving basically the And let's add another fact--a system of patterns of the same scale. They don't interact It's like having multiple sizes of ripples other. But there is something that's different for the course-grained patterns vs the fine patterns --the amount of information needed to represent them over lumping the Planck-length squares together. that have twice the scale-length of the smallest-scale square sizes that each contain 4 of our original a surface containing only this pattern scale--it as our original surface. That means we can of 1/2 that of the original. The larger the pattern size, the more Planck squares you fit into the effective pixel scale of that pattern size, and that means the smaller the effective radius of that scale will be. So here's another way to represent this 2-D surface with its many pattern scales--and as a series of nested spheres, The spheres near the center represent the are so big they have relatively few effective inner spheres effectively "small", while patterns that are finer or smaller in scale--we need higher are made of many effective pixels, and so are effectively large. But because the boundary theory is a conformal exactly the same. And if the separation between if it's also a Planck length--then we've This is a fairly cartoonish sketch of how dimensional space can The real picture is likely to be way more not come from simple scale invariance but scales--and that's something we'll come But the story I just told is still a useful emergent space looks like. Because this new that emergent space is in a sense "inside" about the higher dimensional space--the bulk--emerging and boundary are two distinct spacetimes. of the information of the other and the two But they evolve by very different laws of bulk theory and on the surface they look like they do; they both predict the same universe. This is actually a recurring thing in physics. different mathematical descriptions describe the different descriptions seem mutually incompatible. one of the most mysterious features of reality. Now for a true duality, there is no preferred side--neither of the two theories are more fundamental than the other. For example, in as a sum of waves in momentum space OR in this is a true duality. So is the holographic and the bulk are equivalently real--it wouldn't from the boundary. Instead there's a so-called from something more fundamental, but neither On the other hand, there are also such things really is more fundamental--one system "causes" the holographic duality is like this then sidie as emergent--and the emergent side only because in the most concrete version theory is currently better defined than the So which is the case? Well even if our universe we don't know whether it'd be a true or know which type the AdS/CFT duality is. That's lot more time on--and I mean this show and Ok, so we're up to speed on the holographic see how gravity can enter the picture--first Verlinde. We'll also see the modern thinking entanglement, and what the prospects are for for our universe. As a teaser, the holographic but rather in the far future. And we'll universe really emergent from a more fundamental, one side of the coin of a true duality--the and mutually emergent spacetime. Hey Everyone. The next Total Solar of this celestial event, we have some limited who will be witnessing the eclipse, we have &amp; Sweatshirt. Designed by our gfx team for are UV charged, so after being out in the The glasses, t-shirt &amp; sweatshirt are all stock we're completely out! And if you want the eclipse you have put your order in by or click the link in the description, to put