Boston, Massachusetts is one of the oldest cities before the advent of modern motor vehicles. nearly unbearable from the tangled streets laid transportation officials came up with what they elevated highway and so-called "central artery" and extend Interstate 90 across the inner harbor started in 1991, and the project was given the of excavation required for the two tunnels. In on the scale of the Panama Canal or Hoover Dam. It methods of the time, and after 16 years of work, Actually, no. You might know the Big Dig did make a big dent but that came at a staggering price. The project delays, and of course, cost overruns. When price tag was around fifteen-billion dollars, It's a tale as old as civil engineering: A solution to a serious problem. Planning budgets allocated (that took a lot longer and then there are more problems! Work is delayed, it's a lot less clear whether the project's Not many jobs go quite as awry as the Big Dig, from our inability to accurately anticipate From tiny home renovations to the largest it seems like we almost always underestimate the mark can be enormous. Well, I've been with cost estimates for major infrastructure who underestimated. So I have a few ideas about and this is Practical Engineering. answer the question of why construction Major projects are often paid for with public the benefits we derive from them are worth any project is worth starting is to have an of course, this is not just a problem with large projects paid for with public funds like to be justified. Most projects have benefits, no matter the cost, but if they aren't worth the project at all. This is especially true not only costs get underestimated but the out my friend Jason's videos on the Not Just One of the biggest issues we face with you don't know how much they'll cost until you through a lengthy and expensive design phase Budgeting and securing funds are usually slow is even worth doing in the first place, so you out how much a project is going to cost. You need need your design professional to estimate that's the engineer, and engineers are We don't know which contractors are busy and which or not they'll bid on your project. We don't know or keep track of the prices of steel, aggregates, network full of subcontractors, material We didn't study construction cost estimating anything in the field. And the people who have, (the contractors that will actually bid on the in the cost estimating during design because it process. It would give one or more contractors a little secret), they aren't always so good at there's often a huge spread between them, meaning entire project is sometimes simply which Of course, there are some alternatives infrastructure projects use, but even those people who are necessarily limited in their the industry term for the cost estimate that Construction Cost or OPCC. Take a look at that construction cost. And still, agencies and number on a folded piece of paper, slide it and whisper, "This is how much we need." And the will publish that number in the news. And now, will be compared to that OPCC, no matter how early estimating the cost of a construction project is life cycle), it takes highly skilled and even then, it is a process absolutely are really hard to distill down to a single aren't just imprecise. If that were true, you as we come under. And we know that's not One hint is in the fact that you often just What's included in that 15 billion dollars for major project in the news? The truth is that it's almost a meaningless number without further essentially huge collaborations between public and sometimes decades, between planning, design, surveying, environmental permitting, and the administration to oversee that whole and that's before construction even starts. is the project's cost, you're missing out costs get included in one estimate (for cost) when they weren't included in an earlier it's going to look like the project came in over Another reason for underestimation is inflation. something will cost is to look back at similar Past to try and predict the future. It's not or 10 years old to try and guess the cost of a The problem with that is dollars or euros or of stuff in the future that they did in the and it's usually moving up. That's okay, you even inflation calculators online, but they a figure that tracks the cost of a basket of might buy. Prices vary widely across locations if you monitor the dollar price of groceries, can give you a broad measure of how the value of But there's not much concrete and earthwork in price index is generally not a good measure There are a few price indices that track baskets and cement and even separate those baskets by data, and they can help a wayward engineer adjust they can't help them predict how those prices will large infrastructure projects take a long time to or 10 years between when an estimate was prepared there's a good chance that it's an underestimate out from underneath it. Cost estimates have an sometimes even by owners, and often That slow time scale for construction projects a big project is just like navigating a big ship. the time to fix it is already past. So, we don't bunch of milestones where you stop and check board is time-consuming and expensive. The issue matures, the more people get involved. Once boss' bosses start to weigh in with their advice. out to regulators and permitting agencies. Once meetings and get citizens involved. And with in the design process, does the project get There is no perfect project that makes everyone adding features to allay all the new stakeholders. but it really is a good thing in a lot of ways. projects didn't consider all the stakeholders or probably got done more quickly, efficiently, reality is that those costs just got externalized process and to the environment. I'm not saying thoughtful about the impacts projects have, and than we used to. But, often, those costs weren't up later in design when more people get involved, And the thing about project maturity is the project still only exists as a set of drawings unanswered questions, the biggest one being, "How putting them at the mercy of all kinds of material shortages, shipping delays, workforce the unexpected site conditions. An engineer can with a design on paper or in computer software. the site. During design, we drill boreholes, take you characterize the soil or rock in one tiny but those holes and those tests are expensive, cost of site investigations with the consequences If the engineer guesses wrong, it can mean that contractor expected soil and got rock, or that somewhere else because the stuff on site isn't be redesigned when the conditions at the site in the design phase. And that's just the dirt. imagine the cost of your project if you find you didn't know were there. It's a simple moving from design into construction, and there make a construction project simpler and cheaper. up from time to time, but usually those not passed along to the owner. That's on a lot of risk both good and bad. But the risk that something unexpected won't have change orders during construction Of course, you can't ignore the more nefarious a lot of money moving around has to contend with the news to find examples of greed. And there or officials misrepresented the expected cost in most cases, the reasons for going over budget we are just too darned optimistic and and I think there's a lot of room we do? How can we get the actual Of course, we can bring construction costs itself. Maybe we'll table that topic for a future to just add contingency to the budget. Anyone knows to tack on an extra 15% for caution. Of but even that has to be justified. We know that twice the preliminary estimates, but if you tell a most likely, you're going to get fired. No one and also it might not be true. You can't that costs a hundred thousand, give or take but you just tied up a huge pile of It turns out a lot of the research suggests design phases. Of course the paper-pushing engineering. But really, construction is where the that if you can reduce the risks and uncertainty time in the preconstruction phases, you'll long run. Take three to five percent of those and spend them on risk assessment and contingency even most contractors would prefer this. But, all that considered, I think the biggest construction projects is simply how we number is easy to understand and easy to compare it's meaningless without more context about when what is a budget anyway? It's a way to manage planning or design phase of a big project, you in big projects, and it should be okay to admit we think it's going to cost X, but there are project will still be worth doing, even if the we're not just going to keep pressing on. make the benefits worth the costs. There is estimates for projects, but there's tons of room Let me show you another example of how costs dollars sounds pretty steep for a new razor, at least for my situation, it's actually cheaper cartridge. This video's sponsor, Henson Shaving, a video. I said, let me try the razor first, and truly and honestly have not used my old razor once your life? Probably not. But, shaving's a chore. makes it feel less like a chore, and, instead a I had never used a safety razor and figured they aerospace machine shop that pivoted during the a learning curve. Also not true. In fact, I don't with their flexible blades and difficulty in for a tool and splurged on the nicest brand, this blades for the Henson razor are so cheap you could still save money. And in fact, if you buy a razor, my code PRACTICALENGINEERING at checkout, those a long time. There's no subscription service or a like and I think you will too. Again, use my code channel and get 100-blades on me. Thank you