I have played so much Mario Kart in the last... well the last couple months, but really for Mario Kart has been the gold standard of kart take for granted. But Mario Kart isn't a static thing. There have been big shifts, but gradual ones all the way out. Items and characters, sure, but I'm most Game to game, there are small but meaningful finger on, but over time they add up and have That's worth talking about. Let's take a lap through the tracks of Mario and watch the series' Today's episode is sponsored by Keeps. Hey, if you're just starting to notice your Two out of three guys will experience some have to live with it. You've got options, and Keeps can help you Keeps offers clinically proven research-backed The real deal stuff, not weird supplements You'll work with Keeps' network of expert help you get a treatment plan going at about half the cost of a traditional pharmacy. Keeps delivers straight to your door and sends think about it again, and you can stop worrying Hair loss treatment works better if you start Hair loss stops with Keeps. To get 50% off your first order, go to https://keeps.com/designdoc That's K-E-E-P-S dot com slash designdoc. Let's start at the top. Super Mario Kart started life as a generic Miyamoto gave series creators Tadashi Sugiyama for two players'. Hardware constraints kept them from designing so they focused on making a game with compact, The original characters were just dudes in putting Mario characters in instead, and it The game is made possible with Mode 7 technology, 3D plane to give the illusion of driving on It works! See? Perspective! It looks like 3D! Kinda! It's not quite...right. But it's better than a lot of other options. Better than R.C. Pro-Am. It's impressive tech for the time, but the be designed. So what are we working with? Super Mario Kart has 20 total courses divided and more difficult tracks. Each track is built to take 5 laps, and each It's a quick game, dense with other racers are short, it's not as easy as it might seem. Every track takes place in one of eight biomes, level obstacles to match. Mario Circuits are the most like a traditional in for Mario flavor. Donut Plains are natural grassland courses Moles that jump on you to slow you down. Ghost Valley takes place on a haunted, rickety walls that break away when you hit them. Bowser's Castle is also very angular, with Choco Islands are rugged, muddy tracks that Koopa Beach is quick and sandy, with deep The Vanilla Lakes are frustrating. They're ice tracks that alter your kart physics ice blocks. And alone at the end is Rainbow Road, a no-safety-rails, thwomps to weave around. Each track biome feels distinct, and most The variants gradually get harder with narrower Every track has one major limitation, though: Sure, jumps break up the design's flatness on a fancy Playskool play mat. There aren't many track landmarks to speak you are on a track at any given time. The Mode 7 effect also feels a little disconnected It's easy to swing wildly off-course while controls of the later games. Lots of the series' other design staples start Even the most basic track comes to life thanks the items. Item boxes usually cluster together soon after sprinkled around. This is the only game in the series that does Track shortcuts have been built into the series There are obvious shortcuts like the cut-out to add weird extra paths. This 'STOP' dead end. The boost and jump in Ghost Valley 1. They're intentional shortcuts, but how they a little more in-your-face than what you'd But what if you could make your own shortcuts? The feather gives you so many options to create Ostensibly the feather was about avoiding out. Every wall on every track only exists on the You can skip over a HUGE track section by with a feather. Worst to first - amazing. It's a little too good, maybe. A little too game-breaking. CPU characters could conjure up a feather If you make a perfect shell shot or set them off that feather and miss it entirely. Super Mario Kart also introduced the series' Gathering more coins meant your kart could with other characters or pay off Lakitu for Get bumped with no coins, and it's like you Rows of coins are usually a little out of more than make up for the lost time. Different coin routes helped add an extra fastest line around the track. The coin mechanics wouldn't show up in the Super Mario Kart was a promising start, and into living tracks. It's still fun even today, but there's Super Mario Kart gave way to Mario Kart 64 The power of the Nintendo 64 unlocked the more creativity. Surprisingly, the characters are still 2D It looks a little wonky in some cases, but The tracks, err, 'courses' use banked overlapping parts to great effect. The course travels around a real landscape, but now a race only takes 3 to complete. We're down to just 16 courses, 4 per cup, Each has its own individual theming. Well, there's a little overlap on a couple, Each biome in the original game is represented brand new themes. Jungles, western deserts, canyons, motocross theme. Snow is not ice. It's different. The courses are much more thematic than in Every playable character is tied into one that character. Mostly. I'm not sure what Toad's Turnpike has to do Here we see the start of what will carry over The courses are designed with, and sometimes egg or Peach's Mario 64 castle. The track sections are much more unique from environment that keep the tracks from blurring Bowser's Castle is the clearest example, having staircases and ramps, a lava bridge, THIS unique nightmare. Throughout the course, this level of distinction for, and even though it's not present on every for it to feel like the start of a trend. The designers are starting to add in more Toad's Turnpike would be an incredibly boring Or ONCOMING traffic to avoid in mirror mode. Kalimari Desert has a train to beat. DK Jungle Parkway and Royal Raceway have huge Yoshi Valley is a multi-path course with so even tell who's in the lead until the end. Mario Kart 64 is also chock full of shortcuts, and not, adding in tons more 'risk vs. reward' game. Moo Moo Farms' inside track is full of Monty Yoshi Valley's shortest routes are also the line at the start. Koopa Troopa Beach has a ramp to a cave that the right speed or hop at the right time to Rainbow Road's leap of faith is one of the easy enough to try on your own but tricky Fail on any one of these shortcuts, and you'll into the void and lose tons of time. The best parts of the courses are highlights, to improve. The pacing isn't always the best. Choco Mountain, Wario Stadium, Kalimari Desert, tracks with a lot of 'dead air,' where there Several tracks are light on the theming and There are no coins, so coin pathing isn't Checkpointing is pretty rudimentary, so you track in the wrong place. Later games cleaned this up especially. Overall, Mario Kart 64 is a bold step into but plenty of changes are coming. Before we can go forward, though, the next Back to the SNES... ... Sort of. The GBA is pretty much a SNES. Mario Kart Super Circuit is a second crack the design approaches and lessons learned We're back up to 20 tracks over 5 cups, and game, keeping Mario Kart 64's 3 lap format. Gone are the basic circle designs. The track layouts are much more involved, jumps, and interesting stage hazards like The moment-to-moment decision-making is more for it. Item boxes are placed on a track more like than the original game. Coin paths are thankfully back and immediately a little more interesting. The themes are back to basics, with circuits, but there are some new ones, like Cheese Land, Some tracks with older themes have a little Luigi Circuit takes place in the rain. Sunset Wilds has a setting sun that gets lower The track variety is much greater in Super Castle tracks. At least each of those get a distinct background. Each version is a bit more difficult than difficulty towards the end. Lakeside Park has 2 points with jumps that take a turn too wide, which can be easy to physics of the original game. This version of Rainbow Road is one of the turbo pads absolutely covering the surface. It's super easy to lose control and get But if you really wanted the old game back, Every single track from Super Mario Kart is They're laid out the same, themed the same, Well, they did take out the Monty Moles and The inclusion of those tracks makes it easy improved the game over time, and this marks with bringing back the classics as much as Super Circuit is a cleaned-up Super Mario track layouts while adding back in the difficulty Mario Kart 64. However, going back to the Mode 7 flat track little from what they could do. Thankfully, we're about to enter a whole Know what's better than one driver? Uh... TWO drivers... apparently. Mario Kart Double Dash!! came out in late 2003 for the Gamecube, and in the series, with a two-driver gimmick that items and double boxes. The more powerful Gamecube hardware opens Finally, characters get rendered in 3D. The karts have a more realistic suspension Karts properly shift and tilt with the track The track surfaces are much more detailed, Drifting is easier to pull off, and tracks closely than in previous games. The game's tracks are all about experimentation. We're back down to 16 tracks over 4 cups. The devs planned to add more, but they wanted to call its own. The very first one, Luigi Circuit, is an out-and-back going in opposite directions. You might run into some people or, more likely, As the race progresses, the straightaway becomes and other items, making it incredibly hectic Double Dash is where the series starts to board. More details, more one-off elements, and even molded to fit a theme. Daisy Cruiser is an entire course on a cruise There are themed side railings, the pool, that takes you through the engine room. The track even simulates the ship rocking tables. There's a lot more verticality in some of DK Mountain is a downhill course with a gigantic The track uses multiple types of terrain - rock, more like a mountain than a race track. We've got... well, A circuit of some kind. Themed to something, I don't know. Waluigi Stadium is another Wa- themed motocross Speed boosting jumps, hoops of fire, a half-pipe, Compared to the original Wario Stadium track, track design pretty clearly. Mushroom Bridge and Mushroom City are revisions city road layout and different car types like drop mushrooms on the track. In fitting with the city grid theme, Mushroom but with no clearly better route than the Peach Beach is a Mario Sunshine-themed track, to get that Delfino flair. Double Dash does use many of its themes twice Luigi Circuit and Mario Circuit. Mushroom Bridge and Mushroom City. Waluigi Stadium and Wario Colosseum. You can even see Daisy Cruiser on the horizon The pairs approach the theme from two different It's a small detail, but tying them together the tracks with the same theme blend together This is also the first game in the series Baby Park is a 7-lap trip around a super simple Seven laps on a tiny track with a million Wario Colosseum, however, is such a long gauntlet Double Dash's tracks do get more difficult Tracks are more narrow than in Mario Kart The hazards are more aggressive, the snakey pits are everywhere. And the difficulty keeps increasing to the Road. This one's very challenging, with steep slopes It's maybe a little too much. Some of these turns, like this spiral ramp, Dash's physics in mind. Lakitu's gonna get a hernia at this rate, Double Dash is the starting point for modern Strong theme integration, unique ideas, item one-off tracks of the past and adding them This is the first step in making Mario Kart Now let's take those lessons learned and shrink 'em down for the DS. Mario Kart DS is one of the most well-rounded A nice middle ground between 64 and Double The kart handling was changed to be a tad reminiscent of how it feels in the series' Mario Kart DS's tracks follow Double Dash's New stages are visually striking and spacious, We're not quite back to the Mario Kart 64 There aren't many groundbreaking new features, Yoshi Falls has waterfall currents that can Some tracks have rotating floors, a drawbridge, from under you. The giant corkscrew in this game's Rainbow love getting hit by a shell on it. The new additions are nice but minor, and The best parts of the new DS tracks are the Luigi's Mansion is a straightforward but fun Delfino Square combines the best parts of through a town with alternate paths through across the river. Waluigi Pinball. It's Waluigi-themed pinball. What more do you want? You're a pinball. And are dodging pinballs. Don't hit the sides. 10/10. Peach Gardens takes you through flower beds Airship Fortress is an excellent Super Mario upper and lower decks until you get shot out Tick Tock Clock takes you inside a clock-themed hands and clock pendulums. I love clocks. This game is full of fan-favorite tracks. Though they aren't all high highs. There are some shockingly low lows, too. Mario Kart DS has maybe the biggest disparity There are a number of aggressively bland options. Figure 8 Circuit, which is exactly what it Long straightaways, gentle turns, and ZERO Yoshi Falls has those waterfall currents, take on Moo Moo Farm with inside and outside Cheep Cheep Beach, Mario Circuit, Desert Hills tracks without much unique to say about them. We're not talking about terrible designs here, OK, Figure 8 Circuit is actually kinda terrible. Please don't bring this one back. But Mario Kart DS's biggest mark on the series On top of the 16 originals, we have 16 more 4 tracks from each previous game. Where the inclusion of the entire SNES lineup is the first time we see significant upgrades Now, it's great that the retro track trend of the idea. Track curation is underrated. Having 4 faithfully recreated tracks from the ones you wanted to bring over? 4 SNES tracks that now have a 3 lap limit? It's another example of how the track design with the DS gameplay. The Super Circuit courses are a bit better, 2, Luigi Circuit, and Sky Garden. Peach Circuit is yet another first track and From 64, we get Moo Moo Farms, Frappe Snowland, Not bad options to bring over tracks with that didn't have a ton of them, though Moo The Gamecube set is a real downer. Luigi Circuit, another first course. Baby Park has the simplest layout of them Mushroom Bridge, sure. Yoshi Circuit - the one that looks like Yoshi. The tweaks put in are downgrades, though. Most of the shortcuts are removed, and the point of feeling empty. The majority of these choices are just too Something's off when Banshee Boardwalk, Choco Too many flat tracks, circuits, and early 3 of the 4 tracks in the Shell Cup are first Why? Thankfully the next few games will keep job modernizing them. Now it's time for a real game changer. Mario Kart Wii. A robust and funky character roster. Bikes. 12 racers at once. The best online play the Wii could struggle And the biggest innovation in the series to The Wii Wheel. I mean, the Trick system. Now, any time you go off any jump, or even D-pad to perform a trick and get a mini-turbo In earlier games, there wasn't really a a track. Now with tricks there's a reason to use It really messes with you if you go back to It's a more obvious speed boosting system hard to detect if you didn't know what they Now tricks just give you an immediate boost let the real Mario Kart pros separate themselves Tricks allow for a ton more aerial play and that only become a good idea if you're tricking Koopa Cape lets you choose between a river with items, or the ramps off to the side which Mario Kart Wii's tracks are full of decision split pathways than ever before. We're even starting to see Nintendo's of the new tracks. In many Mario games, a level might introduce ways to act as a tutorial that proves you at you next. Apparently, that also works in Mario Kart. Mushroom Gorge is built around these springy At the start of the track, you jump off one Further on, now there are 3 mushrooms to line Finally, the road splits into several long with item boxes and jumps, and one more easy Three steps, each highlighting more and more add into future games. This multi-step design format shows up in Cape's water currents, too. The later games don't commit to this design hints of it here and there, especially in The tracks in Mario Kart Wii all have a 3-lap themselves lap to lap. Coconut Mall's escalators will change direction Parts of the road in Grumble Volcano will Dry Dry Ruins has a room filling with sand blocking the middle path by the end. The ever-shifting tracks contribute to the that helps make Mario Kart Wii feel distinct Not to mention the wild track concepts. These are some of the most creative in the full-blown theme park attractions, like the like a roller coaster. There's a tropical mall. A volcanic mountain range. A giant tree. A ski resort, and stunning underwater tubes. There's even a track in a BOX This iteration of Rainbow Road is as wild track that gets the most out of the trick punishing those who are tricking carelessly. Mario Kart Wii's retro tracks are much stronger Besides a visual upgrade, the inclusions are new ramps and bumps to trick off of. Waluigi Stadium in particular fits perfectly jumps and halfpipe. Bowser's Castle 3 from the GBA has tons off of. The selection as a whole is very well-rounded. Mario Kart Wii is a fantastic entry in the yet and the new trick system that opens up a chance to get ahead. Next up, Mario Kart 7, and we're flipping back to the 3DS. Mario Kart 7 is the newest handheld entry a middle ground between the previous two games. It's a less frantic version of Wii but more We're back down to 8 racers, and the tracks many trick chances there are. That doesn't mean there isn't anything If one gimmick system worked for Mario Kart The Glider and Underwater segments are this Both give good opportunities for new course conditions to keep the tracks from getting The gliders solve a specific problem. The previous few games have had huge jumps with verticality, but as you go off of them, The glider gives more of a chance for interactivity catch a corner just right on the landing. Underwater segments are a little more subtle, scenery. Their application is a little uneven, though. When the new bits are done right, they break to consider. Done poorly, they don't do much more than Coins are back! They do the same thing as the earlier games, you'll make while driving. It worked then, it works now, and it complements I also love another new addition - single Some long stages are now a single lap divided Wuhu Loop, Maka Wuhu, and Rainbow Road are everywhere. Rainbow Road has segments of planetary rings, segments all set up, so you never do the same The new format eliminates a subtle way for like in previous games, the different race enough while creating space for bold track The new changes aren't as groundbreaking as but the combination of them helps create powerful for the courses in Mario Kart 7. There are a few big highlights. Shy Guy Bazaar is the most unique desert track town at night. Piranha Plant Slide is a cool twist on a sewer Super Mario Bros, with rushing water currents Cape elements). Wario Shipyard has some great underwater segments airtime from currents. This time, Bowser gets a non-Castle track the rain with demanding turns and high difficulty. Music Park is one of the strongest tracks hard. It has 3 long drifting turns on instruments off of (hint hint, return of Mushroom Gorge section where giant notes bounce in sync with tricks to the beat. You can see how important theme integration weaker tracks tend to be the least extensively The proper Bowser's Castle track is uncharacteristically section, and a ho-hum drive through a volcanic Cheep Cheep Lagoon sure is underwater and The ice track is just called 'Rosalina's Ice There's the Comet Observatory in the background. That's kinda neat. Mario Kart 7's less interesting tracks aren't feel a little reserved and unambitious at Thank God for Music Park. The Retro track updates are more extensive and underwater segments. Daisy Cruiser's pool and lower deck route extra flair. Some shortcuts like in Koopa Troopa Beach gliders in mind and are a little more fun SNES Rainbow Road's thwomps are neat because be tricked off of. The changes aren't all upgrades, though. Kalimari Desert undercuts its whole train the track with the players. The water current segments in Koopa Cape are The underwater pipe isn't nearly as fun without Newer mechanics don't always mean better ones. Overall, Mario Kart 7 made some major additions to work with, but the game didn't go for Not to worry, though. Nintendo is pulling out all the stops for in the series, Mario Kart 8. Mario Kart 8 For simplicity's sake, we're just talking Everything from the Wii U version, including roster of 48 tracks. Really, everything from everything made it Mario Kart 8 Deluxe takes everything established pathways, the variety, the mechanical elements Add a coat of stunning HD paint, and you got games Nintendo has ever made, even nearly The new headlining feature is anti-gravity. Similar to the underwater segments from 7, of your kart, especially with how collisions The anti-gravity can be subtle on its own, track design features to help highlight it: Lots of tracks split into identical roads helps show both paths off at once without Walls are used with anti-gravity to give another outside lane of a turn. They get peppered with boosters and jumps Taking the wall route in tracks like Toad tactic to escape some of the course hazards There really are no limits to track design provide great spectacle as you weave in and horizontally through some of the most creative The set pieces are bigger than ever. A massive Bowser golem punches the track as Take to the skies, over beanstalks and airships, in Cloudtop Cruise. Drive up and down a waterfall. Why not? We've got anti-gravity now. Race in a busy airport, sure. Or take to the slopes of Mt. Wario, a track with set-piece after unique Dolphin Shoals is one of my favorite tracks underwater tracks truly have. You start with a straightaway with ramps that It transitions to a pipe-filled cave that then you ride a giant eel and do tricks off whirlpool, all with the saxophone goin' The way karts tilt and shift with the terrain to HD rumble adding to the illusion. Driving over the different terrains actually There are whole new concepts Nintendo uses Excite Bike Arena features a little bit of and mud patches. The Animal Crossing track has 4 distinct versions seasons. However, one of the biggest gems in Mario into updating its Retro Tracks. They fully integrate the newer generation up visually and mechanically that they stand For maybe the first time in the series, there of 48. At worst, it's like a 7/10. The setting for Bone Dry Dunes is a little That's about it. Mario Kart 8 is amazing. A full realization of multiple generations in one single, expansive package. It deserves to be the best-selling game in it by now, jump in. Wow, that's a lot. So that's all of Mario Kart. Except for the arcade games. And the mobile game. And the DLC based on the mobile game. And that weird play-from-home game that came If you made the world's greatest Mario Kart game, let us know in the comments. Otherwise, head down there, and let's talk from across the series. Mario Kart has taken a long road, full of changes, and above all, amazing theming, and most beloved kart racer of all time. *chill vibes outro from Mario Kart 64*