[Music] For over a century, chains have been lightweight, efficient, repairable, and found in come a very long way since the 1800s, especially &quot;String Drive&quot; bike is the ultimate solution. special chainless drivetrain that uses Dyneema produced between 2011 and 2021, and use similar paragliding lines, sailing ropes, and even facts about String Drive to whet your palate: 19 non-overlapping gears, you can change gears adjustment. And to prove that String Drive is drivetrain in the insane Race Across America, a the athlete on the String Drive bike completed the of course, downsides to a rope drivetrain too. determine if we will see ropes on bicycles again. I know it looks crazy and complicated but it's in a circular motion just like normal, however, move two lever arms that pull on ropes attached to in turns to pull your wheel forward, with the drums. The Dyneema ropes actually have a higher mm rope can handle over 16,000 Newtons of force, chains. To put this into context, the best Tour the tensile strength of these ropes. That's pretty water! The gear ratios are changed by moving the arms. There are 19 different gear options, where the smallest. This is equal to a traditional road hub. You can choose between three rear drum for the hills or higher gears for the flat. The and as they don't absorb water, they can be grit significantly affects longevity, so it performs best when the conditions To start, this drivetrain runs smoothly and virtually eliminates drivetrain maintenance and or pants ever again. Once set up, String and the gears won't ever skip when you change with this drivetrain; that's while stationary, pedal load. There is also no rear derailleur lever arms are large and exposed, they sit the advantages we've discussed so far are all a belt. Let's now discuss the advantages exclusive rest at the most favorable starting position, so While most drivetrains wear out the front and the only regular consumable on String Drive is the can be easily stored inside your seat post and removing the rear wheel. String Drive is also does this by decreasing the gear ratio at the top when you can exert the most force. This provides which is said to be more efficient. It has on a chain drive bike. When you remove the rear This makes for easy wheel removal and it's great into bags and the bike travels cleanly. When reasonable. City bikes were just over EUR1,000, of the high-quality components were manufactured are spaced very close together, which allows you is not dissimilar to the Enviolo hub we recently ratios are, each step on a &quot;straight block&quot; Drive offers. Okay, String Drive has shown some One reason why String Drive never took off is bike. Instead, a specially designed frame must be and with notably wide dropouts to fit the to be special but almost all components and making them hard to obtain. The design of the is because the left side drum occupied the same drivetrain was only compatible with rim brakes. disc brakes have become the industry standard, Modern drivetrains are ideally eBike compatible a String Drive electric bike as the components motors. The Dyneema ropes also wore out quickly offer top-level performance for between 4,000 and 30,000 km. In comparison, Dyneema ropes were only to be used to change the gears on a String stiff to rotate especially when they were wet. on drop bar bikes. As you need lever arms, there was a weight penalty of approximately 1 Drive bike was also likely less efficient than motion to reciprocating motion, and then back to and additionally, this drivetrain has many sliding the drive efficiency might just be superior that four amateur cyclists average 33 kph for cyclist could cover over 420 km per day suggests The String Drive gear range was also small by environments, but it became a bit limited if you for high-speed cruising too. For context, most and off-road drivetrains regularly exceed you should have an idea about why String Drive and components made it a really difficult sell, lower drive efficiency, and short wear life of out at a great time. It was developed just as right when electric bikes were turning into the and just as belt drive and internal gear systems derailleurs. Let's finish this video with some you can pedal backward and the bike will move pull the ropes no matter the direction your pedals different gear ratios for each crank arm by be useful for those with a leg injury or for The reduction in &quot;crank dead spot&quot; is another String Drive was designed to decrease the gear and increase it when you can exert the most it's actually inconclusive whether there is a driving path. According to carefully controlled when you ride with non-circular chain rings, and any possible additional power generated at your feel of non-circular chainrings, and others say I think that reducing the &quot;crank dead I honestly thought String Drive was a bit silly every aspect of its design, I'm actually really out, and I had no idea that Dyneema rope tensile maintenance-free, cheap, and easy to replace. I bicycle drivetrain revolution. Unfortunately, they electric motors, gearboxes, and belts you're interested in more fascinating bicycle I'll make sure to link a bunch of other