Now, the link between all that we discussed, where we need to calm the mind down and keep it quiet and how then it will help us to understand and experience what we discussed. Now, we go on this understanding that the human body has innumerable channels through which energy flows. In yogic language they are called nadis. So we go on this understanding to start with that the human body has innumerable channels, not innumerable, around 100 and odd channels through which the energy which we call the prana, life energy, circulates in the body. So they are called nadis. Of these 100 and odd nadis that we have, from our point of view, the most important nadis are three in number. The nadi on the left of the body is called the Ida. The right of the body is called Pingala and the center one on the spine, inside the spine, is called the Sushumna. These are the three important nadis, although there are numerous nadis in the system. Now for most purposes, including our daily life and maybe even to study Quantum Physics, you need the energy to move only through the Ida and the Pingala, more than enough. But if you need to penetrate the multidimensional world of the inner self and the outer self, you need to get your energy, prana, to leave the Ida and the Pingala temporarily and function through the central channel called the Sushumna. This is the idea. Now fortunately for us, the prana is linked to our breath. Breath is Swasa, prana is life energy. Both are intimately interlinked. So the science of prana teaches us, pranayama, how to integrate, how to bring the plus and minus. When I say plus and minus, minus not in the negative sense, like an electric current with two charges. Together into the bottom of the spine, which is the Muladhara, and then to spark them together, rub them together to generate a spark, the spark we call the Bindu, and to take it up through the Sushumna, to the Sahasrara, which is the central part of the Cerebrum, which is supposed to be the thousand petals lotus. So what happens? Suppose there is a process to do it. One of the important processes is Kriya Yoga. And therefore it's linked to the breath. Breath and the prana are linked very closely. So if you know what kind of breath you should be, in which way you should be breathing and what you should be doing, you're already getting control over your prana. So this is the process. Now I said the lower center where the energy gets together and acts, is called the Muladhara. Muladhara actually means root foundation, bottom from where, mula, the root. For most people, automatically the energy, 50% of the prana operates and circulates in the Muladhara, which is why, which is enough for us to live in this world. The center of procreation, which is also linked to the center of enjoyment, is sex. The energy for the movement of sexual activities also is located in the Muladhara, at the bottom, just behind the reproductive organs. So anything to do with this is also from the Muladhara. Just above that, there are other centers. First, for a physical existence, with the joys of, physical joys that one enjoys, Muladhara is active. Except that when it happens on the physical plane, the prana is moving downward. What we're trying to do is sublimate it and make the energy flow upward. So, if for a human being normally, after food and shelter, the most enjoyable thing is sex. It comes from this energy which sits in the Muladhara. We call it the Kula Kundali or the coiled up energy, which of course is symbolized by a snake. There's no snake sitting there. It's symbolized by a snake which is rolled up and when you use your techniques, it unwinds itself and starts moving. I mean, this is the imagery, the metaphor. So if that is the most enjoyable thing for a human being, which is the ascent of this energy upwards from the Muladhara, instead of downwards. And when it reaches its culmination, in the Sahasrara, the enjoyment or the lehri, the joy that one feels is perhaps a thousand times more than anyone can feel when it runs downwards. So the Yogi who practices and enjoys is actually not giving up anything. He's giving up the trinkets for the treasure. Yeah, you have little things and enjoying the better things. So, this is the process of Kriya. Now since it is intimately linked to the breath, Kriya has a certain kind of breath manipulation by which the energy is made to go up. First cleaning of the Sushumna because it is generally filled with muck. From your past lives, also from this life, your angers, your resentments, they all go and get stuck there. So the first part is to clean it. When you clean it, then it is automatic. You cannot force this energy because if you force, you're playing with fire. Many people end up in trouble because of that. So you can only keep the path clean and tell her, I mean the energy, it's feminine. &quot;Please come, it's ready.&quot; So that the Sri Vidya devata goes up, Rajeshwari. So therefore we do not indulge in too much of so-called Hata Yogic practices to awaken it. It is done in a very quiet, simple way. Although somewhere you need to introduce some Hata Yoga also to clear things up from the physical point of view. So the lowest center where the energy usually is for most people, the Muladhadhara, represents the earth, Prakriti. So the Tatva there is Prakriti, which means matter, solid matter. Just now we discovered it's not so solid, but whatever. Solid matter, the physical world is represented in the Muladhara. So generally most of us, our consciousness functions from there, from that point. Not consciousness, awareness functions from that point. Further up on the spine in the Sushumna is the next center called the Swadhisthana. Now this is between, you have the chart, between the lowest center and the navel. Halfway. The Muladhara, since it represents Prakriti or the earth or solid, three-dimensional world, the symbol is a square. It's actually a two-dimensional projection of a cube. It's a square. You know how everything is supposed to be perfect? You change one angle and the whole thing goes. Okay. Solid. So it also represents solid state of affairs. The next Swadhisthana, as I said, is halfway between the navel and the Muladhara. It represents the next principle, Tattva, called Apas. Apa, Apas tattva. Apas means liquid, watery. Not water. Water, there is another word for water, Jala. Apas means watery tattva. Which means what? What is the next subtle state after solid, liquid? So it's a symbol that when the awareness is lifted from the Muladhara to the Swadhisthana, when you come into the world of slightly more flexible, that is the world of imagination also. So the center of imagination is here. And imagination is one wonderful thing that we possess which animals do not have. Animals are very intelligent. They're not saying that. They are. They don't have sankalpa, the power to visualize, the power to imagine and visualize, which we have and perhaps the creative entity of the world has. According to the shastras, the world is created by sankalpa and then withdrawn by sankalpa. Human beings have this capacity gifted to us, except that we always have the wrong sankalpas. So it's a good tool which can be used. In fact, there is nothing called will power actually. It's only controlled sankalpa, controlled imagination. If we can do it properly, then this is what usually people call will power. And that center is the Swadhisthana. It represents the watery tattva. And also therefore its symbol is the moon, the crescent. The crescent moon is a symbol that you see in Shiva's head. The Chandrashekhara's Chandra. It's also seen on Shakti symbols like Durga. Over the centuries, many people have used it for wars and put it on their flags also. It's a powerful symbol, the crescent. You can use the good side or bad side, but it's there. So the Swadhisthana is the crescent. It's also because if you keep water, for instance, which is part of Apas Tattva, in a tube, it's not straight. It has a lower meniscus and an upper meniscus. It's actually like a crescent, not fully formed. And it's the center of imagination. It's also the center which the yogi, if necessary, uses to project his subtle body out of the physical. And imagination is always linked to the moon. People have some problems there. When it's the full moon it becomes worse, high tide and so on. So, Luna is the center of creation, sankalpa, imagination, subtle matter, which is beyond ordinary sushma. Except that if imagination is not controlled and properly guided, then the luna becomes a tick. So it's a potent center. So, okay, now we have come from physical to watery, to the solid, to the liquid. See it there. And then in the navel center, which is in your naabhi, if you draw a circle like this, the diameter of that circle would rest on the naabhi. That center is the Manipura. Now Manipura is also called the fire center, Agni chakra. Now that is the place where, you know, if you get angry or all these things, you feel a burning sensation. It is the same thing actually. All passions bring about some heat. This is the center of this Manipura. When you say fire and heat, it also means combustion and ignition. I told you that the word Igna is not different from the word Agni. You can't even start your car without an ignition switch. So this is the igniter. It heats up that which is watery and turns it into that which has no shape, vapor or wind, subtler matter. When the awareness shifts from solid to liquid, then into this fire. It's also the fire of desire. The fire of desire can be fire, desire for material things. It can also be the fire that ignites your upward journey, both. So when you have this fire, it consumes everything and takes you further up. This is the center. And fire is so important because digestive fire, you are fired with enthusiasm. They are all used as metaphors, right? Desire, my old girlfriend is, my old flame, she's not old water. Right? All this is the center. I don't have one. So now this, what is the form, the shape? The shape is a triangle, the symbol is a triangle with it's apex up and the color is red. So the Muladhara is yellow,, Swadisthana is silver white like the moon, and the Manipura is red like the fire, fire red. Then comes the Anahat. Anahat is the center of the chest which is called the heart chakra, not this heart but this heart. When you say this heart, it means the heart of the matter, something like that. The anahat is called anahat because it is the center of unstruck sound. See, normally for any sound you need to strike. Suppose there was a sound when there are no two things to strike like clapping with one hand or something like that. That is Anahat, that means the sound which is not physical sound but that which is heard inside Anahat and that is the element there or the principle there is Vayu, which means the wind. It also means the next state of, subtle state, Vayu. And the color is sky blue. And then from there you come to the throat center which is called the Vishuddhi. Vishuddhi is the center. If your awareness has come up to the heart center, then there is very little chance or danger of it going down which means at any time it can still come up, not that it will remain there. Once it's gone there you've done half the job, most of it. And then the Vishuddhi. Vishuddhi, the word meaning of Vishuddhi is purity, complete purity, super pure and the representation there and what element does it represent? People think it's space but the meaning of the word Akasha is not space rather. In fact the Anahat represents space. Akasha is the primordial substance undifferentiated from which through differentiation, different kinds of matter has emerged. Let's say that something is at one frequency, then the frequencies begin to change and you see different kinds of matter coming up so that the primordial essence of all the universe is Akasha. And it has a beautiful violet, deep purple color. I would say indigo. And the symbol, now the symbol of the Anahat is two triangles together, two equilateral triangles crossing each other which means the physical and the spiritual are properly coordinated together. The triangle that is upwards is the spiritual and the triangle which is downward is the material. They are both integrated. This integration is the symbol like a star. Just like the symbol on the Israeli flag. And then you have this Vishuddhi which the symbol is an oval like an egg standing straight. Color is indigo and it represents primordial substance Akasha. So when the Yogi, if the Yogi spends too much time in the Vishuddha and gives attention to it and this becomes active, couple of things happen. One, he gets control over in the ultimate sense the primordial substance in some way. It's no use anyway. And then his voice also improves. For singers and others. Vishuddhi is very important. Plus something happens when, even if he's sitting down and talking rubbish, everybody listens. I don't know what I'm saying, but how is it? This is the Vishuddhi. So people who want to talk in public and so on better to keep their Vishuddhi active. And the voice becomes kind of soothing. Now the next center is the Ajna, very important center. Ajna is also called the Bruh Madhya between the eyebrows cwnter. middle of the eyebrows. Bruh Madhya. Now this is the center, you want to know what? This is the center which is the doorway to the highest level of existence that one can think of. So just behind it is what we call the doorway to the Brahman, Brahmarandra, just behind. And the Ajna is even though we touch here and so the Ajna. The actual Ajna stretches from there but actually originates in where we have our pineal gland. Pineal gland which takes care of our sleep, waking, circuit, the circadian rhythm, as they call it. That also is a very important spiritual center. So the Ajna is actually originating in the pineal gland but lets out its nadis into the Ajna. So you can't go there and touch, but you can touch and then connect. In fact from the limbic system in the back of the brain, on both sides there is something that comes called the amygdala. The amygdala almost comes here. So when you do the brahmari, it vibrates the amygdala and affects your Ajna, Pineal. So now then we have the top most which is called the thousand petaled lotus. Thousand is a metaphor, it means number, numerous. And when your awareness has ascended and gone there, then you are free. Then you are no longer a three dimensional human being but a multi-dimensional being with your mind unconditioned, opened and clear and seeing everything as one. This is the Sahasrara. And every ascent, every ascension is accompanied by more and more joy and happiness. You are not aiming for that but it's a byproduct of it. So this is the... so the idea about Kriya, the technique of Kriya is to balance the breath in the Ida and the Pingala, which means left and right nostrils are connected to that. And then to bring the Ida-Pingala energies together in the Muladhara and then to allow them, the Bindu or the spark which rests there to rise up through the Sushumna and reach the Sahasrara, where the Bindu which is considered to be the feminine aspect reaches the Lord who is considered in the Shiva Samhita as Shivam. And when they both merge, it's an ecstatic merge, merger filled with a lot of experiences. Adi Shankara celebrated this by writing the Soundarya Lahiri, means the intoxicating beauty, or the beauty of ecstasy or whatever. So this is the... This is how Kriya, breath, prana and the chakras are linked to each other and how they are linked to unconditioning and opening up your mind to higher levels of understanding, experience and so on. Also these cannot be activated by any physical force. The only way to activate them is through sound. So that's why we have given those sounds. &quot;Lam,&quot; &quot;vam,&quot; &quot;ram,&quot; &quot;yam,&quot; &quot;ham,&quot; &quot;om.&quot; These sounds, the chakra senses the sounds and gets itself activated. One minute. So this is how the activation takes place. I've been training in sound healing and we have always learnt and also looking at Nada yoga, right? So my question is, are the colors of the chakras interchangeable? No. Because we have seen the red as the Muladhara and yellow and Manipura that way. Cannot be. That's why I'm confused. Maybe some mix up. Maybe you're also doing the same thing. The problem is, instead of sticking to the traditional things which are given in the Sat Chakra Nirupana and so on, people go haywire and think of various colors from their own imagination. So if you want to see the proper colors as described in the text, then you should go to the Sat Chakra Nirupana , the serpent power. The serpent power which is the source of all the chakras descriptions, it's 200, 300 years old, translation is new, ofcourse. Namaste! I have a question. Can you again explain where Manipura is? Because you were explaining diameter, I was making a note and I lost it. And the second thing is... You lost it? Like... I couldn't find out what you said. And the second thing is, when we will imagine these chakras, where we have to imagine, is it like just below the skin or in the vertebra column or somewhere in between? Like I just need that clarity. Thank you. Right. One is about the diameter which I explained which you could, you didn't get it clearly. What I said was the Nabhi is here. This is the Nabhi, my Nabhi, not yours. And so, if I say this is the Manipura, then this becomes the center of a circle. So I am saying it's not there but slightly above. And if you draw a circle like this, then the diameter of the circle will touch the Manipura. This is what I meant. The next question of yours was... Where do you have to imagine? Is it below the skin? Yes, yes. This is very important. Yes. As long as you find the location, it doesn't matter whether you want to do your visualization in front or back or middle. It doesn't matter because when it works, it works on the spine. It works on the spine. But our Sankalpa can be here, it can be in the middle of the body, very good if you can take it to the spine. But it need not necessarily be.. You find this more easy and more accessible do it here. There is no harm. Only two questions. Sir, I just wanted to check. Are there other centers also in the head apart from the Sahasrara? Yes. Yes, but let's not get into it. In fact, according to our understanding, which you will not find written in any books and so on, between the Ajna and the Sahasrata, there are around eight or nine little, tiny little centers. Now they connect to different parts of the brain and they also have to be activated in the ultimate analysis. But it happens only when we come to the Sahasrara and then the Brahmari, which you do in Kriya, is meant practically to activate these centers, the Brahmari. You have to first only do it with your Sankalpa. As it becomes stronger, you will begin to feel actually the movement in the centers, the sound in the centers. There may be sometimes nothing, but you will feel true satisfaction and happiness when you are touching these centers, which means something is happening. Sir, regarding yesterday you had talked about when events happen in our lives. That is an opportunity for looking and contemplating and understanding why it has happened. And you talked about facing it. My question is that facing it and then moving on. Those..... are these linked. How do we actually... Sorry, it's a little bit incoherent I'm being here. But we may not get to know the past lives, as you had said. We will not be able to get to understand why it is happening, whatever that may be happening in your life. What is the good approach towards facing? And is moving on the same as facing or are you then putting things under the rug, which will again show itself up? That's one question. I have another question which I can... Can we do with this first because it is too complicated? When I said you face it, I was not trying to say that you should find the cause for it. If you sit down and try to find the cause, path, whatever, you will only spend useless hours trying to figure out where it originated. I said, as it manifests as pain or fear, can you face it as it is? Not trying to find the cause or the root, not trying to justify it or condemn it, but to see it as it comes. This is what I meant by facing it. If you face it, there is nothing remains to be put under the rug. If you face it, then automatically you move on. So grieving is not necessarily part of facing. One may be able to face something without necessarily grieving. If you grieve also, there is no harm. In fact, if you grieve, you should study grief as it comes. We are afraid of grief and grief is the biggest teacher. We are always trying to distract our minds from any kind of sorrow and grief. I'm saying, can you look at it? Stop for a while and see how this operates, this sorrow. If you see and actually how it operates, it's gone, it's dissipated. But we try to divert the mind, substitute something, it's hiding there in the subconscious, it'll come back again. This is what I meant. Thank you so much. If I may, I will ask this question and you can take it anytime you want, which is, your guru found you and you found your guru later in your life journey that you had described. However, for a person like many of us, me included, how do you recognize your guru? And I'm sure many people may have this question as well. When I started out, I was just like you. Now you think I'm special. When I started out, I was like you. I was also trying to find out. And then I found something and I found it's worth it and I held on. I was not born with the feeling that I'm going to discover the guru, no? So if there is an innate desire, which is strong enough to find spiritual understanding, spiritual evolution and therefore you need a guru, not because you need a guru. Then the right person will come to you. Otherwise, you will end up with people who are talking all the time, this energy is coming through the window, that energy is going through the door, you're stuck, you're done, nothing can be done, then I have to help them. We'll go like this. Zig zag. We all go through so many births and rebirths, but why does the first birth happen? And second question, should we give any importance to our dreams or just ignore them? Look, why the first birth happened, even if we don't know, many births have happened. So let's deal with that first. The births which we are in now, you deal with that first and then perhaps you will figure out why it happened in the first place. Right? So start with that. And as far as dreams are concerned, dreams are, many of our dreams, are projections of what we did not experience or what we are afraid of experiencing, that the subconscious translates into images and presents it before us in the dream state generally. There may be some rare dreams which happen because somebody intends to give you some signal, but it's very difficult to distinguish between these. As you progress in sadhana, you might be able to distinguish between these two. Till then, you can consider them as dreams. Don't consider them as unimportant, but don't give them more importance than the waking state. That's the way to carry on with life. Sometimes dreams also come with a message, but at the moment you are not in a position to decipher if it was intended and if it's a real message. So till then, give more importance to this dream than that dream. And the source from which this has finally, it has first come, you said many lives first time. You will not be able to understand it unless your mind is free of its limitations. When you understand it, you try to explain to somebody it's impossible. It's like almost like a child asking its parents, &quot;Oh, daddy, mommy, you love us. Love me the most, right? Yeah, right, we love you the most. If you love me the most, why didn't you invite me for your wedding?&quot; You know what I'm trying to say? Sometimes it's not easy to figure out where it all started, but the fact is it has started and it is working now. So can we deal with that first? Buddha has a story about this. I'll come. Buddha has a story about this. This is a serious question here. Buddha has a story. Somebody went to a mango grove to collect mangoes. Some hidden guy, some hunter, whatever, shot an arrow and the arrow hit him in the chest. He fell down. Right? Pain. It could be a poison arrow too. The Buddha's question was, &quot;When you're hit by an arrow, which is this life, would you try first to see how to remove the arrow at the easiest and the best time possible or would you lie down with the arrow still in your chest and try to figure out the source of the arrow? Who has sent it?&quot; By the time you realized, you're dead, probably gangrene, because you're not, in that time you don't have the capacity to figure out where the source is. Right? So, first thing is pull this out. I asked because it feels like we are stuck right now, right, in birth, rebirths and then there is no way to escape that. There is a way. There is a way. Who said there is no way? Otherwise why are we wasting time? No, no, before this. So the question that I had is that when we do the Kriya and when the muck is removed, so is this muck the same as our Sanchitkarmas that we have accumulated in the past? Also. Also Muck is not a physical thing, please remember. It's influence. Influences of the past, influences of three million years of genetic evolution, influences in this life, like too much anger, you know, all these negative emotions, all this is muck, includes that also. So you need to first clear the muck. First realize that there is muck and then say I have to clean it. Yoga provides a way of doing it, Kriya. So when the muck is cleared, does it create a certain level of force, let's say when the anger aspect is getting cleared? Does it create an influx or outflux of anger at a given point of time? It depends on various people, different natures, sometimes it does, sometimes it cools down, sometimes it bursts open and then disappears. Some things disappear only by explosion, right? But it all depends on the nature. We have different kinds of people, right? Different mannered, different, we carry different loads, different burdens, it depends on that. Yes, yes, he has been asking for long.. And his name is Ram. Is it mandatory to pull the chakra from the Mooladhara, Swadisthana up? Or is it possible that for some people those chakras have become inactive and therefore you start manipura up? One school of thought says that it could start from the manipura itself, but we in our tradition think that it should start from the mooladhara. It's possible to, even if you think it's dead or inactive, we can still activate using Kriya. Shankara talking about the Shri Vidya and also in the Soundarya Lahiri he says the Devi, which is the bhindu, is in the manipura. Then from there I am invoking her to go up. So for him the other things have already been cleared from the manipura. Bur for most people it's better to start with the mooladhara. Pranams! I have two practical questions. Yes sir, tell me. So the first one is about balancing the Ida and Pingala. So they are linked to the prana, you said, and that's linked to the breath, so must be linked to the physical nostrils. Yes, yes, yes. So if you have like a physical problem that causes you to breathe more from one nostril as opposed to the other, are there techniques that can... Yes, there are. As we go along we will discuss this matter. Yes, anything else? The second question was about meditation. How do you deal with... And yesterday you talked about knowledge being itself a hindrance sometimes. How does one remove the bigger thorn of knowledge and avoid these thoughts that come in when you are... because of various knowledges that you have gained over your life... They are bound to be stored and you are saying how to, if necessary, if at all we need to break free of it. We will do that as we go along, we will see how it happens. Maybe you will go out free of it, who knows? We just started right today. So let's move. Sir, is awareness a quality of the mind? In the beginning awareness is a quality of the mind, but it's not a quality of the mind. The mind thinks that it is it's quality. So when it becomes subtle and subtle and subtle, suddenly the realization strikes that it not to do with the mind, at something else, which is giving the mind the capacity to be aware, which is the conscious inner self. It's more real. Without that the mind cannot exist. Yes. So, when the prana is behaving erratically in the human system, which it normally does because of many up and downs and high and low and all these things, that mind can never touch consciousness or never understand how it operates or never through it. It's only when the mind is fully balanced, completely free of tensions, totally free of opposing energies, that it is able to understand in its quietness, this is what it is. This is where pranayama, kriya, all these things come into play. Yes, of course. Yes, they are. They are interconnected rather. When the mind is calm, the breath is calm. When the breath is calm, the mind is calm. And this calmness or quietness is the tarmac from which you can take off to other..... I have a really quick question based off of that. Does kriya also help with giving us the courage to face difficult emotions? I think yes. Yeah, this is important also because you should have the courage to face. Most people get... shy away from it because of the fear. Believe me, there is no way to get out of it without facing it. You can sweep it under the rug but it will come up at some unknown time when you are defenceless. Last question. When one meditates, all these emotions and memories, they come up. Absolutely. It has happened to me also. So how to stick the path, like how to keep on doing the japa, the meditation? There is no way other than to keep pursuing it. It is not as if I didn't go through all this. I also went through all this emotions, all these problems. But one good thing was I said I am not giving up. Don't give up. If you don't give up, tomorrow you will sit here and I will sit there. I am serious. Don't give up. It is natural that this happens. If it's not, why are we trying to get rid of it? So it's quite normal. So try to work on it and don't get frightened by it. Main thing is not get frightened. Say, &quot;Okay, these are facts of life. Let's face them. Let's try to solve them one by one, step by step. I am not giving up.' This would be your intention, your what we call, what do you call that? There's a nice word for it in Sanskrit. Not even Sankalpa. Dhridanischaya This decision, which I will not shake, hold on. Then you will get out of it. I did. Why can't you? I didn't fall from heaven, right? So I think we'll stop with this today.