It's quite fitting that Marilyn vos Savant's Learning came easy to her considering she Vos Savant was born in St Louis, Missouri Her parents never told her she was exceptional. She once said in an interview: "No one really As I said, mostly because I was a girl and But the world would pay attention in 1985 Records list as the smartest person in the She was nearly 40 when she shot into the spotlight. Parade Magazine wrote a profile on her, and the magazine offered her a Sunday column, In this column, she ignited one of the fiercest In 1990, a reader asked her the following Suppose you're on a game show, and you're Behind one door is a car, behind the others, You pick a door, say #1, and the host, who door, say #3, which has a goat. He says to you, "Do you want to pick door Is it to your advantage to switch your choice This is known as the Monty Hall problem, named Make a Deal. Is it behind door number 1, door number 2, So, would it be in your interest to switch I'll give you a few seconds to think about Most people assume that both doors are equally So they don't see the benefit of switching. However, Vos Savant replied: "Yes; you should The first door has a 1/3 chance of winning, She got so much heat for this response and would follow. She received thousands of angry letters and Scott Smith who has a PhD from the University illiteracy in this country, and we don't more. Shame! Here's a letter from Professor Robert Sachs You blew it! As a professional mathematician, I'm very of mathematical skills. Please help by confessing your error and in Don Edwards of Oregon put it this way: Maybe men. But actually, these people who sent her some Switching your door DOES increase your probability When you first choose door #1, there's a The two other doors together have a 2/3 chance Then the host helps you out by opening up This improves your odds that the prize is Because door 2 must have the rest of the chances. It went from having a 1 in 3 chance to a 2 out the bad door, door number 3 for you. Switching doubles your odds of winning. Or put another way: So yah I'll choose door number 2 and thank The outcry against vos Savant was so extreme other columns to explaining her logic. She noted that the benefits of switching can six games that exhaust all possibilities. This is contingent on the host always opening Mapping out all the possibilities shows there's if you stay. It's easier to understand the problem if Say you chose 1 door out of 100. The host then eliminates 98 doors that they That leaves two doors - the one you chose Do you switch now? Absolutely. When you first picked, you only had a 1/100 The odds of it being behind the other doors The host then filters out the options for know don't have the prize. This is to your advantage because it leaves a 99/100 chance of having the car. Some eventually admitted they were in the A team at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Kalson of MIT admitted: You are indeed correct. &quot;My colleagues at work had a ball with this including me at first, thought you were wrong!&quot; To which she responded: "Thanks, M.I.T. I needed that!" And that math professor I mentioned earlier Professor Sachs later conceded, writing: "After humble pie. I vowed as penance to answer all the people It's been an intense professional embarrassment." Our biggest misconception is assuming that happening. This makes sense if we don't have any other If I picked two people and asked who would about them, you have a 50-50 shot of getting But if I said Player A just took up the sport this would likely change your choice. Information matters. Just like when the game show host KNEW which They weren't opening up a door randomly. The general idea is the more you know, the Vos Savant once said: "People that we think She explained they're more likely to be What does she think is holding people back She's been critical of compulsory schooling they sit there and are told what to believe She went so far as to say: "I would rather As for herself, she never graduated from university, Louis after two years to start a career in writing which led to her famous answer to There's another way to learn that doesn't Brilliant is an online interactive learning science, and computer science skills. Speaking of the Monty Hall problem, my sponsor which explores misconceptions that can arise, If you're ever stuck, don't worry, you can There's something for everyone whether you're you already know. You can solve puzzles with science through One of my all-time favorites is their Logic that forms the basis of mathematical reasoning. Brilliant is FREE for you to sign up by going comment: brilliant.org/newsthink. The first 200 people to use my link will get you access to all of their courses. Thanks for watching. For Newsthink, I'm Cindy Pom.