October 31st, 1994. Its Halloween. A small commuter plane was preparing to make American Eagle Flight 4184 was a short flight A journey of only 150 miles give or take. A total of 68 passengers and crew were on The passengers may have been looking forward and air traffic congestion has been keeping For flight attendant Amanda Holberg it was on the job as a Flight Attendant. Flight 4184s destination was Chicago O'Hare and busiest airports in the entire world. It's a complex and delicate act to keep aircraft arrive and depart from Chicago's Halloween 1994 was yet another busy day at Due to deteriorating weather conditions, management flow. The poor weather forced them to close a number So a priority system was in place. Smaller planes like Flight 4184 were required fuel quantities get priority. Flight 4184 was already late in leaving Indianapolis; a lengthy delay on the ground thwarted their They were supposed to arrive back in Chicago even more delays when they eventually left Up on the flight deck of flight 4184 there 29-year-old Captain Orlando Aguiar had about Around 1,500 of which was in this aircraft. He had extensive experience flying props for position flying the British Short 360 planes. The Captain was a well-loved pilot at his on the flight deck. At home in his personal life his family was be a day off, he choose to work more days the way. To his right was 30-year-old First Officer As far as experience on the ATR goes, he'd with over 3 and a half thousand flight hours Around 5000 in total. Jeff Gagliano, though he loved flying, if spending time on the Gagliano family ranch He was actually thinking of giving up his The previous weekend he helped his family related festivities. Mr. Gagliano had a much younger 10-year-old with on Halloween. Sadly, he was rostered in to fly on Halloween Like many pilots on the regional grind, October Flight 4184 was only the second flight in they were to continue over to Dayton, Ohio Champaign, Illinois. A busy day's work and the delays weren't The plane the two men were flying was a French The company ATR developed the plane as a joint The ATR72 and its smaller sister the ATR42 in Europe. The ATR family first took to the skies in This particular plane was actually brand new earlier that year in March 1994. In its short 6 month life it had managed to flights. The plane was almost constantly flown, buzzing Although the plane was not operated by American No American Eagle was only the branding. American Eagle is the American Airlines regional are contracted under. The plane actually operated to a company called This was also who the pilots worked for. Simmons though was acquired by the parent in 1988. This is actually a pretty common arrangement The larger carriers work with these smaller Because of this, these operators can carry and have their planes painted to reflect as The plane has been in the air for nearly 15 Flight 4184 was cruising at an altitude of On frequency, a Pilot a small Beechcraft Baron They identify themselves and issue a report They made the report over the BOILER VOR at So in the region of flight 4184. It's cold and there are icing conditions That's okay though, the ATR72 like almost in light to moderate icing conditions. It's 3:13, the pilots begin their descent During the descent, the pilots notice themselves in this case, in temperatures of less than moisture. So the pilots enabled the airplane's Ice and didn't think much of it. Five minutes later they report on frequency of 10,000 feet. It was then at 3:18 that the Chicago Approach Up till this point the pilots had been following Having already passed the BOILER VOR, they Now they have been issued a holding instruction, path over to the LUCIT waypoint near the small hold. The pilots make the right turn over to LUCIT the hold at 3:24 in the afternoon. By this time, the pilots have switched off From here the pilots will hold the plane in a small circuit. They'd do this, repeating the pattern until This obviously meant further delays to their As such the pilots sent a message to Simmons Reporting System, that's ACARS. After that there really wasn't much for Now when investigators later retrieved the Cockpit Voice Recorder, the recording began of the hold. Right from the outset of the recording investigators Music. The pilots had tuned one of their navigation and according to one former American Eagle They put on some music to pass the time and in what I'm sure is a highly relatable moment At 3:28 the First officer even says for a Moments later one of the Flight Attendants conversation about their jobs. Its highly relaxed atmosphere, but the delays The Flight attendant here even says that at flights. Over the next few minutes, the crew would until the pilots noticed a bit of a high angle Captain Aguiar comments on this... "Man this this gets a high deck angle in "We're just wallowing in the air right "You want flaps 15?" "I'll be ready for that stall procedure "Do you want kick 'em in, it'll bring "Sure" the angle of attack and the nose drops. The pilots comment that the Flight Attendants Five minutes later the controller issues an expect a further clearance, effectively meaning minutes. In the meantime, the crew return to conversations But there was a chime at 3:41 that sounded icing. In response the Ice protection was switched setting of 86%. This was an appropriate response for flying By this time, they had begun their third circuit With them still not expecting further clearance ACARS message to their airline to update them 3:48. The First Officer verbally comments, "I'm The plane's ice protection was activated seat and made his way to the aft cabin to The restroom was occupied by a passenger at a flight attendant and picked up the intercom back as soon as he could. Five minutes later the Captain returned to Moments later the First Officer would again The Captain didn't really acknowledge it, from either of the pilots for the rest of There was a very brief TCAS alert on the flight Probably just picking up on nearby traffic it wasn't even acknowledged by them at all. ATC shortly thereafter radioed in an update in ten minutes time, so now they'd be looking 3:57, Flight 4184 was cleared for a further The plane was still in holding so the plane As they had previously extended the flaps, descent triggered the Flap Overspeed Warning... "I knew we'd do that" The Captain says. The First Officer responds, "I was trying Referring to Airspeed. Obviously as they were now in a flap overspeed thing, retract the flaps. They select a position of 0 so fully retracted As a result the plane's attitude changes Seconds later, an ominous repetitive thumping Then without warning... It was as if the flight controls, specifically There was a massive, uncommanded deflection This as you can imagine severely disturbed on the plane. The ATR plane banks sharply over to the right roll that the plane should really never perform. The autopilot disconnects due to the sudden The pilots don't say a word, too stunned back to a relatively neutral position. It is believed that the pilots applied a great plane level, as suggested by the heavy breathing, The plane during this first upset, the nose For a period of about 5 seconds, it looked nose began to rise from a nose down attitude. This entire upset, occurred within a five From the onset at 3:57 and 33 seconds and The plane rolled, the pilots quickly responded Following this tiny window of time however, This time, the bank exceeded a rolling rate This time the pilots experienced a total loss They simply couldn't recover the plane by It was as if some sort of force was applying their own strength. What they had managed to do was apply nose Flight 4184 inverts and the plane's altitude The Indiana Countryside emerges from the clouds At its maximum, the plane reached an extreme time with a 73 degree nose down attitude. Now below 5000 feet, the pilots arrest the of the erratic dive. They are slowly regaining control of their There wasn't enough altitude left and American just outside the rural town of Roselawn, Indiana. When investigators got to the site, the discovered declared the site a biohazard. The aircraft was obliterated but there was The news quickly spread and within an hour It made headlines in the local 5 o'clock What followed was a lot of speculation into that day. When it was found out that this was a small narrative of inexperience flight crews began At the crash site investigators made a number They could account for the four corners of A clear sign to investigations the plane had Although the parts were found in a particular did occur but very low to the ground in those The Horizontal Stabilizer and Wingtips were ahead with much of the other wreckage. The pattern of the main debris field in a the plane impacted the ground. The plane crashed at a shallow angle, and Investigators retrieved the data from the Control. ATC was cleared of any wrongdoing. Working with the available data they had at As for the Flight crew, though investigators have been perhaps unprofessional, chatting subjects, having the radio on stuff like that, that this didn't contribute in any way to This accident , it really can't be overstated But we have some unanswered questions here. It's not normal for a plane to behave that Form the pilots perspective it just seemed controls had a life of their own. Very quickly, in a matter of days infact, case. Ice was present and was a causal factor in This obviously brings in to question the weather Let's take a moment to look a bit deeper the plane flew into. -break- start getting cold so maybe it's a good It would be all well and good for me to stand conditions allowing ice to develop on the that's getting ahead of things. To really to understand this accident at the as to how ice could have contributed to a accident flight, we first need to have an First of all lets breakdown the general weather Now during the flight, no SIGMET (Significant the controller was clued into light icing So the controllers were aware of the presence areas of potential icing risk. Where flight 4184 was holding at the LUCIT reported at that time. But what actually was the weather like? Well my friend, lets dig through the meteorological We have weather maps from the time where we passed over the Midwest. This enabled an environment where a low pressure bringing frigid air temperatures with it. This manifested on the day of the accident Day. The high moisture content of the air was the so there was that confluence of weather systems. Taking weather observations from Chicago, we can paint a good general picture of the Winds were blowing from North-Northeast, with with some stations reporting a base of just with rain showers all over the Midwest. Temperature in Chicago, anyway, reached a That was reached at about midday, in the afternoon As you climb in altitude, the air temperature where flight 4184 was holding at 10,000 feet, In the sky, the clouds extended a high as even higher than the cruising altitude of So the big question presents itself, what Okay so this brings us onto the next part. The thing Flight 4184 actually flew into and out. What specifically was in these clouds? We need to talk about SLD. Supercooled Large Droplets. SLD forms in clouds where the temperature The droplets are below freezing temperature These clouds right where flight 4184 was holding, These Supercooled Large Droplets are typically hazard for aircraft because they create ice planes are certified for. Therefore should always be avoided. Don't get this wrong though, these might things are still tiny. At best 2mm in length though I have heard Regardless, pretty small. But it's that first word... Supercooled, what does that mean? I want you to think about basic science here We all know that water has a freezing point At this temperature you can expect water to Simple enough. But what if I told you that there exists a is below freezing, it remains a liquid. That is what we mean by the term "Supercooled" A liquid that exists as a liquid below its So why does that happen? For water to freeze it requires an additional A term in thermodynamics that we can best as the starting point of a transition from So it's basically the center of the freezing themselves together to form a solid, in this But as it turns out, the line between ice There does exists a small window where water point for a period of time and not become I mean it will if you give it enough it time We have freezing water that's not frozen. If there is one thing that supercooled water That's because nucleation can be tripped that can give it that little bit of energy You can see it best in this video. We have supercooled water, below freezing ice, it's fascinating. This brings us back to Flight 4184. We have droplets of this supercooled moisture is the nucleation point for it to turn into The plane itself! The Supercooled droplets hit the plane, triggered Resulting in an accumulation of ice on the And that is how the ice got on the plane. -break- on the wings of the ATR72. However there are further questions to answer In this segment we're going to familiarize of the aircraft which will lead nicely how of the plane to the point of loss of control. This ultimately gets us to the heart of this First of all, planes can fly safely in cold It happens all the time. A lot of work has gone into making aviation Whether that be from de-icing equipment on systems. We have known for a long time the negative There are guidelines in place that pilots safe operation in this type of weather. Plane's may fly into ice and even collect for what is and is not acceptable and every Okay so we know ice is not ideal, it does Ice disrupts what is otherwise the smooth That airflow is necessary for the wings to lift output to keep the plane aloft. Disrupting that process with ice with its lot of drag, could lead to airflow separation, Ice buildup also adds extra weight. This all means the plane will require more In severe icing if it becomes necessary, pilots That is why planes have anti-ice and deicing The ATR 72 is no different in that regard. So let's take a moment to familiarize ourselves tools. There are increments to the ATR's Ice Protection, Level 1 ice protection is always switched and keep the sensitive external probes clear Electrical heat supplied by the plane's Things get a bit more interesting when looking be activated by a pilot during icing conditions. Level 2 is engine and structural anti-ice physically removing ice from the plane. Exploring Level 3 Ice Protection further, very distinctive feature on the leading edges These long black areas, these are called de-icing A pneumatic system injects air into the boots, has accumulated on the leading edges. I think one question that a normie might have ice, and ice is unfavorable for flight, why all the time". I think for people who are not familiar with question to ask. At the end of the day, for these systems to Whether it be for the propeller anti-ice, source of that is bleed air. That being air that has been siphoned off the engines for uses elsewhere on the plane. Engaging the anti-ice leads to a slight decrease So where necessary, pilots switch these systems Additionally, the heated bleed air could result Let's get back to those de-icing boots. It's an instant fix but a problem as already As we have already established, flight 4184 Supercooled Large Droplets that froze when Now if we go back to the diagram, one of the means it can slide back over the wing to the Normally ice accumulates on the leading edge de-icing boots can't reach. The pilots had lowered the nose during their Though the intention here was to provide a this also exposed the supper surface of the Though the ATRs ice protection was doing a edges, that doesn't mean the rest of wing the deicing boots, in fact this supercooled of the boot. Basically, what was allowed to happen here ice was still building up on the wings. Also because the ATR72 is a high wing aircraft, deck. None of this however fully explains the loss But it was at this point of my research that This is "Unheeded Warning" Written by Look at all my notes. Stephen Frederick was a former American Eagle He was actually close friends with First officer the two were hired together by Simmons Airlines. For the author, the effect of this accident In this book, Mr. Frederick tells his experience afterward. He wrote of how he was working nightshifts broke of the disaster. He was woken up by a panicked telephone call on CNN. Former Pilot Stephen Frederick knew a thing He had previous experience at the controls in a snowstorm. The previous year during the Thanksgiving He was flying an approach into a cold, icy It was snowing and as he was just a few hundred as "a powerful rhythmic vibration" and almost as if there was some external force After applying maximum prop speed, aborting elsewhere this American Eagle Pilot just knew When he received news of Flight 4184, he took It wasn't just him; other pilots began to performance in icing. He reports how pilot morale was shattered Now as it turns out, the tragedy of flight involving the ATR misbehaving in ice. Multiple pilots at American Eagle endured lives years before the Roselawn Disaster. In 1987, a brand new ATR 42, the small sister Como in Italy. Resulting in the deaths of 37 people. It was ice related but the cause was disputed. ATR said pilot error was to blame. Air Crash Investigators pointed to Ice and we've already discussed. The pilots lost control, didn't recover, Though multiple other anomalies were reported made no changes at that time to address it. Now ATR, when they unveiled the plane in the high performance in mind. Like any aircraft manufacturer they know the designed to increase Aerodynamic performance, Sounds like sweet deal. But despite this design, pilots would complain Now this wasn't such a big problem for many For example, take the Finnish National Airline, Finnair has been a long time customer of the to fly them to this day. They have successfully flown the ATRs without However, put the ATR in an environment like world, suddenly ATR pilots now have to operate As Stephen Frederick put it, the flight envelope to more restrictions around Chicago. Something that only got worse as time went aircraft in icing conditions. At American Eagle alone, there were at least prompting concerns from pilots. But don't take this the wrong way, this Perhaps it needs to be mentioned, any plane the ATR. But here we finally reach the bottom of the It basically suffered from a quirk of the Remember that air flow separation, lets revisit We talked about how ice got on the plane, to clear the wings of ice... Well carrying on from that, on the accident shadow where the ailerons are located on the That void means that the ailerons are now Hinge Moment Reversal. An area of low pressure had been created over So what happens, naturally the aileron is region and the aileron lifts, its pulled up. On Flight 4184, this occurred on the right The right aileron was lifted up from this And what do you know, this is our uncommanded This led to the loss of control on Flight Critically leading up to this moment, seconds the flaps back to zero. The effect of this was an increase in the vulnerable to that break of the wing's much The environment for this disaster was set the wings reached a critical level, airflow aileron hinge reversal. When the ailerons deflected with the force pilots had to apply all the strength they a brief moment until it happened the second The ATR family does not have hydraulic powered The control wheels on the flight deck are via a complicated series of cables and pulleys. When an ATR pilot acts on the control wheel, plane. Problem here is, that process also works in The pilots felt every bit of those uncommanded wheel. That volatile air lifts the aileron, the control of the pilot can counteract it. -break- in the American North sort of just put up The planes would vibrate, experience rolling in their ailerons and it was something that Airlines and American Eagle. The ATR had developed a negative reputation to the point that some even refused the upgrade in pay. Pilots at Simmons Airlines/American Eagle It wasn't a problem that for the airline, They had dozens and dozens of these things The ATR fleet was a $2 and a half billion So the airline attempted to drum up support wasn't happening. Many pilots saw right through the company's the airline made this worse. There were notices given to the pilots requiring holding and to bring the flaps in at lower It was all very confusing to the pilots who airline were in conflict with basic pilot They were now required to fly really slow Some changed their approach to flying, others and even still there were those who swore was actually higher than what ATR recommended. There was even a point where Simmons reportedly between raindrops and avoid areas that could Ignoring the fact that differentiating raindrops Supercooled Large Droplets was something that It was only after Roselawn that extensive understanding of this phenomenon grow. We can now even detect and forecast SLD conditions. None of this though helped to cool the atmosphere Pilots got into arguments; numerous pilots of flights. As Stephen Frederick reports, "people began crew lounge". It was a tense time at the airline. Everyone was keen to know what the investigation of already new the score. Weeks passed with little done from the airline pilots. A number of American Eagle pilots then took About three weeks after the accident, just season, something began to show up throughout Notices, flyers, warning passengers of this They appeared in the airport shops, bathrooms, distributed directly to passengers. Pilots were protesting, directly confronting think this plane is safe on a cloudy rainy Stephen Frederick was one of those pilots This is what it said... "WARNING! American Eagle Passengers. Despite all of our warnings and past experiences, 1994, in the crash of American Eagle Flight and Chicago. This accident did NOT have to happen and the Pilots Association and ATR (manufacturer of your trip today) could have prevented it. American Eagle (Simmons Airlines) has had many unreported incidents) related to the due to ICE on wings and tail surfaces over Only luck saved these aircraft, several of SEVERAL HUNDRED FEET ABOVE THE GROUND. The pilots of these aircraft have pleaded of these aircraft in light of each and every MONEY has been a motivating factor in denying have paid the ultimate price. The pilot group of this airline are irate, Please review the information on the reverse to the press, attorneys and congress. It may take congressional hearings to make The FAA, ALPA and the company have successfully interest of PROFIT. Much more information is available! We the American Eagle pilots, are highly trained your flight a pleasant and safe experience. If the weather is clear this winter, sit back If the weather is cloudy, snowy or cool and methods because the majority of us will refuse are fixed. Even with the threats of management hanging as the "ultimate authority" of the flight Thank you". So things were going from bad to worse at As far as American Eagle, American Airlines was concerned, this was only the beginning. The media took notice. On November 30th, 1994, the Chicago Tribune to fly the ATR right there on the front page. That very same day, an editor at the Chicago Frederick as the story had captured the interest Company. They wanted to run a segment on the American So the following day Mr. Frederick appeared was supposed to be anonymous. However there appeared to be a breakdown of When asked as how he's like to be addressed, off air, he replied "Steve". Problem is that was how he was introduced He wrote about this moment, saying he knew him as "Steve" that he was finished at Though the whistle had been blown and the tension was high at the Simmons Airlines and Some pilots supported the media coverage, Regardless, this public awareness campaign The public opinion on the aircraft soured. In response, Simmons put together a counter However on December 9th, the Federal Aviation forecasted icing conditions. It was devastating to the airline's operations It didn't last though and by February restrictions cold sky again. Stephen Frederick was suspended from the airline. -break- of American Eagle Flight 4184. We've looked into the weather the aircraft We've looked at the impact that ice had how Aileron Hinge Reversal created an uncontrollable to loss of control and ultimately the crash If there is one thing that needs to be remembered, happen. This specific issue with this plane had been The plane's manufacturer never took steps Eagle continued to fly the plane in icy weather The National Transportation Safety Board agreed and the aircraft's susceptibility to it French investigators at the Bureau of Enquiry is the BEA for short). They disagreed somewhat with the NTSBs findings. Everyone was in agreement at least that there that European investigators weren't convinced They drew attention to the flaps. They said that they were flying at excessive which could induce significant loads on aircraft. They also highlighted that the pilots were French investigators put the accident down The NTSB refuted these points and stands by In the aftermath investigators found that certification process for aircraft in icing changes to properly certify these planes. The NTSB also pointed fingers at ATR inadequate incidents. No changes were made to the plane despite In fact, engineers at ATR had known about But the plane was certified anyway with procedures with the problem. They attributed incidents with the plane, It was only after this accident that substantial The de-icing boots were extended to cover New ice procedures were brought in, and pilot The Federal Aviation Administration issued turboprops with specific reference to the In the years after, American Eagle took all Many of them operated in the Caribbean. You know, regions where icing is not much Because of the Roselawn accident and the hard for all of us. Patreon Outro I guess it is that time. The end of the video. If you found this one interesting be sure me know what you thought. I look forward to reading all of your comments. If you can get a hold of a copy, I would actually that's the book written by that Former American It was an interesting read and insightful to what we've discussed today. The book is not that common to my knowledge It even includes a whole section looking into of stories there. Speaking of books and actually have in my is going to be very useful for a video that Its not the next video but maybe 2 to 3 videos well, I don't want to say too much yet, All I will say is that it involves going out Something I have done before but definitely Something else I want to bring up with you the New Year. January is going to be a pretty slow month The reason being is that I have to travel in a hospital for two weeks. Thought I'd let you know this that's going I will make sure that there's a video in I return, it'll be with possibly the most If you would like to follow more on that, where I post many personal updates. Anyway, with all of that said, I must take on Patreon for continuing to support the channel, now so if you see your name here a massive Shoutout this to Clover Phoenix and Landon much. Big thanks to those who pledged at the highest Gonzales and June Darius. I really appreciate that, you guys never had it, legends. Total Legends. If you yourself would like to support the videos possible, you can always join the Disaster and the link to that will be in the pinned All patrons get early access to all new videos, Okay I'm going to shut up now because this So thank you all so much for watching, have Goodbye!