Hello friends! To help you have more choices in caring for flowers at home using natural methods Today I will introduce to you a completely new type of organic fertilizer. If you are new, please subscribe to the channel so you don't miss any tips on how to grow and care for flowers! To make this fertilizer, I use wheat flour. Put 2 tablespoons of flour in the bowl Next is bread yeast Add 1/2 teaspoon of yeast to the bowl Add 30ml warm water Mix the mixture thoroughly. Then wrap the mixture and let it rest for 5 hours. 5 hours later You remove the wrap and pour the mixture into the jar Add 0.5 liters of warm water Stir thoroughly so that the mixture completely dissolves in water. Then continue to dilute the solution with water to get 3 liters of fertilizer for flower plants. Method 1 Use a cotton ball to wet the solution Clean both the top and bottom of the plant's leaves. Leaves that are clean of dirt and insects will photosynthesize more easily On the other hand, nutrients are absorbed through the leaf surface Will be converted into an energy source to grow plants. You should wipe the leaves of your plant once a month to minimize leaf diseases. Method 2 You water the base and roots of flower plants with this liquid fertilizer. This type of fertilizer contains many beneficial bacteria that greatly help the growth and development of flower plants. It contains significant amounts of carbohydrates, Phosphorus, potassium, calcium, iron, zinc, etc. Vitamins of groups B, E, K,... It is essential for the outstanding growth of plants. It also promotes strong root development Consciousness pushes the tree to sprout, bud and bloom more You should apply this method every 2 weeks with normal flowering plants Method 3 You pour this fertilizer into a spray bottle Spray mist on leaves and all flower plants Helps plants wash away dirt, bacteria, and harmful insects And it adds nutrients to the plant very well through the leaves. With high starch, mineral and vitamin content This type of fertilizer will promote healthy plant root growth Stimulates plants to branch and flower. After only 3-4 times of fertilizing, the tree will produce many new roots. A strong root system will help flower plants absorb more nutrients. So that you have more choices when caring for flowers at home using natural methods Today I continue to introduce to you a new type of organic fertilizer Helps plants root and sprout strongly with many brilliant and long-lasting flowers. If you are new, please subscribe to the channel so you don't miss any tips on how to grow and care for flowers! In my hand is Carrots Cut 60 grams of carrots into small pieces Put it in the blender Next is ginger Chop 5 grams of ginger put it in the blender Add 0.5 liters of water And puree. Then filter the solution. Next is honey Add 1 teaspoon of honey to the jar Stir well so that the honey completely dissolves in the solution Continue diluting further with 2.5 liters of water Method 1 Use a cotton ball to wet the fertilizer solution And clean each leaf of the plant Thoroughly wipe the top and bottom of the leaves and between the leaves This is where fungi and insects often reside Clean leaves will become shiny and healthy The stomata open and the flower will photosynthesize better Regularly wipe leaves to limit leaf diseases on plants Method 2 You use a spray bottle containing this fertilizer solution Water and mist all flower plants once a week. This will help wash away dirt and harmful insects. With strong anti-oxidant and mineral compounds This fertilizer will help disinfect the entire flower plant. On the other hand, the leaves will also absorb nutrients converted into energy to help plants grow strongly. Method 3 You water the base and roots of flower plants with this fertilizer Carrots contain a lot of nutrients such as carbohydrates, sugar, potassium, calcium,... and many vitamins such as vitamin A, K, C Essential for plant growth and flowering Helps plants reduce stress and support root growth and promotes plant growth and flowering very well. You should water the plants regularly 3-4 times/month so that the flowers grow healthily Hopefully the above information will help you in the process of taking care of your flower plants. If you find the video interesting and useful, please like and share with friends and relatives! Thank you very much! Goodbye and see you again in the next videos!