- I cut my finger making for some band-aids a couple minutes ago, and now they're four seconds away. (drone whirs) (bag plops on deck) That is a nearly silent deliver a package from the in as little as two minutes And as far as I am concerned, that's basically teleportation. This is the very near future of package delivery from It's been over a decade promised drone delivery And to be honest, I was because I couldn't imagine that anyone would actually want with dangerously fast spinning propellers landing anywhere near their house. And that was a bummer, of people using Amazon like DoorDash or Instacart, are now happening every year. But when your lunch driving it to everyone with these two-ton, gas-powered vehicles bad for the whole planet, just really slow. Drone delivery would not only take a lot of cars off the road, but it would be a lot faster than a car, it would be fully and it would cost pennies And with Zipline, because the can move laterally in any a dartboard-sized precision while the main drone can making the whole thing whisper quiet. (drone makes high pitched whistle) That is very quiet. Also due in part to the clever design of these really funky propellers. As you all know, I only And while most are just (cannon explodes) - [Offscreen Speaker] What?! (devices explode) (horn beeps) (foam bullet whizzes) (bell dings) I like to dedicate one video to showcase how clever people are using engineering to change the world for the better. And to be clear, the company is not sponsoring this I'm just really impressed by and how they're doing it. So we'll circle back in a minute to exactly how they're using these short-range drones in a city. But it begs the question, if why not use gliding drones to deliver critical medical supplies for countries with lots Well, as it turns out, through the skies is what for over six years, which is why we need to head out to Rwanda to And immediately after showing up, we were right in the thick of Wow! (laughing) And landing- That was another one land! Every 90 seconds. They're coming from everywhere. And as a newcomer, it felt a bit chaotic. But if you're gonna rack of drone flights, (launcher zings) your team needs to be operating with the efficiency of an F1 pit crew. So here's a crash course It all starts with an order coming in from a doctor at a for an emergency supply of blood. Then once it's all packed to be placed in the belly of the drone, and then the whole thing At that point, they attach the wings and secure the battery, Then after some pre-flight safety checks, they launch the drone (launcher zings), all within 90 seconds The catapult launcher to 65 miles an hour in a third of a second which is literally less time And it's a pretty clever the drone immediately starts where it takes much less Then once it's in the air it navigates its way to the hospital, and upon arriving, opens the which lands safely using a parachute. Having now completed the mission it continues making all autonomously navigate back home from as far away as 150 miles round trip. Then taking inspiration as the drone approaches, broadcasts its position So these two poles know at the last possible on the tail with the cable, Then once it's settled to a stop, the crew comes in to remove and it all goes back into rotation. The whole thing is really which means it works in And because there's no human steering it, it has no issues flying at night. So they run the operation 24 hours a day, which is how in six years, those half a million, often That is the uppermost of how they're doing what they're doing. But what you should know is six years ago all the experts told them and failure was a near certainty, and they kind of weren't wrong. - Building an engineering So you prototype, you know, you build it, and then you fail, and and you fail, and you try it again, until you have this shiny This is a different type of aircraft. This is not what we had. The first one used to land The vehicle had a hook on the back. - [Mark] Yeah. - By the tail. - [Engineer] The tail would - [Mark] Yeah. - [Engineer] And then the and it would land on the mattress. - [Mark] First of all, he's They were scrappy in the early days, using actual fishing poles, And secondly, this is Abdul. And what you should know in Rwanda, not far from where And while he would eventually in robotics, attending he got his start in engineering - I remember that I would that, you know, was leftover. You know, we would add tires - Abdul was orphaned as of his parents and all in the Rwandan genocide, But he didn't give up on And so as he got older, he would go around to all the local hospitals, for free, using knowledge he gained from watching YouTube videos. Abdul's the very first and he really helped to pioneer so many of the systems they have in place today that are now used all over the world. And so in an effort to I wanted to see if it was robust enough that even a total newb like Oh, we got one. Panic! - (laughs) Don't worry. - Don't worry? Okay. Gloves, okay? (blows air into glove) Good enough. (snaps glove) This is where the blood is, right? - O positive. - It's O positive. - [Worker] Yeah. - I feel like I shouldn't Stay calm. That's the number one rule. - Now you scan it. - Scan it? (scanner beeps) - Do six wraps. - Like this? - Two, three, four- - Five, okay. (rips paper and grunts) (label snaps in the air) (Worker chuckles) Just out here saving lives. And once I ring the bell, (bell dings) it's the drone team's problem. Okay, what do I do? - Check if there's no tangles. - [Mark] And push it here? Out of my way. I'm comin' through! The wings. How's that? Battery? Which one do we pick? There's so many! So after a final check little bit of look to the right and cough. (instruments beep) (propellers whir) (launcher zings) We had lift off. Yeehah! I'm a hero. We did it. I just like saved life basically. Wow! How do you guys do this all day long? So now that I had a pretty we headed out to see were actually flying to. So we left the launch site like We're driving to this remote hospital on these really windy roads. And as we've been driving, and seeing some of these Zipline drones delivering blood and medical So since we're about a half hour out I thought it would be fun to Then it could meet us when we get there. 'Cause when you need extra ointment, you just need extra ointment. And sure enough, a few I got a notification This is wild, because on some really windy roads. I got it! (laughs) Close. So close. - And so after opening the package and checking their handiwork, I asked if I could speak When's the last time you delivered a baby - In few minutes ago. - A few minutes ago? (laughing) That's pretty fresh. - For the doctors, it was like a miracle. - With Zipline, we are sure we're going to get what we need. And you are sure that - But it wasn't just the I also spoke with a handful of patients who for are all alive today because (speaking foreign language) - [Translator] Every time I just think that someone's - And that's kind of true, in-hospital maternal mortality by 88%. Zipline has two launch sites for pretty much anywhere have operations running And while they serve 3000 that number will be 10,000 All right, so we've covered delivery drones, which means to talk about their short But first I just have to I was blown away by Rwanda as a country. I mean right outta the are really cool because till the light turns green. They can balance and on their heads, and there's And given that when in Rwanda, whenever possible, that's What a freakin' boost! Everyone was also super Well, not everyone, because with some random kids- Am I good, am I good? Just know they're not (kids laugh) Besides the fact that before traveling there, I knew about Rwanda was that took place about 30 years ago. And while there are still as horrific as that was, it into a period of healing and solidarity as a single Rwandan people, instead of divisive ethnic groups. For example, on the last literally everyone spends and volunteering in And that's one of the reasons you hardly see litter anywhere. The other one being 15 of the first countries to There was just a pervasive Everyone was moving with the not just working hard but working smart with their resources on hand. Yeah, buddy! Including their improvised soccer balls. For over a decade attending has been both mandatory and free. And when you combine to new technologies like drone delivery, for the last decade their at four times the rate of the US economy, while their violent crime rate has been 15 times less than the US. And finally the most awe-inducing was when I hiked to see an entire family of mountain gorillas up close in the wild, which was equal parts I think he's looking at me. Mountain gorillas only exist and while there's only a I got to just chill with 20 of 'em. They're critically endangered. But thanks to Rwandan funded by people paying their numbers have climbed All that's to say that besides Rwanda is my new second-favorite country. We got this. And next time I go back, of soccer balls- Oh yeah! Which I will give away to any kid who just promises not to embarrass me. (animated firebomb explodes) Okay, so now let's talk a little bit more about these new short-range city drones. Because for the 4 billion that will happen this year in the US, and that number doesn't even Why not at least try and take some of those slow-moving-traffic-causing, cars off the road, in exchange that's also electric, and zero emissions. And while the solution that could perfectly control its landing from super high up seemed than something like this that when they first told me about One, how loud and disruptive are they? Because the last thing we buzzing by our rooftops all day. And two, how safe are they? Because the other last thing we want is for those same annoying down on us from the sky. I also had a bonus third is even supposed to load in And so in a search for answers, I went right to their headquarters not that far down the And the first thing is this really cool the total number of flights they've flown, now at over half million, all the long-range drones at that exact moment, delivering those critical medical And this isn't now just where they design and build all their drones. It's also where they do And they test pretty much before getting it out to the And according to their CEO, Keller, this is something they - Our key insight was we were dumb, and we basically always And for that reason, we got them into the - [Mark] Yeah. - [Keller] And learned - [Mark] Yeah. - And you learn so much that you can't learn in a - And so before we actually hear just how quiet these things are, I just wanna echo that I've ever known have had knowing there's no better way to learn than to test and to break stuff. That's why I named the that has the express goal of teaching kids to think like engineers, CrunchLabs. It's because things are supposed to crunch and to break and to fail along the way. And so if I could get passively watch a video by while we talk about the then I know the principles - Yes. - So if you wanna have a that resiliency in your - That works! - [Mark] Just head to CrunchLabs.com or use the link in the video description. All right, so to answer my first question on the noise level, I'll just to the first time I heard it. I mean, I hear something. But I cannot believe that's airborne! Are you serious? And I just wish there was on video, but here's my best attempt. You'll first hear a leaf blower, then a typical hobby drone then their drone that weighs 50 pounds. And of course, I've kept the audio levels completely untouched for all three. (leaf blower hums) (drone whirs) (drone lightly whistles) That is whisper quiet. That is very quiet. (cow moos) That cow is way louder I bet the mic picked up that cow. And this test was because I sort of just assumed the weight of a thing would exactly will end up being to keep But it turns out that's not actually true, even if you just look at nature. Pigeons, for example, sound like this. (pigeon flaps) But with owls, there's to be as quiet as possible. And as a result, their For this reason, to crack the code, Zipline actually did turn to nature. - We studied the hummingbird - Oh sure. - They have the worst case. They're tiny, and they're really quiet. They just like hover there. You barely hear them. - By the way, that's Keenan. He's another Zipline co-founder. And for your robotics nerds, which is the open source who wants to build anything robotic. So in effort to try and of their quiet propellers, under the curve could of those annoying where the closeness of these that's just sort of grating on your ears. So after studying the really wild-looking rotors how to take those spikes So while the extra weight means or area under the curve, means it's much more of a More like white noise of doesn't register. They use the same quiet propeller approach for their long range from this doctor with an impeccable taste in YouTube content who You've seen my videos, (laughs) Have you seen the planes fly over and deliver the supplies here? - I have not yet seen one come - That's amazing. There was just 15 - They're really quiet. If I would have heard it, gone to see it. - For my second question regarding safety. Just like when sending something to Mars, all their critical systems In engineering, we call this redundancy. And they even demonstrated stops working, it could to the large back propeller And that back propeller is because it's what propels across town. But then it turns down and create extra lift while down the droid. In addition to the redundancy, is automatically deployed that's sensed, or if the drone And because of their it's worth noting, in the six for those half a million zero incidents causing any injury. As for my third bonus question around how the drones get loaded up, in the most simple case, could reserve some parking Or as one of the Zipline - You can take a window and turn it into this portal. - So the droid would come down the chute, then some ASAP items like then it goes back up the and off for delivery. For healthcare, if you were really sick, and say, on a 15-minute by the time the call was ending, on your back porch, so you You could also imagine how this could work with a distribution center More than 90% of people in the US live within 10 miles of and Zipline drones conveniently can make a 10-mile round trip while An additional win for the planet here is you don't need to use all because it doesn't have to survive being shipped out on a big truck. But this isn't just for big stores. Your favorite local shop more easily afford to but at an ostensibly much lower cost than a person driving a 3000 And as soon as by the end of this year, customers such as Sweetgreen straight to your backyard. And not having packages is the worst news to hit since the invention of the glitter bomb. - Aww, you (bleep). (device sprays) - Alright, all right, we (bleep) get it. Okay. - All right. So if your mind isn't already blown let me try one final for something we might see And to be clear, this is It's just an idea that won't leave my head after seeing all this. Because it stands to reason, if the system can work for packages, it should be able to In other words, imagine a bigger drone. Let's say it's an ambulance, but equally quiet propellers, you can hardly see it. Then it lowers the entire which could quietly touch So you hop in, or they then it reels you in, so and traffic straight to your destination, only to be dropped off All right, so finally, with the coolest part The whole time we were at the fence to watch the drones be launched and captured over and over. In fact, one kid came up what he built completely on his own. And in that moment, it was the complexity of this build to the simple milk carton Because here you have Abdul from the same machete that as a child, not only using to save the lives of his to inspire the next to dream even bigger. It's the type of thing a little bit of that for the future and the of us mere humans. In the future, your CrunchLabs box just might come from the sky. And the best part of Abdul's story is how using the they literally willed that is now saving lives. (cable zips) (Mark hits the floor) And as it says on the box, is to help you think like an engineer. That means you know and break a problem down Thinking like an engineer makes or piano practicer or math studier, because you're resilient. And just like Abdul, of failing a bunch before you (goo explodes) (kids yell) So the way it works is every month, a really fun toy comes in a box like this. And when you open it, where you not only build it all the juicy physics principles And the best part of all is each month, we randomly select one box And if it happens to be your box- - [Parent] Oh my gosh! You won, buddy! (kid whoops) - Then you're coming out to design with me and my team for a day. So if you wanna unlock to create and build use the link in the video description, or go to CrunchLabs.com and order your Build Box subscription today. Thanks for watching. (bell dings) (logo pops)