Fusion power has a certain reputation, something in the realm of a holy grail, but not in a good way. There is a famous joke about how it never becomes a reality. You can Google it if you like. But really the moment we are is probably more exciting There's more activity in the fusion world than ever, and not just in There's also an emerging that's attracted billions in recent years. Governments and private investors alike realize that we've got to find a solution that's going to allow us This is one of the hardest but most rewarding problems Ultimately, we all want the same thing. We want someone to put from a fusion power station Frankly, the scale of the challenge, 3,000 gigawatts of fossil fuel to replace. There's not many things that can do that. In fact, there may only be And while many in the scientific community predict fusion power will take decades, some in the private fusion space believe we'll get there as soon as the 2030s. There is a lot of money going into these companies. And it's very interesting and exciting. There are some I really love and some I would rather laugh about. The world is desperately searching for a replacement for fossil fuels. Now scientists and startups are betting that a is finally in sight. We are looking at visible light coming from the plasma. The plasma is this sort of but what you actually The hottest part you really don't see because it's too hot to emit light in the visible, isn't it? Yes. When I started, I was and then I realized was a lot more interesting My work is stressful. My work can be very But this is still one of the most exciting Here in Oxford, you'll find arguably the most successful fusion JET, the Joint European Torus, torus being the technical term for donut, which is how the reactor's shaped. JET's been operating since the early '80s and only by 1997 were we really And we produced 16 megawatts which is like a few wind turbines. It's pretty significant. And it shows that fusion is possible. The 1997 experiment set records, but the reactor was only able The team spent the next two decades cooking up a new approach. And in 2021, they gave it another shot. We always knew that we could do better. The last two days before Christmas were dedicated to these experiments, just this window of parameters And we did. Three, two, one. JET more than doubled its previous record, producing more energy than any We couldn't hug. We couldn't high-five, nothing, because we have to be at But, you know, it was obvious It was successful. You could see that it was successful. It's a real step towards the ultimate promise of fusion, a cheap, emissions-free power source with virtually unlimited fuel. But maybe don't break out So in the 1997 experiments we produced a lot of power, So it ramped up and then we lost control. Now we ramp up and So what exactly makes fusion such a tough problem that sustaining it for five seconds constitutes a world record? Nuclear fusion. Once it's perfected, fusion power will give us an So nuclear fusion is inside the sun, where lots and lots of hydrogen atoms are moving at immense speeds. And every so often some to form helium. Now the process at the atomic level leads to a very small And that little amount of mass actually generates a lot of energy. And you do that millions and you get the sun. Well look, we know fusion works. It's happening right now in our sun. But the reason it's happening in the sun is because of the mass of the sun. It's so massive, has this huge gravitational force which is pushing those close enough to fuse. We obviously cannot here on Earth. So instead, we have to give So we take a gas, we put a and that turns it into the If you consider water, then you warm it up then you get a fluid, and then you warm it And if you then increase then you get plasma. Common plasmas include lightning, neon lights, and these things. We need temperatures 10 times larger than So this is about 100, 200 million degrees. And only at those sort of temperatures do you get fusion to happen here on Earth. Heating something to 10 times the temperature of the sun is, to use the technical term, very hard. Scientists have been working The major breakthrough has been the first tokamak experiments in the 1960s in the former Soviet Union. They achieved several million degrees, and this was a real breakthrough. Tokamaks is still one to create fusion. That's what JET is, along with many other around the world. Using powerful magnets they've achieved temperatures and well beyond. But there's still one big before fusion power becomes a reality, net gain. We need more power out than in the first place. If we can't generate than we put in then the whole thing's a bust. Unfortunately, no one's ever done it, not even the brilliant minds at JET. That's all kind of part of the plan though because JET isn't actually all by itself. It's just set up for a much Uh, no, no. ITER. We are building this experimental machine in the south of France, ITER, And it's the first one that than what it consumes. ITER is a massive between 35 different countries. And everyone involved it's going to get to net So fusion's just around the corner, right? Well... With the ITER project, the first plasma is supposed to be created by 2025, but full fusion reaction So if ITER were the only bet then it would be a safe bet to say that nuclear fusion is and that's too long for the climate fight. Even the most optimistic scientists think that fusion power may if then, if ever. Some think we can get there much faster. There's more than 30 around the world. And it feels like every month or two there's another private company with another great idea The amount of funding going into fusion has also been scaling. There's more private funding than there is federal government funding in the United States. The private fusion space is still small in terms of budget and people when compared to the mainstream. But if you look at the rate of progress, I would say it's much, much faster. And I do think that it that produces the first vital technology. Canadian fusion company General Fusion is steering away from the If you have followed fusion you might have come across an earlier prototype of their reactor. It's very analogous to a fusion version of a diesel engine. So you basically, you have this very large cavity that's opened up inside of liquid metal. And into that liquid metal we inject a high temperature We can now perform this very much the same way compressing and heating the This is a steam-driven compression process using an array of drivers. It compresses and heats to fusion conditions. General Fusion's reactor would create brief an approach they hope will than a tokamak. Founded in 2002, and supported they're one of the furthest along in the field of fusion startups with plans to build a demonstrative on the same scientific campus as JET. This thing won't actually but it will prove that in a power plant relevant environment can actually make fusion happen. Aiming to break ground the company is running full tilt to work out all the kinks before showtime. This is about 2/3 of the full scale that we'll need in our So it's mostly at this point a question of understanding and the plasma physics, to be confident that that will scale as we build the larger version. The alarms you hear when we start charging are alerting you to the fact that we're starting to You hear a ping from when the plasma is interacting with the You see, at the time you heard that thump, that's when the machine It's really exciting to see what's happening in the Of course, I came to General Fusion because I like General That's one man's opinion. I think we have, my view is the first But what really feels good is there's going to be lots And I'm very confident we're going to score the win that we need. Not far from General you can find another fusion company. Helion Energy, one of fusion companies in the world is hunkered down in some just outside Seattle. What we have tried to do at Helion is approach fusion from than a lot of other people. We looked at the state of the art of what was being built in fusion and thought really there to get to commercial fusion faster. That might sound like hype, but there really is about Helion's reactor. Almost every idea behind or a company is to rely on the heat that And then converting that heat into steam, which is then used to turn Now, Helion says that it that heating and turning a turbine phase. So we do something called where we take the magnetic the charged particle energy of the fuel, and directly extract that to electricity. We inject our fuel. We magnetically compress that fusion fuel. Fusion begins. It pushes back on that magnetic field. So, a good analogy is We then directly regeneratively take the electricity back and turn that into electricity. By cutting out the steam step for fusion we can radically increase the of the system. We aim for a system now required a lot less of the and really, from my point of That pitch was good enough to get Silicon Valley giants on board as investors. The company's $500 million Series E round makes them one of the in the world. They're also making one of in the industry. The goal is to get this built by 2024, running, generating net for the first time. Timeline is the driver. It's always the driver. And so if it's a question of, well, it could be a little bit better, but take an extra year, we say, no, we're going to but get it done a year earlier. It's the Silicon Valley mentality of how can you build as Yeah, help me with the gas pressure. Everything's isolated. You got the gas pressure. Fire. Nice. Good shot. That was easy. Back in Oxford, First Light Fusion is taking what might be the most original approach borrowing from a branch of fusion called inertial confinement. The idea behind inertial for a very short time in a very small space. So, one example of inertial confinement is where lasers, very high-powered lasers, are used to heat a very for nanoseconds, that is This has been done before, most famously at the in California. But First Light has come We call it projectile fusion. We have a high velocity projectile. It flies in and it hits into And the target has to focus into the fusion fuel. This is one of our targets. This is the key technology So this is completely turned into a plasma by the force of the impact In a power plant, one of these targets would release enough energy for over two years. That sound. That's the projectile being at around 15,000 miles an hour. To generate power you have to do that at a repetition rate. You have to do a certain number and it's the energy you release every time times by the frequency and that's the power. So in our power plant design we'd be doing this about So we recently showed fusion in our lab with a projectile driven Just simply experimentally that it can really work. If we look at the actual then that number by And we're not hiding it. It's not very impressive. But the point is that's exactly what the And that's what gives us pathway forwards to improve that number. I hope we're not talking about 50 neutrons at the end of the year. So there's these disruptive technologies which are coming into our We want new ideas. We want people to come and tackle the big challenges that we face. There's lots of startup companies. Some of them will fail. Some of them will go to the wall. Some of them will wildly succeed. That's just healthy. Some on the scientific are more critical of Few private fusion companies beyond fusing a few atoms. And many scientists are promising too much. The cons in my mind are the promises by companies who either have a concept that we have already, for and knew why they won't work, or completely new concepts. Some change them every other year. And then they still promise fusion energy by 2030 or something. And I don't like that too that if there are so that this would not be in general. If you look at the timescales in research, that's completely different that entrepreneurial It's not that there's a but, you know, they're a They're largely You need look no further than SpaceX. They've created what people which is reusable rockets. NASA was never able to achieve that because they weren't And so when it comes to the that's where you really from government to private industry. From what I know, some is very serious and is bringing significant capital and It needs to promise things on the time on a realistic timescale. So, not next year. And the timescale of about It remains to be seen whether the Silicon will actually get us to One thing is for sure though, progress, however slow and And if we're going to get we're probably going to need and the risky new ideas. I think the rate of by the imperative. And to be honest, I mean, let's over the last 20 or 30 years we've been pretty comfortable The fact that we have to stop it now drives the imperative. This is the most important because, I mean, you need for everything. We have a lot of developing countries, and if these countries want to come to our standards of living, there's no way other than and better, CO2 neutral. Otherwise, we have a climate crisis. Each fusion technology has a slightly different flavor in terms of its ultimate And so I think that you're going to see a portfolio of technologies over the coming decades that address different And the market is huge and diverse. The total addressable market for fusion is on the order of $1 trillion a year. It might be decades before fusion becomes a reality, but it's the kind of that you would want to give a civilization to be able to do all Imagine if you could to create an entire fleet of rockets that would go and mine asteroids because, you know, at some point we're going to run out of metals. Or you could remove existing carbon dioxide in the atmosphere back down and bury it deep underground. That process requires a ton of energy, but if you were able to you could imagine restoring to pre-industrial levels. And these are the kinds of application that really cheap and clean energy can enable humanity to do. I want my kids to have a future that has the possibilities that I've had. So I hope we get fusion, and I think private, public, it all needs to come together