Title: El Nino 2024: What the vast expanse of the Pacific Ocean, there were catching fish and observing the rhythms of the water temperature was warmer than usual and there This was something they had never seen before. they began to notice a pattern. This unusual time. They called it &quot;El Nino,&quot; which means They believed that this phenomenon was something cold waters during the winter months. study this phenomenon and discovered that El atmospheric changes that had far-reaching effects Climate Change will be a very dangerous mix for the World Meteorological Organization stated two now increasingly likely that global temperatures fueled by heat-trapping greenhouse gases and El for health, food safety, water management, soon as 2024. We might want to be prepared. about it! Anchovies &amp; El Nino Before they wind up on a pizza or in a tin can Colorful Peruvian boats in the 60s used thousands of anchovies. This was in the dry climate along the coast of to farm the land. These anchovies were a But one day in 1972, the fishermen returned with The seabirds, who usually feasted on the noticed something strange. The water was warmer but there were no anchovies. The skies were dark These happenings, which would occur every few Nino. Today we know El Nino is an essential part Oscillation or ENSO. And it doesn't just impact Understanding why the anchovies were dying actually is, and the impact it has on Earth. ocean off the coast of Peru. Life and rich in nutrients. This is thanks to a elevator for water from the depths of the sea. winds blow north and push the surface water for the nutrient-rich deep water to rise up and phytoplankton, there's zooplankton, and where But sometimes, something called El Nino happens. by changes in the wind patterns. When El Nino get confused, like a lost fish in a sea of the usual places, but the fish are nowhere to which is bad news for us humans who like to Understanding why anchovies die off during El the bigger picture of how our planet works. affect the ocean, small changes in one part It's like a game of Jenga, where one block pulled So let's be mindful of our actions and --- It's easy now to draw some conclusions It is an oscillation of the ocean-atmosphere consequences for weather around the globe. This ocean temperatures in the Equatorial Pacific. and can also lead to devastating bushfires, Nino is closely monitored as it is essential The bushfires in Australia during the Black Nino conditions, combined with cooler-than-average These conditions promote drier eastern parts of the country and often, This said the World Meteorological Organization update about our planet's future. With the climate change, global temperatures will likely The WMO report states that there is a 66% chance higher than pre-industrial levels for one there is a 98% chance that at least one of those reasonable to think this will happen in 2024. to increase global temperatures in the coming health, food safety, water management, and WMO Secretary General, we must prepare ourselves Moreover, compared to the 1991-2020 average, greater than the anticipated global anomaly winters. Additionally, the report suggests with increased rainfall in certain The impact of human-induced greenhouse gases is melting sea ice and glaciers, rising sea The Paris Agreement emphasizes the need for all emissions to prevent the planet from warming increase to 1.5degC. The Intergovernmental Panel on will be higher if global warming exceeds 1.5degC, impacts. We must prioritize climate action to El Nino may be dangerous, but he's not the only characterized by unusually cold ocean temperatures opposite effects of El Nino, and it can lead In conclusion, while El Nino may cause some its occurrence and prepare for its consequences. drought conditions and can be a welcome respite approach these weather phenomena with caution Technical Explanation of El Nino first take a closer look at the normal state of system in this region, which is responsible the formation of El Nino. Near the equator, doldrums. In contrast, the primary high-pressure equator are called the horse latitudes. Due to regions of the Western Pacific, causing the As this hot air moves towards the doldrums, it is shaped by the Coriolis effect. The Coriolis on the motion of bodies in a rotating system, determining the direction of the trade winds. As and southeast trade winds are formed, named for create the normal trade wind system, which sweeps These winds also create gyres, vast ocean-spanning which are maintained by the prevailing winds. This As the surface water moves west, it is replaced by As a result, the sea level in the eastern Pacific than in the western Pacific, where warm surface temperatures in the west are often eight degrees America due to the upwelling of these cooler cause high levels of rainfall over Indonesia and they traverse the Pacific. During El Nino, this impacts the environment on a global scale. --- enjoying this video! Why don't you press the --- If you wonder how El Nino can affect In the vast expanse of South America, El Nino and wreaking havoc with the weather patterns America, which is usually dry and desolate, leading to floods of catastrophic proportions. the surface waters in the Pacific, which leads The resulting scarcity of fish has severe economic The eastern region of South America, encompassing a surge in atmospheric humidity during summers. the usual snowfall associated with the season. depending upon the latitude. The Caribbean and the showers, causing utter chaos on some occasions. the warming of the surface water leads to milder Moving on to Australia and southern Polynesia, El reducing rainfall levels. Some archipelagos, like cyclones, triggered by El Nino. Japan and Korea sultry summers and mild winters. However, Southern lucky, as the temperature increase is accompanied to severe droughts that can last for years. the southeastern portion of the continent, which However, the Horn of Africa witnesses a spike are yet to be fully understood. They are --- So we kinda understand what El Nino is and how most interesting effects it has on the Earth is Think of the Earth as a figure skater spinning arms closer to their body, which causes them to angular momentum requires that the skater's rate radius. Similarly, during an El Nino, the earth's which result in a redistribution of mass total angular momentum, the Earth's rotation This may seem like a small change, but even a big consequences, such as altering weather So, just like a figure skater, the Earth can in the atmosphere. --- Today, we continue to monitor and study El Nino and understanding the effects of climate change anchovies or open a tin can with rollaway of anchovies and people in Peru are closely --- watching. What are your thoughts about El Nino?