- You're probably aware of the mutualistic symbiotic relationship between oak trees and squirrels, but you might not know that oak trees do something to the squirrels. It's all about seed dispersal. So, oak trees want to disperse their seeds far away from the parent tree, in the hope that a new oak tree will grow. And it won't be in the shadow So the oak tree makes acorns. An acorn is basically a container of nutrients with Because they're full of nutrients, squirrels eat them and eat them in their which is no good for the oak tree. The reason this is because squirrels are caching animals. They save resources to use in winter. They do this by burying acorns in little caches underground. The reason this works for the oak tree is because occasionally about one of its caches or will die before getting So, there's potential for a new oak tree to grow from that location. That much you probably already know but oak trees are able to vastly improve their chances of getting by doing something called masting. Every approximately five years, though it varies a lot. An oak tree will produce a like tens of times more These years are called masting years. This bumper crop of acorns is way more than the and other predators could but you know what? Those squirrels are You'll forgive me for anthropomorphizing, but the squirrel just and thinks this is incredible, I'm just gonna bury as many So they do. And loads of those caches end up unused. And that's exactly what it wants abandoned acorns that have the potential to But if an oak tree has this capacity to produce an insane number why not just spread that Well, if oak trees did that, then the predator population would rise up to meet that capacity. Like during mast years squirrels get a huge boost in nutrition so they make more babies and the squirrel population goes up. But the following year this growth of population because we're back down to So doing it this way, where you have mostly low yield years followed by sudden spikes of yield that controls that predator population. It keeps it at a low level and then you just overwhelm them. It's an example of predator satiation. It happens with cicadas as well for example, cicadas spend and they all come out at the for the three F's, feeding, And they overwhelm the predator population like the predators are going, ah I couldn't possibly another one. Actually in the case of cicadas, the predator is a wasp. So it's the wasp that say oh, I couldn't possibly lay another egg in the cicada, 'cause that's what they do. By the way, there's a potential explanation for why certain cicadas live underground and then come out in these 13 and 17 year long cycles. I've made a video about I'll link in the description to that. I actually make the same It's a good joke. It's funny 'cause you think I'm gonna say feeding, fighting and fu... Just like cicadas is on when to have a mast year. Like if cicadas spend 17 but they're all out of So you've got cicadas then predator satiation wouldn't work. It's the same with oak trees. If you've got a population of oak trees and there's always one then that wouldn't control the squirrel population. Instead, like if you go and you see one oak tree producing an insane number of acorns then all the other oak trees I think it might be a mast Don't know it seems like a lot of acorns. What do you think? Is that a lot of acorns? Seems like a lot of acorns. Scientists don't know how It might be that all oak under very specific weather conditions. So it always happens for all oak trees or it might be a chemical signaling in the roots underground. In general seed dispersal like not just the mad thing There are loads of examples like tumbleweed, for coconuts, that's an example I actually talk about some of weird seed dispersal in my new podcast. I've got a podcast, it's It's Matt Parker and The three of us talk about stuff that we find really interesting. It's called A Podcast because some things when you get down into the detail. It's only been out for a couple of days. It's already doing really I hope you'll have a listen to it 'cause I'm really excited about it. The seed dispersal episode So there's three episodes out already so you can listen to all those. And then they're out on a weekly basis. I hope you'll leave review. I hope you'll tell your friends about it. All the links are in the description. It's also on YouTube, so I'll put a link to that on the end card well it'll be somewhere That's it really. This is just one of my so there's no sponsor. Just wanted to take this opportunity to tell you about my podcast. I hope you have a listen. Thanks a lot. See you next time. (upbeat music)