The holy grail of physics is a theory nature of reality. It would give us the dark energy?&quot; And, &quot;what is dark matter?&quot; It general relativity, and help us the smallest scales. Such a theory would emanating from perhaps one master force, emanating from perhaps one super to every question that asks why have such a theory? No, but we have may give us a clue as to the true nature and figure out what it may be trying to existence. That's coming up right now... We don't have a theory of everything, but significant fraction of the way to model of particle physics. This is the describing the true nature of reality good in fact, that when the theory of be a refinement of the standard model - Relativity is a refinement of Newton's explains the subatomic makeup of all nuclear physics, and many other things. Gravity doesn't work using the equations quantum theory of gravity yet. But the absolutely everything. It shows us the matter, and three of the four forces parameters that it does not predict. through measurement and put in as What are these 19 parameters? These are the leptons, mass of the Higgs boson and of the quarks decay, strength of the forces, and the number describing the and gluons. These are called free are all constants that have to be There's nothing that predicts these. If equal to the number that they are?&quot; I just the way that our universe happens different universe, these parameters be an underlying theory that shows us other than what we observe, but that understand about physics so far. What other number, rather than the number that you're talking about, and the magnitude universe would be anywhere from being different. So for example, if the strength stronger, we would likely have smaller exist. The universe may only be slightly masses of the up and down quarks was and we would have a completely different relative mass of protons and neutrons. 0.1% more massive than protons. But this neutrons to decay into protons, and an relative mass was reversed, then protons eventually, we would end up with the means no atoms. And no solid structures. fine-tuning argument - that these the universe such as the gravitational cosmological constant, appear to be universe can exist. I'll get into the another video, but for now, let's take a constants were different. Potentially, you something like this number. the &quot;R&quot; that would make a different universe. depending on the magnitude of the change universe, because some of these numbers thousand parts or more. So for example a huge number. Added together, these numbers large number of different universes. arbitrary, not based on any underlying multiverse theory of reality. In other every variation of these numbers has studied theory of everything and the one physicists working on it, predicts such a This is m-theory, or membrane theory, consistent versions of string theory. M-theory by asserting that strings are really two-dimensional membrane, vibrating in 11-dimensional space-time. This is a candidate for a theory of everything, it could represent the true nature of the number of multiverse predicted by That's 1 followed by 500 zeroes. This some problems though. Like it predicts called a graviton which has not been universe to have up to 11 dimensions, vibrate in these number of dimensions in mathematically. 11-dimensional theory has been derided by many can be manipulated to represent almost true? Maybe almost any imaginable number of physicists that support it and could it be that they're in fact on the But if this is really true, then where three spatial dimensions, and one time dimensions required by this theory? dimensions may be compactify on a very two-dimensional from very far away, but dimension of thickness. And it also has similar to representing other potential the scales that are closer to the scale be loops as shown on the grid here. Now shapes, like a Calabi-Yau manifold. This containt all of the six missing dimensions. in our three dimensions, but since vibrate in these smaller dimensions as particles that they represent. One vibration can be gravity. Another can be string theory, the strings and their in which those strings are moving. The dimensions is not known. But if it was theory could tell you exactly what the us a theoretical basis for why the In other words, the shape of the extra magnitude of those parameters. And if numbers would be different. And the A different universe would exist could have been different if the shape possible. Is there any way to test for there is - using the Large Hadron Collider. extremely high energy, scientists detect particles before the collision, then this energy may have been transferred to LHC found? Well so far, the LHC has not found out the shape of the extra of string theory predicts the exact leave the question of why the shape of it is. So even if string theory answers universe, it may still imply that there shapes of those extra dimensions are does our universe happen to be the way this relatively peaceful, orderly that supports life? universe, or one type of existence over reason for that. You could invoke God force that caused this through his or intriguing alternative and possibly large multiverse, perhaps one of a How could we test for this? The LHC could James Webb telescope will allow us to in time, and perhaps find an anomaly that membrane. In the future, we may even be universes. It may be that we just happen out of innumerable other ones, were the happen to be such that life is possible. find ourselves. This universe perhaps is possible universes that may number the only thing that may make this And I my friend, am glad that you are!