I have the longest Yes, this is a legitimate The normal character limit for a username but using a simple YouTube glitch, I managed to get a username Since I made this video the channel has since reached which means that after several weeks they eventually agreed Inside this box is the most ridiculous I thought that I got the longest in this video many months ago. As you can see, but this is absolutely nothing This video is also sponsored by Honey, But for now, we're going to go to begin my journey on this ridiculous play button. Here we are. We're on my YouTube channel dashboard. Now, if YouTube wanted a little thing would pop up &quot;Congratulations Here's a code to redeem But as you can see, We do have some nice achievements, though. 10,000 hours of watch time, What was the first one? We've gotten to 200K and we still haven't received Because we haven't received we need to do which is annoy the YouTube staff Chat with a member of our team. Enter your channel URL. Not a problem, I'm number one in line. Oh my God! I'm connected with Venice. &quot;Hi, my name is Venice, I am great, thank you [SAYS QUESTION MARK] &quot;That's good to hear!&quot; Great stuff, Venice. &quot;I'm doing good too. Thank you.&quot; Fantastic. &quot;How can I help you today?&quot; I'll say, &quot;my channel reached 100,000 but I'm yet to receive a code to redeem my silver play button.&quot; Send. I have no idea what this silver because there is literally nowhere near Venice has said, &quot;Congratulations for reaching Thanks, Venice. &quot;May I know who That's a suspicious question. I've done this like 12 times. They've never asked me that before. I'm slightly concerned. Shall we send them my username? My name is Jack. My YouTube channel is... I've accidentally put That was an accidental copy and paste. I'm sorry about that one, Venice. He says, Thanks, Jack. Is he going to acknowledge No, he's not. He's just putting the chat I've said yes, that's no problem. Now, we wait. [MUSIC PLAYS] Oh my God! He's typing. Here we go. &quot;Thanks for waiting. I'm putting an emoji. Oh my God! So for reference, every single time they have to contact the awards team but they must have made &quot;To redeem your Creator Award, head to the Creator Awards and enter your unique code. Once you signed in, you'll be asked to enter your channel name Hopefully, there isn't because I have a feeling 2You can expect your awards to be delivered In addition, did you know that your team Yes, I did, Venice. I've been trying to buy but every time I bloody email them, All right, we thanked Venice They've said, What a delight. He's asked if there's anything else. Do you know what? I'm going to give him a little kissy face because I'm feeling a bit &quot;Looking forward to your gold play button.&quot; Am I getting a gold one? Hang on, I need to fill in this survey. I am extremely satisfied. Right, here we go. We're back here again. All right, enter my little code. I'm not a robot. Oh my God! It's already there. The whole thing's there. Just don't even touch it. Oh, no. No, no, no, no, no. I just keep getting switched back again. No, I verify it. When I click continue, It's just putting me back to the website. Obviously, they think that so they're like, Can you please double-check?' Now, we've hit a stumble. I saw this coming, to be honest. I guess at this point, I should try emailing Society Awards I've written out a little email, I guess I'll get that sent off Probably take them a couple I then waited about 48 hours and I got an email back As expected, it was not good news, Guess what? It's been 24 hours and no surprise, &quot;Thank you for reaching out. We are sorry to hear about Please reach out to Creator Support team who will be able to assist you Then they've linked you That's dead end. It's time to get a bit more creative. I was staring at these only moments ago what if the same glitch that allowed me to get this ridiculously also worked on this website? Because yes, they fixed it on YouTube but we're not on YouTube right now. Inspect. Is the max length thing... Oh my God! It says max length. This is exactly I just changed the max length I've clicked okay. Now, I'm going to click continue I really thought that was going to work. It just refreshed the page. Just in case, let's see exactly how It's 382. Just for the fun of it, I'm going to change Then we're going to click continue Are you ready? Still no- Wait, what happened? Did I do it? It took me back to the home page. Well, we'll enter our code, we'll click I'm not a robot We're back here again. No, nothing. I'm not really sure what to do. I mean, at some point that this username But not just yet. Stay tuned. And so, I went back to YouTube live chat. I entered all of the same old information. I explained the scenario At that point, &quot;Do you have an option How dare you, Ceej? How dare you? A shorter name? No, I absolutely do not! Once I politely reiterated that, &quot;Since you like to keep your name, I will need to check this They needed to send an email It was not looking good A few days later, I got another email. But before we read that email, which I'm sure is great news, by the way, Hi there, everyone. But clothes are expensive these days. This nice jumper, for example, is 45 quid. Either way, I'm going to add it We'll worry about it later. Also going to grab some Personalise? Oh my God! TURDBOI. Definitely worth the extra 10 quid. Add to bag, get this hat as well, In the checkout, But what's this? Because I've got Honey, they found me four possible coupons Let's click apply coupons. Honey is now testing each of the coupons Bloody Nooraaa, we've saved PS38.20. All I had to do was click a button. All right, let's head to the checkout. People have got Honey using my link have saved, in total, It just proves it works. Honey's completely free, saves you money. There's no reason not to get If you want to get Honey for yourself, head to joinhoney.com/jack I have now received my email and as expected, it is not good news. &quot;Thank you for your unending patience I was able to read the correspondence and I believe this is about Please note that we take and I'm more than glad As promised, I'd like to inform you and confirmed that in order for you you will be needing to change Kindly follow the steps below.&quot; They literally show us how to actually change Absolutely not. I will never change They fixed the bug that I used, so if I changed it, &quot;In addition, please know the maximum character count and understand that Youtube, you may have won the war, Is that the phrase? I've come up with a plan As you can see, this is When we look, there is not really That's what? Just because we can't change doesn't mean we can't still make For example, we've got JacksEpicYouTubeChannel written in front of me. That's 50 characters long. But watch what happens Oh, it's suddenly a lot longer. Already, I don't think that this name The reason for this For example, this is the letter I 50 times Look how much more space it takes up. Then this is the letter M in capitals uses But this is the letter W in capitals, A beautiful capital W I understand there are from other languages and stuff but there's no point trying that It's a waste of time. Let me show you my proposed Are you ready for this? Oh, no, it's the wrong one. Are you ready for this? Both of these usernames but look how much longer I've got some symmetrical just to add a bit of width. Then this is basically the initials We've got Jacks Epic YouTube Hi Rick X. By the way, this isn't the entire initials Has nothing on me more characters than JackSucksAtLife, stuff, SamSmellsOfApricots, What are we doing? Yes, that's 50 characters long, If this is how much space I'm very curious about how much space What on Earth will they do? Will they put it on a separate line? Will they make the font smaller? Will they just decline me? I've got absolutely no idea. Well, I guess it's time to find out. We have to delete this super long But realistically, we all knew There it goes. Now, I paste in my new one. I'm hoping that it will I guess we will find out. Let's just make sure We got our Ws and Ms at the beginning. We got JacksEpicYouTubeChannel This is just complete mumbo jumbo, Let us click Continue. We have made it to the shipping details. This is the furthest we've gotten. Oh my God! Award level silver. Our username is there. I'm so excited. Let's confirm my order. Your order will be handled and shipped to your address I cannot wait. That is, of course, which I'm guessing they probably will. Either way, though, let's find out. At this point, you would think Well, guess what? But why? We've agreed to do It's technically a lot longer than this, What's the problem? I get an email a couple of days later. &quot;I saw you recently Congratulations.&quot; Congratulations. &quot;I just wanted to double-check that you wanted the name Of course, I said, &quot;Yeah, I would like the name 24 hours later, we get this email. &quot;I just asked YouTube if it was approved and they asked if you would be okay because we don't typically allow Would that be okay?&quot; They want to remove my big, but they only said I said, &quot;Sorry! I didn't realise that. In that case, you could Please print the following on the award.&quot; Then I shoved in an extra M and a W This is so ridiculous. By the way, please subscribe because Another 24 hours later, &quot;Youtube got back to me as long as the MWMWMW Do you approve [...]?&quot; No, I absolutely do not approve because that is only 36 characters, and I'm trying to get a username JacksEpicYouTubeChannel I kick back and I say, If I'm not allowed the Ms and Ws, Then I give a full extended which I was not happy about doing. That username was Jack's epic full of fun times and fun hi rick kiss I am the superior channel. I have more characters than geography, clips, I don't even remember what these stand for, Even though it's not as long as as we can see, it's still quite a lot longer than JacksEpicYouTubeChannel which is what's printed on this award. It will still be the new The Society Awards got back to me and they said, YouTube has finally approved this. I got this really hilarious-looking email Before I knew it, I'm very excited to open it up. I've got the new play button But if we grab our original let's grab our tape measure and work That is an impressive Providing what's in this box we've successfully gotten the new Of course, I'm very nervous about this. Potentially, the username I'm sure it's not going to be. I think that's somehow But truly, it's going to be Okay, take the lid up. It is right under this felt. Oh my God! Are we ready, everyone, for the new Oh my God! Look at that. Let me grab it so you can see it better. Oh, I've not opened a play button This is so nice. Well, you know what? It actually fits very, very nicely. It looks absolutely ridiculous, Have they skipped a character? 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10. 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50. Fair play Society Awards. Is that a new felt? It is, guys. You can tell I've opened when I can recognise it's new felt. Look, it's a slightly less deep black. That's very nice. I like it. Before we're going to do and work out if it's longer because I don't think But as long as it's longer, I realised that I have not yet checked Where's me package by Rick card?! What the hell? Where is it? You are joking me. Every single Society Awards award has come with a little package Look, I literally made a little plaque I can only assume that Rick saw this I am not giving that little English moron the satisfaction I can't believe it. God, that is so funny. Do you know what? I know you packaged it, Rick, because I have a commercial invoice and it's got your bloody name But either way, here we are I can't help noticing there's a mucky They're taking the mickey Oh my God! When you put them side by side, you can see that they've actually This typeface is so much thicker I wonder if that's the first time Did they have to do that I've got my tape measure. 22 and a half to beat. Yes, we're 23 and a half!! We did it. We've got the new longest Thank you so much for watching, everyone. Subscribe to JackSucksAtLife. Subscribe to this channel. Click that like button We did it. Oh my God!