So, back at the beginning of February 2019 DJ marshmallow performed a live concert inside Epic Games' online gaming then being informed via numerous breathy merely a game but is now a content logically the only sensible thing for me entirely to Fortnite. Welcome to the brand-new Folding Ideas only a digital studio because I'm literally a digital studio. It is double is the only meaningful animation I've really looks like talking so I, I guess you see me doing this it means I'm It took me like 20 hours to unlock this. Fortnite, developed by cooperative base-building tower-defense with in-game purchases&quot; in July 2017. The free-to-play sub-game Fortnite Battle Battle Royale, a format popularized by Playerunknown's Battlegrounds and originally inspired by the 2000 Japanese horror standing free-for-all where 100 players ever-shrinking zone of engagement and and fight until only one remains. In the Royale the original Fortnite has been A critical bit of Fortnite's development multimedia firm Tencent. In 2012 Epic Games then-fledgling Fortnite seeking their service platform, meaning it would rather than simply being a single and supply additional financial being allowed to purchase a 40% stake in agreed. Following the merger a number of including Cliff Bleszinski, Adrian all to one degree or another citing merger, the games as a service business here for. Fortnite into an appropriate Fortnite player on player action. It's &quot;player versus player&quot; wait what did I say so remember to follow me on twitch TV enjoy what the earth-mother gave us but one of the things in particular that meta-narrative surrounding Fortnite~ hey, isn't it weird how hostile the simply structured to drive paying for Okay so what's all basic about a concert~ Okay, so what all this about a concert in Fortnite? An February 2nd under the DJ name Marshmello, played a Pleasant Park Or, more accurately, at 2:00 p.m. Eastern Marshmello concert game-mode got to which weapons and damage were couldn't be griefed and that the event explosions. It's maybe a bit of a the concert was pre-recorded and not do here. We deconstruct narratives and very much part of the narrative. The mini set was added to Marshmello's tour implicit messaging was to demonstrate of Fortnite as a content delivery the game's engine, server architecture, impressive. The crowd does end up looking people per match just isn't that many if audience, but players manoeuvring virtual things than real people, and keeping the players who were accessing on lower end minimizing the odds that they would lag platform however? Well it demonstrates fortnight offers if your DJ Marshmello. Fortnite. It's full of bespoke assets constructed with the active While Fortnite has a creative mode that even very impressive spaces, nothing like possible to put on a concert in put on a concert in Fortnite. The actual big-name collaborators. Epic is viable venue for crossover promotional concept of games as a &quot;live time disassembling that particular Fortnite isn't really a game. Like that's not the core of Fortnite. storefront. The monetization systems in are seemingly simple on their face, but of for Fortnite's monetization are the which are fueled by an in-game token here, as in most other micro transaction financial regulations involving held gambling with regards to loot doesn't count as gambling if the Basically in a lot of places it doesn't gambling with fun bucks that can't be things that utilize all the structure, of gambling, like video game loot crates gambling as far as the law is concerned directly back into dollars. Additionally obfuscate the assigned value of both V Bucks themselves by giving buyers a bulk V Bucks for performing in-game Nominally one V Buck is worth just under V Bucks at a cost of $99.99 u.s. you get an so the actual monetary cost of anything percent depending on how many V Bucks point. relieve you of the pressure and weighing dollars... or is eleven dollars? This is on where the amounts don't scale evenly and actual items, increasing the likelihood or will need to buy a substantial amount want. This particular bit is pretty to a whole new level. This is ultimately just a euphemism for a game that takes only game that you play because it's Skinner box that utilizes progression means to place you constantly in the interactions. To top it off as a game particularly great. The matchmaker is your performance so you'll almost always barely functional and several who are so not even really playing the same game. are unwieldy and create a tremendous mentioned disparity, but they're also the around so that's kind of take it or The game is full of weird unpolished slightly different control schemes even hoverboard and the speed boost is bound boost is spacebar, even though left shift crasher. Because of the way that systems building mechanics are vital for are also so effective for either closing effectively barely exists. The game shotguns, basically becoming a contest of you can land a shotgun headshot on your else the game is a moderately okay compelling aesthetic. It's not dire, but stand on its own without the rest of the hooks. The item shop is pretty grotesque mechanics. In contrast to pretty much only displays 10 to 13 items at a time This has the dual purpose of obfuscating response or fear of missing out. If you limited window in which to purchase it, obfuscated there's no sense of how long is available again or even if it will Incidentally Alfonso Ribeiro isn't just made it into the game, but because they bucks a pop. The other arm of the which costs a little under $10 u.s. and system which is itself broken into two gameplay is broken up into ten weeks for a given season. The paid track just to incentivize playing more, including an season just in case you were maybe pass ten weeks from now. What's it doesn't merely make use of FOMO at all this stuff you'd get if you is literally saying that right there. But hostile design. The free track actually goes until 100 there's no additional it's not simply a matter of a fear of system is founded on the dopamine rush hours of play to keep players coming the game stops giving you stuff entirely it used to get you hooked. It is long without paying. This is manufactured have to play a lot to get to this point. obfuscation, the broad progression account level, which is seasonal level, and the Battle Pass which done by earning experience which is progressing the battle pass is done by Battle stars are rewarded in amounts and for completing challenges which come challenges tend to be fairly the top twenty five to scoring a number while weekly challenges tend to get more like visiting specific locations on the psychological design elements of the they're presented. First there's the of 5,000 XP, a substantial amount of challenges but only three are available challenges aren't simply locked but are pay you don't even get to see what they one more. You're so close. Well let's go as roughly analogous, literally in tracks aren't even. The gold tier players reward more battle stars which in turn experience multipliers. Gold players and with less effort. So this point, tier actually get to this point without day. I've actually needed to play a lot the course of making this video, both in itself well enough to speak about it specific kinds of footage I was looking And at the midpoint of season 8 I'm less This maybe seems like I'm just players not getting enough stuff, but The underlying purpose of demonstrating all creator's are willing to employ. These form of rhetoric, a form of persuasive by applying select forms of pressure and mechanisms of that pressure so that we being persuaded. Also it's worth keeping weeks long a paid player can slip back In order to retain all the perks of being a four to five season passes every year. Marshmello concert isn't a thing monetization systems, it's a core pillar. are fairly straightforward. It's a will talk about. The cost of assembling paying Comstock for his participation direct ad buy, and based on the coverage with the outcome. The internal purpose is blame you if you wanted to use the word to utilize the social pressure of couple key moments. Let me see everybody doing that Marsh Walk right now let me see that Marsh Walk Find your squad then let me see your favourite emote let me see what you go let's go Alright I want to see everybody doing their favourite emote right now on the drop let's go if Marshmello is calling out for you to haven't paid in odds are you don't have be pretty generic and lame. Events like the ability to self express is placed at and active participant you need to be literally every unique action has an Let me see everybody doing that Marsh Walk right now, let me see that Marsh Walk and there are some things that you'll simply never get bought a skin don't even have control roster of default looks to choose from; every match. There isn't just a layer of with cooler, more expressive character able to project themselves into the hostility in the design. If you don't buy options of expression, you are actively element of how you choose to look in the does is particularly new. These complex layers of obfuscation, you can find this plenty of desktop and console games are legally dubious gambling, and other ways of games use progression systems and core loop to keep players playing. those systems, a refinement of every transaction pressure point developed in weaponized product targeted at kids. One my attention to all of this was one Nick &quot;Fortnite's Marshmello Concert was a and Exciting Glimpse of the Future&quot;. I on the whole he's right. Fortnite is a perpetually monetized, vaguely hostile future.