I went into the store at about 17. If it takes too long at a ramen shop, I don't think I'll come back next time. Toppings should be served within 30 seconds as much as possible. It takes 2 or 3 minutes to bring the noodles to the customer. I am aware of this. Ramen TODAI, Omichi Honten, Omichi, Tokushima City, Tokushima Prefecture, Japan TODAI Ramen with pork belly, sliced pork belly, extra meat (large). It is sweet and spicy and delicious. Tokushima is "sweet and spicy", right? It's a good dish! Yes, it is! Customers come from all over the prefecture and beyond for the authentic, thick ramen of Tokushima. It has a strong taste and goes well with rice. Very tasty! There are eggs provided at the table, so here are as many as you want, free of charge. Omichi, Tokushima City, Tokushima Prefecture. 12 minutes drive from Tokushima Tsuda IC on national highway 439. Ramen TODAI, Omichi Honten, established in 1999. As a restaurant where you can taste authentic Tokushima Ramen, they have 12 stores in Kansai and other areas in Japan. Store interior. Personnel manager. Staff) Do you have any special features of your store? HR manager)Tokushima ramen is pork bone soy sauce flavor. I want you to enjoy the very rich and thick taste. There's a raw egg in there. The taste changes to mild as the raw egg is broken up. That they enjoy the change, The concept of "TODAI ramen" is to let people enjoy the change. staff) How many restaurants do you have in Japan? HR Manager) We have opened 12 stores in TODAI. Staff) How many meals do you sell in all your stores? Human Resources Manager)We serve about 2,400 cups a day. The thick pork bone broth is made at our factory in Tokushima City. TODAI Corporation's factory in Tokushima City, Tokushima Prefecture. Central kitchen for soup production. Wear special work clothes and practice thorough hygiene. Soup preparation begins. Pork backbone and other ingredients are put into the kettle where the ingredients are stirred. Pork bones are fed while rotating the shaft. 10 kg of genco per box. 1,200 kg of pork bones are used per day to make soup for all restaurants. Hot water is added and the bones are crushed and mixed together. By crushing the bones, the flavor is dissolved and condensed in the hot water. Soup with bones crushed and dissolved into hot water. Soup is poured into containers. Staff) What do you see now, the sludgy stuff? A spine or a genco or something that has been crushed and minced. staff) What happens when they are crushed? It dissolves into hot water and condenses. The soup is dehydrated in a centrifuge. Only the soup is extracted from the centrifuge. Soup is transferred to container. This is pumped up, What is left only as soup goes into the kettle over there. Soup strained through a centrifuge. Seasonings are added to soup and adjusted to specified concentration by steam. Soup is completed. Staff) Roughly how many liters do you manufacture per day? Production Manager)In terms of production, about 1,200 kilos. Staff) Roughly how much is being made in one kiln? (Production Manager) One kiln will be about 300 kilos in the end. If it were in that state now, it would be about 500 kilos. Boil it down to a final 300 kilos or so. Staff) Roughly how many hours does the soup simmer for? Production Manager)About 4 hours if you add it up from the beginning. Preparations are underway for the opening at Omichi's main store. Rice is cooked. Only Omichi main store offers free rice. Staff) How much rice do you use per day? I cook 2 squares at a time. If it were a weekday, I would cook 2 squares 8-9 times. If it's a Saturday or Sunday, more than 10 times, like 11 times. staff) Are you more likely to ask for food? A lot of people do. If it's young men, some of them will have three or four drinks. Transfer menma to a container. Prepare green onions. Staff) What about the eggs being free? There are eggs provided at the table, You can put as many as you like here for free. Staff) Do you get a lot of eggs? We're producing about 400 a day. Fresh egg free, which goes well with Tokushima ramen, originated in TODAI. Staff) How do you recommend eating eggs? I recommend putting the egg in the ramen as it is and eating it while breaking it up, The other is to dissolve it in another bowl and eat it with it. Then you put it on rice and eat it with egg. I hope you enjoy it. Staff) I also see on the poster that garlic is free. HR manager)We serve it with garlic if you like. Preparing a pitcher to put on the table. Seasoning set up. Wipe table carefully. The store will open soon. The store opens at 11:00. Open 11:00 to 4:00 the next day. Parking available. Ordering is by ticket machine. Total 18 seats. TODAI Ramen - Normal 750yen. Customers who order ramen, Mugen rice (Omichi main store only). Any number of eggs on table is free! Tabletop seasonings. A customer comes to the restaurant immediately. Three customers come to the store. Orders come in for TODAI ramen pork belly slice with extra meat (add flavored egg), kotteri (large), and kotteri pork belly slice with extra meat. Noodles are boiled. Kaeshi is added. Soup is heated in small pot. Pour soup into bowl. Boiled noodles are poured into bowl. Blend noodles and soup. Bean sprouts. Green onions, bamboo shoots. For extra meat, sweet and spicy pork belly slice is put on top. For TODAI ramen "kotteri", garlic and back fat are put on it. TODAI ramen kotteri with extra pork belly and sliced meat is completed. Pork belly with more meat! Ajitama topping is cut and put on top. TODAI ramen noodles with sliced pork belly and extra meat (Ajitama added). TODAI ramen no kotteri (large) arrives. Gyoza order arrives. Dumplings are completed. A visitor from Hong Kong. Customers arrive one after another. TODAI ramen is ordered with regular, kotteri, and Mugen rice. Rice arrives. Immediately, he cooks rice with egg on the table. TODAI ramen, making TODAI ramen kotteri. TODAI ramen. TODAI ramen noodles. First, gobble thick pork bone soy sauce soup.... The soup is very rich, and the taste is very good! Take a bite of egg rice. Enjoying soup without hesitation. Cracks raw egg into ramen. Eggs and noodles are tossed together for a mild richness. Rich taste, can't stop eating white rice.... A guest traveling to Tokushima with his wife. They came here first thing in the morning for ramen. It has a strong taste and goes well with rice. Goes well with eggs. Very tasty! Delicious! Makes 2 cups of TODAI ramen. He enjoys authentic Tokushima ramen and leaves the restaurant with a smile. It is lunch time, and customers arrive one after another. Bright and cheerful voices are heard. Three cups of TODAI ramen and one cup of TODAI kotteri ramen are made. Ramen noodles are completed one after another. TODAI ramen. TODAI ramen noodles (Ajitama added). 2 customers come to the restaurant. TODAI ramen ordered with extra garlic. Makes 2 cups of TODAI ramen. Staff) Are you aware of the speed of serving? I am very conscious of it. Check the time of the meal ticket and the time served, I usually try to serve within 5 minutes. If it takes too long at a ramen shop, I don't think I'll come back next time. Toppings should be served within 30 seconds as much as possible. If it takes two or three minutes to bring the noodles to the customer, the noodles will be stretched. I am aware of that. A customer comes to the store. Two more customers come to the store. TODAI ramen (large) with extra garlic is ordered. 12:15The restaurant is almost full. TODAI ramen (large) is made. Guests in Kochi on business trip. (It's) the first time you've been to our store. Delicious! A visitor comes to the store. Orders TODAI ramen noodles, kotteri (large, add ajitama). Order large bowl of rice. Serves a generous amount of rice. Make TODAI ramen noodles kotteri(large, add ajitama) TODAI ramen no kotteri (large, add ajitama). Breathe on hot noodle and slurp it at once. Thick sweet and spicy soup makes large bowl of rice go on and on....... Sweet &amp; spicy pork belly slice finishes off a large bowl of rice. Drinking soup too... Finished in a blink of an eye! It's homemade, so I want you to eat the flavored egg. It's hard to know many people. I want them to eat ajitama. Yes, I do. It's handmade. If possible, I would like them to eat it with homemade ajitama on top of the extra meat. This is the ideal. A customer arrives at the store. TODAI ramen pork belly slice with extra meat (large, add aji-tama) is ordered. Pork bara ramen with extra meat (large, add ajitama) is made. TODAI ramen's pork belly slice with extra meat (add large and ajitama). First, I slurp noodles with soup. Bite into half-boiled egg. Taste sweet and spicy pork belly. Egg over rice goes on and on, the best combination! 3 customers come to the restaurant. Three orders of TODAI ramen noodles are placed. A customer comes to Kochi on a business trip. (Two neighbors) wanted to go to TODAI. (Staff) How do you like the taste after eating it for the first time? It is delicious. Because (I am) from Tokushima, It is sweet and spicy and delicious. Tokushima is "sweet and spicy", right? I love it! Yes, I love it! Yes, I love it! Ordered TODAI ramen (large) with extra pork belly and sliced meat. Free egg. Eggs put on by store owner (usually self-service). TODAI Ramen's Pork belly with extra meat (large): 1,050 yen, free Mugen rice. Thick soup with rich flavor, rice goes well with it. Eggs on the table are broken into pieces and served. Sweet and spicy pork belly rice is delicious! Eggs and thick broth are mixed with noodles, addictive and delicious! Egg over rice with shoyu on the table. Mild egg on rice with thick ramen noodles as a side dish. staff) How long have you been working there? I started when I was about 17. About 14 years. There was a period of time when I was away because of childbirth and childcare. staff) It's not easy to keep going that long. I knew that relationships are the most important thing. Staff) Do you like the store? I think I like the fact that even if I go somewhere, I probably come back here. staff) 5 stores in Tokushima prefecture and 7 stores outside of Tokushima prefecture. Personnel Manager) Outside of the prefecture, it is Kyoto store and Hirakata Furniture Complex store in Osaka. Amagasaki store (Hyogo prefecture), AEON MALL Kusatsu store in Shiga prefecture. Stores are mainly in Kansai area (other stores are in Kagawa, Okayama, and Awaji Island). Staff) So you can have the real taste of Tokushima? Human Resources Manager)The taste is exactly the same flavor that we are developing. We hope you will try our rich and authentic Tokushima soup, which will not leave the hearts of those who have eaten it!