Hey, guys, bittersteel here. Back with another video, and boy, That's right, we're playing a disaster. Save as France this time. And yeah, that that looks like a disaster. All right. It's 1940, I think the French army have Let's Oh boy. OK, Ironman mode is on an historical Let's see just how terrible this is. It sure looks terrible. first, I want to give a big shout out You guys, This last year has been and I want to give And for that reason, with holiday 55 copies of no step back. All you have to do to get your hands on it Merry Christmas or if you're not of Just spread a little bit of that love. Happy Holidays or Merry Christmas five winners who So on Christmas Day. So keep an eye on your YouTube account OK, first off, green bubbles are good. How is the army looking? Oh, it's still very diversified. I don't like having having that many We'll have to figure that out. It does look like you beat Africa. So with Africa secure, If you're going to lose Africa, Well, even even more of a hitter, I guess. Air Force Yeah. No, no, no. Air Force. It's Just just halts ops What I'm planning to do is if it works, Rochelle and provide short bombardment bonus, at least to the outer So I'll split my fleet into two big fleets to cover those flanks Air Force is non-existent, so Speaking of building it up, You're mobilizing more men. You're on extensive conscription. What is the rest looking like here? You've made a few questionable choices. I'd say your first pick should have been the silent workhorse, But this would have been because we need a lot of political power to make new choices Oh, let's see this guy's good. We're not going to be building much. This guy's decent, Yeah, we need stability. zero is OK, you want with speed and I see He's good. I like speed, so I'll keep him. Though defense might, might have been Air Naval Air, you've gone While you have no carrier fleet, but you have no carrier planes So this is pointless. Let's see, this guy's decent. I guess I probably would have gone specialist, You have worked for mountaineers. Yeah, for mountaineers. So this guy benefits exactly I would replace him with the army higher recovery rate we're going to need and find one of your generals that can be Here he's level five. You can give him either And that unlocks the infantry Oh no way, I'm wrong. If he gets infantry leader he can get infantry specialist. This will benefit And I don't know now because you don't have stability might be better to just hold off until we can do improve working conditions or pretty much anything We need a lot of stability, but I think Yeah, let's just see if we can survive John is in command of the mountains. I guess Italy. I don't need that much entrenchment there, but might as well know I'm going to give him the infantry There we go, and I'm going to hire him and I'm going to fire OK, so you've got the commando expert. He's pretty bad. I mean, you don't have then you've got the division So the army logistics, he's OK. But in Western Europe, So I would not have picked him either. But you don't have that many other choice He's good, he's very good. But to take advantage of him, as cavalry divisions, Let's see, Oh, I'm sorry. five cavalry divisions out of what Something division, so that may not I think I'm going to start I think Lee Claire and I'm going to get rid of Philip here At least this will boost our infantry Any other political power now is going improve worker conditions What else? Focus's. Well, you're pretty much done here. Your political branch is sorted. Yes, you've gone historical. You've gone defense is stratagems, sir. Disjointed government's gone. Otherwise you wouldn't be here. OK, this is decent. Decent. I'm sure there are some pics I would not have made, but I don't know Well, I'm mostly lable around On their begin rearmament, I would have either battle of maneuver. If you want to go mobile warfare, yeah, it's good, Air dominance would have saved your bacon bonuses for fighters in cars This is what I would have put my research. Not not the other side. This is not a good side. I mean, extend the marginal fine OK, but imagine Your Alpine forts are being slowly None of this really helped. You did it. I don't think it did. You would have even been better off because of the bonuses this gives. This is probably the worst of the bunch I recommend air dominance, or will not commit to air, at least go As for this stuff, yeah, might as well. This is all we can really take. My plan is to invest in West Africa, in metropolitan France, Algeria and France I think Japan usually takes that, I'll be able to get some factories, mills If I can hold on long enough to get these The rest is there's nothing here, really. Freedom Front. Yeah, not worth 70 days. Air focus. Yeah, this is pretty good. But he got 71 factories. We're not we're not building any fighters What are we building, though? OK, infantry equipped. Yeah, you're going to need You're going to need that, I can ramp down trains a little bit. Trucks again don't need that many trucks Do you have no other and you've got the improved chassis, I'll check out research in a bit. I don't think I want to go for tanks now. I don't think it's a realistic scenario Now, I think we're much better suited cheap, just like motorized divisions I don't think tanks are going to cut. It could be wrong, though, could be wrong. We definitely need fighters, but I'm going to hold off I want to see what your research You're working on armored research. Little late. The Germans are here, my friend. It's a little late. You'd be better off. I mean, I can. I can make motorized Don't have that many support companies, So that's bad. You're sort of up to date Yes, air is ridiculously low. You need more air. Okay, so I'm going to switch you away Maybe there's a chance Yeah, could do that. Or I could just import fuel from the USA. I don't I don't need this tech I'd rather get advanced Don't have that many research slots. Those are little limited Do I really want to wait another 31 days? No, I don't. I'm going to switch out of this This is up to date. I might. I might just try and get mechanized. I might. I mean, Yeah, I think I want to go tactical bombers and we're not doing CAS, So I'll leave this untouched subs. Yeah. Finish the ones up your building Because we are going to need a I have an idea to get people Well, it's certainly thick. Yeah, I would not run with one of these. No, I wouldn't say that. Put more into improved artillery To make use of that. I would run with the 91 but you still got, I won't say, a decent. You still got a industry left. So what I would do because we can't right now I'm going to make this So nine infantry divisions that 21 combat with it's still got good Decent ish, that every time the Germans attack, This should be more than capable we can actually get enough Then our templates, I'll leave Not great. Not terrible. Will work with this later. I think I'm yeah, I'm I think as my strike team, Yeah, I'm getting rid of the basic Then all tank divisions select tank divisions So have the equipment for it, though that's just going to be the better choice So our tanks have become infantry. I'll leave my motorized as unless I think they'll be better off and we'll take the equipment back At least they should be able to benefit and I'll leave the cavalry other side The Alps, there's a tank division that's 00, yeah, Let's also make you an infantry division. Cavalry can stay the motorized. I'm converting to infantry as well. All right. So we are on a bit of a shortage, We can fix that. What are we building mills that skirt? We are going to need A whole lot of military factories Let's trade. Oh, don't actually need to import anything Might import some oil, though. No, I'm don't think I'm using. Yeah, I'm going to use oil for the navy. Of course, I'm I think that is all the changes I don't think I can do anything I'm going to set a field marshal order here, though, instead of that and we'll start planning Oh, this is going to go well, isn't it? I want to start begging for stuff, done is to create a massive, How am I going to do that? I'm going to edit this template. Just put a dot in front of it. Update to remove, remove and make you artillery. This is what we'll be using in the future. I'm going to queue up a whole bunch of these guys For now, we have a massive deficit I'm going to unpause the game. I'll leave it to run for a few days and then I'm going to start Operation All right. It's been a few hours Our first target, the United Kingdom. Ask for a lend lease. Well, you give me UK guns. Yes. Artillery? No. Oh, that's sad. Maybe you'll give me fighters. No, the UK will send me guns. At least that's something. Maybe the Soviet Union will send me stuff. They don't like the Germans, I feel like get a deficit of trucks. Hmm. Technically could just queue up That's an even bigger deficit. Now let's negotiate with the Soviets. Trucks? Yes. Guns, yes. Artillery, yes. Good. Anyone else who won't send me stuff? Trucks are nearly there. I need to improve our relations by maybe a ticker too, And the USA say they want more relations Yes, I need to get our relations up and Turkey, Let's see what we're getting. Well, the UK is useful as ever. At least the Soviets 5500 artillery and almost 300 trucks It has to come by sea and I can only supply a 10th It's better than nothing right now. At least those will slowly trickle All right. As for this, all I can really do while either giving ground or holding out. I don't see any way to really force This is going to set these hubs and hope that is enough OK, so the fleet here is in position show bombardment to the battle This will help But the Italians are cowards But that's fine. That's fine. Let's just hold. Let's just hold. I need rubber. I'm going to get rubber. I can't trade with anyone over. See, I have Oh, I know why I have rubber, but I can't import my own because all of my convoys are being used My way, oh, I'm going to need. I'm going to need a lot more convoys, How about I go asking for convoys as well? Yeah, they'll send me convoys There we go. That's like six extra convoys asked. Turkey and the US for two convoys as well their closest. Meanwhile, France has taken it half a million casualties here, 1.2 million losses for the Germans That is more than two to one losses here. France is actually not doing too badly. I accept the fact that we are 30% No wait. 86% towards capitulation. We control 30% of the victory points. Oh man, I don't know if we can afford Maybe one to at most, but that's it. All right, Let's send me some stuff. What can you get me right? I need to fake my deficit again. The suddenly guns you send me artillery. I need to fake my deficit. Bigger, bigger, more deficit. Now let's try it again. OK, Turkey, you'll send me guns. No artillery, And that's it. Really, you have nothing more to give. That's unfortunate. Oh, well, maybe airplanes. You'll send me fighters and some convoys. I'll accept up 18,000 guns. Yes, please. I mean, most of the stuff I am well aware, guns in the hands of my soldiers There's so little I can do here, except But to what end, really? Realistically, I can only sit here and either wait or for the Americans to join the war At least, at least. Oh, please, Greece is doing fairly So there is that at least German There are certain provinces that I will its planes, so no defensive modifiers This will eventually fall. I fear. I don't think I can hold it, not without air cover Then the only benefit we have that's not going to tip the balance. And then there's provinces like this from one to three So it's not it's not great. I think we will be slowly is slow it down enough for the allies You hear that U.K., off the island And I was wondering why the UK is not helping me with the UK in not to commit troops to France when France capitulates, which is annoying and just slowly gets ground into the dust Yes, please. Romania is in Oh, well, Greece had a good run here. Oh, we're getting pushed Germany is ramping up here I'm going to take individual units, see couple of loose ones there. Any battle that seems like it's a loss. I'm just going to select a unit in it stand order on the cheap I need time. So fighting back, you will do. And last stand now. Those tiles will not fall for a while, Oh, Germans have brought Can't anything go my way? At least our manpower is slowly mobilizing It does look like of their supply lines, I don't dare pushing forward. They will try to take the hubs out, Mosher, and I cannot allow that to happen. More political power. Let's ask the USA to improve relations and Yes, I know I don't have the convoys but I can ask them for convoys as well. No, every gun I get for free is a gun It just gives me time. What I need is time, preferably You've got the goal here. Commanding troops. I would much rather He has decent attack and some not terrible Anyone else I could make use of? Did you have any cavalry generals I think John, the last of the Jessenia, OK, and I'll replace him Yeah, he'll do fine for the defense here. It's fine. No, my deficit Yeah, I need more, more more guns. A lot more guns. Combat doesn't stop. That seems to be There's never a time to recover my troops. Never. I do like seeing all those green bubbles, It is desperate, but we're holding. All right, 40 and please, please please U.S.A. Send me stuff right? Of course I do. It's a little bit longer. Oh well, will you send me guns? No, no artillery. That's sad. They'll send me guns. And it does appear to be that. That is it. Maybe some fighters. OK, you'll send me fighters and convoys. Well, that's a lot. Roosevelt really is not a lot. Even Stalin sending me more. Oh, well, it is something I am. However, several convoys short. Well, I'll just sit here No turkey, I know. No, I'll just sit here twiddling my thumbs Not much I can do. Just the occasional last stand or maneuver And that's about it. Well, at least he managed to get this far because if you didn't There would be no getting out of it. At least we have enough divisions to stack So there is hope. There is some hope. I want stability, though So we'll be closer to 50. And I do think devalue Yeah, That is a long time, though in five months 50% stability. Hopefully, Now I've also been through your generals you given most of them infantry expert. I'm going to assume you had something else so I don't know what you're thinking was it's not wrong, but you technically don't if you're building an infantry army You'd be better off with ambush will ensure those troops It would have been very, Infantry attacker I mean, sorry, it's All that fresh manpower is steadily France is bleeding. And let's keep asking U.K. Do Please, man, please or convoys? I'll take your convoys. You won't send me guns. Just semi convoys again for you, Stalin. I'm very grateful but more convoys would be nice. It does look like the Greeks are holding, maybe they have some spare stuff I'm going to ask literally anyone I can I know Greece coming in just not fighters. So convoys, trucks, equipment, A lot, a decent amount of it, I just hope we can last long enough. We could start switching some divisions that would ease off on the manpower I do have the towed artillery for it, for Oh, just as they did that, they attacked. That's bad. Yeah, the axes attacks But as long as we're winning, because we are up to 1.7 and 890,000 for Italy and going to slowly switch over as many armies Just try to do it Otherwise you end up with troops that are I think that was Yeah, at least that has given us I just hope my friends are willing to send me more artillery Yugoslavia's But this means there's another person I can ask for stuff, take my deficit as usual, Artillery? Yes. Guns, yes, trucks. Oh, they'll send me anything. Do you have fighters on fighters Thank you very much for that Yugoslavia Oh, well, at least that equipment because I don't see Yugoslavia I know. No, they could very easily defend this towards the Serbian mountains linking up with Greece But they never will. They're just stupid. It's the I don't blame them next. All 16 divisions. Yes, UK. I'll take those 16 divisions Go, go, go, go. Get those boys to France, where once I can make my own divisions and manpower because they're probably not that great, I forgot. Don't have that many convoys It's going to take a while Strikes real, really. You're going to give me strikes. France, people of France, Our way of existence is threatened We are under attack from the north. We are under attack from the east. And to our south looms And you're going to go on strike, we are the guardians of democracy, on the continent because, you know, that's So you want to go on strike. This is most French event Fine, fine. Imagine going on strike in a situation what's what's your plan here? Why? Why? It's like Germany have stopped attacking. It's actually not that good. Then again, I'm able to actually build up now. We're getting some manpower, sort of kind of nevermind Premiere We are getting close to 50% stability and I'm going to do these investment because that one tends I don't want to give Japan Well, I don't think it matters that much I don't like grand plan all that much. I probably would have gone that I will be using motorized infantry But I guess we're stuck with this now. So infiltration will be fine. Array stability? Oh yes, that put us at 50% lucky. OK? That should be the last of the strikes. We'll see. And with the strike over, I'm going to create an intelligence At least I can build a spy network and we can get ready to strike I'd like to have some of my France Meanwhile, I'm keep asking for a convoy, I go and you can see here I go and request And if there's no convoys attached to it, and we get the original offer, So at least that way, we'll keep building up and we'll be able to suck up that lend-lease quicker, They are going to be big Everything else seems to be going I might actually start improving these supply hubs American visitors like them to feel at home It is 1941. This is usually the time Part of me really wants to use tanks, that's not happening. What's this justification? Yes, Japan is Japan. Don't worry about it So our stability is secure That's that's unfortunate. To put some spies out and prepare for our glorious return Let's boost the industry first. I have a feeling that the added strength never mind Germany's attacking again. It had been a couple of months before they launched an attack, to see us as too strong to push I don't really want them so I'm being honest very much like it Let's tinker with this motorized division. I've used them before in Lithuania. VIDEO I want to give it another go. I was very impressed with it then, Pretty much just 24 come up with six I hope. I hope this thing pays off. I hope maybe I'll change mechanized later on, but my industry is going to need to recover The United States is in. I'm expecting a flood of American troops I better start upgrading my railway network, But it very much like some help and taken So I'm going to prioritize I know my industry is already shit enough Oh, speaking of decisions, The nation's defense? Not great. I would have picked either but you don't really need fresh generals Theater training is great for grinding terrain traits on your generals Excellent choice. There I would. I would pick this tip of the spear again. Why you don't have paratroopers, Nothing in this matters. Naval aviation capacity is great, Germany's right next door instead either go for professional Army Corps, you have access to relief of command, So much army experience Please, for the love of God, As for this one flexible organization or logistical focus, All right. Political power I could keep cleaning up your army cabinet, but I'm not going to touch that for now. I could pick the solid workhorse I think we're going to do that and not touch anything else for now, Mm no. I'll get the guy first. America one division. You know what? Thanks for nothing. I could join the war against Japan, I don't want to. Oh, well, we'll be nice. We'll play I just hope the Americans will defend The UK wants to send three divisions. Oh, normally I'd say cool, I don't want to bother. I just. Don't want to bother, I'd which sadly they've stopped doing now at least Italy still are going for it They're up to 1,000,000 casualties million casualties, Well, other than the several I'm shocked that Best take advantage of it. Like, take some of my stuff back here. We've been on the defensive This is just infantry pushing now. I am hopeful that we can make Let's take a little bit of our land As Winston Churchill Well, we've actually managed It's not much, but it's something, supply lines, meaning they feel more confident to attack Come on, come on, Schmidt. Keep throwing your men away. I'm shocked that Yugoslavia is still here. I'm not that shock considering, oh my God, the UK is really the UK, I just have a thing for the Balkans, Just overstocking it like crazy. That's going to cost you if you don't hold you know, The production line Don't know where to use. And yet, though, this terrain is all excellent, it's I need more supply in the regions So I'm still building up my railways They're going to start producing fighter twos and the chances are to come back from our massive, I mean, Germany's got this pretty but maybe with some allied help, Best also upgrade these, but I'm a little Let's see if my motorized can do something Oh yeah, they're doing something stupid. Breaking through overrunning the enemy. Oh, this might actually end up going I'm not expecting that. Let's not overplay our hand, though. Let's keep the game a little slower. I'm liking this. I'm liking this. We are getting something done now. Keep pinning divisions. I don't want them redeploying We'll have an encirclement on our hands Oh, good. Good. Good, good. Good. Good. Oh, now this does look less Make sure the infantry follows Oh, Germany, if I had to wait for this what is ours? Couple of quick and dirty and circle ones and we are in a much better position Let's see It looks like What if we use makeshift bridges as well? Can we get across? Maybe it is a definite. Maybe. Oh, does look favorable. They just reinforce Mehmed. Now it's my turn. Is it me? Come on. Come on. Yes, OK. I got my trucks across immediately and aggressively expand of this gap. We have an opportunity here. If I can push towards Cherbourg, I can cut off the entirety of the Britain That's a big blow to the Germans. Go, go, go, go, go. Aggression. Oh, they're throwing everything. They've got to stop Yeah, I've been stopped by supply. Too many divisions in too small an area because of the amount of units And even if I win these battles it doesn't matter because they keep me after another and it just does not stop. Oh, something is happening now. Come on, come on. Yes. OK, OK, OK, OK, OK, OK, OK. God, be careful here now. This is very risky. Need to push these guys towards breast before the Germans know what's up Just strategic redeployment. OK, take Cherbourg. That is a bunch of supply. OK. You're taking back I suppose it wouldn't but just on this front, I don't want to be Too many Germans there. And yes, I know battle planning I'm not looking for optimal. I'm just looking to get this done. Boy, this is expensive, though the Yeah, yeah. Also, the the U.S. has some sort of shipping business I don't know what they're doing, I'll just have to liberate my country I wonder if we actually inflicted You must have. Oh yeah, we definitely did. 4.6 million casualties for Germany, alone and 1.1 France is back in the game Something tells me is Germany Can actually hurt Germany a lot. More research. Lots. Thanks. Just plowing through their lines. I don't think they have lines anymore as Good. I'm a little shocked with how easily Germany just fell over Well, this this might actually Oh yeah, another encirclement there. Methinks Germany's I am going to, however, ask for control of a few states here because I don't think Oh, you won't even give them Then will you give me control of Mosul? And really, there are a few. Do you think I've not done enough It seems we have run into our own that is difficult to push through Yes, I'm a little annoyed that Luxembourg Luxembourg's done and they're still refusing Damn you. Damn you, Luxembourg. That little stunt, there was another And France is pretty much liberated. All they are squatting on So part of the Mariano here and Italy has Other than that, France Maybe look at that. We're back and we're in Germany. The roles have reversed. We're coming for you now. I'm intrigued by these French military Let's not Come on, break Stuttgart. No. Oh, they're still funneling troops in. Oh, and we're through, Fred, those troops will be stopped Oh no, no. Maybe, maybe we can make something happen. Quick break up and head Come on. For the love of God, how long does it OK, so that breakout was nothing Good to know. My army. Still, the useless French army wouldn't Could they know, Oh, as planned, but maybe we can still close? No, yes. Maybe every time I think And how are they doing this? Is that an encirclement? No, no. It's back. Okay, eventually. Oh, finally, OK, This was border. It took us way, way longer At least now. This is a lot of divisions that I can't ten forts and even with green air, I don't have any fortress busters, Do I want to push in northern Italy? I don't want to push I'll just I know I'm going to hate this, and Americans deal with Italy Oh yeah, I think we've made our big Oh boy, Germans really seem spent. Yeah, I don't think they're going Oh my, my god, no motorized. Oh, the motorized is hilarious, because these are not German cause But that was stupid. Prague is. Is it, though? No, it's not core territory. So that that was hilarious, It did, however, So let's just push up towards Berlin. And as expected, the allies are busy I'm having trouble deciding who is the more incompetent It doesn't matter. My trucks are steaming along. We'll be in Berlin in no time. There we go. Berlin has taken fall of Berlin. The French tricolor can now and we have cut the Reich in half steam Lord knows why they've not been exactly useful, Also, I cannot, for the life of me, break these Good Lord, we must have killed Yeah, France alone has killed That's just the fighting men. We have suffered some casualties. 1.7 million Frenchmen have lost It was a good cause. Denmark's liberated that some things Lars Empire wonder Oh yeah, this will be it. He managed to retake the entirety Well, my Norwegian friends Italy's almost dealt with. There you go. That is a peace deal. Let's take what we earned And with the traditional disgusting peace deal, We have definitely won this. So got ourselves democratic Germany with not too unreasonable borders, and in God, they gave Malmo back The Czechs came out of this one So that's new, eh? Like that? The rest of the map it could be worse In the end, we have survived and thrived. We came back from having half of France, two Now I hope you enjoy this video. I know I had a lot of fun playing this, like consider subscribing Whenever I upload a more content in our next video up here, I know you'll love it.