Earth is the place we call home. It's where we how well do we really know it? We like to think world hospitable to life, but that's really just If we zoom out on the cosmic home would have been unrecognizable to So, let's see if we can reconstruct what Earth Let's imagine that alien scientists, who visited at various stages in its development. they would have formed completely different What would they have seen 4.5 billion years ago? I'm Alex McColgan, and you are watching Astrum. and imagine what the planet might have Now, before we start, a little disclaimer: to some models that not all our scientists agree always carries some error bars. Some of the are still being debated. So, as we indulge our these claims are still being developed, and But to the best of our current knowledge, As long as we're going into the past, we might as ago. It's not the very beginning but pretty close viscous ball of molten rock, and I doubt our alien The Earth is still young, not even 100 million infant. Earth's thin atmosphere is made mostly of the solar wind, since the Earth hasn't yet formed has little protection from the Sun's cosmic rays, also constantly being bombarded with asteroids and accretion. Just imagine a big ball of chewing gum and you'll get the idea. So, not only is the young are not the only impacts the planet has to contend event in which a protoplanet collided with the If our alien visitors were to see Earth in this I would, at this stage. Despite these ominous Riding aboard these inbound asteroids is a role in Earth's history - water. While not scientists believe much of it does. According wind impact these meteors, ejecting oxygen atoms These frequent impacts seed much Then, as the planet cools, heavier elements sink such as water, rise to its surface. Volcanic ammonia and additional water vapour into the water vapour will lead to the formation of So, even if Earth is a dangerous place to be at untapped potential and come back to Earth Let's imagine that the scientists return to has changed. Two billion years have passed, and scientists call the Pale Orange Dot. Earth has which has retained a methane-rich atmosphere like Saturn's Titan. Earth also has vast oceans of our alien scientists see a terrifyingly huge (Here's a fun fact: the Moon has slowly been billion years and is still moving away from us drift will eventually stop, but not for another the Moon is much, much closer, and this proximity While this snapshot of Earth is probably more it almost feels more alien than before. Earth a lot closer to a surreal Salvador Dali Being experienced in the field of astrobiology, samples and find the cause of this orange haze - They are excited to find that Earth has living in communities in shallow sea water, which in an event called the Great Oxidation. As has a protective Ozone Layer, which shields life The bacteria are also producing unusual similar to these modern ones located Cyanobacteria form stromatolites by cementing or, to put it another way, microbial slime. that astrobiologists say we should be looking for nonbiological causes so you have to look Without any competitors, the cyanobacteria reign carbon dioxide and water into nutrients, seeding Bacteria are now the uncontested rulers altered their atmosphere in ways that Enthusiastic for Earth's future, our alien million years ago. And boy, what a difference in its Cryogenian Period, at a time scientists Earth is completely frozen over. Think of the last all of the Earth's surface and half of its total so cold that temperatures at the equator are While the scientists aren't sure what triggered some theories include a major volcanic a vast reduction in greenhouse gases due to Cycles (which we've previously covered on this combination of factors that amplified this global glacial ice is a single supercontinent called given the vast glacial cover, our alien visitors (As a side note: don't confuse this supercontinent break apart Pannotia and reform that later years. But let's not get ahead of ourselves!) Our endless glaciers, amazed that this frozen At first, they think the harsh climate might have has proven remarkably resilient. Cyanobacteria hydrothermal vents, much like the black smokers There are also newly evolved microbial Complex multicellular life remains elusive, survive the planet's harshest freezing event At this point, I'd like to imagine our alien The youngest and most temperamental "First a lava ball, then a barren bacterial "Why do we keep coming back here?" But the articulated limb of our preference around its tourist says to its impertinent partner. "I have a Let's come back in another few hundred million So, giving the planet time to change, during the Devonian Period 360 million years The planet has thawed completely, with of the present day. Scientists estimate that 30 degrees Celsius to 21 degrees Celsius later in with diminishing CO-2 levels due to increasing and formed multiple continents, the largest and much of the Southern Hemisphere. Gondwana South America, Antarctica, Australia and India, so visitors notice is that life has already undergone biological diversity that filled the seas with teeming with trilobites, clam-like brachiopods and the more fearsome specimens are Dunkleosteus, and Titanychthus, another giant with a taste Given the presence of these fish that look submarines, our alien scientists decide not to Meanwhile, plants have completely transformed large herbivores in existence, vegetation grows have produced a layer of stable and nutrient-rich to us. They are vascular plants, related to an enormous treelike fungus, called prototaxites, these mysterious tree-like structures are fruiting which haven't been preserved. A few marine species on land, such as ichthyostega, a rather charming modern amphibian, whose stout limbs and lungs As our alien visitors leave the Devonian Period diversity and temperate climate that will follow. Dot-turned-giant-snowball now somewhat Of course, other big changes are yet to happen. marine life and eventually lead to greater Temperatures will again plunge, setting off the warmer temperatures again. And complex life Among the new species will be amphibians and called dinosaurs. I wonder when our alien future will it be? Will they meet us? Will they future descendants? I guess we'll have to leave I hope you enjoyed this journey of planetary about Earth's past in future episodes? When we're learning about things that happened are confronted with a mixture of facts and what conditions were like. But when I'm learning what's a fact and what's opinion. That's why I've to be so useful. Ground News is the world's most news outlets don't present you with a or their political leanings. But when I'm met with a factuality rating and political platform. If you're interested in erasing your of your news, why not click my link in the or subscribe to unlock all the features Thanks for watching. Want more about big thanks to my patrons and members, if you check the links in the description.