In 1937, a small skirmish near Beijing escalates None of the soldiers yet know it, but it's War. And with foreign powers like Nazi Germany the stage is also set for an even It's July 7, 1937, and near the Marco Polo Bridge city have decided to carry out a night exercise need to stay sharp. This time, the Japanese don't be on the move - and the Chinese open fire. as the Lugouqiao Bridge, set off a powder keg along with other foreign units, had been stationed years before, but Japan was not just another Japan had seized Manchuria in 1931, Rehe province for control over a carved-up China for decades. a Japanese soldier was missing. He was soon Mutaguchi decided to follow up with The Japanese demanded the Chinese withdraw, determined to impose its will, and sent what they called the "North China Incident" Chinese nationalists were divided about theoretically unified China in 1928, but his and regional military strongmen still dominated that their state and military were weaker than "If one can stomach it, it would to stomach Japan. Because if a major war a third country intervenes, at best Chiang was also worried. Earlier he had before fighting the Japanese but he and many immediate and existential one. This time, China would resist and seek international support. Aggressive leaders like General Matsui Iwane was a foreign puppet that must take its "The first point is to make the [Chinese] abandon and America... the second point is to make the are the real friends of China, and have been to rescue 400 million Chinese." Mitter 122 Emperor Hirohito the whole thing moderates like General Ishiwara were overruled. off to the capital Nanjing - but the Japanese since the army and navy were not entirely within a threatening message to Chiang, saying that if The Japanese certainly had the forces to back men, of whom 600,000 were sent to China in 1937. more heavy weapons like tanks and Chinese forces were a patchwork. They had about of these were fully-trained and directly loyal to militias of variable quality and loyalty. under Mao Zedong, who had agreed to fight civil war. These forces were equipped with a vast the best of which were supplied by Germany and resources and to get both China and Japan in the keep good relations with Berlin and Moscow. The prevent Japan and Germany from threatening 450 pilots and groundcrew and equip 20 Chinese on average, a Japanese division had 3 to On July 27, the Japanese launched a full-fledged territory and limited troop numbers, they had to towards Zhengzhou, Nanjing, and through Chahar by poorly-organized Chinese communists or warlord Chinese Nationalist troops resisted where they Nationalist troops held off the Japanese while Japanese rear - this modest victory was the only 1940. Japanese general Hisaichi Terauchi ignored and pushed ahead as far as he could: between to capture the capitals of the provinces of While the Japanese were on the march in the up a new front around China's most important Widening the theatre of operations to Shanghai and the Chinese: it would draw Japanese troops away the supply line for Soviet weapons, it would move to defence, and draw the Japanese into a drawn-out bring the war closer to the international scene, there which , in Chiang's view, increased the Chiang's wife Song Meiling pleaded "If the whole Occidental world is indifferent to who have labored for years under the stigma Chiang sent some of his best The Japanese had also been preparing had a garrison in the town and warships in the Japanese naval guns bombarded Chinese positions. and tens of thousands of refugees poured into the The Chinese responded by trying to bomb the dropped their payloads in the International local residents in what became known as Black "[...] flames from a blazing car played over they had been huddling in shelter bodies in the entrances to the main doorways and arcades arms lay far from smashed masses of flesh [...] dead traffic lay the corpse of a Chinese policeman The Chinese attacked the Japanese garrison and when fresh Japanese forces arrived, fierce house-to-house fighting. As the aircraft bombed Chinese cities, killing and blockaded Chinese ports. Emperor Hirohito de-escalated, but the military recommended were sidelined. The Chinese mobilized, and the the National Army - a move many historians have In Shanghai, the grinding urban battle dragged on Japanese used every means of destruction and even made an amphibious landing south of the The Chinese desperately defended lines based on but their counterattacks usually failed. The case of international diplomatic intervention, dug-in Chinese positions. These were costly districts fell in November. Many Japanese were "[We] viewed [China] as a dog, [it] Chiang later admitted he had made mistakes at In all, about 750,000 Chinese and 250,000 making Shanghai by some measures the largest The Chinese suffered between 187,000 and 250,000 best-trained officers, while the Japanese lost The battle brought some diplomatic results, pact in August that paved the way for more long-divided country. Many warlords rallied more against the Japanese, expressed be lost," and songs like "The March of the China's national anthem. The war soon became The Japanese had conquered Shanghai, but the with Chinese strategy. Still, some nationalists the beginning of my new life. I am extremely Why should I keep my diary anymore?" (Mitter 100) and Chiang sacked several generals After success in the north and a Japanese commanders discussed whether or push on towards Nanjing. Their decision The Japanese hawks prevailed, and the high command Central China Field Army under the overall command former Nationalist capital of Nanjing to surround and win a decisive victory that would end the war. headquarters to Wuhan and made Chonqing into the Japanese. But Nanjing was still an important the previous ten years, called the Nanjing a symbol of what China's future might hold impressive government buildings, wide streets, and to Nationalist party founder Sun Yat-sen. von Falkenhausen and Foreign Minister Shijie forces were weak and disorganized after surrounded on three sides by the Yangtze river, But Chiang was under political pressure from who wanted to fight. He had to show them and the He also wanted to send a signal to foreign powers, and the Soviets to intervene on China's behalf. got involved to help start peace talks, but the Stalin said he'd only intervene if the Western but still urged his men on: "We must defend situation may change dramatically. General Matsui initially planned to bypass to believe that Chinese forces in Nanjing are so troops attacked on December 5. Defending the General Shengzi Tang, but only about 20,000 are so badly equipped they lack footwear, and trained troops in Nanjing also use German Panzer already arrived damaged in China and they weren't in the urban combat of Nanjing they engage In hard fighting, the Japanese steadily fell on December 8, the same day Chiang left ring on the 10th. As the Chinese retreated, their scorched earth policy, and the advancing Matsui offered surrender terms, but the Chinese enter Nanjing on December 12. General Tang ordered The city descended into chaos: some Chinese units mixing with desperate civilian refugees - Thousands of civilians sought the safety of quarter by Western residents. One of them who hopes for support from home in vain: The US military is also in the process of Aboard the gunboat USS Panay are over 70 people to the Panay are also three Standard Oil tankers 12th Japanese aircraft bomb and machine gun the men and two Western civilians as well as several reportedly was clearly marked as a US Navy ship. a formal apology by the Japanese government and a The victorious Japanese set to looting and known as the Massacre of Nanjing, or the Rape of uniforms, as had been the practice during considered any male a potential enemy. Japanese foreign journalists and international residents. "I figured that I'd never get another chance Climbing atop the mountain of corpses, I felt like with all my might [...] the Ch***s groaned. There them lock, stock, and barrel. I also borrowed I've never experienced anything Japanese troops also raped the civilian but also teenaged boys. The headmistress of the Japanese raped about 1000 women a night. "[More women fled to the college] because Japanese their money and to rape. In the streets, a lot of safety zone. Even more [have been killed] outside Estimates of the scale of Japanese crimes vary, to 300,000 murders. So why did the Japanese the army had formally abandoned the Japanese soldiers were brutalized by the and angry about the surprising resistance that they were superior to the Chinese, who Japanese army staff officer Ryukichi Tanaka made "To be perfectly frank, the ways you and I look You seem to think of them as human, By the end of 1937, the 2nd Sino-Japanese War although the participants didn't know it, it Asia. Hundreds of thousands were dead, between and Japan now controlled much of the north and although Britain and the US were edging and the Soviet Union now took over from Nazi heavy weapons, since Germany prioritized its War Two in Asia were coming together. "China was the first Allied power But so far at least, Japan had bitten off more battles, but the Chinese refused to surrender There weren't enough Japanese troops to fully had little control outside the cities and railway added little to Tokyo's coffers - and Japan was That's why in January 1938, a group and their choice was an even greater The 2nd Sino-Japanese War and World War 2 in Asia the dropping of the atomic bombs over Hiroshima the CCP and the KMT collapsed again, the world Stalin in particular accelerated the Soviet Communism" and also develop nuclear weapons. in our new series Red Atoms we explore the the way to the Chernobyl disaster and beyond. a streaming service we're building together where we don't have to worry about the algorithm support us directly. This allows us to produce in Berlin and Rhineland 45. And it's not just us, there too. For a look at modern China, check you sign up at nebula.tv/realtimehistory you get channel at the same time. For just $30 you can and earlier than on YouTube, other Nebula That's nebula.tv/realtimehistory for 40% off and I hope you liked this video about the dramatic War Two in Asia. It's part of a series by the will take us all the way to Pearl Harbor. the video description below. If you are thank you so much for the support, we couldn't is a production of Real Time History, the you underestimate your neighbour's resolve and