Black gold made Venezuela rich, On Lake Maracaibo, the oil wells that once Prosaic can't understand it. His pipes connect but he can't even buy a drop of petrol Meanwhile, oil is poisoning his land, A lot of people think we're covered in gold, but it's the complete opposite. Our country has completely abandoned us. Throughout the country, To the point that the government now As a result, the queues at the few are never ending. It's a sad situation. Filling up takes five hours Meanwhile, the black market The taxi drivers who connect the cities are at breaking point There never used to be queues Petrol wasn't a problem. We filled up as often as we wanted. Selling just one passenger ticket Petrol was practically free. Just a few years ago EUR2 was enough Today he has to part with EUR40, so he's increased the fare, but he rarely gets any passengers. He now finds himself stuck If I sell my tickets cheap I don't make enough Spare parts are expensive there are always repairs to be made. This is a bad bit, it's very dangerous. These days it's not just the ravines but also the cost of living. In 2021, inflation exceeded 600%, so traveling down to the city to buy food Many have turned back to the countryside Living in the city is too complicated. Here I can rear cows and chickens. I have eggs and I can grow things. I manage to feed myself. The country we live in It's difficult to believe, yes, but in Venezuela In just a few years, Venezuela has gone from the richest to one of the poorest. Oil has always fueled its economy, so when rates plummeted in 2013, they took the whole country Hyperinflation This note used to be worth 360 Euros, The state no longer has the funds This used to be a beautiful road. Even small cars could use it. However, these last few years, Everyone does what they have to to survive but communities are pulling together Even getting a drink requires hard graft. Drinking water hasn't flown Here we get water every time a pope dies, Poor creature, Fortunately, there are guardian angels a monk who goes from village to village by whatever means necessary. There are no hospitals, no medicine. How could a doctor ever get around Every day we come and go on these roads. It's our life! Nothing ventured nothing gained is a common place expression Despite the crisis, In Tokuko, the bell announces good news, Brother Nelson and his team are preparing themselves We'll have to get through mud, Every journey Let's see what awaits us today. Adrien is piling up flour pasta, Brother Nelson not content to sit on the sidelines. He crisscrosses the region One or two ladies? Like the children he welcomes in. The council hasn't sent food for more than a year. People are suffering from malnutrition. We're now taking on In the country's current the indigenous people, like all Venezuelans, and the poorest can't meet their needs. Our mission's role to seek out help to combat malnutrition Look at this little one, Okay? Before leaving, to ensure divine protection on the road. [Spanish spoken audio] Except, could this be a bad omen? Let's wait a moment, please, for our friends to start up the generator It's impossible to say for now, the government can no longer afford to maintain It often goes out at night, and it doesn't come back on Sometimes we go It's terrible. Electricity is a big problem in Venezuela. There are regular power cuts Okay, let's go! A dozen people take the opportunity Their village, Saimadoyi, is situated some 50 kilometers that zigzags through the mountains on the border Adrian, the driver, makes no guarantees that he'll be able to get them but there's an emergency there. It's going very badly there You'll see, -Everything? Forty three families Oh my God! I'm wondering we'll find among the children. The Indigenous people mostly but their diet lacks animal protein. That's what creates muscle mass You need all the strength you can get There's a big rut here! It seems bad here! We'll have to take a look. Yes, we need to get out. Rather the passengers will. The rain has ravaged the track. It's steep here, Adrian. We need to get ourselves Hard to imagine as it may be, this dirt track A few remnants remain here and there. This road was tarmacked by the different successive governments Then when Hugo Chavez took power, Today, the state couldn't care less that they're dying. There are no hospitals, no medicine. How could a doctor Thanks to their poor management, which was responsible This country was built thanks to oil It all started so well. When socialist Hugo Chavez he shared the country's oil money Subsidized housing, health centers and schools Why has it descended into chaos? In 2002, Hugo Chavez He accused of financing it. In retaliation, he fired Without its leading minds, business operations The finishing blow landed when the United States The wells shut down Today, the hundreds of oil tankers have disappeared. Unlike the oil itself, it's still there and the unmaintained wells We've never seen anything like it. The oil leaks started and the government It looks nothing at all Mine was clean and unpolluted. We used to be able to swim in it During the Easter holidays, I never would have imagined that this is what my children The abandoned wells now serve a dangerous playground Hey, baby! Leave that, come over here! Come over here! You can't play in the oil fields, you're going to hurt yourself. Go play somewhere else! To make matters worse even the smallest of sparks Gas leaks constantly Like Jose and his family, thousands of people live in this but above all, it's an ecological disaster Black tar contaminates The fish in Lake Maracaibo Regardless, people still have to eat. Jose and his son go fishing every day. This is an old boiler suit They're easy to find, It's the only thing left I made these oars with two paint pot lids. I made holes in the plastic These days I don't earn enough Jose, may not have petrol It's like traveling back in time. This is how they got around In that era, the lake was blue. Its new greenish color The algae feeds on the oil, Maracaibo, Venezuela's second city, no longer has the funds that empty into the lake. There are less and less fish. We used to get good hauls, You have to go further and further away and work very hard We have to keep fighting. Fishing is our only source of income. My life is here, My children were born here, they're growing up here Until the lake dries up, Every day, the wells and pipelines spew out more of their poison. Despite its fertile soil, Venezuela is struggling to produce Sitting on their oil money, its successive governments have neglected in agriculture. Now the sector is suffering Now, because there's no road, The tracks are so rough, El Viento is home to around 100 residents Locals learn to hold the reins Most deliveries are done on horseback, but the villagers one of which belongs to Chucho the grocer. $27.10. Hey Chucho! I've brought you the cheese. Very good! Put them here. In El Viento, money is hard to come by is worth less every day Simply put, money is now worthless, The farmers bring in cheese or coffee That's how I get paid. We don't see any money around here. Our government has gone off the rails and the national currency Within a week, can be multiplied by four or even ten. It's been ten years now and things have only got worse. People have got used to surviving but it's still very difficult. Hello! God bless you! These are my three girls. When Chucho goes to the city it's Lorena, his eldest, They don't want for anything. I risk my life on the trail. Lorena is never happy but Chucho has no choice. In just a fortnight He has to sell them before they go off. Bye, safe travels, love you lots, As usual, the village's other car No one drives alone on this trail. Together they will make the trek the economic capital of the region. It's a 140 kilometer journey, 60 plus kilometers This part is complicated to get through. It's a complete nightmare. It's like a mule track. The bumpiness and humidity don't do the already Before the state went bankrupt, Even small cars could use it. These last few years, This is a dried up river. There's not a soul for miles around, This is exactly why drivers It's not good here. You have to be very careful. In winter when the water level rises, the current gets so strong We risk our life on this stretch. His car has stalled, it won't start. I'm going to give my friend Jesus a hand. I don't understand why I have the same problem I'm going to put a bit of petrol If the petrol doesn't work, The petrol we buy is more It's watered down and that wrecks cars. In this country we're not The plants and refineries are in despair. I think there's only so must fuels aren't good quality anymore. Chucho's car also seems It lets him know with this moon song. That noise is coming from the U-joint. If that breaks, we could have an accident. We'll see if we can make it In the face of bumps in the road, Helping hands are all around. Brother Nelson has devoted Since the oil crisis began, Malnutrition reaches However difficult it may be, the Capuchin monk makes it his mission We're going to cross another bridge It really scares me, I love my life in the mountains, even if it's sometimes a bit risky I've wanted to be a missionary but after my teens I fell in love, I had a girlfriend, so I abandoned Then when that relationship ended, I started thinking about becoming The road to faith much like the roads in this country. Look at that! So much mud! The passengers Watch out, little one! Watch out! Duck down! I am ducking! This is terrible! The forest is taking over the road! Get down, get down! Soon we won't be able to get through! Brother Nelson must face a final, before he changes the mode of transport. Motorbikes are managing to cross. Yes, the motorbike's done it, How is it up there? -Not too rattled around? Are yo crossing on foot? No, I'll go in the car, Sit down, it's going to shake, I hold the gearstick so it doesn't jump. If I didn't we'd stall Adrian drives through these If it was me behind the wheel but with Adrian, we don't need to worry! Sure enough, the first part of the journey The next will be spent A trial for Brother Nelson Poor creature! Ninety-six kilos Hold the saddle just in case! Twenty kilometers The mule keeps juddering, She's put herself in first It's like a 4-wheel-drive Oh, my God! I'm lucky. I'm on horseback I'm like a king, it's a privilege. But a few kilometers later, Brother Nelson I'm ashamed! I'm going to get down now Except now a new challenge emerges. It's now up to him, As the group marches at a brisk pace. We make the round trip every fortnight We're used to it, we don't get tired. When you get to go home, The women seem to get a kick I really love tobacco. I'm going to run out soon, Brother Nelson, on the other hand, though you wouldn't know it. Sit down on that root, Father, My face is on fire, It's my faith that drives me to travel Without that, I would never do it, The most important thing for me It's seeing the smiles on their faces, seeing them eating rice and lentils A good meal. Come on, let's go! It's 35 degrees centigrade, so after three hours of walking, One, two, three! In the not too distant past, this expedition It used to be impossible From here you can see the church It's the first community For a very long time, they were isolated including with other Indigenous people. On 22 July 1960, a group of missionaries because the Baris used to fire arrows at any outsiders The village may be in sight, There's still a long way to go. As for Chucho, he's made it to a garage, Looks like it's broken. This one's shot. This one's shot, it's too damaged. Is it this one that's damaged? It's going to cost me a fortune, EUR17! With that plus petrol costs, I'm going to make almost nothing. A tiring journey for nothing. Anyway, on we go! According to Chucho, you don't need much This soil is some of the most productive it's very good. If only the government could give it The future doesn't look too bright. I worry about my girls because we live far away from everything, they won't be able The final kilometers are on tarmac but there's no time to rest Mrs Rosaura, how much cheese do you want? Do you have much left in stock or not? I've got a lot of it, Let me know, Mrs Rosaura. Even big cities aren't spared the effects Chucho, my friend! Jose! How are you? There's another cut! I'll bring my torch. For shopkeepers, keeping products fresh along with buying Two hundred and what? Two hundred and forty-nine. Here's 140, Chucho. Next time I'll give you the rest. Like many in Venezuela, The American currency which these days isn't worth more This was a note It still says 1 million on it Thirty years ago By the end of the day, Chucho I make just enough but that's enough for me. Above all, I'm helping out Chucho is one of the everyday heroes This is what I do! Like I always say, you have to because stress kills! However, Venezuelans To escape poverty, more than 5 million people Businesses are closing, People are finding inventive ways Cities hide their impoverishment a facade designed to disguise to provide their inhabitants Franco, Franco! Do this movement for me! Look, hardly a year old! Go on, go on! John is a football coach, He fills his day Hey, bring me the pipe! I made the goals To teach them his favorite sport, There's no more water in the taps I started breaking them off like this. What's the point of keeping the pipes in when we haven't seen a drop of water That's been the case for years. Here we get water every time a pope dies, and popes live 100 years! In front of the children, because having enough takes more than a little determination. Several times a day, John makes a two-kilometer round trip, To supplement The government provides The trucks fill up tanks, or even distribute water to set locations Anyone who doesn't know how to push a cart How have we been reduced to this? I really do it for the children. It's too hard to see a child go thirsty. Making life harder is the sporadic nature The trucks never come at the same time The most fortunate get the precious resource paying EUR2 per 200 liters, a luxury John cannot afford. Rather than spending it's better to save it to buy food. If you spend EUR2 a day, Here, salaries don't go so it's not hard to do the maths. This isn't water we bought. There's a cup for everyone. Who hasn't had theirs? John dreams of working While he waits for a miracle to happen, the strength to get by -This plane, where's it coming from? -Who gets on the plane? What are these? World cups! -What are these? The money you get for doing what you love. -What does the whole thing represent? We try to help the children with football because in Venezuela I know plenty of people here who went to top schools, and who've ended up or cakes just to survive. I hope that, thanks to me, I want them to have fun and to have the strength In the mountains, to bring food to the residents We still have two more hours Two hours on top of four hours of driving and another three hours It's to be expected that Brother Nelson I can't stand up anymore. One, two, three! It's hard. Okay, one, two, three! Brother Nelson isn't a strong swimmer, I've been swept away Thanks to God I was able to hang on However, the current was strong and it was my companions I feel safe After 50 kilometers Brother Nelson and his team Hello, how are you doing? -Good! Oh my God, look at all these children. It's incredible! Around 1,500 Baris live here, The Baris' territory used to be vast To take over their land, to set fire or to shoot at them. In the 1950s a reward of $1.50 was offered The presence of missionaries put a stop and saved the Baris from extermination. The monks have built a church and a school that teaches students As human beings, -Why? The community lives off fishing, The Baris also grow cassava, However, without a road to the city, They have to rely on help from NGOs Put her head here! Brother Nelson examines the children Sixty-three! Good! Why do we monitor children Between birth and five years old, To develop correctly, Otherwise, as they grow, What the father does because he takes care of our children Some of the freshly delivered provisions The Baris want a better future one in which they can meet their needs To that end, they're working to the outside world This road is vital for the community. Their health depends on it. They also need help with education professionals who can lift their people up That is our mission. Held hostage by an unprecedented political Venezuelans face a daily battle However, plummeting oil profits have forged a nation of fighters.