(cheerful music) - [Narrator] It was one of of engineering prowess in recent memory. On October 13th, SpaceX made history when the booster from its massive Starship rocket was caught by two mechanical as it descended back to the launch pad. (Super Heavy swooshing) - My first impression of and maybe I'll end it there. - [Narrator] Plaudits soon rolled in. - Wow. They did it. - I mean, it's science fiction. - China hasn't done it. - [Narrator] Even President-elect, - And it wrapped those arms and just like you hold your baby at night. - [Narrator] Now, with just days away and SpaceX increasingly here's why Starship is so and what the next flight could Starship is a mammoth two stage vehicle that stands at a height making it the tallest rocket ever made. The Starship spacecraft that's designed to carry a crew It sits atop a booster that is responsible for Starship's launch and initial ascent. - You know, SpaceX wants to use Starship for a lot of different types of missions for Starlink satellite launches, but also for moon missions, the latter of course, being - [Narrator] CEO, Elon Musk, wants Starship to Core to that vision is - Reusability is the key It's essential. We need It's just like we have for airplanes, for bicycles, for horses. - Reusability has been from the very beginning because you need reusability to both, quickly and cost effectively of cargo, future humans into space for all kinds of different missions. - [Narrator] To accomplish this, SpaceX plans to eventually the top part of the vehicle - The idea is to like narrow, is to like make rocket transportation, rocket launching like more like that and less this super unique event that requires hardware that you use once and and don't use again. - [Crowd] Two, one. Go! - [Narrator] Catching the booster was the primary goal of and SpaceX succeeded on its first attempt. Propelled by 33 massive Raptor engines, Starship took off from its After ascending to an altitude of about 43 miles above Earth, Starship Super Heavy booster separated from the Starship rocket. - [Announcer] Rock Stage. Separation confirmed. - [Narrator] The booster and fired its raptor engines (audience cheering) - [Announcer] Booster coming - [Narrator] As the booster it slowed to a near hover and did a horizontal slide maneuver before being caught by on the launch tower dubbed, Mechazilla. Meanwhile, the starship spacecraft continued flying on its own using its six onboard engines to travel 132 miles above Earth before descending back and splashing down in the Indian Ocean. SpaceX's Successful catch was a major achievement for the company and an engineering feat that showed how SpaceX is pushing the - When you think of a rocket, most of the rocket is the booster. You need a lot of power to defeat gravity and get off off of earth and For decades, the most efficient way and safest way to do that was to build boosters that Boosters would fly back in and into earth and, you know, crash down in the ocean and that would be the end of them. - [Narrator] SpaceX has the power of reusable boosters Rivals are pushing to add reusable systems to their rockets too, and closely watching the - Flight Test Five with was kind of a shot over the SpaceX very much has a path making it operational, changing potentially, the ability to get to space and what it costs to do that. - [Narrator] Jeff Bezos's Blue Origin is developing a reusable that is slated to launch for United Launch Alliance, owned by Boeing and Lockheed Martin, is looking to recover the the first part of its new Last year, Rocket Lab USA used an engine that had flown before on a and is working on a new with a booster that it could use again. SpaceX's Progress has prompted overseas as well. A Chinese company said it for new reusable rockets in and Russia recently said to develop its own reusable rocket. But when it comes to reusability, SpaceX remains far ahead - It's not that it's like free to sort of like reusable a booster. It comes back, you have to refurbish it, you have to do checks, you have to make sure it's But they've demonstrated that these boosters can be and that really helps and that helps them generate more money and that's money they can use like elsewhere in their business, namely for Starship right now. - [Narrator] While Musk's in the incoming Trump administration, his rocket company is forging ahead. SpaceX plans to conduct a sixth Starship test - The November 18th flight test is, according to how the gonna be fairly similar to So the company will try to It's gonna be examining, you again working on relighting a I don't think we're gonna sort of engineering kind of we saw with the fifth flight test, although like, you know, we also probably shouldn't Just like catching the booster, they're gonna wanna again and again and again. - [Narrator] Recently, of the Starship that will Attached to its side a smiling cartoon, an apparent reference to that engineers often make. In the near term, SpaceX says it wants Starship NASA also wants to use a Starship variant as part of its Artemis program, which aims to return Ultimately, Musk says he wants multi-planetary by making long - Eventually, history suggests that will the alternative is to become and a multi-plan species, that is the right way to go. Yes? (audience cheering) (cheerful music)