Roughly every 100,000 years, our planet undergoes Supervolcanoes are to regular volcanoes what holes or the Incredible Hulk is to Hulk Hogan. Bigger, badder, and infinitely more-terrifying. Capable of ejecting over 1,000 cubic kilometers dwarfs any eruption in human history. Mt St Helens, Krakatoa, Vesuvius... all are But while no supervolcano has erupted since they're gone. If you live in America, you may have even Yellowstone national park is famous for its But just under the surface lies something it to cause an eruption - could potentially Where did this supervolcano come from, how to the world if it did? Today, Geographics is uncovering Yellowstone's its apocalyptic future. The Exploding Earth On April 10, 1815, Tambora volcano in Indonesia history. Over 3 days, 175 cubic kilometers of debris of ash 45km high. So much material was hurled into the sky that The following year, 1816, would become known ice froze rivers in August, flooding destroyed Thanks to these climactic effects, it's globe died. It was by far the biggest eruption since the the Hekla 3 eruption that may have triggered But here comes the kicker. This apocalyptic volcano that affected the By contrast, were a supervolcano to explode Scout bake sale. In the history of the Earth, there have been The most-recent occurred at New Zealand's But while a video about Taupo's explosive here to discuss today. No, we're here to talk about the most-famous To get an idea of the how the Yellowstone time. Way, way back into prehistory. Until roughly 66 million years ago, the entire sea. But then the Cenozoic era began, and brought Now, this was volcanic activity unrelated But it did result in the Absaroka mountain its northern and eastern borders. However, it was what happened some 49 million If you'd been floating above the North American on fast forward, it would've looked like springing up around the Nevada, Oregon, and Those volcanoes would've started marching toward northwest Wyoming. But this would've just been the view from Underground, a very different story would've Rather than the volcanoes themselves marching American plate was slowly grinding southwest Imagine a carpet being dragged across a warped As the carpet moves, the bump would stay in the carpet rise up at different times. In a very simple way, that was what was happening Finally, some 2.1 million years ago, that piece of carpet marked Yellowstone. It's at this point that things got interesting. Not long after the magma bump found itself Since we don't have any records of a supervolcano actually looked like. But we can guess. Over thousands of years, magma, water vapor, bump, until the pressure made it start to Stood on the ground, you would've seen a Finally, it would've gotten so big that for the pressure below. By the time you noticed that, though, your The first Yellowstone supereruption was almost Over 6,000 times the size of Mt St Helens, Over 15,000 square kilometers of North America Where the magma blew, the Earth collapsed, In the aftermath, the gasses expelled would've into a winter that lasted for years. It was the first example of the supervolcano's It wouldn't be the last. The Great Eruptions In its two million years of existence, the with the force of its first major blast. But even its two smaller supereruptions were Take the supereruption of 640,000 BC. The third of Yellowstone's three major explosions, eruptions. That meant a plume of ash 30km high, so big Mexico. It meant gigantic, superheated clouds of rock modern Wyoming, burying the land beneath a Anything within 1,000km of the eruption almost In the aftermath, another gigantic caldera whole of Samoa. Even the smallest of the three supereruptions, would've been an awe-inspiring sight to Well, at least until it would've until it However, it would be wrong to think that the blasts. Between 640,000 and 70,000 BC, some 80 eruptions Although some created features we'd still - none of them were even close to being Tambora-sized, It's here we get to one of the biggest misconceptions size, anytime they blow it must be a supereruption. The reality is that most supervolcanoes only They're far more likely to just sit there, the surface. Yellowstone volcano is a prime example of All those steam vents, hot springs, and mud vacation photos? They're all due to that great big magma Because the ground in Yellowstone is cracked, the magma, getting superheated, and shooting The 300 geysers in Yellowstone park - over they're on the surface of a volcano so big So next time you roll out there in your RV remember that the supervolcano below isn't In fact, without that plume of molten rock least 960km down, and likely as far as 3,000km you to visit at all. That's because it was these outside signs the area was worth preserving in the first The Invisible Volcano On August 29, 1870, the gloriously be-moustached A Civil War veteran turned explorer, the 30-year name might suggest - the Washburn-Langford-Doane At this point in American history, much of The West had been tamed, but many of those the 19th Century equivalent of an olde timey It was a mere 43 years earlier that the first a newspaper; only 34 years earlier that the In the decades since, trappers, explorers, stories they brought back of the landscape At the moment Gustavus Doane started scrambling opinion of Yellowstone was basically "what's It was the Washburn-Langford-Doane expedition's At long last, Doane reached the top of Mt All around him stretched the wilds of Wyoming, known as Yellowstone national park. To the south, the Rocky Mountains rose and But there was an anomaly. As Doane squinted, he noticed there was a a flat circle of forest seemed to have been Not long after, the explorer recorded his "The great basin," he wrote, "has been volcano." It was the first time in history anyone had was hiding. Prior to Doane's expedition, humans had thousands of years. We know this, because tools dating back to the park. Since they're from so far back, though, The name of the people that produced these as if it had been written on paper then dropped It wasn't until the fifteenth century that survives. Known as the Shoshone or sometimes the Sheepeaters, Quite what they made of all the strange lakes, but we can assume it probably blew their minds. That's because minds being blown is a pretty When the first white people arrived in Yellowstone were often laughed off by those living on deluded woodsmen. The idea of hot rivers and jets of boiling someone told you today about a secret place It didn't help that the government's official leaving most people in the dark about the But as the 19th century rolled on, more explorers with similar tales, until it was decided this And so it was, in 1870, that both Doane's Hayden expedition set off to uncover Yellowstone's In their own ways, both would transform how As Doane clambered back down Washburn Mountain into a different world. When the Hayden expedition returned, it would that would capture the public's attention. It would be off the back of these images that law on March 1, 1872, that made Yellowstone world - possibly the very first (there's it to the post). But it would be Doane who eventually made The idea of a vast, dead volcano underneath For a long time - almost 8 decades in fact But then, at some point in the mid-20th century, was as dead as Doane had claimed. What they eventually found would explode everything park. The Volcano Made Visible The fact that we ever discovered the truth to two things: a lump of rock, and a disappointing Let's start with the rock first. In the late 1950s, a Harvard grad student the park when he stumbled across something Now, to you or me, a welded tuff would look But Boyd was a geologist, and to him a welded It looked like what it was: ash that had once and solidifying. It also looked like something that had come But one rock, no matter how weird, does not Even as two more welded tuffs were discovered It would take a weird boat trip to change Jump cut ahead to 1973. Bob Smith, another geologist, was boating he came to an old dock. A couple of decades before, Smith had moored underwater and useless. What's more, the treeline was flooded out Being far brainier than us, Smith didn't on with his life. Instead, he took a survey of the entire Hayden 1923. What he found was jaw-dropping. The north end of Yellowstone Lake had risen down the southern end and submerging the old There was only one reason the ground might The volcano beneath Yellowstone must still Smith's findings caused a minor sensation. It helped that Smith was good at turning a as a "living, breathing caldera". But it also helped that the park kept on doing In the mid-1980s, there was a cluster of earthquakes, again to the height it had been in 1923. Whatever was down there was like some great at R'lyeh. The only question was, what would happen when Over the next couple of decades, geologists, jobs ending in "ologist" studied the heck It's during this time that the giant magma That the volcanic timeline from this video's Slowly, as the sheer size and power of the describe it. A term that started as strictly unscientific, co-opted it: supervolcano. Barely had the apocalyptic connotations of the ground started rising beneath Yellowstone But if you're expecting to hear that we're you're about to be very disappointed. It's been estimated that the odds of Yellowstone By way of comparison, it's actually more will come slamming into Earth than it is that Even when it does finally blow again, the You may have seen claims that Yellowstone another catastrophic eruption. But volcanoes - with rare exceptions - simply The boring truth is that Yellowstone probably when it does, it'll likely be a lava flow but barely noticeable for the world at large. That being said, though, there is still the could happen. And if it did... Well, let's just say it's time for this It's time for us to witness America's The World on Fire Because no supervolcano has erupted in recorded look like if Yellowstone suddenly went Old But we can make some educated guesses. For instance, it seems reasonable to assume start swelling again, doming upwards as magma Quite possibly, this dome would rise on a With the ground heaving upwards, we'd start rock out of its way to get to the surface. The closer we got to lift-off, the shallower Pretty soon they'd likely be detected across increase in CO2. In other words, we'd probably have some But that almost wouldn't matter. Because when the magma finally reached the clock. Assuming an eruption as big as Yellowstone's beyond belief. Lava would inundate the park within a radius This would suck for campers, but the real It'd be in the air. Thousands of cubic kilometers of volcanic What happened next would depend a lot on the almost a meter thick settling over most of This wouldn't be like a layer of snow. Just 30cm of ash can collapse a rooftop. Every water supply it touched would be poisoned. But it's not like anyone would be around survivors. Within 1,000km of the blast, it's estimated A quick, back of an envelope calculation puts And Yellowstone would just be getting started. As the ash traveled, it would blanket the Not deep enough to crush buildings, but deep and to make travel - and thus escape - an It would also be thick enough to cause major As the BBC once memorably put it: "Inhaled ash forms a cement-like mixture Yuck. By the time you reached the East Coast, the Even at this thinness, though, it would badly supply chains. Overall, its estimated that three quarters post-apocalyptic fantasy. And that would just be for starters. Over the coming days, the ash from Yellowstone also coated Europe. Remember the Icelandic eruption in April, the continent? Well that would happen all over again. While actual damage in Europe would be minimal, Finally, once three weeks had passed, the would have completely shrouded the planet. When Tambora erupted in 1815, causing the by something like 1.7C. A Yellowstone eruption, on the other hand, C. Nor would the effects only last a year. Were Yellowstone to blow today, the 2020s summer. Ten whole years in which every day was like Crops would fail. The Monsoon would be disrupted, causing mass-starvation When the aftereffects finally faded, the sun civilization - that had been irrevocably changed. But it would also shine down on a human race Yep, it would be a decade of catastrophe, it wouldn't be the end of the world. It's not even a sure bet that it would be Back in the Cold War, government scientists population in a nuclear exchange still wouldn't a political entity. In the aftermath of a Yellowstone supereruption, its Armageddon. It might take decades. It might take centuries. But, in the end, the most-devastating eruption as surely as the Black Death or Napoleonic But this most probably won't happen. As the American continent continues to move no longer under Yellowstone's thin Basin Rockies. This could be enough to keep the supervolcano So that's it then, the history of both Yellowstone The volcano that will almost certainly never But if you do one day find yourself in northwest rising up wildly... and earthquakes getting across the park... Then don't run. Just close your eyes, cross your fingers, Because if the big one is coming - and that's else that you can possibly do.