A unified theory of everything has a monumental It must bring together the strangest elements rules on the macro scale and the micro. Which is really hard to do because there are world. Uncertainty. Quanta. Superpositions. So let's begin there. After my last video on this topic, I got loads to hear my take on the answer to everything. I claimed last time that I believed some form a unified theory of everything. It's time to show you how much heavy lifting I'm Alex McColgan, and you're watching While I don't claim to have solved the theory's with a model that pieces all the phenomena Quantum physics' mathematics has rapidly we observe are going on. Let's try to help conceptual understanding As I said in my last video, it all starts Let's discuss a few properties of a vibrating This will help us to see why they lend themselves We need to start with that first word; quantum. Simply put, quantum is derived from the same It's the strange principle that on a small discrete quantities rather than operating This is a little unintuitive, much like many what we mean with an example. If you are running, I could ask you to half You could half your speed again, and again, Is there a limit to how many times you can While you might struggle with the precision no reason you couldn't keep halving and no limit to the number of times you can divide There's always a smaller number. In the quantum world, this is not so. When it comes to energy levels, momentum, enough number, you discover that the universe in discrete quantities. An electron in a hydrogen atom can have exactly but under no circumstance can it have an energy This has been proven experimentally. A theory of everything must make use of an quantised. The concept of some kind of web of strings bring in transverse standing waves and harmonics. When plucking a guitar string, a standing not a value in between those. This is because harmonics are formed by the string in one direction perfectly resonating If the speed or frequency of the waves don't disrupt each other, leading to the collapse Only waves with just the right amount of speed given string. So, immediately, we have an interesting mirror have quantised momenta and energy levels. So do standing waves on strings. The next interesting point to note about waves of sine waves, you can create any wave pattern the rich complexity of a universe. This mathematical principle was first discovered mathematician, and is very useful in the study the other way too - any wave can be broken When two waves try to occupy the same place, both rising or both falling, but will cancel This can lead to all sorts of waves being and even waves that only have a single peak This becomes easier to do the more waves you This is an interesting observation, as it theory of everything must be able to answer: When I say particles, I am not specifically components that make these objects up. Atoms split into protons, neutrons and electrons. Protons and neutrons split into quarks, and Without needing to go into exactly what all of the weird names that they do (who decided or "bottom"?) it's enough to say that These are the smallest building blocks of Why do they exist? Well, in a model using strings, they are the This matches Einstein's observation that same thing in different forms, as laid out A wave is the motion of energy. Mass can be that too. The narrower the peak of the wave, the more on that string. You might take issue with the idea that both single particle. However, curiously, this matches another important a little vague about where exactly they are If you know much about quantum mechanics you principle. This is the idea that we cannot know a particle's We can get a decent approximation at large and where you're going - but at small The more precisely we know where a photon momentum. And vice versa. This isn't just because we have bad techniques for observing them, this truth. If we think about particles being the sum makes a lot more sense. Take a look at this wave. It is perfectly defined in terms of where of this wave to represent the location of possibility that the particle is at this location So for this given string, we have perfect are uncertain about its position in a given Perfectly in line with Heisenberg's uncertainty If we converge several different waves onto mathematical trick to cancel out some of the The more waves we add coming in from different defined in space... but look at our particle How many strings are running through it? Each of these is a separate momentum in a different direction. It is no longer quite so possible to pin down are several options that could be true. Perfectly pinning down a particle in terms that could lead anywhere. This is starting to get into territory where before a single particle can be truly "solved" which is a little headache-inducing. Perhaps the universe makes most of the time, until someone looks closely. For this model, we must discard our concept we define them as the convergence of different then diverging again. This divergence doesn't feel right to us. We are uncomfortable with the idea of our moment, and dissipating afterwards. However, those of you familiar with the double earlier video) will recognise that this is result: a single photon released from an emitter pass through both slits, interfering with The photon reaches the far detector as a single at that point, but by sending many photons is taking place in the intervening space. The photon seems to leave as a particle and space it takes on the properties of a propagating, Already, we begin to see how some of the strangest idea of strings carrying waves of energy. But this is only the first part of my model. To really see how such a theory matches the motion of particles across time and space. To better understand And to do that, we need to explore how strings principles of relativity on larger scales. We need to have a clear concept of how time My model accommodates that. But it will have to wait until my third video In the meantime, do you agree with what I've Are there other aspects of quantum mechanics of strings? Leave a comment in the description below to Thanks for watching and thanks over at Patreon, who help us to make science Chasing the algorithm can be hit and miss sometimes , so your contribution help If you want to find our how to contribute When you join you'll be able to see your name in the credits and Meanwhile, click the link to this playlist for