Intro on our channel, we have talked about the lore of out that video via the link in the description. three games - Dragon Age: Origins, Dragon Age II all the main story beats before Dragon Age: The summarized coverage of the first three games. and what your plan is for the Veilguard, and You probably don't need us to tell you that dungeons and dragons vein, so you might return to Thedas. To help you with that, a virtual tabletop program for managing everything For players, it will visualise the tabletop do all the longwinded rules-echecked like hit points, areas of effect, and it takes the complex task of running the whole The built-in campaign manager lets you set and all the good stuff your players will have to homebrew whatever you want, or quickly hit the Shard Tabletop is free, but you can also year to get a load of extra professionally which also adds extra free You can run it on any device, it comes and, again, it's free to use. Make out Shard Tabletop at shardtabletop Dragon Age Origins you in the shoes of a freshly recruited Warden Cailan and Teyrn Loghain Mac and to fight off the the Warden is tasked with retrieving three vials joining and finding old treaties between various the documents, which are safeguarded by a witch player survives and becomes a full Grey Warden. In are tasked with lighting a beacon atop the tower outflank the darkspawn horde. However, Loghain on the battlefield while the tower is overrun by They both awaken in Flemeth's hut, and after their way to the nearby town of Lothering with the continue fighting the darkspawn. In the meantime, Denerim, where he accused the Wardens of being and declared himself Regent, enraging the Nobles. run rampant before the darkspawn horde arrives. party members; Leliana, a Chantry sister and following Alistair's recommendation, to obtain the assistance of Ark Eamon Guern. a claimant to the throne as he is the bastard son the village suffered from constant attacks the Warden enters the castle via an underway a mage who was brought in to help Eamon's son, It is soon revealed that Jowan poisoned Eamon as in a desperate attempt to cure his father, he throne room, a battle ensues in which Connor is Connor or his mother, Isolde, may die. on the task of healing Eamon. Isolde points them the urn of Andraste, an artifact of powerful brings them to the village of Haven, where he they make their way to the temple where Genitivi numerous cultists and drakes that occupy the meet Kolgrim, the leader of the cult, named the the reincarnated Andraste. Moving on, the party a series of trials. Having succeeded in the is cured. Eamon pledges his troops to the Warden's while the party continues in search of allies. attack by abominations, demons and blood maintaining the order in the Circle of Magi have but the Warden manages to convince them to let the trapped mages, a Sloth demon sends the party to Niall, who reveals that Senior Enchanter Uldred, having summoned a demon after he failed to killing the Sloth demon and acquiring the Litany control from blood mages, the party confronts possessed by the Pride demon. With order restored First Enchanter Irving is alive, the Mages blight or are put to the sword by the Templars. where one of the Dalish tribes is attacked by promises to help the Warden in exchange for The party explores the forest where they find not just mindless beasts. Eventually, the party Upon exploring the ruins they come across many but they ultimately find The Lady of the Forest, is Zathrian who is actually responsible group of humans for attacking his children. The yet Zathrian doesn't lift the curse so the possible to force his hand. Witherfang hints not doing so as the curse is possibly tied with depends on the player's choice who can pick their assistance during the final confrontation. the dwarves face a political crisis as King Endrin divided between two candidates; the cutthroat and conservative Pytal Harrowmont. Whatever side Roads to find Paragon Branka whose support will can recruit another party member, a dwarf named find Branka and another Paragon, Caridin, who are a device that can create golems. The player destroy it or Branka who wishes to use it. the Warden's candidate of choice win the With all the allies now gathered, Arl Eamon together. While trying to enlist the support of that Queen Anora is being held prisoner by infiltrates Howe's estate, helps free an Orlesian slaying Howe they use the key to free Anora, but Warden and one companion are arrested and taken In the end, of course, they escape their bonds on their own and return to Arl Eamon's estate. heads for Alienage, where they discover Tevinter ring. After defeating Caladrius, the leader of Loghain's involvement, the party returns for the the new ruler will either be Alistair, Anora or or spared and made into a Grey Warden. With the coalition forces moved to face the Blight. the darkspawn horde is. On the eve of the battle, the Archdemon and that in doing so the Warden by way of an ancient ritual but it's up to the If the player refuses, Morrigan leaves the party. Urthemiel has deceived them and that his army is Denerim. They hastily make their way to the darkspawn. Riordan suggests they lure the dragon followed by the party. Riordan manages to wound path through many foes to reach the top of the the death of the Archdemon, the darkspawn Dragon Age 2 control of Hawke, destined to become the Champion a dwarf named Varric to the Seeker of the Chantry, Hawke's story begins shortly after the battle Lothering to Kirkwall, their mother's hometown. attacked by darkspawn, which results in the death but Flemeth saves the rest in the form of a in exchange for Hawke carrying an amulet. the city's gates barred, but their uncle provided they work as mercenaries or smugglers the siblings decide to fund and join an expedition Bartrand. To do so, Hawke undertakes a series They first assist a Dalish blood mage, Merill, There, Flemeth emerges from the amulet flies away. Together with Merill, they return Hawke overhears a conversation about a Missing Caverns of the Wounded Coast. After dispatching Hawke then gets another job from Thrask, this time blood mage Decimus, Hawke can decide the fate of a Templar recruit who, along with some others, has the leader of a group that wants to killing Tarohne and her minions, Keran is freed. information on some explosive powder. The where a fight ensues, with Hawke emerging Hawke discovers that it was all a Qunari informs them that there was never a deal to Hawke then travels to Lowtown and is instructed by out of the city. However, it is a setup, and they them, it is revealed that Sister Petrice was death to turn the Chantry against the Qunari. Anders, who promises to give Hawke the maps they help with rescuing his friend Karl. Unfortunately, shortly after, yet the Warden keeps his promise. the expedition descends to the Deep Roads, where Bartrand betrays the party, takes the idol they explore deeper, finding a treasure big at the price of Hawk losing their last sibling in which case he takes them to the Grey Wardens. skipping to 3 years later, when tensions with Hawke is sent to hunt down Javaris, who has later revealed that, in fact, it was a group of in the city. Hawke defeats the Elves and proceeds the abduction of a Qunari delegate. They find named Ser Varnell. Hawke here can choose Qunari or fight the Templar and his zealots. that Leandra, their mother, has gone missing. a blood mage named Quentin, who pieces together Hawke slays him, but Leandra dies in their arms. Saemus, the viscount's son, to the Qun. Suspecting where they find the poor boy murdered. Depending Hawke will get in a fight with the Having had enough, the Qunari send their together with the templar leader Meredith and where the Arishok is keeping a group of the Qunari aggression, either earning the moniker Champion of Kirkwall. However, who is now a head shorter and, despite Following Viscount Dumar's death, Meredith turned After a heated argument between Meredith and essentially, Hawke is summoned by the former and Emile and Evelina. After completing this quest, the argument, Hawke is once again summoned either that groups of mages have been reported to be Hawke's proof that Orsino is involved, while involved. In either case, Hawke soon discovers are involved, and Keran is among them. After some and that their goal is to depose Meredith. Keran close to Hawke. Wasting no time, Hawke tracks Thrask tries to defuse the situation, but Grace, kills him and orders an attack on Hawke. with the remaining surrendering and handed Next, Hawke is brought before Grand Cleric situation growing dire, the Divine Justinia V is together with Elthina's favorite, Sebastian who is revealed to be none other than Leliana. that war is inevitable and asks Elthina to claiming there's still time to avoid bloodshed. is accusing Orsino of harboring blood mages. stopping her and triggering a hidden explosive killing everyone inside. This gives Meredith of Annulment - basically the purge of all mages side. If the player picks the mages, Aveline will if the player picks the templars. Hawke can also in which case Sebastian leaves to bring reach the Gallows, where Meredith attacks the Orsino unleashes a spell and becomes a Harvester. they sided with her. It is revealed that Meredith from Bartrand and forged it into her sword. attempts to relieve her from command, but she Hawke, who is proven too strong of a foe for her. her sword breaks, and she turns into a statue. lets Hawke and the party leave unharmed. rise up in an outrage and the Mage-Templar Cassandra realizes Hawke is not responsible game closes with Cassandra discussing with Dragon Age Inquisition the player assumes control of the Inquisitor, who Conclave. After a golden female figure helps material world, the protagonist is interrogated by the explosion has killed everyone else who was V, and has created a hole in the Veil, the green glowing mark on their left arm, which in the Veil and, ultimately, the Breach itself. and the elven mage Solas on their way to close prevent it from growing. There, they also discover who, according to the legend, started the the protagonist and red lyrium. They seal awakening later in Haven, where the people hail reestablishes the Inquisition to continue fighting Cullen and Josephine. Seeking official approval who suggested a trip to Val Royeaux. However, denounce the Inquisition. While at the capital, Rebel Mages and also has the chance to recruit of the loyalist mages. Upon returning to Haven, conflict, a choice that leads to two mutually The Inquisitor is also able to recruit two and a Qunari merc by the name of Iron Bull. Inquisitor is invited to their fortress, Therinfal Templars, who begin slaughtering everyone. they find the commander who, in truth, is an Envy as head of the Inquisition, has been working officers with red lyrium. The Inquisitor also Empress Celese of Orlais and raise a demon army the Templars offer their assistance as gratitude. travels to Redcliffe, where they find out that Teviner magister Gereon Alexius. Through another Felix, the Inquisitor learns that Gereon can who serves Corypheus. Upon confronting him, the to help cure Felix from the Taint. Dorian and the Corypheus' plans have succeeded. They discover fight Alexius, this time beating him. They return Alexius the futility of his actions. The magister Having secured the assistance of either the the Breach, but before they can celebrate large army that includes the faction the player the Herald delays Corypheus as much as possible portion of his army. Corypheus attempts to but fails and the Inquisitor escapes through caravan. Solas then guides them to an abandoned officially proclaim the Herald as the Inquisitor. inform the Inquisitor Corypheus' next moves. Inquisitor to locate their old Grey Warden ally, finds him in Crestwood and it is revealed that an army of demons, which they plan to use to can be corrupted into Archdemons. The Wardens, Livius Erimond who supervises these rituals and the ritual not only binds demons to Warden thus creating a massive army for his master. Erimond and the Wardens are hiding and confronts to summon the Nightmare demon. They manage to who mortally wounds her and causes her last spell at the last moment by escaping through a rift to Justina and learn the truth about the events at group of mind controlled Grey Wardens and planned Anchor for himself. By sheer luck, the Inquisitor themselves when they picked the Orb. The magical Justinia and the Inquisitor who were thrown in demons so the Inquisitor could have a fighting Nightmare demon trying to block their way, they Back at Skyhold, Josephine suspects that Corypheus with Grand Duke Gaspard at Halamshiral. Unable winter palace where they investigate Briala, the Empress' current occult advisor. Upon further Duke's sister, the one that serves Corypheus and The Inquisitor exposes Florianne and depending on her throne or Gaspard is crowned the new emperor. the sovereign pledges to support the Inquisition With his plans foiled, Corypheus goes to the Arbor the crossroads and tear down the barriers that pursue him and amidst the battle Morrigan and where they learn he is after the Well of Sorrows. transfers his essence to one of his generals and manages to defeat the general. Then the the Inquisitor drink from the well, thus gaining themselves to Mythal's will. With the well and the The Inquisitor and Morrigan discover that therefore whoever drank from the well is bound red lyrium dragon is similar to an Archdemon will Corypheus become mortal. She also grants a Morrigan is able to shapeshift into a dragon, In a last ditching effort Corypheus returns to of destruction reopens the Breach. As soon the ruins in the air, cutting them off from them. The Inquisition uses their own dragon, dragon prevailing but as it is severely injured Anchor the Inquisitor seals the Breach and opens destroying his physical form and banishing his battle Solas finds the Orb damaged beyond repair Inquisition. Some time later we see him meeting identity, the Dread Wolf. She also chastises with Solas explaining he was too weak to use it. an Exalted Council to decide the fate of the found by Leliana sets the Inquisitor on a quest most of the southern leaders in preparation for Viddasala, the Inquisitor discovers that Solas they chase her, with the elf turning Viddasala to the Inquisitor as well as his plan to restore leaving, he severs the Inquisitor's left arm, as threatened to kill them. When the Inquisitor the Inquisition will serve as Divine Victoria's fighting to stop the Dread Wolf and his plans. so far. Due to time restraints, we did not go that were irrelevant to the main plot. But we hope to jog your memory before you pick up Bioware's Thedas if you are a newcomer. We will talk about so so make sure you are subscribed and have consider liking, commenting, and sharing - it without our kind patrons and youtube channel in the description to know our schedule, get and much more. This is the Wizards and Warriors