NARRATOR: We speed across 55 million light At its heart lies a supermassive It is the first and only We want to find out how what lies inside, and how 5,000 light years out from we get our first sign We see giant holes carved out thousands of light years wide. PAUL M. SUTTER: As we approach littered around the vicinity. It's like entering and seeing the bones of all the NARRATOR: What cataclysmic in the galactic gas clouds? As we fly next to of energy thousands of we get a clue. It's a deadly shooting out across the galaxy. A jet. This jet looks or a beam from a lighthouse. You're seeing this screaming out of the black MAX TEGMARK: When I first saw whoa, am I like, misreading Because there was like beam just coming out. NARRATOR: In 1918 Heber Curtis described the jets A century later, they pulsate with energy. PAUL M. SUTTER: The and clumps in these jets. They show that it's just that there's been a history NARRATOR: This the knots along the beams. The knots reveal the It's like looking at Rail cars of the same color But, different colored cars It's the same with the So, we can figure out how by looking at knots out from near the black hole. NARRATOR: When astronomers knots, they got a big surprise. One is moving at 2.4 and the other is moving over How could this possibly be? As weird as the physics that's not actually happening, PAUL M. SUTTER: faster than the speed of light. So obviously, we're NARRATOR: The knots may seem But, the universe is It's really just a that a lot of this toward us, pointed partially MAX TEGMARK: That in a sense, tricks you into thinking NARRATOR: It's a simple A bit like the way a looks bent, and distorted. The impossibly fast is just an illusion PAUL M. SUTTER: From it looks like the towards us faster than light. But really, it's just cruising MAX TEGMARK: The breaking the laws of physics. They're pushing up against it, the speed of light. Imagine the energies this entire jet to that speed. NARRATOR: So, what could to blast jets across the galaxy There is a clue far ahead. The Jets shoot out from a This is where things go nuts. This is the center This is where the NARRATOR: A ring and dust whirls around the It's called the accretion disk. And it shines a billion CHIARA MINGARELLI: If you had a you would probably be But, if you were some, you survive anything, and million SPF sunscreen, and what you would see is this of gas swirling this dark void. NARRATOR: This around the at over two million So, there's a of friction as material rubs against each other. That's what's and that's what's NARRATOR: Scientists think of the accretion disk is The hot swirling gas powerful magnetic fields. As the disk spins, it twists at the poles of the black hole. Energy builds. Finally, the contain the energy any longer. They snap, and blast the Even many light years we can see this violent It's like the universe's Two jets streaking out One shooting away into the past our ship. We're at a safe distance, So, when these from this supermassive they don't shoot If a jet hits a gas It just punches a GRANT TREMBLAY: It's like a right? The gas is like the snow, and train plowing across it. NARRATOR: But here, a at close to the speed of light. Smashing into clouds our way to M87 Star as we There is evidence of across the universe. In the Cygnus A galaxy, have caused damage GRANT TREMBLAY: In like a cosmic shooting gallery. You see this crime scene, HAKEEM OLUSEYI: So, of the nucleus of Cygnus A, it's At that point, And this jet just rips sending shock waves creating absolute chaos. It's hard to believe these jets can cause. They're punching a hole in the I mean, that's, that's the NARRATOR: As we head towards we enter hostile territory. The closer to the supermassive the more dangerous it gets. As we approach the we start to feel it. All this energy, all is powered by that black hole. NARRATOR: Intense winds They push away vital gas, Could these winds end up itself?