What's up everybody? This is Charlie from talk about persuasiveness and self-esteem, because the truth is, every time you're trying how you feel about yourself, and that is persuading contents of what you're saying. So, if you're not familiar with it, this clip is that a singer gets on stage, sings a song, to have that person join their team. Now, in this case, there's two judges there their team--Joel and Ricky. They have very good, and we're going to start with the bad I actually really, really want her on my team, Yeah, me too. Okay. Cardinal sin of any persuasive tactic right trying to persuade someone, people often think say how badly they would like it if someone on them. People do not care. They have their own interests to say &quot;I would love, or I want, or I would what would be good for them and he's gonna his argument. I just want to say that sometimes I get so and I've lost a lot of battles for people. Now, this is something else that I see and it seems so obvious, &quot;Dude, why are you down step on stage, right? If they're not comfortable with, &quot;I'm not very good at this,&quot; or they're or even guys, when they approach a woman in want to talk to a guy like me, but...&quot; If social proof yourself by talking about your Now, we're compelled to do this sometimes situation in which we find ourselves. We don't the joke or talk to the girl, or whatever that can be done beforehand to deal with those do not voice those negative concerns because and completely obliterate any chance of it Dude, I've been turned down by girls. I would Again, &quot;I would love it if...&quot; That is a terrible cares what you would love. They have their her career, how he can help her. I just, I'm already seeing things, you know, songs, staging, you know, I like to get really So he talks about what he wants to do, how her, and then, of course, closes weakly with zero on the persuasiveness scale. Now, watch how Ricky takes it in a completely You have the whole package. You have the... You, finally, right? After all this time, to say what she has going and he affirms her You have the aura of a star. You just have that stage believing every second, every word That is persuasiveness in a nutshell right got going, says what she needs to do, and Now I could talk about his body language and but that's, really, all just a symptom of compared to Joel, right? thing where there's a pretty girl on stage that same baggage, so he is genuinely coming can help,&quot; and he's not afraid to look at Allow me, please, to be part of your journey. have a really good time This is extremely fascinating here, so he then introduces a little bit of an issue, can help you,&quot; and then, closes with &quot;us. That is an amazing persuasive arc in a nutshell. what you're missing, and then, us, what we small persuasive arc, and just very interesting So I want to jump ahead now and show you kind looking and interacting with her. Again, this we go. Joel is about to give her a present Oh, hold on, hold on. I've been saving this Now, just look at his approach, note the amount her, look at if he's got any sort of engagement Again, with that, he's got that little bit touch her as he just hands the roses to her, he needs to get rid of them. So he's got those small little gestures, he's now with Ricky. So cutting now to Ricky, just note, his eye shouting around him, how he engages her, so like Joel did, but you can just get the sense more, based on his-- the angle of his body, This is really where the self-esteem issue Ricky has no problem doing this because he Joel, I can't say from afar, but just from that he felt very, very nervous in this situation, This is it. This is heavy. This is not a romantic No, this is about creativity. This is about music and this is about your make a decision. I am here to give you 30 years of career. And, again, he shows what he can give her wins this one, and I just want to show you So Ricky, comfortable, standing, touching, Watch as he struggles to make eye contact attention directly at her for any more than And there you go. And that's interesting there, went with the handsome guy. That is sometimes we want, right? Something goes poorly and sometimes. Sometimes, not even picked at all. is more handsome or more wealthier, that the is, we shot ourselves in the foot the entire Everything that he said indicated that he that he did not feel that he was worthy of basically broadcast to her pick Ricky. So guess what, pick Ricky? It made it a very So I hope that you guys have found this helpful, I hope that Joel bounces back, but if you in an interaction, these are things that Ricky you can go ahead and click the link now. It these four emotions are and the exact order make a first impression on anyone, anywhere, now, click that link. It will take you to If you've liked this video, go ahead and subscribe, people that you think are really charismatic, love those because they really help me cut do. I'm Charlie from Charisma on Command and will see you in the next video.