Welcome to Hollywood Graveyard, where we set those who lived to entertain us, by visiting up the coast to the Bay Area, to San Francisco, Joe DiMaggio, Eddie Fisher, and many more. San Francisco, the city by the bay. Home to giants like Pixar, here in the Bay Area we'll but industry giants, entrepreneurs, athletes, this great city. We've got quite a few cemeteries rolling. Oh and be sure to wear some flowers On our way up the coast we'll stop just outside in Los Altos. Our first stop was a rather years, one of my favorite bands was No Use Warped Tour circuit. They were a punk rock of Fat Wreck Chords, fronted by guitarist the late 80s in San Jose. They rose in popularity when it played on MTV... [music] Tony Sly also found success in solo acoustic work. The lyrics here on his stone are from died in his sleep in 2012 at just 41, after Let's continue north to the Palo Alto area, and Alta Mesa Memorial Park. It was founded in from the gate on the right is section A. sun, and find the grave of Frank Bacon. He early 20th centuries. He found his greatest in the 1918 play Lightnin', which set a Broadway The play would be made into a silent film, an actor Bacon can also be seen in a handful after a final performance in Lightnin'. He at Fort Rosecrans. this same lawn. In toward the wall we find are an HP, you can thank David Packard, the engineer who co-founded HP with Bill Hewlett was an oscillator sold to Disney for Fantasia. electronic devices like calculators, computers, Another Silicon Valley giant who rests here and the family has requested that his location rumors that he rests in one of the unmarked don't know for sure. If you re watching this Steve Jobs, the co-founder and genius behind out of Steve's garage, to sell the Apple 1 Steve Wozniak. Through the vision and leadership largest technology company, and one of the some of the footage you'll see in today's had a major impact on computer animation. called Pixar, and funded it. So without Steve us far too soon though, after battling cancer. time was one of the most well-known business Let's continue south down Chapel Road to the He was a singer and television personality his rich baritone voice and down-home humor. a chart-topping hit in the track Sixteen Tons, [music] On television Ford hosted his own Variety show, and would appear on other shows like produced gospel music, earning a Grammy and as well as the Country Music Hall of Fame. Near the southern end of the cemetery is a Let's pass through to the southern exterior wall, where we find a legend handful of individuals who have become indelible Tramp, Marilyn Monroe's blonde bombshell, Shirley Temple, the quintessential child starlet. child star in the world, but also the biggest on screen was panacea for a weary nation gripped 6 she was awarded a special Juvenile Academy are Bright Eyes, Heidi, and Curly Top. &quot;When I grow up, in a year or two or three, I'll be happy as can be, like a birdie in She made a number of films as a young woman alongside Cary Grant. She retired from acting in 1958 hosting a fairy-tale anthology series, she began a diplomatic career, representing as an ambassador to Ghana and Czechoslovakia. Heading northeast now to Hillview Section, Pigpen McKernan. He was a singer and instrumentalist, counterculture band, the Grateful Dead. The folk, and country, with performances that sang in the band, and played harmonica and [music] By his mid-20s Pigpen's alcohol abuse began to affect his health, and in 1973 he was found Jimi Hendrix, Janis Joplin, and Jim Morrison inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. Our last stop here at Alta Mesa is up in section D, along the east road. Here we find husband Charles Gilman Norris was a novelist and playwright. in 1916, followed by the popular 1919 novel, Charles rests here with his wife Kathleen one of the most widely read female authors and several were made into films, including Change of Heart. She lived to be 85. Let's now head north up the peninsula to what city of Colma boasts more residents underground The city was founded in 1924 as a necropolis, with now over a dozen cemeteries within just by the banning of burials in San Francisco A few years later, all of San Francisco's the land in Colma. It s sometimes called The has given the city the tongue-in-cheek motto, Let's begin our time in the bay area s great cemetery. Founded in 1887 on 300 acres, it's Our first famous find here at Holy Cross is in the sports world, The Yankee Clipper, Joe with the New York Yankees, and he's widely in history. He led the Yankees to 10 pennants MVP, and had a 56-game hitting streak, a record was inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame to screen goddess, Marilyn Monroe. The marriage only lasting 9 months. But Joe never stopped it was Joe DiMaggio who claimed her body, Village Memorial Park. He had roses delivered 20 years. As Joe lay dying from lung cancer words were &quot;I'll finally get to see Marilyn.&quot; East of here is the palatial Holy Cross Mausoleum. of this building. There is one famous figure to find in these whose tragic story has become a part of the Abigail Folger. She was heiress of the Folger to volunteer charity work and civil rights and her boyfriend Voytek Frykowski were at of Charles Manson broke into the home and Abigail, whose body was discovered the next Drive. She was just 25. The events of August documentary and narrative adaptations, including in which Abigail was portrayed by Samantha Heading back out to the grounds, north of we find another legendary rock musician of co-founder and guitarist for the bands Jefferson 1965, Jefferson Airplane's psychedelic rock Their hits include White Rabbit and Someone [music] Jefferson Airplane would become Jefferson Starship in 1974. The inscription on Paul's tombstone Paul Kantner died from multiple organ failure was 74. Just next door is section 5. Here we find the final resting place of Kathryn Forbes. was Mama's Bank Account, published in 1943. I Remember Mama, which was later made into 58 when she died. Let's head around now to the far northwestern corner of the cemetery, to section T. In several Moore. Born in San Francisco she relocated they would put on the hit comedic play, Struck of the play would make her a leading actress was also known for her roles in the works of Penzance. She would perform in London and San Francisco, living to the age of 74. She after a cable car accident in 1926. Circling back around toward the entrance we find the Our Lady Garden Courts. This is the The Italian soprano is known for her time of Carmen, Don Giovanni, Gianni Schicchi, career performing ended in 1949 at the behest family, saying &quot;one singer in the family is lives on in the many recordings she made. Back to the road from the main entrance we find this grand private mausoleum, home to holding some 50 patents, mostly for film and of the Victor Talking Machine Co, which created teens and 20s. One account of how the name Leon's wife, Victoria, also entombed here. patenting a process for filming in natural in 1918, as one of the very earliest examples triple-scene dissolve camera, zoom lenses, underwater cameras, and more, all predecessors to be 71. For our next stop we cross over to the southeast corner of the cemetery, and the All Saints Heading into the St Anthony of Padua chapel personality known as The Green Grocer. His on radio and television stations across the ways to select and prepare produce. He parlayed Joe died from cancer at age 73. Our last stop here at Holy cross is in the next section north, The Star of the Sea. Here a jazz musician and composer, best known for including the signature melody, Linus and and the Christmas standard, Christmas Time is Here. He'd write music for all the It's the Great Pumpkin, Charlie Brown. Outside the song, Cast Your Fate to the Wind. Vince Next door to Holy Cross is the sprawling Cypress reminded me a little of some of the cemeteries Woodlawn, with the grand aging monuments and acres, Cypress Lawn was one of the destinations Francisco in the early 20th century. Cypress two sections. We'll begin in the section on after passing through the archway into the that resembles something Gatsby might have Heading inside we find immediately on the was a 19th and 20th century author, who captured her novels. Several of her writings were adapted 1923. And her 1933 story, The Foghorn, was lived to be 90. Take a moment to explore in this columbarium. The coloration of these old copper niches Columbarium began in 1927, but when the Great the first floor and a small 4th floor were an interior courtyard left unfinished to this This old art deco elevator takes you to the 4th floor... as you can see, no option And were it not for all these loose wires hanging about, I might have ventured Let's head back out to the grounds and a little magnificent Grecian mausoleum. It belongs He's known for creating the nation s largest He grew his company through sensationalistic sordid tales of crime, sex, and corruption. he became owner of the San Francisco Examiner newspapers nationwide, and expand into radio of films, many as vehicles for his mistress, of the life of William Randolph Hearst is National Historic Landmark. His life story Citizen Kane, considered one of the greatest Across the street to section D, in a short ways, is Alvino Rey. Growing up, young Alvino He was among the early innovators of electric the guitar. He played in a number of bands, notably, pedal steel guitar. It was Alvino Blue Hawaii, and in the theme of 1959's [music] In 1935 Gibson approached Alvino to help them develop a prototype pickup, based on the one used for Gibson's first electric guitar. He the 40s. Alvino is also known for his association King Sisters. He married one of them: Luise. group, consisting of six sisters from Utah. film appearances in the 40s. Alvino and Luise his parents. Heading farther still into the cemetery we reach section K. Close to the road is the baseball player, remembered for his 19 seasons base. As of filming he's tied at 20th for career he'd be named rookie of the year, an his number 44 was retired, and the portion named McCovey Bay. In 1986 he was inducted lived to be 80. If your preferred form of entertainment involves a one-armed bandit, then you may have this father of the automatic gambling industry. required an attendant to make a payout. In paid out coins. The most famous of these machines out when three bells aligned. Fey installed but since gambling was illegal, he couldn't Hitting the road again to the north end of marker of theatrical producer, Steve Silver. Blanket Babylon, a San Francisco institution running musical revue, beginning in 1974. time on Beach Blanket Babylon in 2019. Silver of 51. His grave features a caricature by perhaps the only of his caricatures executed Proceeding southwest to section D, near the and bandleader beginning in the 30s, known In 1960 he opened San Francisco's longest-running Murphy Jazz Band would later perform at Carnegie at age 71. Turk Murphy Lane in San Francisco Let's cross over now to the west side of Cypress I've been to a lot of mausoleums over the from the outside, is quite distinctively the older sections. This section, E-F-G, was uniquely mesmerizing. by a full ceiling of green stained glass with this is a must see. They just don t make them And resting here in this colorful corridor a popular stage performer here in San Francisco. role of The Girl in the 1905 production of The Darling of the Gods, and Under Two Flags. including 1918's The Border Legion. She died In a newer part of the mausoleum to the west, He was a singer and actor, one of the most producing dozens of chart-topping hits. [music] He also hosted his own variety shows on TV, earned him a Golden Globe. Eddie would appear Joy alongside first wife Debbie Reynolds, Taylor. With Reynolds he was the father of and filmmaker Todd Fisher. He's also the father with third wife Connie Stevens. Eddie Fisher Back out to the grounds, at the bottom of rests Hale Hamilton. As an actor he got his Great Gatsby, where he was the first actor on to have roles in some popular talkies of alongside Jean Harlow. Hamilton also authored hemorrhage in 1942. West of here is Rose Garden section. Under a tree we find a humble marker to actress stage here in San Francisco and on Broadway best remembered today for her role as Aunt films include The Silver Cord, and The Blue a voice coach for silent film actresses like Laura died in 1942, her final appearance being and Old Lace. The next section northwest is the Acacia Garden. Close to the road we find Izora Rhodes-Armstead. duo, The Weather Girls in the 80s and 90s. [music] The Weather Girls disbanded in 1988, but Izora would later re-form the group with her daughter, You Feel It. Izora died from heart failure If you followed the ska punk scene in the alongside me to bands like Link 80. Here in resting place of Nick Traina. He was the lead area, Link 80. [music] The band released two albums in 1997. Later band, but tragically, he died in September was the son of romance novelist Danielle Steel, In his memory, she wrote the book titled His the Nick Traina Foundation, dedicated to treating messages from Nick's family and friends, and Our last stop here at Cypress Lawn is in the is where Calvin Simmons is laid to rest. Calvin by 11 was conducting the San Francisco Boys as assistant conductor of the Los Angeles director of the Oakland Symphony at the age man to conduct a major symphony orchestra for four years until his untimely death at Lake Placid. Next door to Cypress Lawn is a pair of Jewish Cemeteries: Hills of Eternity, and Home of Perhaps the most visited grave here at Hills Earp, famous for his role as a marshal in of the famous shootout at OK Corral, which Wyatt moved often, operating saloons, gambling, in LA, as a consultant for silent western his pallbearers were silent westerns stars and buried here in the Jewish cemetery, as see here wasn't the first placed. The original placed in 1999. Wyatt Earp has been portrayed Kevin Costner and Kurt Russell. Up a few rows and across the street we find Russian actor, Savely Kramarov. He found success making around 40 films there. By the late popular film stars. But he decided to leave was denied by the Soviet government, but made finally allowed to leave in 1981. He became saw his name and films banned there. Here film roles, including in Moscow on the Hudson after complications during surgery for cancer. various masks, scripts, and makeup kit a permanent Home of Peace cemetery is just across the at the mausoleum. we find the niche of Alfred Hertz. He was of Wagner's music, particularly at the Metropolitan director of the San Francisco Symphony, between recordings for the Victor Talking Machine to find the crypt of producer, Walter Wanger. was pitching the British novel, The Sheik, launching the career of Rudolph Valentino. studios before forming his own production like Charles Boyer and Henry Fonda. Films s Joan of Arc would make him one of the big also be associated with a Hollywood scandal wife, actress Joan Bennett, suspecting they in prison, then was back to making movies, the most expensive movie made up to that point, in 1964. He died a few years later from a Check the tag on your pants if it says Levi's whose name has become synonymous with blue in 1829 and moved to the US at age 18. He Francisco as a wholesale business, but soon riveted denim pants. The men patented the The rest, as they say, is history. Strauss Several sections northeast we find the grave credits to his name, in a career that spanned films, including It's a Wonderful Life, a regular on television, performing a number Bedloe on Petticoat Junction. He lived to Moving on now to our next Colma cemetery: Just a couple graves to find here. The southernmost tree, we find Alex Anderson. He was a cartoonist, Ward, creating a number of beloved cartoon Bullwinkle, Dudley Do-Right, and Crusader Anderson initially didn't get any recognition they were copyrighted in Ward's name alone. of Rocky, Bullwinkle, and Dudley Do-Right. advertising. He died at age 90 from complications Just northwest of here on this same lawn we Emperor Norton. In September of 1859, Joshua newspapers to declare himself Emperor of the would issue decrees, largely ignored of course, The eccentric Emperor Norton would stroll in an elaborate blue uniform, attending to real political power, he became something call to build a bridge between San Francisco in the form of the Bay Bridge in the 1930s. to an end in 1880 when Emperor Norton passed Our last Colma Cemetery is Olivet Memorial One of the distinct features here is something This section is a Showman's Rest, an area and carnival performers. This monument was Organization, and surrounding the monument other carnival workers, all who wished to Just off the entrance to Olivet is a columbarium. we find the niche of Marguerite de la Motte. under Anna Pavlova, and by the 20s was appearing teaming up with the King of Hollywood, Douglas The Mark of Zorro, The Three Musketeers, and Marguerite had trouble transitioning into She was just 47 when she died from a cerebral Time to say goodbye to the Colma Necropolis, Mountain View Cemetery is the king of cemeteries Mountain View is home to many of the region's wealthiest among them with this hillside view Our first stop here at Mountain View is in section 12, where we find Frank Norris. He the early adopters of naturalism in writing. progressive era, including McTeague, and The von Stroheim's silent film magnum opus, Greed, died from appendicitis. The flowers were in bloom on this hillside after a week of rain, blooming for a woman lies Elizabeth Short. She was an aspiring in the 40s, though there are no known film aspired to in life would only find her after a woman was walking with her 3-year-old daughter when she noticed what looked like a store lot. She quickly realized it was the body It was Elizabeth. Her severely mutilated body had been murdered elsewhere and posed in this the case caught headlines nationwide, and Despite years of investigation and numerous for Elizabeth's murder. Hers is perhaps the and owing to the horrific nature of the case, consciousness for decades, generating countless what happened to that poor girl back in 1947. numerous true-crime productions, and would in American Horror Story, and a film featuring On a hill overlooking the cemetery and Oakland Francisco's most famous chocolatier, Ghirardelli. to our food lovers special we did a few years came to America and opened a confectionary of the Ghirardelli Chocolate Company. It is chocolate makers in the US. Domingo died back and was laid to rest here with his family. Heading north now to section 47, up the hill and close to a tree, is the grave of Andre a pioneer of hip hop here in the Bay Area. his own label, Thizz Entertainment. His track Station, and Blindspotting. [music] Mac Dre's career was cut short after a performance pulled up alongside their van and shot him. And finally, for our last stop here in San to find a man who contributed to the San Francisco landmark. This is the niche of Irving Morrow, Working with chief engineer Joseph Strauss, style, and chose that iconic orange for the in 1933, connecting San Francisco to Marin the Golden Gate, give a shoutout to Mr. Morrow And that concludes our tour. What are some visited today? Share them in the comments for more famous grave tours. next one.