(audience cheering) - [Kelly] I'm keeping it cool. - Thank you. - I promised myself I was gonna keep it so cool with you. (Kate laughing) Like, I'm a big fan. - Anything your name is We actually both got in the industry, I was nineteen when I got in the industry, and you were too, right, when you first? - I did my first film when I was 17, but I did get an Oscar So, that was definitely the beginning. - Well, I didn't get that. - Which seems ridiculous. But yeah, but you did win - [Kelly] Yeah, yeah. The same thing. - Same thing. I mean, actually, a way bigger thing. - I think it's the same - No. - But it changed my life, and it- - [Kate] Yeah. at such a young age. How did you deal with that? - Well, that's right. I think when you have sort it does change your life. And external forces kind of crowd in and make you feel potentially And I, I think, how did I handle it? I mean, I think a part of it was just actually trying to stay steady and taking a step back and looking at, okay, how You know, do I want to continue I still felt I had to figure out who I was separate to all of that. - I almost felt, in many ways, I kind of wasn't emotionally ready for that kind of attention. - And also, in a strange way, I didn't get into acting or have the attention like that. - [Kelly] Yeah. because I loved it, like you It's a thing that you And you don't actually if people actually see any and they're any good. You don't think about that part. So, I just took time, and I had great parents, wonderful siblings. And actually, things that mattered, like friendship and food, quite honestly. Like, sitting down- - And having a great - 'Cause the conversations you know, while you're - Yeah, just normal &quot;Ah, okay. This is where I belong.&quot; As long as you've got I think that helps a lot. And that's what certainly helped me. But I also think as well, like, success, you know, how do we, we talk about success and what it means to be successful. - Mm-hm. is how I feel on the inside. For me, the greatest is raising three children to be resilient, cool, collected, interesting, who are humble and kind. So, I think it's very important that they matter. - And any dream that they And that mistakes are important. We learn from our mistakes. - Yeah, and I always say &quot;Come on, let's go and while we play and figure this out.&quot; It's how you work out what - Oh, that's wonderful. - I think that's an important - Yeah. I love you even more. Oh my gosh. Okay, let's We have someone in the - Hi, Kelly and Kate. I'm Damian. I'm so excited. I'm a Especially in one movie in particular. No, it's not &quot;Titanic&quot; or &quot;The Holiday&quot; or &quot;Finding Neverland&quot;. It's the 2006 animated - [Kelly] Yeah! a street smart sewer rat named Rita. If I were doing this interview, every question would be about that film. More with Kate and Kelly after the break. (upbeat music) - We are back, and Kate Give it up, y'all. (audience cheering) Kate's new film is called &quot;Lee&quot;. It's a fascinating look at the life of photojournalist Lee Miller, who refused to take no for an answer. And in doing so, helped find strength and progress. Many of Kate's roles throughout her career have had a similar impact, to talk about some of So, this is &quot;Scenes and Stories&quot;. Scenes And stories - Love it. Love to hear it. All we do here is from one of Kate's films, and that comes to mind when she sees it. It's kind of a free association thing. So, here's the first one. Let's just get it out of the way. This is &quot;Titanic&quot;. (audience cheering) Whoo! I felt like we had to do this one. I sang the Kellyoke for you for that one. But what do you recall (Kelly laughing) - What do I not recall? I can remember everything. So, the first thing to say is that we had a section of the boat that was on a hydraulic arm. It would go up and down, at which the ship was sinking And that particular in that photograph was, it was really scary because, it didn't stop there, it kept going up. So, all of those people- - Are really holding on. - Are really holding on. A lot of them are harnessed on. And they're all stunt individuals, apart from myself and Leo- - [Kelly] The assets. (laughs) - Who just hung on for dear life. No. Yeah, there was a lot of 'cause obviously, with you actually can't have things go wrong. - Yeah. - Sort of choreography, probably. - Yeah, but when we got to the bit, exactly like choreography. When we got to the bit where Jack and Rose are right on the top like that, there was one night when it just broke, and we got stuck up there. - Oh. - No, but it was quite funny, actually. We got stuck up there 'Cause you know, we had four months of, it was seven months shoot, four months of which was shot by night because the boat sank at night. - [Kelly] Yeah. - And so there's Leo and I, just stuck on the top, the bow of the ship. must have been entertaining. - Actually, we used to sing. We'd take it in turns to sing each other, you know, cheesy love songs. - Oh my gosh, that's adorable. - No, that's not meant to be cute. No, we sang them badly, and like, I can't even But yeah, we would kind of just, yeah, we'd lie there singing. And we'd have snacks hidden - Yes. Okay, next &quot;The Holiday&quot;. (audience clapping) I love this movie. What do you love about this scene? - [Kate] Well. - Working with Jack had to be fun. - Oh, Jack is gorgeous. And he was so gorgeous, I looked forward to seeing him every day. We had so much fun. He was just wonderful. And he's very naughty because he does, you know, he really is that funny. - [Kelly] Yeah. willfully try and mess you up on camera. - Oh, he's been on this show. Yeah. - [Kate] Yeah, okay. So, you know. You know. - You kind of can't function. - It's like a kid playing all the time. - Totally. He's a big boy man. And you just have to roll in- - Yeah. And it couldn't be a nicer place to be. - [Kelly] Yeah. - And I loved every minute It was fantastic. But &quot;The Holiday&quot;, something beautiful that's happened with that film is that women, mothers and daughters, it seems to be something connect over, and watch - [Kelly] No, and that's the thing too. - It's so nice. - [Kate] Yeah. I watch it every year, yeah. - Yeah, and that's a really lovely thing. Women will come up to and they'll say, &quot;Oh, we And they'll have, you know, their daughter will be right there. And they stand, clutching &quot;Every Christmas.&quot; And they have these and what they eat when So, that's absolutely lovely. It's so nice. Such an unexpected delight. - Yeah. You have so many great movies. Oh my God. Well, finally, we're gonna end with &quot;Lee&quot;. So, what about this one? - So, this is Andrea Riseborough, who is, I honestly think, one of our greatest actors of all time. And I had never worked with her before. Admired her my whole career. We're kind of similar in age. And she plays Audrey Withers in our film. And Audrey Withers was the at the time that Lee was there. Audrey was a woman who wanted and really believed in other women being writers too. In spite of Lee's lack of experience, because Lee was a photographer, if she was gonna go and take on this job, she would have to write as well as photographically And this is the scene when actually kind of just marches right on in, and says, &quot;I hear you're the - Mm-hm. with Audrey, and she basically shows her her portfolio of wonderful images that she's taken across a number of years. And Audrey is immediately supportive, and as it should be. As it should be. - One more time, y'all, for Give it up, y'all. Her new movie is called &quot;Lee&quot;. It's beautiful and heartbreaking, and it's in theaters everywhere. Please go see it.