Okay, Diocora. So I do want to play a Jebaba London game. Unfortunately, yesterday, or the last speedrun game where I tried to do that, my opponent played g6, so we ended up transposing to a modern with e4 here. Hopefully we get an opportunity to play the Jebaba, and we will. And we will. We play the Jebaba London. Hopefully I don't make a fool of myself. a6 is one of the more common moves, I would say, along with e6 and Bf5. It's like the main trifecta. I almost put g6 in a separate category because it's a completely different type of position that you get. The lines a6, e6, Bf5, and to a certain extent c6 all lead to pretty similar positions, which the kind of commonality is that the Jebaba London appears very innocuous. It doesn't appear all that dangerous. It doesn't seem like an attacking opening, but all of that is an illusion. It's actually a very, very aggressive system, and a lot of people get in trouble because they don't realize how vast White's attacking potential is. So we respond with e3. This is a move that you always make in the Jebaba, and c5 is already a mistake, right? Another example of how tricky the Jebaba London is, c5 is an attempt to punish us for developing our knight to c3, because in the London system, the traditional London, when you face the move c5, you typically respond with c3. You build the pawn triangle so that d4 is well defended, but the great thing about putting the knight on c3 is that you're exerting immediate pressure on the d5 pawn. That means that there is a move to play here that you don't often play in the traditional London, and the reason this move makes sense here is because after this move, the pressure on d5 intensifies, and it makes it harder for Black to win back the pawn. Of course, I'm implying that the move is d take c5, and it is surprisingly problematic for Black to win back this pawn without falling behind and developing. Knight c6 is the most common response, and you may think that the automatic response to that is knight to f3. This is where getting the course yields a lot of benefits. Knight f3 is not the correct move here, even though it's by far the most common move online. The correct move is a3. Now, the idea of a3 should be very obvious to everybody. We want to play b4 and secure the pawn on c5, but the flaw inherent in this move seems to be that Black plays e5, grabs control of the center, and then wins the pawn on c5 with interest, but there is a catch. Rather than meekly dropping back to g3, we put the bishop on g5, and now the power of our knight development really shines through. We're threatening the very simple bishop takes f6 and knight takes d5, which would knock out a key central pawn and retain our material advantage. Black has to waste the tempo playing bishop e6. What does this give us the opportunity to do? Well, this gives us the opportunity now to secure the c5 pawn with a move b4, and that's why we played a3. White is up a pawn for no compensation. Okay, now we're exiting the opening stage, and we're entering the middle game stage, and we have to be accurate. So because we spent a couple of tempi crafting our pawn structure on the queen side, we have fallen behind in development a little bit, so we need to remedy that. So the obvious move would be knight to f3. Another typical idea in these lines is to transfer the knight from c3 to b6. So knight a4 is a move that you see very often in this line. I don't see the rush. I don't see the need to do that immediately. We'll have to check the course afterward to make sure I'm getting the move order right, but I'm pretty sure that the move is knight to f3. Black typically castles, and we continue our development not with bishop to d3. That walks right into the fork, but the bishop is developed more modestly to e2. That's it. We're up a full pawn, and more importantly, it's not just any pawn. This pawn makes it difficult for Black to breathe, right? It's just controlling squares that Black would like to use to get his pieces into the game more efficiently. A lot of people go queen d7 in a position like this. Then the effectiveness of knight a4 is increased. Hopefully you see why, because once the knight hits b6, that's actually a fork. At the very least, it'll come with tempo. So I would say that the compensation is very limited, because just having more pawns in the center does not yield compensation. There's a question in the chat from Peculiar Estate. Would you really say there's no compensation? Black is better center and fairly classical development. So we also have classical development, right? The pieces are actually developed very similarly. If you compare the placement of the knights, the placement of these two bishops, basically development is symmetrical. The only big difference is that Black has more pawns in the center. But both of these pawns are also liabilities. We're attacking and pressuring both pawns with our knights. Our pawn on e3 is doing the job. It's restricting the mobility of Black's pawns. It's making the move d4 a lot less dangerous than it otherwise would be. It's like a speed bump, right? That's not really allowing the card to accelerate. If Black plays d4, then we would likely snap off the pawn. We would trade once, and then we would garner the e4 square for our knight by first taking on f6, then sticking our knight in the center on e4. Queen e8. I mean, that is a tricky move. It sets a trap that I'm seeing through already. The trap that it sets is if bishop takes f6, bishop takes f6, knight takes d5, what you should notice is the alignment of Black's bishop and white's rook in the corner. So Black has this move, e4, but not immediately, because immediately we would take the bishop on f6. The problem is Black first takes on d5, then plays e4. That's a discovered attack against the knight. We do have knight d4 in that position, but if you keep calculating, Black can take on d4 and then finally play rook d8 and win the d4 pawn back with interest. I'm not interested in these kinds of tactics because we're simply up a pawn. Let's proceed simply, and I will show this over the board after the game, so don't worry. Okay, there's no reason for us not to castle. Clearly our opponent wants to put a rook on d8 and x -ray our queen and maybe prepare the move d4. No, knight e4. Okay, did I blunder? I might have blundered. Whoa. Whoa. What is knight e4? I did blunder this move. Oh my gosh. Wow, queen e8 is unbelievable, and the idea is knight e4. I didn't see that. I didn't see that at all. That is not in the course, needless to say. Knight takes e4, de, bishop e7. The idea is ef. I mean, we're not worse. I think position is equal. Position is equal, but that's brilliant by our opponent, and I'm learning new things about the line. So basically, what did I miss? If the queen was still on d8, then we would be able to take the bishop on e7, and we would be attacking the queen, so Black would have to spend that tempo recapturing the bishop. Now we can't do that, so while I still have to take on e7, White, Black now takes on f3. I have to take the rook. Black takes. We take, and at the end of the day, we get two pawns and a rook for two minor pieces, so we're still--I would probably prefer White here, but definitely, I should have seen that. Still, I think White is doing completely fine. Now, when you have a rook against two pieces, we haven't had too many of these games in the speedrun, so I think it's a good thing. The evaluation of a rook for two pieces type situations depends primarily on the relative activity of the rook versus the minor pieces. So if you're the side of the rook or the two rooks, you have to aim for total rook activity, ASAP. So in this case, the move is a no -brainer. We need to put something on d1. That's the only open file. I propose that we put the f -rook on d1 so that the rook on a1 kind of supervised some of these queenside pawns. Like if Black plays a5 or something, it's a good idea, I think, to keep one of the rooks on the queenside for the time being. I'm also eyeing the juicy d6 square for our rook. We can stick a rook on d6, and we can use that as an anchor point and then double rooks on the d -file. Still, I think White is doing completely fine here. After the game, we'll check exactly where I went wrong. I mean, castles is kind of a mini blunder, but I'm just stunned by this idea, Qe8 and Nd4. Incredible. So still, I think White is doing fine here. Yeah, rook d6 is ultimately the idea. Suddenly, our opponent is finally thinking, which has been pretty rare thus far. I actually think Black's position is hard to play, partially because the knight on c6 is fully restricted. We're controlling d4, we're controlling b4. The bishop on e6 is fine, but it has no jumping off points. Yeah, it's not as much of a blunder as I thought. It was sort of a visceral reaction. I thought it was a blunder, but now when I look at this position, I like White a lot. I think if Black handles this well, it should be closer to equal. The rook trade is probably good for us. As a general rule of thumb, and this is very general, if there's a situation two rooks versus two minor pieces in a rook, a trade of a pair of rooks favors the side with the rook. A lot of situations where it's pure rook versus two minor pieces, and there are no other pieces on the board, the rook often dominates simply because the rook has long range ability, and the bishop and the knight's long range ability to ferry it from side to side is restricted. The rook often trampolines from one side of the board to the other and wins a bunch of pawns because the minor pieces are incompetent at defending weaknesses. I think this is an excellent move that our opponent just played because this opens up a square for the knight. Yeah, this is not going to be an easy game. I can already sense that. Oh wow, rook d6, knight e5, rook d1, there's bishop g4, okay. I think we should start by sticking the rook on d6. This is kind of something that we can just sort of do, but after knight e5, assuming that that's what our opponent wants, we have to think a little bit. Yeah, d -o -koro is very strong. Queen e7, okay. So, well, in the absence of all things held equal, our next move would be rook a to d1. I think that's what we should do. Is there any tactical issue with that? No. Queen g5, yes. This is actually very, very good play by black. This is exactly how I think black should play this. So maybe it's a good idea to make it difficult for black to play queen to g5. So the move queen to h5 comes to mind, but then black can stick the queen on f6 and infiltrate b2. Actually, I have some tricks in mind. So let's go queen h5, and the point of queen h5, I'm stopping queen g5. And the reason I'm scared of queen g5 is because it aims at the g2 pawn, and black has these annoying threats like bishop h3 and bishop g4 to f3. Now maybe it wasn't as dangerous as I made it out to be, but I'm trying to kind of jostle for good spots for our pieces. I'm trying to make it difficult for our opponent to coordinate as much as possible using what we have at our disposal, which is not a lot. Yeah, h6, but that doesn't do much. I mean, if I were playing black, I would make some lifts, but that is very advanced. Yeah, our opponent resigned his last three games in zero moves. Okay, that's reassuring. Okay, let's go rook d1. Let's double on the d file. There's no question I'm getting outplayed for now, but that could change. Rook f8. Okay, I fully understand that move. I guess our opponent is basically saying that white has no ways to infiltrate. That's the biggest problem in our position is that I just can never play rook d7 because the bishop is guarding that square. So basically, white's ability to improve their position is restricted. We just have to sit and wait, but if we're sitting and waiting, I might as well make some helpful moves. So one thing I really want to do is make some lifts for my own king. We're going to go h3. We're going to go h3, and this is going to help in situations where the rooks start journeying to black side of the board and etc. Yeah, I'm apprehensive about this position, but there's plenty of chess left to be played. Plenty of chess left to be played. Yeah, this guy is playing GM level for now, but you know, we have reached a level where people are capable of playing really, really good chess for prolonged periods of time. Maybe not for the entire game. That would make it a little bit weird, but for very long periods of time. Queen e8, knight e4, azumi shook. This idea is wild. This might be the first time I've seen this type of pattern ever. Okay, but we're playing reasonable moves. This is going to be a great advertisement for the jibaba course. I'm going to lose my first speedrun game in the jibaba, and that's going to be the ultimate advertisement for the course. No, f5 I would love to see. If he plays f5, I'd be really happy. The move f5 in this position, it weakens the bishop tremendously, and remember that the bishop is what's holding black's together, because if it moves, yeah, that's precisely what I was afraid of. Okay, I'm getting this feeling of hopelessness, but we're still going to try. I'm starting to get that feeling of hopelessness. I have an idea, which is to play c4. This was my intended move for a long time, because I'm trying to push through b5 and get these pawns rolling as much as possible. There's a lot of ways that black can mess this up. For example, I think knight e4. Okay, that's not one of them, but actually, wait, this move, I thought I have queen to h4. I thought I have queen to h4, and I'm counterattacking the e4 pawn. I think maybe white is fine here, and I'm probably miscalculating something. I'm finally, at least I'm posing some problems. He's getting a little bit low on time, although 950 is a lot of time. Okay, so basically, the idea of queen h4 is I'm waiting for black to take on a3, and then I'll play b5, and I'll attack the knight, and then at the right moment, I'll play queen takes c4. I've calculated some nice lines here. For instance, queen a3 b5. The good thing is the rooks are doubled. Otherwise, black would be able to take on c5, but then we take the knight. So queen takes a3 b5. Bang, bang. Let's say black plays knight to e5. Then we play queen takes c4, and in that position, if black plays knight takes c4, who can tell me what tactical move I've cooked up as a response? So queen a3 b5 knight e5, queen e4, knight c4. What is my intention? Yeah, rook e6. Very good. Rook takes c6 there because the bishop is defending the knight on c4, and the queen is making contact with it. And if f takes c6, we could even take the pawn with check first, and then come back and take the knight. We'd be up two pawns. So that's kind of the tactical justification. There's some other cool lines. Queen takes a3. First of all, if black takes the other way, I don't think he's going to do that. That would not be a very understandable move. Okay, queen takes a3. We play b5. So I'm trying to play a little bit quickly here because he took two minutes on this last move. If he does that like three more times, we're in business. We're totally in business. So queen takes a3 played. Now the knight has to decide where it's going. If black takes on b5, then we take back, and I'm happy because our pawns are undoubled. So if I were playing black, I would probably move the knight, but this is an exceedingly complicated position. This is an exceedingly complicated position. Okay, he does take, interesting. So we take back, knight e5. Okay, I take the pawn. I take the pawn. No, I think we're fine now. I think we're fine now. I mean, again, the way he's playing, I'm just, you know, I'm losing some confidence. After I blundered this knight e4 trick, I lost some confidence, but I think we're back in business here. I think we're back in business. He has me sweating, that's for sure. Yeah, so basically now, if queen takes c5, what do we do in that position? Because there is a very tempting tactical move which doesn't work, and there is a simple move which does. So what do we do in response to queen c5? Yeah, we play it simple. We play queen takes b7. The tempting move which doesn't work is actually rook dd5. I wonder how many of you saw that possibility, right? Contact between pieces, always a source of tactics. So rook d5, bishop takes d5, rook takes d5. We're forking the queen and the knight. Unfortunately, black has a check on c1. So this is a no -brainer. We play queen takes b7, and we have now still two pawns and the rook for the minor pieces. Objectively, I would evaluate this as equal. I think this is close to equal dynamically, but we have great practical chances because we have a far advanced pass pawn, and we have excellently placed pieces. And our king is safe. That really is the main thing, which is that our king is safe for the time being. And our goal, well, we have a couple of things on the horizon. We are, of course, checking tactics constantly because rook takes bishop is possible in certain cases. Our overarching priority is to push the pawn, but not if it becomes weaker. We have to push it very carefully. And, of course, the third thing to keep in mind is that a rook trade generally favors the side with the rook. So rook to d8 is a possibility. If black plays knight to c4 in this position, probably we will respond with rook to d8 because if black has no rooks, then stopping the passer is going to be a lot more difficult. And the logic is that when your opponent has only two minor pieces, minor pieces aren't good at multitasking. That's what rooks are so good at because it's a long -range piece. So if we are to trade a pair of rooks, then black will have to assign one minor piece the task of stopping the pass pawn. Maybe that'll allow us to transition the focus to the other side of the board, if that makes sense. We are very much in business. Also, black is getting quite low on the clock. That's another two minutes our opponent is spending. Oh! Oh my gosh, we actually had a crazy tactic. There was rook d5, bishop takes d5, and then queen takes e5. That led to a draw though. I think this is our best bet at playing for a win. Okay, bishop c8 to me strikes me as a slightly panicky move. So the other trade that we would like to initiate is the trade of queens. If the queens are traded, it's the same logic. Black will have a harder time stopping the passer. So from that point of view, what move is on our radar? So queen b6 is a way to attempt the queen trade, but it's a little bit awkward because it puts the queen on the square where we want the pawn to advance. So is there another way to offer the queen trade such that we keep the coordination of our pieces? Yeah, queen back to d5. If you know what you're looking for, queen d5 should be a reasonable move. So if black trades, we take back with even rook 1 takes d5, and b6 is basically coming next. So I think this is good for white. I think queen d5 is a very challenging move, practically speaking, and black is down now to five and a half minutes. Hopefully he takes a little longer thinking about this. So I'm already playing a little bit for the clock here, which I know might cause some people to roll their eyes. But again, I'm trying to give you a sense of how I would normally play. And if I saw that my opponent was down to five minutes, I would try to make moves that pose actual decisions. Okay, what rook do we take with? Not an easy question because there's a tactical detail that has to be factored in. If we take with rook 1 takes, which I think is the tempting move, black plays knight to c4. And in that position, if we go rook c6, we fall into bishop b7. That skewers the two rooks. So that tells us that after knight c4, we will have to play rook to d8. And I did say that a trade of rooks is good for us. I'm not totally sure that that holds true here because the rooks are so incredibly active. So from that perspective, rook 6 takes d5 actually makes some sense because knight c4 there no longer comes with tempo, and we can continue harassing the knight with something like rook c5. That's a hard question. It's a very hard question. Let me think about this for a second. I do not know what the right call is. I see a lot of tactics in this line, so I'm going to go rook 1 takes d5. But this is purely an intuitive judgment. I didn't do all that much calculation here. We're going to take with rook 1. Knight g6. Okay, that's a good sign because black is not stopping us from going b6. Also, we could of course go rook d8. That's also a possibility. But rook d8, is that going anywhere? Like rook d8 is not going to disappear. B6 on the other hand, we might not get another chance to play. So from that perspective, b6 is good. What is black going to do after b6? Well, probably he's going to go bishop b7, I would imagine. Then rook can slide over to c5, and we could try to deploy the rook on the 7th ring. The downside of that is that black keeps his rook. So again, it's a big decision here. Rook d8. Rook d8. Yeah, I think from that perspective, we should go rook d8. Yeah, I think we should go rook d8. Because again, b6 is also not going anywhere. That was the thing I said which was wrong. Black can't stop b6. So we take the opportunity while we can get it. Now, if black takes on d8, then he loses the bishop. But if black plays something like f6, we don't need to rush. Rook takes f8, then the rook is not going anywhere. We can probably wait until black brings the king out, and then if necessary, take on f8. Bishop b7, okay. So I guess the move here is rook dd7. Same logic, right? A lot of people here would be tempted to take on f8. I'm not sure that that's the appropriate way to play. Because rushing rook takes f8 helps black get a piece closer to the queen side, in this case the king, or even the knight. If we play rook takes f8, knight takes f8, then we can't go rook to d7, which we would like to play. So I think rook to d7 is the way to go, attacking the bishop. Not immediately. We're threatening, of course, to take the rook and then take the bishop. That's why knight e5 is bad. No, it does not allow bishop c6 because the pawn protects that square. So that's not right. Now black can take the rook now, and then block with the knight. But then we swing the rook over to b8, we push the pawn from behind, then we go b6, b7, and once the pawn reaches b7, if black has a knight on f8, the rook takes f8 check is going to force win the game. Does that make sense? So actually, this might actually happen, unless black has found some way to deal with the pawn. Okay, let's be very accurate here, because I think we are on the cusp of winning this game. And I think if we want to be ultra accurate, we should throw in a move here. Let me think about this. Okay, so here's what I'm trying to figure out. I was trying to figure out whether to play b6 here, or whether to play this move, which perhaps was not on everybody's radar, the move f3. And the point of f3 is very simple. I'm trying to force this bishop off this diagonal so that the red carpet is unrolled for the pawn. But the worry that I had after f3 was a very strange one, it was that black plays knight to e5, which is an advanced move, but I'll explain it more after the game. But now that I've calculated some variations, I don't think it's that dangerous anymore. So we're going to go f3. We're going to go f3 and try to knock the bishop off of this diagonal. If black plays bishop to a8, then we play b6, because that bishop on a8 is incredibly vulnerable. Okay, knight e5. Okay, so the reason I wasn't too scared about this move is that we can transform our advantage from one to the other. What does knight e5 do? Well, it attacks the rook. And if we move the rook, the main thing that knight e5 does is it opens up a retreating square for the bishop back to b7. That's really what it does. So after rook to d4, black is forced to play bishop b7. Then I was calculating rook takes f8, king takes f8. We can play f4 to chase the knight away. Knight has to drop back to g6. Then we move the rook back up to d7. Bishop b4 is forced, we go b6, and we win, I'm pretty sure. I'm pretty sure that rook d4 wins by force. If I've calculated this correctly, rook d4 wins by force. But we can also play f takes e4. I think a lot of you should see this move, f takes e4. And after knight takes d7, rook takes d7, white is up two pawns in that endgame, the rook endgame. Mainly we have this passer on b5, so that should be a win. But if I've calculated this correctly, this move wins without a fight, because we simply force black to give up a minor for the pawn. Unless I'm blundering, which is entirely possible. Given how the game has transpired so far. If bishop a8, then we take the rook, and we put the other rook on d8, and we pick up the bishop. If bishop c2, then already we play b6, and that has to be game over. Oh crap, he does have bishop f3. Oh my gosh, I didn't see that. I didn't see bishop f3. Man, I'm blundering this game. A lot of blunders. He doesn't see it. Oh, thank god. Wow, I think bishop f3 might have been winning, but why risk it? Yeah, bishop f3 completely escaped my mind. I didn't practice what I preach. I didn't notice the forkable squares at all. This move escaped my attention at all. Because I just kind of assumed that all pawn endgames are winning, but somehow the king in that endgame reaches the pawn, which is absurd. Now f4. Now we play f4, so we chase the knight away. The knight has only one square. It only has g6. Only has g6. Then we move the rook up to d7 again, exploiting the fact that the bishop can't go to the 8th rank because it is forked. Why are we going rook d7? To pave the way for the advance of the pawn, which is finally going to move up to b6. We were very patient. Now I'm very curious to check bishop f3, because it might actually relinquish the win, rook d4. Very sloppy by me. Very sloppy. Yeah, that is just inexcusable sloppiness. Sometimes it just happens. It happens to everybody, and people have to realize that. Sometimes tactically, I'm just slower on some days than on others. Okay, now we play b6. This I calculated correctly because it shows you how bad minor pieces are at dealing with the combination of a rook and a passed pawn. When you've got a rook and a passed pawn, black would kill for a rook that would stop the pawn from b8. This is kind of why trading rooks often favors the side with the rook. King e8, but now a very important detail. What should we do now? King e8 is understandable. Yeah, we play b7, right? We use the rook, and with its last gasp, it supports the advance of the pawn. We promote and we win. I assume we win this. I'm not confident in anything, but up a pawn against two minor pieces, this is a win. Actually, I have two examples to show. Both of them involve minor pieces and how they work. I think it'll help you increase your understanding of how minor pieces cooperate, and in general, of rook versus minor piece positions. Queen e8 and 95, yeah, that idea did not make it into the course, but we'll check out how I should have played here. I mean, clearly white is up a pawn, and white is much better, but yeah, this idea escaped me completely. Okay, so the best way to win such positions with the corner of your eye, you double check that there is no way to win the minor piece. I don't see any ways to win a minor piece, so the second best thing is to go after your opponent's pawns, right? Again, minor pieces are bad at defending individual weaknesses, so we actually lift the queen up to g8. Careful how you make this move, because all the surrounding squares like minesweeper are blocked. Okay, not a perfect game, but sometimes that makes it more interesting and more instructive. Apologies for all the mistakes in this game. Let's start from the opening. So first of all, I'm going to pull up the course just to double check a6, e3, c5, dc5 was correct, knight c6, and a3. Very important move. a3, yeah, e5, bishop g5. First, we're going to check the game continuation, then I'll show you a couple of sidelines. Bishop e6, b4, bishop e7, knight f3, castles bishop e2, so the course ends here. Queen e8 is an incredible move, and according to the engine, and white is better here. White is up a pawn, so we ended the line here. Normally, the course ends a lot later than move 10, but certain situations where it's clear that one side is better, and queen e8 is the top move. Queen e8 is the top move. It would never occur to me. Queen e8, rook d8 is an unusual idea, and castles is indeed a mistake according to the engine. Let me tell you what Stockfish15 recommends here. Let me tell you what Stockfish15 recommends here. I'm not going to say never, would never occur to me. It is an understandable logical move. It just comes out of nowhere. Queen e8, and first of all, to understand why queen e8 is played, if black plays knight e4 immediately, then simply you can play bishop takes e7. That's why black moves the queen away. In the game, I couldn't play bishop e7 because of knight takes e3, and there was a queen that used to stand on d8. Here, this would work out, but black takes the bishop with check. That's the other problem. If this wasn't a check, you would have taken the rook on f8, and white would have been winning, and black would have been forced then to take on e7 here. Unfortunately, it's a check, and black emerges up a piece, so that was the biggest issue. The best move here in plus over minus is knight to a4, which I wanted to play initially. You actually are supposed to go knight to a4. The move that I mentioned before, white is much better. It's 0 .7. Typically, black plays here, and the idea is simple. You take the sting out of the move knight e4. You castle. I think most humans would go knight e4 here. Bishop takes e7. Queen takes e7, and now a brilliant idea. If black plays knight takes e7, then the same idea applies. So black's biggest advantage in a position like this is his center, so we use tactics here to chip away at black's center. We make a move that seems brazen but works concretely. Let's see if anybody can find it. What is white's best move in this position? I've given you a bit of a hint. Very good. This chat is on fire. c4 is the best move. Very concrete move because you're giving up a pawn to the discovered attack, but the idea is to remove the defender on the knight. Now the queen goes to c2. This is not an atypical idea. I've seen this in other openings. Black has to defend the knight, and now you have to be careful how you take on c4 because now there's an x -ray against the queen, so the best move of course is to take with the queen. Queen takes c4, and notice that the knight guards d2, so black can still play this move. It's the top engine move actually, but we drop our knight back to c3 to reinforce the bishop, and black has basically no compensation here. For instance, rook f to d8, rook f to d1. You now neutralize black's last remaining active piece. Notice how our control over the d4 square, that's really big here because that means the knight doesn't have any prospects. So the biggest takeaway is that after queen e8, you respond with knight to a4. A couple of other important lines. After bishop to g5, a lot of people here play d4 immediately, including some GMs. Here you move the knight out to a4. This is one of our important innovations, and if black delivers this check, then after c3, white is almost winning. Why is white almost winning here? Because after d takes c3, there's a very important move. If you take back on c3, then black takes c5, black is all right. Actually, knight c3, knight e4 is winning for black. So you have this intermezzo b4, connecting the pawns, forcing the queen away, and if black sacks on b4, as is all in the course, you simply stop the pawn with queen c2. Black loses c3, and black loses the game. If black moves the queen, then obviously you can take on f6 first to ruin the structure and then play knight c3, and you're much better. Or the engine even gives this move, and then you pick up the pawn with the other knight. The other knight comes out to pick the pawn. So queen a5 doesn't work, and this position is analyzed quite deeply. After b4, the main move is bishop e7. If black plays d4 here, then we take on d4, and if black plays ed4, again we play knight a4. And if black tries to chip away at our pawn chain, we can develop the bishop and simultaneously pin the knight, preventing black from taking twice on b4. A, b, a, b. And always, we need to develop our kingside efficiently. Here, we can just continue developing, because if black takes, then we take, and we're up a full pawn. Again, for no compensation, knight is threatening to come to b6. White is clearly better. This is one of those lines which occurs ultra, ultra often. c5 is supposed to play dc, and it's very hard to come up with a move a3 if you don't know it. Some people here will go e6. Here, simply black is much worse. After b4, there's no compensation whatsoever. So e5 is best, but it doesn't solve black's problems. If black plays bishop c5, of course, this is self -evident. Here, you play bishop takes f6, queen takes f6. Well, you can play either queen takes d5 or knight takes d5. I think the simplest is knight takes d5, and then you can support the knight with c4. White is up a full pawn. So certain self -evident things are not in the course, but most moves that you need to understand in order to gain a comprehension of the line are in the course. So big, big takeaway is queen e8 poses the threat of knight e4. That's great to know, but according to the engine, black is only slightly better here. So let's continue looking. Takes, takes, takes, takes. Hopefully, it makes sense why you can't take on f3 here. You'd lose the piece, so you have to take the rook, and black takes with tempo. You have to eliminate the pawn, and we get this position. So first rook fd1 is pretty obvious. I think e4 is an excellent move. We stuck the rook on d6, and I think queen e7 is an excellent move as well. Our opponent is activating his pieces, and we are doing the same. Queen h5, preventing queen g5. h6, another great move. We respond by bringing our rook in. So this stage of the game is very understandable. Rook f8, I think, might be unnecessary though. I think our opponent should have gone for our pawns immediately with queen to f6. I'm not sure rook f8 h3 changes that much, but surely the lack of a back rank luft square makes things worse for us here. Because here, if we do the same thing after c4, already black has a slightly concerning move in knight e5, and black threatens to take on c4. And after rook to d4, if black plays knight takes c4 here, he loses to rook takes c4. And this is not mate, because the rook drops back. But here, black can go the other way, knight to g4. And this is a big problem, because f2 is hanging. You can't play queen h4. Obviously, you can't play f3. So you have to go back with the rook, but now black gives a check, and black sticks the queen on b2. Double attack. So attacking f2, attacking a3, and if we bring the rook out, black starts gobbling up our pawns. So this waste of a tempo allowed us to make some luft, and that helps us gain the upper hand in the complication. So queen f6 is an excellent move. I think so is c4. And here, if black plays knight e5, already after rook d4, black doesn't have this move. That's the key difference. So it's not only the luft square, it's the fact that we defend g4 from the knight. These are the subtleties that often decide games at this level. That's just how it works. So queen f6, we play c4, intending b5. This is what I was expecting our opponent to play, and that's actually what happened. Sorry. So we respond with queen h4. Queen h4 hits the only weakness in black's position, the e4 pawn. Queen takes a3 was a serious mistake. This was an impulsive move by our opponent, even though it took him two minutes. I think in this position, black is still slightly better if he takes this pawn and simply sticks the bishop on b5. Why? Because this immobilizes our pawn chain. It doesn't allow us to move pawns. Black is an uncontested light squared bishop, and he's using it in order to freeze the pawns. We would have played probably this move, and then black would have taken, and then we would have taken, and then black would have taken, and the position remains complicated. We can even play this move according to the engine, but this is a bailout move. c6 here is a bailout move. If black takes to the bishop, then he loses queen v4. But black can also take with a knight, and the idea is to take and give the rook back up for the two pieces, and this is a dead draw. Like 4 on 3, 1 on 0, this is a dead draw. So no question that queen a3 was a serious mistake, because now our pawns are very, very powerful. And I think what our opponent missed from a distance is that after the trade, and after knight e5 is played, we take on e4. I think our opponent forgot that in this version, black can't play knight takes c4 because of rook takes c6. This is what I was talking about. And after black takes, we take once on e6, once on c4, and we're up two pawns. Turns out, according to the engine though, this is mind -boggling. There's a better move here than queen takes c4. Queen takes c4, queen c5 is still equal, according to the engine. Can anybody locate, and if you're watching on YouTube, you should pause and try to find this move. This is a very strong move, which sets up mating threats. I didn't see this idea at all. I mean, I saw it in general, but not here. Rook d8. Yeah, rook d6 to d8. And suddenly, a threatening checkmate. If black plays queen c5, you play rook f8, black loses, because king f8, queen d8. Again, rook trades, when you've got a rook against minor pieces, are so, so powerful. Rook d8 traps the queen. So black has to waste a tempo guarding the rook on f8, or black has to take. But now you take with the rook, you force the king to h7, and now this is a check, and black starts to lose everything. So probably black has to reinforce this rook with a knight, but now you can play queen e4, and the knight has left the center. So if black plays queen c5, you can play rook f8, knight f8, and queen takes b7. This is the chief difference. Black loses, probably, the game at this point. If you compare this, if you take immediately, if you go for this line, what's the difference? Here the knight's on e5, so black has knight takes c4, hitting the rook and severing the connection with the b5 pawn, so black on the next move can take, well no, white can play rook a6, but clearly this is a much inferior version for white than the one we looked at with rook d8. Comparison is a really powerful process that you can use to understand why certain moves are played. In this case, it's to force the knight off of e5, also to create the possibility of a rook trade. Probably a b was another mistake. I didn't understand why our opponent did that. It undoubles our pawns, and after 95, we still had the move rook to d8, perhaps, but I think this move makes a lot of sense here. Queen c5, queen b7, and white is playing completely without risk, because even if white loses the b5 pawn, it's still a draw. Four on three, and then a rook against two minor pieces is typically a draw. So at this point, I want to show two examples of the battle of rook and queen versus minor pieces to really increase your understanding, particularly of playing with the heavy pieces, the rook or the queen. So here's one of my favorite games. This is not very well known, but it features a really, really classic endgame moment. I'm going to pull up the game in just a moment. I have to find it on chess space. This is the game, Mikhalevsky -Kagansky. Mikhalevsky, very, very strong GM from Israel. He is also known as a noted chess coach. He's written opening books, so definitely a name to revere. Here he has white against, you know, 2300FM. Okay, so in this position, it is white to play, okay? Okay, so what's going on? Well, it's clearly two rooks against two minor pieces and a rook. First thing that white does is follow the rules. White has a very easy clap way to force the rook trade, and by forcing the rook trade, white is isolating the minor pieces. So what does white play? Oops, sorry. Mikhalevsky plays rook to c3, rook to c3. This attacks the bishop, forces the bishop to move, and now he trades. So step one has been achieved. Step two is to make sure that black is as paralyzed as possible. So now he brings the other rook to the 8th rank in order to paralyze the knight. Bishop has to move. Rook goes back to the 7th rank, and the bishop moves back to 8th. Essentially an implicit draw for white can repeat moves now with rook c8 and rook c7. Now there's a move here that I think 90 % of people would play, and then there's the move Mikhalevsky played, which is absolutely freaking brilliant. Okay, obviously black's pieces are very passive. The move that 90 % of people would play, probably you're thinking about this move on YouTube, is rook a7 because, you know, we see pawns and we take them. Bishop c6 and rook takes a5. The downside of this approach is that it finally opens up a pathway for black to get his pieces into the game. So something like knight e6 is now possible because the knight is no longer pinned. Now of course black also attacks d4. Probably white would now play... I don't actually know what white does now. I mean white could play b3 to try to create a pass pawn on the queen side, but here black plays knight takes d4, and clearly you've let black off the hook. I mean you're not even close to creating a passer, and black is going to start bringing his king into the center. So instead, Mikhalevsky finds a brilliant move. Some of you are suggesting rook c5. It's the same idea. This move has the same... I agree. Rook c5 is better than rook a7 because here you win the b -pawn, and by winning the b -pawn you leave black with a really passive a -pawn. True, but still black will play, for instance, let me think, maybe f6, okay, to open up a pathway for the king. You will take on f6 and take on b5, and white is probably winning here. I agree, but again you've let the minor pieces get out of their cage, and black has chances because the minor pieces get active. So instead, here's what Mikhalevsky does, and here's how he arrives at that logic. Okay, what is black's next move going to be? If you gave black the move, how is black going to untangle? Well you might say, well black is going to move the knight, but no, black's not going to do that because this is a fork. So in order to be able to move the knight, black has to get his king off the eighth rank so that rook c8 wouldn't be a So black's next move is g6, and that's the only way to untangle. Now we skip a move, black then plays king g7, and only then black is ready to bring the knight out to e6 because now rook c8 is into check, and the bishop is able to wiggle out. So Mikhalevsky finds an idea that prevents black from ever untangling. He plays g6 himself and puts the pawn on pre to three different defenders. Knight g6, rook c8, we know. So black takes with the pawn. Now the second step, you have literally put a weight on the g6 square, but now you need to prevent black from going g5 and g6. White plays f4, stopping g5. Here, white can even take on g5, but Mikhalevsky was planning f5, and black literally can't untangle. g6, f6, and the king is stuck on the eighth rank, which means the knight is stuck on the eighth rank, which means the bishop is stuck on the eighth rank, and white can win this pretty easily. Here's how the game actually ended. Black starts exhausting his moves, and here's what Mikhalevsky does. He literally waits around until black has exhausted all of his pawn moves, and look at this position. Black is in zugzwang. Black has no moves to avoid losing a minor piece because either you move the knight, which is what happened in the game, and black lost, or you have to move the king, and you lose to a fork. If you move the pawn, well, black could even, white could even take, but f5 is the elegant move because it really highlights the extent of white's domination. So the move was g6, and this is why piece activity always determines the evaluation in rook versus minor piece situations. Here's the second game that I had in mind, and this is queen against two minor pieces, which is what we got at the very end of our game, but I had a game many years ago that was a lot less clear -cut than the speedrun game we played, which was just dead winning. This is a very old game of mine. As you can see from 2006, that was 1900, and we reached this very unique endgame. Queen, two minor pieces, and two pawns against queen. This is a very hard endgame to evaluate. Is this a draw or is this a win for black? Why are we even discussing this? White basically has a fortress, right? White's both pawns are defended by the bishop and the king respectively, and black's pawns are gap -toothed, which means black can't use their pawns to dislodge white's minor pieces. You need to find some other way. Let's flip it so we're facing black. What I started to do earlier in the game is I brought my king to white's side of the board, and I didn't know exactly how that was going to help, but I thought that might be a good start. For a while, I was unable to make any progress, and I was unable to make progress for so long, and this is a draw that I ultimately gave up hope. I was hoping to deliver some made, but my opponent just correctly shuffles the pieces, but then at some point, we repeat and repeat and repeat. At some point here, my opponent makes a very sloppy move. He plays king f3. He should have played king to f1, so he lets my queen into e1. The king hides away on g2. Okay, then I played king to d2, and now things are getting serious. It's still a draw, but white can play bishop f5, make a draw, but my opponent was worried about king e2. He forgot that the bishop can just come back to g4, and this is a dead draw. Black literally cannot get to the f2 pawn. Hopefully, that makes sense, but he plays bishop g4 to d1 and offers a draw, and I suddenly got scared. I was like, wait, the queen is trapped, and I took a draw. Bishop d1 is a losing move. Who can tell me why, and I analyzed this for a long time with my coach. We came up with some very cool lines here. As far as we know, this is analysis from 2005. This is a loss. No, the mot point is queen takes d1. Remember from the pawn endgame videos, it's not about whose king is more advanced. It's about whose king is closer to the pawns. If you think of it that way, you should understand that white's king is very close to the h4 pawn. This is not going to be winning. This is probably a draw, but I think even black is close to losing this because this type of, okay, it's a draw. It's a draw, but black draws by like narrow thread. It's not queen takes d1, and it's not queen takes d3, similar reasoning. Black -white is going to be the first to take the pawn, so this is not the right approach. Instead, you have to notice that the bishop on d1 is very vulnerable because it's protected by the knight. The move is f5. Yeah, f5. How does that f5 help? Because the bishop, of course, can go back, let's say, to f3. Now, as far as I remember, you're supposed to play f4. You're supposed to play f4. White has basically two options. Where is white going to go with his knight? Well, probably white is going to go to g4 because if white goes elsewhere, the pawn on f2 can be surrounded. You can go like this, and then white is almost in zugzwang because white has no moves. White has to go back with his king. You can deliver a check on a1, and basically the bottom line idea is you like go here, and you're trying to go king e1. You're trying to set up this situation where the pawn cannot be defended. White can only stop you in one way to go king f1, and who can find the most accurate move in this position? Let's see who understands how this endgame works. Black has a winning move here. How do you clear the way for the king? There's only one correct check. Peter Perturb got it. It's queen to c4 check because you have to keep the f4 pawn protected. Then you drive your king into e1. White is in zugzwang. White has no pieces to move other than his king, and now queen f1 is just game over. Okay, so this is winning. That means that white has to sit on g4 because on g4, the knight is unassailable, and it's defending f2, but I'm pretty sure the black is still winning here. How is black winning here? Let me try to remember. Or is he winning? Yes, black is winning because I think what you're supposed to do here, you start with a move like queen a1, okay? So white has to make some random bishop move. You get in with your king, but then you make this very important move. Here you play like queen to a6, I think. I don't remember how this wins. Maybe this is a draw. Maybe we were wrong. Let me check the engine. Let me check the engine here. This is interesting. f5, but by the way, it shows you how resilient minor pieces are at holding things together. It's like very, very hard to crack these. Yeah, it is winning. It is winning. Bishop f3. Oh, f4 is wrong. I apologize. f4 is not the move. The move is queen to b1, and basically, white loses. So white makes a random bishop move, and now you play king to e1, and if white makes a random bishop move, oh, you just pick up the pawn on f2. You don't need to play f4. What am I saying? Of course, f4 is useless because ultimately, you're going to push white off the board. Check here, here, and that's it. You're threatening checkmate on g1, so white has to move the knight and give up the pawn on f2, and there's just nothing that white can do. You just get in. You get into e1 with the king. White has just no other moves. If white gives the check, then you get in anyway, and now you go queen b2. You attack the pawn. White's knight is no checks, like the king can't be assailed, and then you do this thing where you go king to queen g7, and then king f1 to push the king away. It's a cool idea, but I didn't see any of that, and you couldn't do that earlier. Like here, if white waits around with any move other than bishop f1, it's harder to get the king in because, okay, you can go queen c1. You can go here, but there is, I think, ah, the point is white can go like king g1, and then at the right moment, knight g2 check. So somehow here, white holds, but with a pawn on f5, black takes away key squares from the bishop and the knight. Okay, let's move on to the game. Hopefully, this was semi -illuminating. It just came to my mind because I remember the two minor pieces. So in the game, once we played queen b7, I could sense that we were close to winning. Then we initiated the forced queen trade, and knight g6 is another mistake. This is a very, very bad move because now the knight is passive. Black has to go knight c4. There's no question that the knight has to keep contact with the b6 square. What I was talking about is this would be very careless because of bishop b7, and black wins an exchange. Now, I want to point something out, which is that if white's pawn was on e4, if you had this position, this would be fine for white. So don't forget that if you have rook versus two minor pieces, you can gain the minor pieces again for the rook. So don't rule out lines where you lose your rook if you win both minor pieces. Of course, here we don't have the pawn on e4, so that doesn't work. So after knight g6, rook d8, okay, the game is over. But now, of course, I made a horrible mistake. f3 is correct, knight e5 is correct. Yeah, rook d4 is a big mistake. It's still winning after bishop f3, still winning. But the best move was just to take the rook and go rook c7, and then promote the pawn. I don't understand why I didn't play this, but this ends the game immediately. Yeah, rook f8 and rook c7, I don't know. I was somehow fixated on forcing black to be the one to take because I was obsessed with the idea of forcing the king in the other direction. Somehow, I didn't, like, realize that the king is still too far away from the pawn. But rook d4 would win if it weren't for bishop f3. Apparently, the winning move here, the only winning move, and let me explain why the pawn endgame is drawn. The reason the pawn endgame is drawn, first of all, is because the king catches the b -pawn. So you have the gap -toothed pawn formation, which is self -sufficient. The king can't take either of the pawns. That's fine. So you get this situation, black's king has to shuffle between d7 and d6. The problem is that black is a three -on -one on the queen side, and white cannot defeat a three -on -one with his king alone. Like, black will play here, and then here, and you have no way, even like f4, you have no way to make progress because this is a protected passed pawn. Does that make sense? So this is just a dead -drawn pawn endgame. The move, apparently, is e4. You have to cut off the bishop. You have to cut off the bishop, and on the next move, you play b6. Bishop e2? Actually, no. Apparently, you throw in rook d5 first to hit the knight. Now you play b6. Okay, so you're threatening b7. Okay, so black has to stop the pawn. Now you deliver a check. You go around to a8. Oh, wow, and black can't go here because of rook a7. Beautiful. So you're forcing the bishop away, and now you promote to a pawn. You force black to give up his knight. By the way, I see this mistake so often. If black plays knight c6 here, who can tell me what the best move is for white? Is it to promote the pawn? This is a mistake I see very, very often. Rook c8, yeah. Rook c8 wins on the spot because you actually give up the rook for the knight, and you promote to a queen. So don't automatically promote when your opponent is stopping the minor pawn, the pawn to the minor piece. See if you can essentially capture the minor piece because then you can promote the entire pawn. After knight d7, black, white doesn't have the same option because the knight can't be a sale, but this is winning. This is theoretically winning endgame, but some work would still be required for us to win this, and definitely there was not need to blunder this. These can be very, very hard to win. Like 3 -on -3 can be very, very, very hard to win. So definitely this should not have been allowed. You want to hear something crazy? So do you remember I said you throw in this move? Why not b6 immediately? Here's the difference. So here you've got the same line, rook a8. Black plays bishop d, sorry, black plays, no, here apparently black plays some sort of weird king e7. Oh, and if you start with rook d5, in this position, there is no king e7 because here you can take the knight and play b7. So you're forcing bishop a6, whereas there, there's some tricky king e7 move. So many of these subtleties, these types of positions, amazing. Just as honestly amazing. Okay, after our opponent played bishop b7, the only critical move was f4, forcing the knight away. Look at the domination, c6 controlled, d7 controlled, c4 controlled. The knight has to drop all the way back and bang, rook d7, again, domination. Bishop can't go back to the 8th, and we go, we'll go b6, and b7 is going to decide. Knight e7, rook d8 is checkmate, by the way. Don't forget this mating pattern. Even with a king on f8, it's still possible to back rank mate. King e8, b7, and that's it. b8 queen is happening. Of course, this is technically nominally more resilient, but four on three plus an extra exchange is easy win. You just get your king up, and then you basically just push your pawns to oblivion. This is super, super straightforward winning process here. Okay, so takeaways from this really excellent game. First of all, a huge kudos to our opponent for finding this queen e8, knight e4 idea. So the opening was a jabava line, and I want to remind people I have a course on this opening that will be linked in the description that I released together with GM Alexander Bortnik. So this follows the course. This all follows the course. My biggest mistake was not to ask what my opponent wanted with this move. In fact, I asked what he wanted. I thought he wanted rook d8. So the correct move here is to preemptively move the knight away from an undefended square and to take the sting out of the move, knight e4. That would have given white a clearly better position. Instead, once we blundered the two pieces for a rook, black was better, but we did our best to activate our pieces. We found resilient moves all the way through. And the critical mistake for black, black made a couple of mistakes. First of all, rook f8 was a waste of time. The immediate queen f6 would have been very problematic for us. This allowed us to make loft, and then the main mistake that black played is to take the pawn on a3. Black should have taken the other pawn. When you have the minor pieces against a rook, your top priority should basically be to hold off your opponent's pawn mass. Because once the pawn mass starts rolling, rooks are really, really good at supervising past pawns. So you want to keep things immobilized as much as possible. Any questions?