-Our next guest is the legendary of more than 50 books, &quot;The Handmaid's Tale,&quot; Her latest, &quot;Old Babes Please welcome back to the show [ Cheers and applause ] Welcome back, Margaret. -Well, remember when we last saw each other? We were about to have COVID. -We were about to have COVID. It was right -- It felt like -It was, yeah. And what's happened No time at all has passed. -Thank you very much. I think you look I think you've done I do want to talk -- because we were discussing your and we didn't discuss a thing that you were going through It was a time of grieving And it does seem like this book is maybe a means of addressing -Yes, well, I walked off the and I walked right on to -And this was your partner -- -I can't remember -Well, it speaks to -- -You did. And I remember you said, and I'm like, &quot;I don't even know -I did not say that. -[ Laughs ] -And this was your partner -Yes. Was that a catharsis for you? -Well, I'd written Nell and Tig, before. They're in an earlier book But in the earlier book, So in some of these stories, and in some of these stories, So I have to explain to younger which is 32 -- [ Laughter ] At my age, you can expect It happens. And it's different and it's really different So those are tragedies. And this, after the age of 80 -Does that make it easier -No, it doesn't. -I would imagine it can't be, -It doesn't, Graeme was a very wise person. He had had his diagnosis He had a particular kind that causes you to die which is what he did. His family had a habit of dying and so did he. You wouldn't think that would -It's not genetic. I think it's sort of, you know, -There you go. -Very fitting because and it does touch on grief and There's an opening story going to a first-aid class, -It's all true. So you went -We absolutely had to go to one, and everybody there was So our thing was, you know what? You find the person unconscious One person calls 911. The other one and then the first one has to help the second one But, you know, if there's with a tipped-back head in [ Laughter ] Yeah. You know, &quot;Handmaid's Tale&quot; Obviously, you know, it's a book But it also is a book that's I mean, another thing one's guard can be put down on that they would ever ban books You took it in your own hands when you heard that there was Explain to us exactly [ Laughter, -Okay. This was -Okay. So that is actually and we did a little video of it. It actually took them to make one that wouldn't burn, And that is -Did you take a class for that, -No. [ Laughter ] -You seem very confident -Yes. And after we had done the shoot, they did take it away from me -Well, it certainly if it's like, &quot;Good news, Bad news... we lost Margaret.&quot; -No, it wouldn't have been me It would have been -- You did know well enough -None of my enemies -Well, that's alright. Just for insurance reasons, You know, obviously, You're incredibly well-known, but I do enjoy hearing stories because, you know, Is it true that you had where no one showed up? -Oh, it was so humiliating. Yeah, so it was in a mall in -Okay. -Nobody was in the mall, and certainly nobody There I sat with my little book, and outside in the mall hallway, I saw this guy coming -- plunk, And I thought, He opens the door. Plunk, plunk, And he says, [ Laughter ] And I say... &quot;I think it's at the back.&quot; He says, &quot;Thanks.&quot; -That was it? -That was it. -Well, I mean, they say Never do a book signing in [ Laughter ] -Well, my first book signing because it was in the men's of the Hudson's Bay Company, in Edmonton, Alberta, in 1969. Why was it there? It was near an escalator. I think the publicist, whose thought, &quot;Escalator, They'll see Margaret sitting with her book called and they will think, 'I would That didn't happen. -Then you have guys and they'd be like, It's like, &quot;I totally forgot. -What really happened It's a lot of clomping These ones had galoshes on, So galoshes, galoshes, galoshes. Uhh. They ran away very fast. I could hear their galoshes. -Well, now I believe you hear running to your work. And thank you so much It's such a delight That's Margaret Atwood, &quot;Old Babes in the Wood&quot; is available now But please support local and malls in Winnipeg. We'll be right back.