One of the oldest mysteries, mulled by generations universe began. And we know a great deal about what happened. Science offers a compelling and solid narrative complete. Let me recap what we know for sure. We know that the visible universe was once We know that there was a moment when the expansion We know that that moment was about 13.8 billion For over fifty years, we've known of the also called the CMB. The CMB is the earliest thing we can see in In fact, it's the remnant afterglow of when The CMB presents a picture of when the universe which is when the universe was about 0.003 If we equate my current age to the age of a baby picture of me when I was 14 hours old. Man, I was a cute baby. However, while the oldest thing we can literally began, we actually know about the conditions For instance, at the moment which we can see about 2,700 degrees centigrade. But the universe is expanding and cooling At even earlier times, the universe was hotter While we can't see the universe when it conditions of the early universe in huge particle in Europe. When we smash nuclei of lead together, the centigrade. One has to be a little more careful about about the most energetic collisions ever made, researchers create temperatures last common of a second old. That's ten to the minus thirteen seconds So these are all facts. If we define the moment when the expansion we have hard data for times after ten to the That should impress the heck out of you. It still blows my mind, and it's what I But for all we know, there are still things For instance, there is that time period between seconds. Science doesn't know exactly what happened And we don't know about time equals zero On the other hand, not knowing everything We have some very informed thoughts. The most popular idea explaining both the matter and energy is an idea which says that six seconds the universe began expanding at Now you might think that this is impossible, move faster than light, but that's not quite It's true that nothing can move through restrictions on how fast space can expand. Thus, this period, which is called the inflation of physics. What would cause space to begin expanding Well, on this, we have only an informed guess. In our current universe, we have four known the strong and weak nuclear forces. Judging from what we know about the behavior energies, they merge to be a single force. This is kind of like how Isaac Newton realized things fall and the march of the planets across we call gravity. If all forces were once the same and they been a time at which they became different. And one idea is that the thing that gave the when the strong nuclear force became different That's called a phase transition, and it's In case that idea is confusing to you, here's Suppose you had a container that contained If the temperature of the container is above will contain both air and water vapor. However, as the temperature drops to below turns to liquid, while the air remains gaseous. At that temperature, two things that looked Now, you shouldn't believe in either inflation, like four forces is what caused inflation But they both are quite reasonable conjectures we know to be true from observation. Indeed, both ideas are exactly consistent Okay, we haven't gotten to the moment where Let's recap what we do know. Assuming that no new physical principles arise followed by about ten to the minus forty three Before ten to the minus forty three seconds, that all known physics fails. None of our intuition from what we know can From ten to the minus forty three seconds seconds, the universe was expanding and cooling At about ten to the minus thirty six seconds, others, which caused the visible universe to something about the size of a grapefruit. The inflation period only lasted to about From that time to ten to the minus thirteen but now it was coasting. After ten to the minus thirteen seconds, the the time when we finally have hard data. Everything after ten to the minus thirteen Everything before that is speculation, albeit Okay, so now what was time equal to zero like? Well, since before ten to the minus forty fail, we don't know. Indeed, without a huge advance in physics, So, there's an admission for you. Science can tell you nothing about this time But that's okay. It's not a sin to not know something. It's only a sin to think you do, when you However, what are some ideas? It turns out that there are a few. Certainly, all of the visible universe was But the entire universe- including the parts had to have been much bigger than the visible Drawing a three dimensional universe is hard, a one dimensional stand in. Suppose that when the universe began, we represent line, with us as the center. If that's the visible universe, the smallest as the circumference of this circle. That's the smallest the universe could be Now the universe could be much larger than Indeed, the circle could be infinitely large, curvature and it's infinite. On the other hand, the universe could have Science doesn't know and may never know So let's concentrate on the visible universe. It was very tiny. All the matter and energy of the universe incredibly, microscopic. It wasn't zero size- that's a common misconception- What did the universe look like when it was Remember that we know that the known laws knows. We imagine that perhaps it looked like spacetime appearing and disappearing. And that word spacetime is important. It's also often misused when people talk That's because people hear that time slows the situation when matter is compressed to But what really happens is that when a person a person standing in a region of strong gravity, person, at least from the weak gravity person's But for someone in strong gravity, time seems Furthermore, it's often said that the Big truth to that. Certainly the Big Bang expanded space and But remember that the theory of general relativity- apply before time equals ten to the minus So that means that statements about time not be considered as suspicious. So what are considered to be reasonable ideas? There are a few, but always remember that There are three. The first is that the universe always existed Then, using the same ideas that govern quantum an expanding state, much like when an arrow This is basically very similar to how nuclear That idea is a static one and requires that meant under those conditions. The other ideas require a less static environment, Suppose that there exist additional dimensions time. If that's the case, there may be existing that we can't interact with. That's not so different from birds soaring two. If that's the case, then perhaps the universe in higher dimensions. Perhaps our universe crashed into another our universe to heat up and expand. It's hard to imagine that we'll find an conjecture, although scientists have had a Then there's a third idea, which is called Perhaps universes move like the blobs in a In this idea, a universe existed, and we budded Similarly, universes have budded off from In this idea, there is a constant creation universe. Again, it's hard to see how we would confirm Of course you should remember that the bottom at time equals zero, and certainly not before Furthermore, since we have no data about the thirteen seconds and we think there is a time down, it's premature to even sound like we After all, as my colleagues and I explore something that radically changes our current In that case, the data may point our thinking Indeed, I'd be shocked if the final answer science literature. I wish I could have told you that science be a lie, and I'll never lie to you. We know a lot- I mean we know a ton about state to where we are now, but we don't And it will take a long time and the effort to understand how the universe came to be. I mean- exploring the unknown and pushing is what my colleagues and I do. In fact, if you'll excuse me, I think I Talk to you later. Okay, so that was a heady video. There's a lot in it, both what we know and I hope you learned something, including the If you liked the video, please be sure to clicking on the little bell icon. And, of course, share it on social media, more about physics. After all, and after this video, I'm sure