- So this is what we make pretty our three different kinds or Basically a hundred sheets And it's a lot. I mean, if you pick this thing up, I don't even know, it probably weighs 30 pounds maybe. I mean the crazy thing is, we on the menu and now it's like, the thing that everybody comes - What's unique about this restaurant, every single one of our pastas... - [Scott] is handmade. - [Angie] There is a bit with this lasagna dish. It's not like we developed and it just so happened liking taking photos of it. The rest was history, I guess. - What I do is, I fold it like this and you can see how long 'cause we just made it super thin, right? Straighten it out. And then we make each one about 12 inches. And then what I do is I fold And again, this is just one It's insane, like, the amount If you're gonna make fresh pasta, there's no other way to do it. Now we're gonna cut and then These sheets are for tomorrow. We're gonna, once we're done sheeting, we're gonna wrap them, and then we're gonna take out the ones she made yesterday and We have to blanch each sheet individually, and there's no other way to do it. And this is boiling very, because we're imparting that and then salted ice water 'cause if you just use then you put it into unsalted ice water, it just basically washes out all the salt. So, salted, salted. It literally takes probably of someone just doing this. We only ran out of it once, and it was like the first week - Yeah. - But since we did that, we always put on the menu just in case something ever happens. But it's never happened since then, so. (upbeat music) - So this is Chef Denver. He's our executive sous chef. He's been holding down He's gonna show us how to - We use two things for it. So, first one, the tail will that goes as well with the pasta. And then on top of that which we'll be using the lobster body. The liquid gold in our restaurant. So, what we want to do is So we have the garlic, and also the butter that First thing, we'll be So this is a total of Before here I was working at Panda Express and then started here not And we worked our way from there. Right now that everything's in there, we basically just let it and then after that we And then after the chinois, we pass it through a coffee filter, to make sure everything's ready and then that's when we store it in cups in the freezer and then whenever - Now I'm gonna stuff This is like the main element It's a two-pound lobster kind of like Thermidor-style, just to like, get the meat and we remove the meat, we chop it up, and then we mix it with We often joke that this is like a cheese restaurant. I mean it's like, the that we go through in this So this is gonna then get baked for like, around 12 minutes. So there's a ton of effort During service, like, it comes We're just basically gonna It's like the most expensive We only make a few a night. - So our next major project of the week is our caramelle pasta. It's two different types of dough. So we use our classic egg dough as well as we use a black sesame dough, and then Carmen cuts it into strips and we basically apply it The whole idea is that it When I make it they don't look as nice Carmen, do you ever do a specific pattern based on your mood of the day? - Is there like subliminal messages in the caramelle? You don't write like, &quot;I hate Chef Scott&quot; or anything like that? - No, no! - I say, &quot;I love Chef Scott.&quot; - Oh thank you. (Angie laughs) Thank you Carmen. Carmen's worked with us since day one. She's literally touched every single piece of pasta in this restaurant except for when she goes on vacation. Then I touch the pieces of pasta. So she's gonna start sheeting it and she's gonna put it and make it smaller and when she starts going through. It's gonna just explode with and kind of like, takes life and looks like something And you see she doesn't fold it. When I do it, I always But she does it perfect every time. I don't know how you did that so fast. - Well you just. It's more challenging to do this than it is to do another pasta 'cause if you do make a mistake, There's a couple tools we use One is the expandable cutter One side is fluted, the And then we also use a ruler. That's the way we make the consistency and everything the same. We measure everything before we cut it. You can't just guess That's how we keep it - So this is filled with that we import from Italy. So we intentionally flip this dough over and we fill it on sort of the backside so that when we create the shape, the black design is on the exterior. This is basically, we're &quot;Caramelle&quot; means candies in Italian. The shape basically resembles So at this point, we We intentionally freeze this pasta. When it cooks in the boiling water and the exterior cooks and the interior is like runny and not overcooked, essentially. - Caramelle. It's a cool looking dish. I think that's why it's kind of been such a popular dish since we opened. - [Angie] And then the in a brown butter sauce with a little bit of black sesame oil, and then the dish gets finished and some opal basil. - So this is like one we do every day before service. We actually make this The dough is very simple. It's just flour, salt, It's a process where and then we portion and then we flatten it out, and then we actually stretch the dough like almost like pizza. We take a little 10-inch pizza pan and we actually stretch the When you stretch it, it Well how many are you doing today, 50? (Aleida speaks indistinctly) Okay, 45? So she's gonna do 45 today, and then we're gonna fill and the garlic chives and another one on top of it and It's crazy right? - I feel like with all of our recipes, when we develop 'em like with efficiencies and smarter ways to like achieve the same end result. And with this particular one, like, there's like no So Alei's gonna lay down This is a sofritto made garlic, and chiles and olive oil. We usually make it a day in advance to make sure it it cools. Parmesan, this is actually a We don't typically share So basically for efficiency's sake, the move will be to like After that the next move with another layer of the stretched dough. We're doing like 50 of these a day, which is a lot considering how labor-intensive this little task is. There are a few dishes here that are kinda like all-hands-on-deck because it's like such a big prep project. So the chrysanthemum greens, picking of the greens is a big thing because we literally are like - We get over 200 pounds We've definitely put a that's shipped to the east coast 'cause it's all grown Each leaf has to be iced down. We spin it in a salad spinner, and we have to pick like, and we have to make sure that's dead or brown. After we let it sit in here for about 20 minutes or so. If you can see underneath we raise it up with like this little raise thing. This way air can kind and it stays nice and fluffy and any liquid and stuff This chrysanthemum salad we make the dressing every day. Once the salad's done it gets the shaving of Parmesan over the whole thing, looks like a heavy snowfall. The station sells so much of this salad that like the people are just like, oh my God, you basically know 90% of the station 'cause we sell so many of 'em. Your arm gets so fatigued from shaving it that I s*** you not, we have three cooks that got a tattoo that says &quot;Parm arm&quot; on their arm. (gentle music) - People always ask us like, I love that, you know, this thing that people recognize from this particular restaurant. - I think it's awesome and I think for the volume we do like, it's, we make it the best we possibly can. - This is the process These sheets have been There's three sauces the Italian sausage Bolognese, and then the third one is So now it's a scoop of, Scott just put a scoop So then the same move with the mozzarella, a quart of mozzarella. - [Scott] Two things tomatoes and Parmigiano Reggiano. - And how much Reggiano - I would say two full wheels a week. - We just go through like copious amounts of all different types of cheeses. Parm, mozzarella, This gets another layer on top. We just put down a little That's again gonna just when we're done here. So this is our Italian sausage Bolognese. This sauce needs to be made Very important. If you try to do this with warm sauce, it'll just like totally fall apart. It's a little chunky. Next move is just to roll this. So after the lasagna and kind of chilled and set up for a bit, now is the time that we cut it. So each of these logs basically yields like one and a half orders of lasagna 'cause each dish gets six pinwheels. - This is only four lasagnas, and we sell about 60 to 70 a night. This is our lasagna dish that we use. We spray each one of them. We put six ounces of our and then we just put in the lasagna. It cooks really fast, it's really easy to serve and the whole entire top gets crispy. And when we were growing up, fight over the corners of the But this, like, everybody We put a piece of like, deli paper on top. We stack two on top of each other and then we keep 'em in the On the weekends we're we sell over a hundred and we so it's pretty intense. - So it's 2:20. Basically the whole squad's rolling in for tonight's dinner service. So this is like usually the 'cause we have like crossover between the morning team and the PM team. - And we just have a lot of people running around in very tight quarters, so. - So one of the desserts since we opened is our Basically kind of just like We basically like pound out and we make our own like We wrap the mochi around it by hand, and then it's a pretty like, simple dish but I think it's like, pretty complex in flavor and pretty interesting. I feel like we just like, because we kind of like, like, strengths and weaknesses and stuff. - But when we first opened, in the morning I would open every day and then Angie would basically expedite almost that five days a week. - I would close the restaurant. I'm like a night owl and - So it works out good. We're lucky because like, most restaurants only have one leader or one But we kind of have two. So it is 4:05 probably. We open at 4:30. We have already a line started. Have you been to the restaurant before? - Yeah, a few times. - You have? - Yeah, I live around here. Am I getting in today? - You're the first person Well thank you so much for coming back. - [Customer] I appreciate it. - Hi, how are you guys? - Hey good. Yeah, we came from Phoenix. We saw this on TikTok. - I hope it lives up to the excitement. - [Customer 2] It will. - Yeah, thank you. Now we're gonna walk over and we're gonna go see Angie. She's making a new amaro. So let's go see how it is. - The beauty about this is that during the day it's Love the Italian tradition and like, after dinner drinks. I've been messing around we'll see what happens. So it's like a two part process. First part is steeping a and then the other part is So this has Calabrian orange zest, lemon leaves. It also has some lemon Soon as that's cool, mix this all up and then get the final product. - It's pretty good. It's 4:15. We're gonna go downstairs and have the meeting with the cooks. - This morning, everything with walk-in organization and everything. Has that been going pretty well with the new sort of structure of that? - Keep the mise en place really tight. Just remember to, you know, FIFO everything, organization, make sure we're keeping - Cooking, cleaning, breaking down. Whatever you guys do, make yourself proud. And I believe whatever you guys are doing is making yourselves proud right now. I would love to be part of this team of like line cooking beside you guys. - Let's have a great service guys. (team claps) - Part of the daily mise en place for the cooks is also their hydration. So we got electrolytes, yerba mate. - Please sponsor us. - I told Lauren she needs 'cause she drinks like four of these every day so. - [Chef] They gotta stay hydrated. It's hot down here. - This is the pasta station here. We have this nifty container here. It insulates our pasta so that it stays really cold, really fresh. - [Chef] You know, this is but we have our lasagnas coming off of the plancha or the flat top. During service, the cooks There's a very big push in the beginning. It's just getting a lot - Order in, steak mid-well. - Pick up three lasagna. - I just want to have a restaurant that people want to come back to. - We want our food to be like and like surprising, but we to like think too hard about it. - Crudo master, he makes some sick crudo. - [Chef 3] Coming up, corner, corner up. - [Chef 4] Pick up lasagna solo. - [Chef 5] For 201, the salad? - It's my Parm arm. I put in many hours to get - [Chef 7] Just do the cauliflower trivet and then the regular lasagnas. - [Chef 8] And then we have one caramelle. - [Chef 9] Yeah, that's - [Chef 2] Our food is hopefully like soulful and like comforting. You guys have a lobster on order, right? Even though the restaurant's super full right now, super busy, you know, the team has everything under control. It's like a nice, nice flow. - Pick up flat. That's three. We're very lucky. Like we've been open six years and there's still almost every day a line of people waiting to get in. People want to come here and that really makes (classical music)