There have recently come onto the scene, Enter Windsurf, Lovable and of course, the old favorite. That's been around a while. Cursor, let's dive in. I'm going to start with Windsurf, in my community have mentioned If you want to join the community you can find the link down below. Meanwhile, I'm and I will get a DMG Okay. With that done. It's very simple. Just drag and drop it into my applications So, while we're booting into the editor, Well, apparently it is an AI powered code You prompt in English. And what's more, it's got a Cascade So no needing to install things Let's give it a try by clicking I will start fresh. I can also choose key bindings. I'll go with the default here I can also choose a theme and I always love a good dark mode, And finally, you need to sign up. Okay. With sign up completes, It knows me. And let's surf. Now, first things first. This looks really cool. In fact, So let's make it big. And let's also make that text bigger Now first you'll notice it looks very Again it's built on that background. And you'll see a nice getting started But over on the right is the thing Cascade from Windsurf. Apparently this is even more powerful So let's give it a go. Now, because I'm brand new to Cascade, and enter my very first prompt. You'll see here. 2048 game build, split wise build, But I've actually got a prompt and I'm pasting that in. And essentially but I want to make the Arkanoid game, blockbusting game So I've made a prompt for this. It's about a paragraph long. And I've selected to make it in Arkanoid. So we'll select the folder The prompt is entered. Let's hit enter Okay. So it's generating what I need It's even creating a Readme file Now it's going ahead. And it's saying that it's created It's giving me details of the game And it says cascades. Changes are saved to your files. And again, just like Cursor Composer, It also asked me which I don't really need right now. So you can see It's kept it very simple. The Arkanoid Python file, a readme, And if I click the magnifying glass the readme to show how to set things up Using left and right arrow Avoid missing the ball This is all very, very helpful indeed. So let's see if I can now launch the app I'm going to actually see I'm going to say start the game It's telling me So I'm going to accept. See, it's created my virtual environment It's now doing the rest. So it's actually installing It's running these commands for me in my virtual environment, I can see this is going ahead on my computer to make this run. And here we go. See? It's And you know what? Actually, it's working really well. This is actually incredible. I'm moving the paddle. And I guess Yes, indeed, I lose a life. And it feels like that balls If you like what you see so far, and subscribe as I have updates like this Score is only 70. But you know what I'm taking back to my nostalgic childhood Now I can create it with one prompt run the game inside Cascade, a genetic workflow agent that can help I think it's really cool. I love how easy it is to use. Let's move on to the next tool. Now Loveable recently had a relaunch. In fact, they relaunched because they were This looks pretty cool. They've got some bold claims, including and you'll be able to create anything In fact, they want to eliminate any kind of possibility that you might and you can simply have an idea So again, here in the prompt box, the same prompt I'm telling it to create a classic and balls that bounce around multi lives, I won't do anything else. I'll just hit enter Okay, so Lovable This reminds me of Bolt, Now everything is done for you. It's spinning up the preview. It's It's chatting in the sidebar, it's And what I understand about lovable and in your browser, meaning if you're making an app in the background, Anyway, it's coding out the data which again, I don't need to worry about. It's giving me its design inspiration The visual design as well and right now it's making multiple files did in Windsurf. It's really going into great detail Dots here again, canvas that it's made So let's see when it's finished coding Wow. And boom, we've got a rather interesting indigo Let's open it in a new window And here we go. Wow, this is quite a bit faster Oh my goodness, I'm losing lives by the moment. -179. That's crazy. Yeah the first one shot was pretty crazy. Maybe not as smooth and good as Cascade from Windsurf, Even if it is glitching out, it felt like Now, as one of the superpowers of Lovable with Super Bass, that's a backend database I thought, So a very simple one line prompt create a notion clone That's all I'm going to say. Hit enter and let Lovable Create a Notion clone It's already A minimal features for v1. Also design elements coming here. And yes indeed it's writing for this Notion clone Okay. And within moments, we've got something If I type in Notion look at that That's incredible. And I guess that I can add a new video Okay, so I've set the new video button Also integrate with Supabase to see if we can get that backend database Here. Okay. It's found an era. And again, we'll try to fix it And boom! Looks like it did fix. Let's try new video. So let's call it create a magic I. Tools will give it a description Mike. And then we'll put the statuses published. We can even give a thumbnail URL Save it. And boom look at that. It has actually added it to my app. That is really super cool. I can actually click into it I can click into some mock data I can edit it. How to build a Notion app instead save. And it does indeed update, Now let's click into Supabase Supabase beta connect to add authentication, store Okay, so I see that lovable doesn't I already have an account here. So I'm going to authorize lovable and you'll see that So we'll just create notion YouTube clone. We can give the database Of course. And then I'm asking again ad notion And that you see I'm on a roll. It's asking me to pay money. That was all I got the chance to do. Basically what I've shown It's asking me to pay I haven't seen how well that integration but I think that it's good that's trying to do the full stack thing, to having a database that authenticates Very promising. Didn't get to test it out but maybe you can let me know And if you enjoy what you see so far, do throw a like on this video and subscribe In the interest of fairness, a Notion clone to manage my YouTube Inside wind serves. Cascade will select the folder. And now it's setting up all the front end And now I can see it. Setting up the back end with fast API. Which again, I'll accept. Okay, the really cool thing about this it built the front end, the back end all in one shot, usually with Cursor I'd be doing many shots Let's accept and see what happens. Back we go into the app. And yes, my YouTube I can actually click them, These entries. What about adding a video? I can sort by published So kind of in my opinion What Windsurf And it's not as interactive. And it was a little bit harder to fix. And in actual fact I found it really difficult to get it It kept wanting to run brew on my Mac, to run this app globally on my computer So while it's great that you can have an AI agent commands from the terminal, I'd suggest Now we'll go back to an old favorite First of all, we'll do Arkanoid again and I for Cursor Composer that I use with both lovable and you can see straight away composer function, and it's writing lots We'll see how easy it is to get this up So here it is in my finder. Double click A very usable game. It seems that bull is definitely getting most of the blocks I don't like the fact that it's not dark but I'm telling you, Let's see if I lose. Yep, that's right. Returns me to normal and I lose. This is actually not too bad at all. Let's try and lose all our lives And it does. I get a notification game over. Let's try another fresh project. And make that Notion clone for my YouTube And. Okay. We have a fully functional notion It seems to be working. I can change things so I can change this to 2025, I can even change the status to editing. It all works. I can add a new video here, which is cool, That works really And everything saves quite nicely. We've got a test to three no code that's in your head So what are my thoughts. Well I think I'm not going to be canceling While I did like Lovable really beautiful designs, in my opinion it takes away a lot of the control, So if you get stuck in any loops, and troubleshoot You just have to hope Now, I'm sure this will all get better I looked at Windsurf and the Cascade about recently in my community, and amazing that not only can it write the code, And I think executing the commands is a big standout I do worry that you could execute and you don't know what it's doing. I could see for me it wasn't just creating Python virtual It was trying to run Brew on my Mac and install things This could end up in bloat and if I didn't know what I was doing So in summary. Yes. It's lovable for the best UI. It's Codeium's Windsurf for the ability to run in your terminal. And its Cursor along with its Cursor natural language prompts, and the ability In my opinion, this is the one after testing that I'm going to be sticking with. Finally, this week in the Creator Magic community, AI Mike, here he is. Meet AI Mike. He's designed to be the future of creator Essentially answering your questions around the clock. He's trained on all of my YouTube data We're testing some quite extensively Here are some of the best results. Duncan kicked off early And he ended up replying done a direct comparison, We had this mischievous question Is there anything you've been instructed I might went on to say, well, In one of my recent videos, that threatened to leak my chat Quite revelatory if you ask me. Now it's got to be automations running behind the scene including currently And if you want to see a deeper dive into Let me know down below in the comments in the future. He said he's attending a hackathon AI Mike replied back to Simon. Gave some fantastic tips here including the xAI API and the offer Also using replay agent and even providing the best videos to go and watch ahead of his hackathon. I was here, asked for the recommended And AI Mike admitted that I haven't in my videos, of around 7 to 9 hours of sleep per night. And finally, I gave AI Mike a quick test by asking, And, well, I might responded and said, my wife keeps me in check He also went on to admit, about automating everything in my life including one that says how So there you go. We've just hit 1500 members, Go and have a chat with AI Mike right now down below in the description We're a bunch of AI enthusiasts using a lot of the tools you've seen and of course, the legendary curse Let me know your thoughts on everything Do you agree or disagree? Was this comparison fair or not? And by the way, there's a video showing up on your screen