Narrator: This is Akshaya Patra, the world's largest This kitchen alone makes enough biryani for 75,000 children daily. Across India, the foundation's 65 kitchens serve 2 million children every day in over 19,000 schools, and has served over 3 billion meals since its inception in 2000, something which Vice Chairman Sri Chanchalapathi Dasa is very proud of. Chanchalapathi: It's like Narrator: We visited a mega kitchen to see how they make vegetable biryani and moong dal payasam in such big batches. This mega kitchen is located in Bangalore, the capital of India's and staffs 230 workers We start on the top floor, where all of the food is cleaned, cut, and prepped. Every day, workers prepare the following day's raw ingredients and then store the food in a cold room that can hold up to 5 tons of food. Shridhar Venkat: On an average day, we use about 25 ingredients and one very important is the menu design. Narrator: Today's menu an Indian rice dish that with a mix of vegetables Workers begin by running the crates of prepped vegetables through So, because we are preparing and we have to do it very quickly and we have to do it we extensively use a lot of technology. Narrator: This batch of green peppers, cabbage, carrots, potatoes, and squash. Shridhar: If you look at these crates, every meal which goes to a child at least has minimum 50 gram of vegetable for a primary-school child and 75 gram of vegetables for an upper-primary-school child. Narrator: Alongside the and prepare rice for this dish. The rice is then washed thoroughly with water before it's cooked. On an average day, the kitchen can handle about 7 tons of grains The washed rice and precut through a chute that This simple use of gravity of this facility, as it reduces the amount of manual labor and keeps things clean. The ingredients land into 51 of these stainless-steel cauldrons, where the cooks use massive stirrers to mix everything together. Workers then close the lids that generates steam to cook the food. Shridhar: So, biryani takes right from preprocessing to finishing it, and the cauldron, which you see here, can feed about 1,000 children. Narrator: For food safety and cleanliness, the vegetable biryani is And next to each cauldron, a small stainless-steel of each batch, which is then tested 24 hours later for microbial growth. Once a week, children with a sweet treat. Shridhar: And here, moong Moong dal payasam is a dessert, and children love So, each of these cauldrons can handle about 1,200 liters of dal, or lentils. Narrator: 1,500 pounds into each of the six cauldrons Milk and raisins are also added Finally, jaggery syrup, natural sweetener made from sugarcane, gets stirred in to the cauldrons. Shridhar: Typically, moong 1 1/2 hours to one hour 45 minutes, right from boiling the moong dal till the final dessert is made. Narrator: Once the vegetable biryani and moong dal payasam workers transfer the dishes from the cauldrons into these carts, which are then taken that connects to the ground floor. The food drops down, then gets portioned and packed into individual Shridhar: These are food-grade vessels. Each of the vessels can handle food for about 85 to 100 children, and one of the important cornerstones of Akshaya Patra is hygiene and safety. So, you can see, each vessel where food is going to be stored is getting washed or cleansed with steam. Narrator: Then they're and get loaded onto Akshaya called &quot;buses of hope.&quot; Shridhar: These are insulated vehicles which keep the food warm. Large quantity of food Over a period of time, Akshaya Patra has developed So, for example, from this kitchen, we have about 32 vehicles. We handle about close to 650 schools, and we are feeding about though the end-all strength Narrator: And that is When you include the 64 they feed over 2 million children daily. Chanchalapathi: It had We started serving 1,500 children in the outskirts of Bangalore and gradually, we saw there from the headmasters of the schools, who would write to us and say, &quot;We see your vehicle carrying food pass in front of our school. Can you please stop And when we saw these requests, we kept increasing and and that's how, today, in Bangalore city, we serve about 200,000 children. Narrator: So, how does to pay for all of the Chanchalapathi: So, we of support from the government. We top it up with some more money that we raise from to ensure that the meal is hot, nutritious, safe, tasty, so that children are delighted Narrator: Today, they serve 19,000 schools across 14 states and two union territories in India. Kitchen staff will create menus based on the students' preferences For example, Akshaya Patra's kitchens in northern Indian like roti or flatbreads. In southern India, rice as a staple food, and the children love prepared by the foundation. Shridhar: Another important we want to give what otherwise their mothers will give to them if they're at home and Of course, no one can replace a mother, but Akshaya Patra tries to come as close to what a mother can cook. Chanchalapathi: You know, of this kind in a All of the personnel involved come with a deep commitment of compassion and kindness for children, and so it is that compassion that keeps us very highly to see that we do our tasks and duties with a lot of heart.