Hello Health Champions. How can you navigate the jungle of misinformation videos lately with titles such as &quot;1 cup will reverse clogged arteries&quot; or will melt belly fat or will clear your lungs or whatever it will take care of it and the answer is we works. So I want to take the opportunity and but also I want to talk about to really clarify claims are so outrageous and why they defy to lose weight and belly fat well here's deeply and burn belly fat&quot; 9.4 million views bedtime burn belly fat while sleeping&quot; 8.6 &quot; 1 cup before bed sleep fast and deeply...&quot; and so on 1.6 But doesn't it seem like a whole lot of work to have to drink a whole cup of something. Let's see if we can make it easier how about we take Two tablespoons a day of something to melt the belly fat away 5.6 million views. Only one tablespoon... Why do it and lose belly fat and thigh fat so it's this one does two things at once with only it works for all those things why wouldn't of mankind nobody knew it was this simple heart. &quot;Only a glass of this juice will remove will it remove the plaque it will remove the entire artery. This must be quite some potion and &quot;Unclog arteries ...1 glass in reverse clogged arteries&quot;. &quot;1 Tablespoon a day reverse up some 35 different videos with outrageous course we want to ride the trend of the coronavirus so you guessed it just &quot;1 cup your lungs and will keep your lung problems away&quot;. So some of you are laughing and you're saying that's so ridiculous I would never click on that but it shows us a bigger problem all there were over 250 million views on just there's two hundred fifty million people that opportunity to actually get healthy. They are quick fix and a single solution. They're basically done in the last 30 years just have a cup of will go away. Well this guy over here he lived about a lot smarter than that because he would look work like that if we eat a plant or an animal another plant to try to compensate for it This guy could figure that out and we have anymore. We look for these quick fixes and adding things it's mostly about taking away. a lake is getting really polluted all the that lake and the fish are getting very sick think it's a good idea to just add one more solve the problem. It's not about adding one we even get this with dogs if the dog gets sick, what's the first question? We say - &quot;what did the dog eat?&quot; Let's not feed the dog that anymore. If the dog gets it's not moving like dogs are supposed to why can't we get it with humans? Why don't away? Why do we think that we can add something last 20, 30 years. And unfortunately one of the biggest reasons means mainstream medicine and it's the idea healthcare field they give a medication for field in the natural health care field, they follow the same idea. They just replace the medication with an herb or an elixir or a synthetic vitamin they trying to solve a problem by adding something things you've done you have to undo those in a pill mentality whether it's an herb or an elixir or a medication it's still the same pill mentality that we have to get past. It's function and adopting the whole lifestyle. outrageous now let's go beyond ridiculous. Let's add a time frame to when this is supposed to be done. &quot;Only two cups a day for one week for a day for 1 week for a flat stomach&quot; and &quot;How So here you don't have to do anything don't have to do anything you can get this it doesn't just work for belly fat But wait. Why should it have to take a whole week? Who's got that kind of time? I mean Let's go a little further beyond ridiculous drinking this magical water&quot; now we're talkin belly fat in a single night&quot; 9.2 million views. weight overnight&quot; 15 million views. So you don't you have an English title and video to get These videos alone got over 25 million views to change my lifestyle this past winter and up some videos about magical water so I can And then to round it off let's bring up the Hall of Fame of &quot;Only a teaspoon before meal remove belly fat in &quot;I lost weight in one day without diet and to lose weight in 2 hours&quot; now that's got to Like - &quot;Oh my God is that the time? My wedding is in dress&quot; all right. Let me find a video to solve to admit these last two, they are actually possible or in 2 hours and that is if you're really a massive bowel movements then you could probably that wedding dress however. And a lot of you are that I can't believe people click on that and maybe you learned something after that and you won't click again but the fact is that people do click and it reflects a bigger underlying problem we have no idea what health is. We live under every tabloid magazine every newspaper article this amount of time and it's absurd. And here's the about health. If they never get some videos start understanding it, now they never will. like in the US we spend over 4 trillion dollars sicker and sicker. And this just feeds in about how to actually restore health and this previous examples are so absurd and also just You want to think of your body as cells. You have something of cells they wear out. The average cell, something days and then it wears out it dies it gets your gut lining replaces every 3 to 4 to nervous system lives for years or even forever. changing every hundred days. In about a year The cells and the tissue and the molecules that you are not the same person you were last The way to get healthy is to replace the old cell Well you reduce the things that interfere. copy of itself. And the things that interfere are Toxins are chemicals and pesticides and sweeteners and food additives and heavy metals and on and on. Inflammation is ... Some inflammation is necessary healing, acute inflammation, but chronic long-term inflammation keeps healing we have long-term inflammation and this is things like that. And stress finally is just brush off. It's like - Oh well that's life. Well you can stress because what stress does is it puts stressed you're telling your body I don't have tomorrow or some other time. Right now I've things to put out and it doesn't matter if run you over or even imaginary things like kind of exist in your head. Your body reacts telling me about it I don't have time to heal. now. And if you think back to all those examples a tablespoon is going to do to help you with are the root causes you need to address the So first you want to reduce the interference and for the body to make new cells and those resources acids to build muscles and proteins and bones acids to build cell membranes and brain tissue and sugar and processed food is not going protein and fat will give you stable energy burns cleanly for a long long time. Energy is a requirement for the body to function and unstable blood sugar is a form of stress. things like vitamins and minerals and enzymes the food stuff in to building blocks into tissue not that hard to find these things. The building blocks called real food. You stay away from sugar and good quality fats and nuts and meats and so in it we just have to stay away from things And then we need time to rewire the body. Just like you have habits. You have signal pathway habits and changing those to rewire to break down old new habits feel natural and feel like the And again there is no pill. There is no potion. There is no elixir. There is no snake oil that will take care of this. I'm not saying that there is no value to any of those there may very well be some herb that does something beneficial but it's the wrong way of looking at things It's such a tiny tiny piece of the big picture big picture is and if you really want to restore That when they're talkin about hours or days your body doesn't change that fast. You can't It defies natural law. And in a matter of days or people once they start cutting out some processed stabilize their blood sugar notice changes then in a few weeks but that's just the beginning to start programming and replacing tissue and difference and now we're talking months to your lifestyle maintaining your new lifestyle you're stabilize your newfound health and you If you enjoyed this video that one will be to learn as much as possible and truly master that bell and turn on all the notifications