From scandalized outsider to queen consort, journey. So what do we know about her Queen Camilla made plenty of enemies during her faith in her never wavered. In a speech after his for her &quot;loyal public service&quot; and expressed his &quot;I count on the loving help That year, royal expert &quot;I think Camilla has transformed than he has ever been. She gives has so desperately needed throughout his Proof of this could be seen in a tender the Queen's Reading Room in 2023. Charles was affectionate smile. According to Charles' love for Camilla &quot;There is an intimacy in his expression. contact. Overall, he is comfortable and When Queen Camilla first joined the royal accepted by King Charles' sister, Princess Anne. her new sister-in-law. For one thing, Anne had ex-husband, Andrew Parker Bowles, years there was Charles and Camilla's affair, &quot;Well, there were three of us in this Over the years, royal watchers and several signs of disharmony between the &quot;Earlier photos do suggest a potential with both women apparently able to stand Despite their rocky start, many has transformed. Not only has Anne but she's also embraced her as a the Express that Camilla often appears nervous More evidence of their friendship came in 2017, when the pair greeted each other at a that Anne's body language conveyed pure &quot;This photo is all about friendship. who just ran into one another at a mall, Like Princess Anne's relationship with Queen Camilla transformed over time. In the early disapproval of Camilla by keeping her distance the queen even seemed to shun Camilla on the day &quot;At the poses after their wedding, the the couple on the steps, which prevented Nonetheless, Elizabeth eventually and their relationship appeared to flourish. queen consort, proving once and for all The late monarch was known for putting and her friendship with Camilla was no exception. for a state visit with the president of the looking comfortable in each other's presence. The Camilla. However, the queen's sense of duty &quot;She is looking to her audience, smiling, and the fact that Camilla is there As the heir to the British throne, Prince William according to his brother, Prince Harry, there's &quot;Oh really. Please.&quot; &quot;Boom.&quot; In his 2023 memoir, Spare, Harry opposed the idea of their father &quot;Despite Willy and me urging him not to, Pa was In 2022, body language expert Judi James told The when she placed her handbag in front of her body At the same event, William appeared to show his smiling as he leaned in to chat with the queen attentive and formal; however, he showed &quot;His hands remain closed in front of he lacks the warmth of someone familiar.&quot; Unlike his older brother, Prince Harry has been Queen Camilla. The royal slammed his stepmother image by leaking information about his drug use Harry suggested that, in her quest to divert sacrificed him &quot;on her personal PR altar.&quot; In see her as an &quot;evil stepmother&quot;; however, he &quot;And has done everything improve her own reputation Harry's allegations show that he and Camilla have was even evident back in May 2018, during As a photograph from the event shows, Meghan Markle, while Charles and Harry stood Harry's body language signaled &quot;His feet are firmly planted on the he looks very much at attention. Specifically, he is paying careful attention to his not only about his protective nature of Meghan but How do Queen Camilla and Princess Catherine get royal watchers noticed that Catherine didn't royal fashion, Catherine and Camilla haven't they continue to present a united front. Body &quot;In the early years, Kate wasn't which could have led to some disjointed and years have gone on, Kate and Camilla have both As Jess Ponce says: &quot;Princess Catherine is always She's so aware of her public presence and that it would be hard to read if she, in fact, During the Order of the Garter ceremony in hitting it off especially well. In one photo, while chatting. According to Ponce, this was &quot;In this photo, she is giving Camilla to be very comfortable with Camilla The final verdict? Catherine and Camilla are &quot;By all indications, Camilla an ally -- and this could prove Given the rift between Prince it's reasonable to assume that Harry's wife, &quot;Talk about a plot twist.&quot; In 2023, a source alleged to OK! magazine that Harry. However, given their histories of being Meghan and Camilla actually have these women can probably relate to each Despite Meghan and Camilla's similarities, Camilla and Meghan have a complicated they showed signs of tension back in patronage celebration. The royals were but Meghan's body language suggested an overall &quot;Camilla and Meghan don't seem to be present, there are no physical signs of who already may be uncomfortable given all that At a glance, Princess Beatrice and rapport -- and that makes sense given what who is the granddaughter of Queen Elizabeth Camilla's affair scandal, so she likely wasn't they seem to hold a special connection due to &quot;I've always had a passion for books. Books While attending the Oscar's Beatrice praised Camilla for her work Kingdom. Referring to the coronation &quot;I was reminded this weekend -- it's been a of community. I also know the importance and I'm hoping we can find out more ways we Camilla and Beatrice's bond isn't new, event held in 2015, Beatrice's casual felt comfortable in the then-duchess' &quot;Beatrice's smile [...] [indicates] so one can assume that her Thanks to her status as a working spends plenty of time in the orbit of this pair out and about at royal events. seem pleasant enough with each other -- but also &quot;Despite being sisters-in-law, there are few, Camilla that would suggest anything warmer than Jess Ponce seems to agree. Back in 2015, when during the Order of the Garter service, facing forward and her hands clasped &quot;She is fully engaged in the service but moment. She is definitely cordial, but whether The Duchess of Edinburgh is known so it's not surprising that she These days, Prince William and Queen Camilla children. In her book, Camilla: From Outcast &quot;William has made it clear that but not a step-grandmother to his children.&quot; If this is true, then you might expect to see and Camilla. Jess Ponce similarly claims doting grandmother, and that the kids do In 2023, Camilla joined the three mini royals for a carriage ride during Trooping the Colour. that the youngsters barely interacted &quot;All three children are paying little attention to Camilla. any warmth toward them. Kids bring out