Hi all! Now I will show you how you can get out of a situation when you urgently need to do something from improvised means! Even my beast - Monya, feels the changes in the weather! Winter is retreating and there will be no severe frosts soon, but the off-season comes when it gets warmer during the day and it is still very cold at night, so today's idea will come in handy. You will need any pipe of a suitable diameter. I have this stainless steel chimney elbow with a diameter of 120 millimeters. At the bottom of this pipe you need to make several cuts, I divided it into eight equal parts and made these cuts with my grinder, so faster than with a hand saw. You can try metal shears if you have them nearby. Later you will see what these pipe cutouts are for. Just a few minutes of work and everything is done. Cordless angle grinder for me is the most necessary tool, it is possible for her to do any job! Everyone should have it in their studio! You've all probably seen this cable, it's very cheap and easy to buy anywhere. This is not a simple electrical wire, it has some very soft, but strong hairs inside it. With the help of a small tube, this brush can be connected to the electrical wire in a very strong connection. And on top you can put on a cambric or just wrap it with blue electrical tape. I decided to test this wire and its possibilities in an unusual way, how else can it be used? Can you boil water this way? He poured water at room temperature into a transparent glass and lowered his impromptu heater there. I connected it, but not to a socket, but to a 12-volt power bank! Then I plugged it into my car charger! It would be great if in the absence of electricity it would be possible to heat water like this. And about a miracle! Look! The water is getting hot! He even began to make strange sounds! As a result, the water boiled! See how beautifully water moves in a glass with different temperatures! We boil water every day and do not notice such a magical process of bubble formation! I did a lot of experiments with wire and there were simply not enough tubes for everything. I found for myself another interesting way to connect the electrical wire. I took part of the copper wires from the same wire, put them on top of each other and wrapped the connection tightly. It turned out solid and with good contact. But can such a cable help me as a motorist? I decided to fix a small segment on the janitor from the car, they always freeze and this is very annoying. I carefully glued the wire directly to the wiper's rubber band and go outside to test it. You can also make the windshield washer fluid in the car heated. Which for some reason always freezes. In order for the tests to be correct, he did everything naturally, on the street about -5 degrees Celsius. I covered this janitor very tightly with snow and even crushed it a little, as if the snow had packed. Then I turned on the heater and watched with anticipation to see what would happen. After a while, the janitor melted like a snowman! Great! Found the best and easiest way to mount. Just put a piece of copper tube on the cable and squeeze it with pliers, all that remains is to solder the wire to this copper tube. To fix the wire, I will use this cool red thermal sealant. It can withstand temperatures up to 343 degrees Celsius! It dries quickly enough, which is good news. And the dispenser from the kit will help to reduce its consumption to a minimum. I will wind two parallel cables to double the power. The calculation of power, length and voltage is carried out according to the formula from the instructions for the cable. Approximate calculations for a network of 220 Volts and for 12 Volts you lead on the screen. I used two parallel segments 9 meters long, which will be only 320 watts, like charging a powerful laptop! I wanted to cover it with plaster over the cable for better transfer and distribution of heat, but I didn't find it in the nearest store! It's good that in the pharmacy next door I bought a plaster bandage to fix broken limbs. I decided to use it, it turned out to be even more convenient with it. I just wet it, wrapped it in two layers and that's it! The whole job took less than 5 minutes! He took a jar of universal putty he did not need from a neighbor, I will cover on top for a more beautiful and dense coating. It took quite a bit, I spent about half a kilogram. See how easy it is to apply. Just two boxes on the sides and inside a stick from a floor brush. I did not specifically try to make the coating even. I wanted such a cool heater to be original and look like a burnt wood, and its coating looks like tree bark. It's time to finish the production. I came up with a great idea! First, as a reflector, I cover it with reflective varnish. Then, through a fine mesh, sprinkle with magic powder. And another layer of varnish on top! This is a new product of the manufacturer and I will definitely share with you whether it is worth using it or not. So that you do not fall for low-quality products. I wanted to make it look like a tree, it's a pity, but the stencil didn't fit and I had to cover everything up. Friends! Look! Spring is coming and I have a very necessary such a powerful thing. I wanted a small size that was convenient to store and use, but at the same time with the function of self-suction of water. Not only will it save you tons of money on car washes. But your cars and motorcycles, paths, fence and facade of the house, boat and quadric, barbecue and pool, cultivator and garden tools will always be clean. And if anything - you can cut the fruit. Of course, I will share with you a link to this car wash. Finally some testing! From start to power-up, let's turn off the lights! Wow! This is beauty! The magic powder works! It very quickly enters the operating mode and this is clearly visible on the thermal imager. It consumes very little when heated to 80 degrees Celsius! A stream of hot air blows from above, and this is without the use of a fan. You can't get burned on it! It's easy and quick to make! You can also heat up the greenhouse and eat fresh vegetables and herbs before others! Or even make heated ventilation! If you liked the video, then I will be grateful if you share it on any of the social networks. Friends will be interested, but for me it will be a good motivation to make other interesting videos. See you in the next video friends!