This video was made possible by SkillShare, teach you just about anything. This is the Boeing 747. More than twice the size of any airliner before And it impressed more than just the flying Because as crazy as it sounds, in 1973, the into airborne aircraft carriers. These once classified documents detail how fighter jets in mid-air. And how by the 1980s, airborne aircraft carriers to anywhere in just hours. In 1968, Boeing unveiled the 747. Two and half times the size of any jetliner the way we fly. And at least part of the plane's existence of Pan American Airways, and a bit of a visionary. Because Trippe foresaw how a plane this big and bring down the cost of flying opening And when Trippe's airline put in the first become "a great weapon for peace" because But it turns out, the Air Force had other The 747, along with the newly introduced Lockheed With their enormous size, power, and range, The Navy's seaborne carrier force could already But an airborne equivalent would have the in any part of the world in just hours. And the idea for an airborne carrier force Because the Navy once had airborne aircraft When launched in the early 1930s, the airships Crewed by sixty men and protected by eight 5 meters short of being the largest objects But these were no ordinary airships. Designed as long range scouts for the U.S. up to five planes called parasite fighters, and could even help defended it. A trapeze system below the carrier would deploy The problem was, while the parasite fighters Both were destroyed in weather related accidents And that helped put an end to airships, but Because a decade and a half later, the Air For the first time ever, intercontinental but their fighter escorts couldn't. One promising solution was to have bombers But sticking a full sized fighter jet underneath So the new escort fighter would have to be And so this what they came up with, the world's The Air Force planned to have B-36 bombers jets, depending on the mission. This time the carrier worked, but the fighter The tiny egg-shaped jets were so sensitive ever managed to do it three times. It proved far too dangerous. But the efforts continued into the 1950s, full size fighters to bombers by linking their The idea was to not only extend the range by effectively giving them a large glider-like But docking using this system proved even Really the only successful implementation or nuclear strike fighter half tucked under And by the mid-1950s, it was clear that newly and more sensible way to extend aircraft range. But the air force took yet another look in The newly introduced 747 and C-5 were large recover fighter escorts mid-air...but also So the Air Force commissioned Boeing to study And not surprisingly, Boeing focused on using And it would have worked something like this. Housed inside the 747's pressurized hold With each fighter suspended from an overhead over one of two launch bays. To launch a fighter, a set of arms would lower and depressurized. The jet would then be lowered, and away it By Boeing's estimates, it would take as To recover a fighter, it would first dock the jet would be brought back inside. The carrier crew could turn around a micro-fighter Also crammed into the 747 would be fuel, armament 12 carrier crew, 14 squadron pilots, and another On top of that, the 747 would also be fitted That seems like a lot to jam inside one 747, so much on the carrier, but the fighters, inside a carrier aircraft. With a wingspan just over 5 meters and about The micro-fighters would be armed with a pair air-to-air missiles or bombs. Boeing was confident these little guys could Airborne carriers could operate out of anywhere a battle group with supporting aerial refuelers ability to be anywhere in the world, within would need days or weeks. Of course, 747 aircraft carriers were never page study to get something like this to work. And while Boeing's engineers were confident carriers could enter service by late 1980s, With air combat evolving so dramatically throughout with special micro-fighters would likely prove Because light-weight micro-fighters might By the late 1980s, they would have been hopelessly But the Air Force isn't done with the concept. Over the next couple few years, the Department But this time, they'll deploy unmanned drones, 3D modelling is a great way to communicate But sometimes, a simple graphic.can be just Whether you're trying to explain something, And everything you need to know, from the is all at SkillShare An online community for creators, freelancers...or A foundational tool for your creative toolbox I use Adobe Illustrator...which is the the A class that caught my eye was Dylan Mierzwinksi's In just under half an hour, you'll, have anything else you want. Quick, easy and fun, just another great SkillShare With over 23 thousand classes at your fingertips, an incredible resource to have. And a premium subscription to SkillShare, But if you're one of the first 500 people below, you get 2 months for absolutely free.