He is a global spiritual leader a scholar, a peacemaker, a writer and a poet. Revered worldwide for he remains a humble most at home in the surrounded by his community. Thich Nhat Hanh has written read by millions worldwide. Martin Luther King for the Nobel Peace Prize. But how did this unassuming seeker confront the horrors of war and bringing the Buddha's to become a force for change Thich Nhat Hanh was born in under French colonial rule. Even as a child, he was aware of the and turmoil in his country. At the age of nine, he saw a picture of the Buddha and experienced a deep desire as that Buddha. When he was sixteen, he became a novice monk in the imperial city of Hue. There he began Zen while also tending buffaloes He soon mastered classical and devoted himself to the He lived through the and the Great Famine Whilst many of his peers turned he was determined to find another way to liberate As a young monk he took the name Determined to renew Buddhism, he became one of the first to study science, literature, economics, and English. He soon realised that monastics must offer society and developed a vision In 1954, as the communist North and Vietnam was divided, He meditated intensively through Only when he discovered the in an ancient text, did he find He expanded the practice to develop combining the awareness of These practical methods for became central to his life's teaching, and have today been taken up He and his friends established where they could They called it Phuong Boi: Fragrant Palm Leaves. They realised that only by coming close to nature, could they resist the oppressive and sustain their efforts It was during this time that Thich Nhat Hanh met pioneering a new approach to Inspired by his teachings, she went on to become later receiving the name After just four years, deadly Thich Nhat Hanh were forced to abandon and their dream In 1961, as the war continued, Thich Nhat Hanh travelled at Princeton and Columbia It was a time of respite and His meditation deepened and he touched the freedom from hatred, fear and sorrow, in the heart of the He later described his insights there as "the first blossoms of awakening" When South Vietnam's oppressive Thich Nhat Hanh was called home to help guide the Buddhist Soon, he became a leading light "third force" that refused to take He and his colleagues a university, and a leading Buddhist journal, which printed fifty thousand The journal reported on the protests and published his peace poems. They were taken up by well-known and were sung in the streets. In 1965 Thich Nhat Hanh and his the School of Youth a non-partisan "peace corps" training thousands of young people to go into the war-torn countryside to rebuild shattered villages. But it was dangerous work and several students were targeted and killed. In February 1966, Thich Nhat Hanh created Today the order has over In 1966, determined Thich Nhat Hanh once again to raise his voice for peace. He was supported by many and political leaders of the day including Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. He knew that if he could persuade the tide of public opinion would change. - Somehow this madness must cease. We must stop now. This is the message of the Recently one of them &quot;Each day the war goes on, in the hearts of the Vietnamese, and in the hearts of those The Americans are forcing even In 1967, Dr. King nominated Thich Nhat Hanh &quot;His ideas for peace, if applied, would build a monument to ecumenism, to world brotherhood, to humanity.&quot; - In Paris, on Avenue Clebert, politicians have been talking Once a week, on Thursdays, diplomatic cars arrive bringing delegates to talk in which nearly a million the Vietnam war. But Thich Nhat Hanh paid a high price He was prevented from going home, beginning an exile that was to last thirty-nine years. He said: "I'm not inclined to be a politician. My vocation is as a monk. But as a monk you have to have the against social injustice, the violation of human rights." In 1974, he wrote a meditation manual to back in Vietnam, and help them resist burnout in the chaos and tragedy of war. It was the first book to awaken becoming a spiritual classic By 1978, the plight of Vietnamese refugees had become a major humanitarian crisis. In Singapore, Thich Nhat Hanh and Sister Chan Khong rented two ships and rescued hundreds from the high seas. They began looking for a place heal from the ordeals They found land in the south Plum Village, after planting over a thousand Word spread that Plum Village and receive the Zen Master's Intellectuals, artists, social workers and activists traveled there from around the world. He led retreats in and nurtured many of today's pioneering a new way of But he soon came to realise that only life-long committed practice and the trust of a student-teacher relationship would lead to lasting transformation. And so he founded a new monastic order, which would go on to become the largest Buddhist monastic and a touchstone for the that would soon sweep the world. Responding to the growing demand by the early 2000s the Zen Master had in Southern California These were followed by Mississippi, Paris and Germany. And later in Hong Kong, Thailand and Australia. He saw that in order to transform around the world, we would need to come together as in the human family and learn the art of cultivating peace. He understood the potential for to help transform the alienation and loneliness His retreats grew from to international After 39 years of exile Thich Nhat Hanh was to return to his homeland. Over the course of three visits he led thousands of and ceremonies of healing to transform the suffering of the millions who died on both sides of the war. He established Bat Nha Monastery, where his teaching became But the growth of his After four years, the government closed the monastery and forcibly disbanded the four hundred young monastics. His students found refuge in Thailand, and Thich Nhat Hanh's influence He was invited to address in Hong Kong, Korea and Taiwan. Despite making no and declining media interviews, the Zen Master's reputation - We learned a lesson taught by the Venerable Thich Nhat Hanh, who said: "In true dialogue, in this way the very war became a source He was invited to teach the Vatican, the World Bank headquarters, Google and to groups of His model for mindfulness in education is now being practiced The United Nations chose the Five Mindfulness Trainings, as the foundation for a non-sectarian In his 89th year, Thich Nhat Hanh Undaunted, his spirit undiminished he did not give up on life or his vision for the future. He chose to use the to return to Tu Hieu Temple in Vietnam and connect his global following with their roots. Thich Nhat Hanh's legacy can be seen in the hearts of the through his retreats, his books and his talks, people who have learned fear and despair.