My wildest, swing-for-the-fences theory here, is [Bowser]: Peaches Peaches... Nailed it. Fun fact: that song Peaches. Yeah. That thing is Academy Award winning songwriter King Koopa has It's a me! Film Theory. The show that definitely Super Mario Brothers movie came out and let me Kino as the kids online say? No, obviously not. pop song inserts just didn't work, and Peach's adventure were weaker than a stack of goombas. But my face the second the Gamecube jingle played platformed their way through a 2D construction during Donkey Kong's WrestleMania entrance. probably my biggest complaint about the movie. while all the other songs have their writers and from Donkey Kong 64. Real classy there But that doesn't mean that the man composer Grant Kirkhope, should be overlooked. work, and that includes the DK rap, no matter snub was obviously enough to upset Grant. So work together to change the Mario movie. If you toxic platform to do some good today. @Universalpics , asking them to change the credits include all the proper credits for the writers and the hashtag #SaveTheDKRap so we can get this if media outlets and YouTubers and streamers maybe Grant and everyone else who worked on this writing a song that so many people love. Or played this. I will fully admit my bias here. about nostalgic, like memberberry stuff, see coming and it hit hard. But beyond the animations we all know what I was really there to there was so much in this thing. a ton of ideas and we're definitely going to scour frame by frame. So super jump on that of when all those episodes come out. But we're going to be speed running our way through look at these core Mario characters forever. mysterious origins, and the twisted logic of wider meta Marioverse. So suck down a mushroom So let's kick things off with theory number one. detail that I think most people overlooked damage that Mario was taking. Through all of the Mario comes away basically unscathed. For Mario gets rocked. He's grabbed, smashed, tossed, Play-Doh. And yet his body reflects none of that out. But there's not a scrape or bruise Big deal, right? It's a Mario Movie. What do I main character bleeding or something. Except movie's final fight. During the final battle, warp pipe and launched into Brooklyn. And here we Except this time his body is showing all the his cheek. I mean, these sorts of design choices film collaborations between two companies like is Nintendo, one that's so protective of their Bowser would hold his teacup in Wreck-It Ralph. out here than anything we saw happen inside the where both Mario and Luigi probably should this idea early on in the movie, we see Bowser but instead of killing him, this act scorches Koopa from a turtle into a dry bones. seemed to act differently across the different and that for whatever reason, the mushroom kingdom contained within the bones of your body. What this as Luigi is lowered down into the pit of lava, have happened if that scene had continued would rather than immediate and permanent death. for sure, but hey, at least it's not Luigi. Death only appears to be permanent if it's notice the cavalcade of Nintendo references you did. It's impossible not to notice them. New Rockstar's Easter Egg video that breaks this movie. Some of my personal favorites, obviously but there was also the Super Mario rap from their All the construction signs of Game-and-Watch the shot of Mario versus Bowser, framed And that moment that Mario defeats Bowser by to Mario 64. But it was the non Mario game Mario has a toy R-wing model from Star Fox in his wall. The Punch-out Pizzaria is a big old which is also fitting since Mario was the also an Ice Climbers Easter Egg on one of There's the whole scene of him playing Kid lot more later. But to me, it's what isn't that's literally a Nintendo victory lap crammed telling. Did you notice the distinct lack of Kirby? Well, that tells me that Nintendo has that according to the contract, anything that committed to a production in partnership with Nintendo is lining up to continue their multimedia choice to have them remain as free agents. movie is literally a timeline of Mario games. talking to Foreman Spike about their construction all ends with Bowser's wedding, where he wears this thing is giving you a complete picture and then they put in practically every Mushrooms, stars, fire flowers. Sure, that's to be ice flowers, the frickin cat suit. That made me your first film is literally a highlight can you possibly include? Well, obviously the next one has gotta star Wario and our meme from Yoshi's Island. That one seems like a there for good measure. And after that, we're some galaxies. Where finally, I'd expect we meet And it's then in the proposed third movie of this Which then brings us to theory number three. as Mario, Peach and Toad are on their against Bowser's invasion. The trio spend Mario and Peach use the opportunity to do some audience about their backstories and motivations. know where she's from. The only thing that she It's here that we see her earliest memory arriving and then getting adopted by the toads. Mario But given the way Peach reacts to this question, I turns away, looks up at the night sky and lot of galaxies. Now if that right there isn't a don't know what is. So obviously it seems like Mario Galaxy stuff, and that stuff is going to suspect we can actually get more specific here. literally a humanoid star, one of the form. It might sound like a stretch but let's at that scene where Baby Peach arrives in details that start adding to the theory. constantly glowing. Unlike Mario who arrives but then turns entirely dark. That right there the other side of that pipe. And the most are the superstars. And wouldn't you Secondly, the skirt that baby Peach is wearing of stars and moons. A character's design likely had input from everyone up the chain of detail is something that they are 100% wanted Not only is she a capable warrior, but it also she was able to do the obstacle course that Mario time we see anyone as capable as her. Is when at the end of the movie. Also, this is a bit of We also see both baby Mario and baby Luigi in the beady eyes, basically just pupils without her eyes are fully formed. They're big and they're more to do with being consistent with the already characters that we see in the video games. the Peach isn't human pile. The babies that we the babies that might not be human but might come here, when Peach first meets Mario, she excitedly Before commenting that she thought he'd be bigger then begs the question how does Peach know a race of fungus people since she was a literal The bigger issue here, though, is that kids lose usually around the age of three, when they childhood amnesia, the natural and gradual loss In this scene, we see Peach using a pacifier, walking anywhere between ten and 18 months, as parents are willing to let their kids use in this scene is probably around the age of two. at this age, that knowledge would likely amnesia process. Instead, the knowledge of what knowledge that an intergalactic traveler might of knowledge about the different galaxies There's also a ton of evidence that we can some truly ancient Game Theories that are almost origins and parentage of the character Rosalina, Games, who is quite literally, mother to the They hold up really well. They're old, but man, we've ever done. Anyway, to quickly summarize here a storybook about a sad little girl in search explicitly stated, the story is likely about of Rosalina's mother, who looks an awful lot like We also see Rosalina's childhood castle, one Peach's Castle in most depictions, symmetrical middle. Genetically, Rosalina's eye color, hair all match with Peach. And even the author of on record to say that his original intent There's also the French translation of this signature mustache. So isn't it suspicious, further the connection between Peach and other everything in their power, but spelling out Peach the captive nihilistic Lumalee from the movie Another point towards that old theory of the connection between Peach and the stars. I to this realization of the family connection, timeline to start things all over again. Exactly And finally, that brings us to theory number As we talked about earlier, we see Mario playing the very first home console that Nintendo released yourself, so what? Famous Nintendo product about Nintendo's biggest franchise. it's actually huge. You see, if Mario's a real games don't exist. Now, some version of Donkey in this universe. We see an altered version of Punch-Out pizzeria with a yeti in place of DK and But everything that Mario as an IP has touched The existence of the Punch-Out pizzaria means that In fact, Mario's complete lack of acknowledgment Koopa Army, the Yoshi imagery, all of that Brothers or Yoshi's Island or Donkey Kong Now on the surface that might not seem like much there would be no Nintendo. See, when the NES hit of the video game crash of 1983. Consumers didn't huge surplus of poorly made garbage games like That sentiment was only able to get turned around System, marketing the thing as more of a toy could be good, actually. And the main way they platformer was a package title for the console. again when they popped in Super Mario Brothers And the numbers absolutely reflect this fact. lineup of 17 games, including the likes of Kung of ones that, you know, really set the world the creatively titled games like Golf, Pinball, And of that group, Mario stood head and shoulders games, three of them are Mario games. Super Mario sold 40 million units. It is one of time. Those Mario games at the top of the The only game in the top five to not be a Nintendo's second highest performing IP only on Kid Icarus who couldn't even crack the top trying to say here is that without the Mario public's attention, and Nintendo likely wouldn't Heck! Video gaming itself may not have existed that won back everyone's trust. At the very least, least a decade from where it is today. No Super controls with Mario 64. That then translates to like Banjo Kazooie, Spyro the Dragon and Ocarina completely omitting two of the most impactful all time and the lackluster growth of video games the Sony PlayStation and Xbox. And all of this is like the CGI tech, all the amazing lighters and the backs of gaming and all of that gaming off in this world instead of a video game character, to have been the one that spearheaded the revival fact that Mario has F-Zero posters and Star Fox no Samus calendar, it means that none of them were what we're seeing in the Mario movie is a for Nintendo's rebirth of gaming, all its vertical Oh no, we've entered into the darkest timeline. But hey! That's just a theory, Given the wild success of the Mario movie going to be seeing a lot more of these we're already apparently getting a and I shudder to think about what we're when the FNAF movie finally comes out. see what theories we come up with when those subscribe button like you're smashing Bowser in to see when all of those things go live. And as