ALEX CLARK: And what's is that it was actually solved amateur mathematician, someone mathematician. So I first encountered 163 when basic number theory. And it came up in the most me because it's the short list of numbers. Even though it seems very mysterious properties. So you may have heard about You may not remember exactly So let's just review that. If you start out with a whole it as a product of numbers So you could think of 12 as think of it as being But if you want to write it as there's only one way to do it, you write the numbers. So 2 and 3 are both So every whole number can be a product of prime numbers, up numbers are written. BRADY HARAN: Any number? ALEX CLARK: Any number. BRADY HARAN: All right. I'm going to give ALEX CLARK: No. OK. BRADY HARAN: 20. ALEX CLARK: That is going And each one of those A mathematician named Gauss was the perfect Pythagorean So what are these? These are the whole numbers satisfy this equation. And what this means these would be called these numbers are the side The most common example of a would be 3, 4, and 5. And so the natural question find specific examples. How do we find an exhaustive Pythagorean triples? And what Gauss noticed is that factorization of ordinary whole system, that we can make And so the way that he created take all of the whole numbers denoted this way. So he takes all of the whole corresponds to, and he adds i. So this consists of all of the this way, where the a and And i is the square Well, what he noticed is that expression, if he just had i in the ordinary number system. So if we take a squared plus b from school that this can't be using ordinary numbers. If it were, instead, a would be a nice way to do it. But if we allow ourselves actually write this. And what's more, the special be factorized into primes in to this new number system. Now you have to expand your because you've got So they may or may And it could be that what used primes in the new system. But what he also discovered was numbers instead, we might So for example, in this number normal numbers, except that we new number. So this one still is a number unfortunate property that factorization. So just to give you In this number system, we have written as a product But, at the same time, it can This is a problem because here it into a product of primes, and that's completely completely different primes. It's not just a matter of BRADY HARAN: So it worked for It didn't work for the square Where are we going here? ALEX CLARK: So what he observed work for all numbers, but he did which it did work. And specifically, he identified We still do have the unique choose one of the following Well, one-- these are the numbers for factorization. And then there's a big BRADY HARAN: So that ALEX CLARK: And this As you can tell, it's quite the previous one. And what Gauss conjectured was That for some reason, with this And no matter what other number no longer have unique He conjectured that this was was true, but he could never BRADY HARAN: I can see why that ALEX CLARK: The problem is to is the last number for which is exhaustive. That there are no other numbers can add in order to get unique number system. BRADY HARAN: Tough nut to ALEX CLARK: It was a very And what's interesting about actually solved by what might mathematician, someone that mathematician. So a German by the name of in the '50s. And he did actually publish accepted by the mathematical And then in the '60s, some mathematicians, a British Baker and an American by the proofs which were generally And then, after a couple mathematicians, Stark, went back analyzed it in more detail, second, he did actually It was actually OK with just BRADY HARAN: So, and what Was Gauss right? ALEX CLARK: He was right. This is the end of the list. And mysteriously, these And there are some other consequences of this that you way these are presented. So one of these is the fact that that Ramanujan had identified close to whole numbers. So among these are this And who knows how he managed But Ramanujan did observe that numbers, surprisingly close. And as a sort of joke in the mathematician, Martin Gardner, that Ramanujan's conjecture namely that this was So here we've got Here we've got the number pi. And this is taking So e is anything but It is as far from a whole number be, likewise for pi. The square root of 163 is So it would be extremely combination and somehow wound And you don't. But he was able to fool people whole number that, with the would have had available in been able to tell It's extremely close to a Makes it very difficult to But it turns out to be different so slightly much. BRADY HARAN: Is the fact that e is very close to a whole number all this stuff we've already ALEX CLARK: Yes. In fact, the fact that you get directly related to that fact, It's quite involved to see is, in fact, related to that. And I'm not even sure how it is identify these. I'm not sure that he knew about did identify those as being very Very strange. It's not something that I think ever have expected. And who knows why it was that would be true? Because one might also expect gap between 67 and 163, that very far along. And before people had would they have known? How could they possibly check? So I wouldn't have I don't know who would, other But it's a very mysterious fact, been established. BRADY HARAN: That's why a pretty cool number? ALEX CLARK: It is a BRADY HARAN: Is it like your PIN on your briefcase? ALEX CLARK: No, no, but of my favorite numbers.