Close-up on one of Kanagawa's best standing soba restaurants! Raw soba noodles are cooked on the spot. A lively kitchen. The owner skillfully handles orders! Fist-sized extra-large chicken tempura. Croquette Soba Curry, Katsudon Meat Soba The crown daisy tempura soba and kakiage soba have been popular for a long time. Kanagawa, Japan Since 1966, Soshu Soba Kannai Main Store Preparation starts at 4am. Crown Daisy Tempura A 72-year-old veteran employee who has worked for over 20 years. Inari Sushi Another employee who has been working here for over 20 years. Rice balls are made here. Maitake Mushroom Tempura (winter only) Croquette Soba, Meat Soba. The menu is as of March 24th, 2023. Zaru Soba, Pork Cutlet Curry and Rice. The menu is as of March 24th, 2023. They open at 6:10. Attractive food samples. The lunch boxes at the soba restaurant are also popular. Perfect to take to a baseball game. Standing counters surrounding the kitchen. Having a meal at an old-fashioned street soba restaurant before work. Freshly made soba is always served. Ordering a large curry and rice. Would you like seaweed soup with your curry and rice? Yes. Soba restaurant's homemade curry with pickles. Here's the curry and rice. I'll serve the seaweed soup now. The owner skillfully prepares orders. Squid and Green Onion Tempura Soba (winter only) Customers keep coming in even though it's still early. Kakiage Soba Tightening the cooked soba with cold water. Morisoba topped with each tempura. Squid and green onion tempura soba, please. Soba soup with dried mackerel. Thank you for the meal! You have to return the dishes when you're done. Thank you. Thank you. Here's the curry udon. Curry made with broth. Preparing the green onions during business hours. Here's the curry set. Morisoba with kakiage and eggs. Extra green onions. Here's your green onion soba. Do you want curry and rice too? I'm fine. Customers keep coming in. Freshly fried tempura is always replenished. Kaika Meat Soba (winter only) Sweetly stewed pork belly topped with crown daisy and eggs. Eggplant Tempura Soba Thank you for waiting. Seaweed Tanuki Soba Thank you! 7:07 They also have katsudon. Here's your mini katsudon without green onions. Big Size Chicken Tempura Kitsune Soba Counter seats by the window. Eating the soba. Staff: What time did you start working today? Well, I came here at 4am. The two of us usually do the preparations in the morning. Veteran employees who support the restaurant. The former owner's son, is keeping the flavor of the restaurant. Kakiage soba with extra green onions. Tempura and fried food sells fast. We need to keep making more tempura to keep up. Even if we're busy, we carefully make them one by one. Soba with crown daisy. Crown daisy soba? Yes. Kelp Rice Balls Here's the kelp rice balls. Raw soba noodles from their own factory. The soba is slightly thick and the noodles are firm. Crown daisy soba? Here you go. Crown daisy and egg soba, please. Can I pay with PayPay? Here's the squid, green onion and fish stick soba. Here you go. 7:43, customers are in line. Kitsune Udon It's pretty popular. Our chicken tempura is popular. A lot of customers take it to baseball games. We cut a whole piece of chicken in half. We dip it in ginger soy sauce. Meat soba/udon has plenty of pork belly and green onions cooked in sweet and spicy sauce. Meat Soba Hot Soba Water Tempura and Egg Soba Japanese pepper, chili. Large Kakiage Soba Large Kakiage Soba With extra green onions, please. Squid and green onion soba. Croquette Soba Kakiage bowl for the tempura bowl set. Here's the katsudon. Can you add dried seaweed? Here's the pork cutlet curry, with soup. Large Kake Soba Thank you for the meal! Thank you. 11:43 Mini curry set, squid and green onion soba. Katsudon Can you add dried seaweed? Here's the mini katsudon. Tempura Bowl set Morisoba and Inari Sushi Morisoba and Inari Sushi Large Meat Soba Curry Soba with Croquette and Eggs The pork cutlet lunchbox is popular and filling. Thank you for waiting. Thank you! 12:06 Morisoba with maitake mushroom tempura. Chicken tempura, katsudon. Here's the large chicken tempura soba with extra green onions. Owner: Salmon rice balls? Salmon and mentai. Here's the rice ball set. Trying the morisoba. Trying the rice balls. Hot Soba Water He finished it all. Kakiage soba with blended chili powder. Putting the tempura under the noodles. Taking a bite of the fish stick tempura. He finished it all, including the soup. Preparing the chicken tempura. Squid Tempura Udon Sure. Here's the squid tempura udon Here's the chicken tempura soba. Meat soba, please. Here's the meat soba. 13:30 The employees change shifts. Zaru soba! Welcome! Here's the zaru soba. Here's the mori udon. Fist-sized Chicken Tempura Soba The menu is as of March 24th, 2023.