Hello! Many people asked me to teach how to make Collagen with chicken feet. Crows feet are made up of connective tissue, skin, tendons, a little fat, and bone. And that's why many people already make use of this collagen. In this video I will teach you how I usually prepare it for my family's consumption. Collagen is made up of lots and lots of amino acids which are the building blocks of protein and amino acids are easily absorbed by our bodies. Here's a big secret. Consuming the amino acid that is the absorbable form of protein by our organism. Attention people who train a lot consume chicken feet collagen before training. I'm Kayoko Takeda and on this channel I talk about healthy eating, mainly fermented foods and probiotics and oriental cuisine. If you are new here sign up, activate the bell and give a thumbs up please. If you already follow my channel, thank you very much! Give it a thumbs up and share this video with your friends too. Collagen is not just for aesthetics, but for our health and well-being, aiming at healthy longevity with independence. And who doesn't want that, right? People aged 35 and over pay extra attention. This is the age when expression lines begin to appear on the face. Collagen is good for the skin, hair and nails, but it offers a ton of other benefits as well. Why should we care about collagen consumption? Collagen consumption should be 30% of the total protein consumed. And these days we are not in the habit of consuming fibrous meat with cartilage. Cartilage is made up of proteins and amino acids and they retain important minerals and vitamins which are essential nutrients needed for good joint movement to minimize arthritis and joint pain. Strengthens the immune system, favors muscle mass gain, strengthening tendons and even helping in the digestive process, helps treat rheumatism, accelerates wound healing, contributes, with beautiful skin, hair, nails, super suitable for elderly, pregnant women, children, in recovery after infectious diseases, surgeries, childbirth, people who are discouraged, more fatigued, depressed, etc. how much to consume per day on average two tablespoons even if it is beneficial do not consume too much it has a little cholesterol normally does not get fat but if you eat too much you can get fat it lasts a week to 10 days in the fridge and in the Freezer 2 to 3 months also watch the video of the bone broth which is very rich in collagen it's good to take turns so you don't get sick I'll teach you how I make my collagen with chicken feet there are ingredients 1 kg of chicken feet a large onion a carrot and a handful of celery two spoons of turmeric or saffron from the earth it has anti-inflammatory and antioxidant properties and also helps to remove the smell of chicken feet not with your feet when using turmeric use a little black pepper if you don't have turmeric it's okay a tablespoon of whole salt without additives 4 tablespoons of organic apple cider vinegar water until it covers your feet plus a cup you can consume your feet cooked with the seasoning you like and without hitting the blender in this case add less water and put the seasonings you like and cook and for about 45 minutes in the pressure cooker But it's hard to eat the piece every day so I make a smoothie for the community the tablet ready in the freezer at any time we can use it as chicken syrup in the preparation of vegetables sauces beans etc we can heat it up And serve it natural or with a little lemon or make the broth of m this or add it to a fruit smoothie or spread it on toast as a paste use your creativity if you are interested in producing your own artisanal vinegars at home join my students and join the online course workshop amazing artisanal vinegars with promotional price tap on the link in the description of this video and in the first comment let's get down to practice I'm already here with the ingredients I'm going to make it in this electric pressure cooker But you can do it in the pressure cooker on the stove normally it's like the cooking period it is long in the middle of the period you open the pan take a look at the amount of water and it has reduced you Top up the water level and continue losing more until it completes an hour and a half these electric cookers are very good because they do not consume it is an internal liquid of the people, then these feet were washed in water with lemon, it can be with vinegar, also remove it, cut the entire tip, that's the nails, I like to put the vegetables because they are not healthy the one flavor gives a freshness softens the flavor a tablespoon of salt if you have to control the salt you can use less here is the vinegar this apple cider vinegar homemade apple cider vinegar that i make is excellent this color with saffron from the earth that also it is what I crushed from the country itself and it was already crushed with a little black pepper if you use purchased turmeric that does not have black pepper then add black pepper here [Music] when we use unpeeled onion then here you have to look carefully, if you don't have it here, we can already see if there is no mold under the bark, also if you have it, you have to take the whole bark out [Music] of a liter of water and it covered it already covered it was enough to cover it but I'm going to put a little more I'm not going to go too much because here it doesn't reduce the amount of liquid in that pot in the pressure cooker that will be cooked on the stove So put this one cup of water in addition after covering the feet as a precaution also open it in the middle of the right cooking o and just turn it on, my feet are already cooked an hour and a half later, on top there's a little bit of oil here. no problem but if you are going to consume this collagen block beaten with some green juice or something like that or take it just diluted like a broth it is better that it does not have the fat like that, so much the fat of the Chicken it is not harmful fat it does not have a lot is not a little now I'm going to show here the bones of the fingers here of the Chicken it was Well cooked Well cooked really you can chew it now this bone here that has these two bones here two is not one right one bone here I prefer to take it out because because when I make the tablets in this collagen on the fingers it gets like this sandy like you feel the bone crushed I don't like that very much no this bone is very soft already breaking those that are breaking leave it but whatever it is po It's possible to take a bigger bone, I take it out because I've already extracted nutrients from it, right, because I think in the long term I'll always consume it so if I don't like this gritty here that I feel is from the bone I won't want to eat it straight, right Always So I prefer take it out so I'm going to beat it well here in the blender and then I'm going to put it here in this silicone mold here it's very good for after rubbing it, we cut it into cubes and detach it and keep it in the freezer or else you can put it in the form of ice [Music] now I take this one to the fridge in the fridge it's not in the freezer it will solidify then I'll show you again how we're going to do it later here's our chicken foot collagen let's see it's pretty hard it was in the fridge I haven't put it in the fridge yet freezer, not the ease of the silicone mold [Music] it looks like it's frozen my fridge is very cold [Music] [Music] if by chance you receive it in the amount of water it may not be so firm there you can to cut it, put it on the baking sheet again and take it to the freezer to freeze, then let's put it in here. I'm going to show you the other one I have here so it's already frozen and this one now the one now it's more aerated because it was harder today with more collagen the way we hit it but no problem no this one isn't exactly pretty right it's super now easy to use it's ready if you want to put it in the form of ice you can also so here we finish the video on how to make collagen with chicken feet I hope you enjoyed today's video let me know in the comments what you think it's very important this one was really worth watching. Whenever you have a new video, a big hug and until the next video. surgeries, childbirth, people who are discouraged, fatigued, depressed, etc. If you want your skin to stay wrinkle-free for longer but you don't have the budget for those anti-aging products that are so expensive then go for crow's feet. How much to consume per day? On average 2 tablespoons even if it's beneficial, don't consume too much, it has a little cholesterol normally doesn't get fat but if you eat too much you can get fat. It lasts a week to 10 days in the fridge and 2 to 3 months in the freezer. Also watch the bone broth video which is very rich in collagen, it's good to take turns so you don't get sick. I will teach you how I make my Collagen with chicken feet. Ingredients: 1 kg of chicken feet, a large onion, a carrot and a handful of celery stalks, one or two spoons of turmeric or saffron from the earth it has anti-inflammatory and antioxidant properties and also helps to remove the smell of the feet of the chicken, not with your feet. When using turmeric use a little black pepper. If you don't have turmeric, it's okay. One tablespoon of whole grain salt, no additives, 4 tablespoons of organic apple cider vinegar, water to cover your feet, plus one cup. You can consume the feet cooked with the seasoning you like and without hitting the blender in this case add less water and put the seasonings you like and cook for about 45 minutes in the pressure cooker. But it's hard to eat feet every day, so I make smoothies for the convenience of having the tablets ready in the freezer at all times. We can use it as chicken stock in the preparation of vegetables, sauces, beans, sauces, etc. We can heat it up and serve it natural or with a little lemon or make the miso broth or add it to a fruit smoothie or spread it on toast like a paste. Use your creativity. If you are interested in producing your own artisanal vinegars at home, join my students and join the online workshop course on incredible artisanal vinegars at a promotional price. Tap the link in the description of this video and in the first comment let's practice. I'm already here with the ingredients. I'm going to do it in this electric pressure cooker, but you can do it in the pressure cooker on the stove normally, okay? As the cooking period is long, in the middle of the period you open the pan, take a look at the amount of water and if it reduces, top up the water level and continue boiling more, until completing an hour and a half. These electric pans are very good because they don't consume our internal liquid. These feet were then washed in water with lemon, it can also be with vinegar. Take it off, cut off the entire tip, the nails... I like to add the vegetables because they give a flavor, it gives a freshness, it softens the flavor. A tablespoon of salt. If you have to control the salt, you can for less. Here is the vinegar. That apple cider vinegar. Vinegar and homemade apple that I make, it's excellent. This is turmeric or saffron from the earth that I also crushed from the root itself and it has already been crushed with a little black pepper. If you use purchased turmeric that does not have black pepper, add black pepper here. When we use unpeeled onions, then here you have to look carefully, if there isn't one here, we can already see if there is no mold under the peel, okay? If you have, you have to take the whole shell off. That pitcher holds a liter of water and he covered it. Already covered. It was enough to cover. But I'll put a little more. I won't go too far because here it doesn't reduce the amount of liquid in that pan. In the pressure cooker that will be cooked on the stove, then put that one cup of water in addition after covering the feet as a precaution, also open it in the middle of cooking right. And just call. I already have the feet cooked an hour and a half later, on top there is some oil here fat if you want to leave it, you can leave it I prefer to remove it, because to use it to prepare a bean, in the cooking of vegetables, then you can leave the oil right a lot ok, no problem, but if you are going to consume this collagen block beaten with some green juice, something like that or take it just diluted like a broth, it's better that it doesn't have the fat like that, right, so much the chicken fat it is not harmful fat Not much, not very little. Now I'm going to show you the little finger bones here on the chicken, it was well cooked, really well cooked, you can chew it. Now this bone here that has these two bones here, not two, it's one, one bone here. I prefer take out. Why? Because when I make the tablets from this collagen from the fingers, it gets gritty, like, you feel the bone is crushed, I don't like that very much. Look, this bone is very soft already breaking. Those that are breaking, let me remove the bigger bone, because I already extracted the nutrients from it, right? Because I think long term. I'll consume it all the time so if I don't like this gritty here that I feel is from the bone I won't want to eat it right? Ever. So I'd rather take you out so you see which way is better. I'm going to beat it right here in the blender and then I'm going to put it here in this silicone mold. It's very good for later, you can cut it into cubes and store it in the freezer or else you can put it in the form of ice. Now I take this one to the fridge. In the fridge it's not in the freezer, and it will solidify then I'll show you again how we're going to do it later. Here is our chicken foot collagen let's see it is very hard it was in the fridge I haven't put it in the freezer yet. And the ease of the silicone mold looks like it's frozen, my fridge is very cold. If by chance you exceed the amount of water, it may not be so firm, then you can cut it, put it in the pan again and take it to the freezer to freeze. Then we'll put it in here. This one is hard enough to put right here. When it comes to putting one bean in the beans for four people, then I put two tablets of these. It turned out really nice! I'll show the other one. I have it here so it's already frozen. And this one from now. The one now is more aerated because it was harder today with more collagen, it was aerated the way we hit it, but that's not a problem. This isn't exactly pretty, is it? It's super easy now to use it's ready. If you want to put it in the form of ice, you can also, so here we finish the video on how to make collagen with chicken feet. I hope you enjoyed today's video. Tell me in the comments what you think, your opinion is very important and if it was really worth watching, thank you and support my channel. And if you don't want to miss any of my videos, subscribe and press the bell on the side and YouTube will notify you every time there's a new video. A big hug and until the next video.