Hi everyone and welcome to another video! This time I have a Dell OptiPlex then reassemble and upgrade Once that is complete, and the I will also do some benchmarks so we The Dell OptiPlex 3020 is part of the series 4 of 2013. All of these series 4 models As you can see, it looks, at least externally, almost the same as this Opti{lex 9020 Internally there are some differences. The 3020 with a core i3, only has two DIMM slots and During the video, I will upgrade with a core i5 4570 instead. The current be upgraded to 8 gigabyte and the slow hard On the outside, the machine is pretty compact and has a nice form factor to my It has a slim DVD writer on the front, microphone and headphone connections and two USB ports. On the side you can see it has rubber so you can choose to use the case On the back we find DisplayPort, VGA, more USB 2 and USB 3 ports, Ethernet, audio and the power supply and connector. Let's open up the case now. This can be done by unscrewing two thumbscrews No latching mechanism here on this entry series. Inside we can see a similar layout as with underneath are the hard drive and memory and here we have the CPU and the power supply To start the disassembly, I'll disconnect Under that drive we can see the hard drive That cage can simply be released by then we can disconnect the drive The drive itself is kept in As I told in the beginning, I'll replace instead but before we can do that we and although this should be easy and tool-less, tight so I had more success by pushing them Now I'll go ahead and disconnect everything from and I think this must be the shortest ones I've ever seen... not something you Next up is the proprietary 10 pin power connector, front audio and internal speaker followed by front USB, front fan and power for the SATA devices which runs through the motherboard and not On the right we have the power switch and LED and front panel LEDs and in the back we have the P4 power connector. After removing the plastic fanduct, which we can also disconnect the Last one to disconnect is the CPU fan it looks like it has a non-standard Everything is disconnected so let me get The fan is fixed to the bottom of so we need to get that one out first There we go... The thermal paste, as is usually After cleaning this up I will also As mentioned in the beginning, really the fastest option but we'll As you can see here, I have an i5 the i3 4130. This should give us Both of these are fourth generation The i3 has only two cores where the i5 has 4 available and double the amount As the i3 has a slightly higher base performance won't be that much better but multi-core performance will I guess we'll see that in the benchmarks. Back to the disassembly and the last components we can remove from the main We have a 2 gigabyte Kingston module and a 4 gigabyte module which Everything is out and disconnected so we can Don't forget about that last screw: the large one that holds the drive cage Once that one is out as well, we can Before we will take a better let's check out which power supply we have here. Looks like this one can deliver up to 255 Watts factor machine. Upgrading the CPU and even Back to the motherboard now, two memory DIMM slots for two channels, 10 pin power input, P4 power input, power output for SATA and the two SATA ports, CMOS battery and password reset jumper, power switch, front panel LEDs, CPU fan, optional serial port and PS/2, intrusion detection switch, front audio, internal speaker, front USB and a PCI x16 and x1 slot. Here we have everything laid We can see the motherboard, DVD drive, CPU fan, drive cage, CPU fanduct, old hard drive and SSD replacement, old CPU and the upgrade, original 2 gigabyte and 4 gigabyte and a 4 A bit of thermal paste and Time to put things back in place, starting with We just need to be careful with the orientation and then can drop in the CPU in Before putting the board back in the two times four gigabyte now. Then we're good to put the board back First that standoff screw followed by the rest of the regular screws. Next that goes in, is the CPU fan. Before we do that: a bit of fresh thermal paste Do pay attention here for the connector. As in my case it just didn't So I had to remove the CPU fan again, turn it 90 degrees and then I could There we go. Now time for my least favorite part and that I'm glad that is out of the way and now I can put back the plastic First I'll put the SSD into the blue bracket and again here it feels like I need to put but it works... That blue bracket slides into the metal cage put it back, we first need to connect the Then we can put the drive There isn't a lot of space here running to the motherboard are While the drive is not fully in place There we go. Everything is back in place and we can The last component that goes We just need to slide it back to where it belongs and here as well: connect power and SATA All done on and we can close up the case and of course see if everything works as expected. I've connected the machine to a monitor We have a message that no but that is totally expected Let's take a quick look in the BIOS setup first. Here we can see the upgraded memory, We can see the new I5 4570 CPU and also both the SSD and DVD writer. Let's quickly get Windows 11 on I'll just run through this very quickly as In case you're interested in installing like this Dell Optiplex 3020, I'll put a Now that Windows is installed, I'll also install all updates that are And here we are... a few reboots later, Let's start by having a look at &quot;About your PC&quot; to setup earlier. As expected we can see the new Time for some benchmarks and which also sees the same hardware obviously. There we have it: 813 single I did run the test as well with the original So indeed, due to the higher single core performance is slightly better but What I'm a bit surprised about is the tested HP Prodesk 400 G1 as it has the same I would have expected this to perform similarly. Up to Geekbench 6 now, where I Here we get similar results if we compare but strangely enough the difference with and this time the Dell is performing better. I'm not sure why we get these numbers is a success and performance Last test that I will run is for disk performance. I'll do this with AJA System Test. 420 megabytes per second write and That's just pretty fine. So even though the hard disk got one of the cheapest actually, That's all I had for this video, improved its performance by a lot and made it be a high performance machine, it never was, The nice and compact form factor and near silent Thank you for watching, if you have liked if you're interested into more of the same, Thanks again and hope to see you back here soon!