You have no responsibility to live up to what I have no responsibility to be like they expect It's their mistake, not my failing. It's generally a good idea to care about as they could contain some worthwhile insight. But focusing on them too much to the point what people might think can leave us in agony. It's not only potentially harmful but also This video explains why based on several concepts (1) You're giving away your power. The moment we let our joy depend on the validation our emotional states. With this attitude, it feels exhilarating But when they don't, we become sad and angry. Especially now, in the age of social media, focal point in life. Positive attention, then, becomes a requirement whims of those we try to impress. It can even become an addiction. Many of the people that we try to impress Moreover, many of them have ever-changing downright ignorant. So why would we waste our time trying to make Chances are, we don't even like them? Stoic philosopher Seneca said about this, How mad is he who leaves the lecture-room applause from the ignorant! Why do you take pleasure in being praised (2) It's beyond your control. The problem with worry is that our minds try People's opinions are ultimately not up stop them from disliking us. Now, this doesn't mean that we cannot influence As a variation to the dichotomy of control and author William B. Irvine proposed the The dichotomy of control as presented by Epictetus are within our control and things that aren't. The trichotomy of control, however, offers Things over which we have complete control. Things over which we have no control at all. And things over which we have some but not Opinions of other people fall into the second In some cases, there's nothing we can do For example, we cannot change what someone our parents' disapproval of us when they're But we can influence people in the present But even though our behavior could be incredibly to us. Therefore, worrying about what's happening better off focusing on our own actions. (3) It's a reflection of them - not you. Often, how people react to us directly reflects When we incur hostility, indifference, or to our very presence, it may not always be Moreover, these people could be expressing it. Swiss psychiatrist Carl Jung called this phenomenon Jung believed that people tend to repress parts of the mind, which form, what he called, A consequence is that we unconsciously recognize As we dislike in others what we dislike in Psychology Today describes projection as follows, Unconscious discomfort can lead people to to someone else to avoid confronting them. Projection allows the difficult trait to be it in themselves. End quote. Jung stated that projections change the world We all see the world through a unique lens, in how we relate to our environment. Knowing this, we can put the opinions of other (4) You're not the center of the universe. When we try to imagine the vastness of the of ourselves. We may experience ourselves as the center our eyes, but most would agree that we are But, of course, we never know. Solipsism is the idea that only one's mind the external world (including the minds of To this day, one cannot experience the existence If your mind is indeed the only mind in existence, illusions. Thus, nothing to make a fuss about, as they But even though solipsism could be the reality, do exist. If the latter is the case, then other people's But if all people have minds comparable to as we are, then they're probably not thinking Moreover, most people are so busy concerning that they don't have time to take a good In the grand scheme of things, opinions are are quickly forgotten, along with all the As Marcus Aurelius stated: "So many who who remembered them long gone." (5) It destroys authenticity. Care too much about what others think, and the rest of the flock. If you do as other people want you to do, and ideals. German philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche despised He makes a distinction between the Herren- morality. Those at the top are the strong-willed who The many at the bottom, the herd, follow but But instead of rising to the top, those with level, namely, among the other obedient, mediocre, Once part of the mass, they expect you to If you stand out, the herd sees you as evil. If you act in conflict with conventions, you usually fear what's strange and unknown. Within the pack, conformity is a virtue, and Nietzsche urges his readers to be neither altogether and become an authentic, self-actualized One can only accomplish greatness if one ignores virtues and unapologetically forges one's (6) Life is too short. A survey of 2,000 British adults called the people in Britain spend about 6,5 years of Many of these worries concern, directly or An example. On a daily basis, 28% percent of Brits worry to wear, and 17% about body odor. The average life expectancy of the British they spend 8 percent of their lives worrying. If they'd simply stop worrying about other years to enjoy life or to do something useful. But still, even though 81 years seems quite to humanity as a whole, let alone planet Earth. Moreover, many die young, as human life is of an eye--what a waste of energy to spend what other people think. So, the fickleness and shortness of life can habit. As Seneca wrote: You live as if you were destined to live forever, head, of how much time has already gone by You squander time as if you drew from a full that day which you bestow on some person or You have all the fears of mortals and all (7) You know yourself best. Even though other people can give you valuable the person most knowledgeable about you is No matter how close we get to each other, don't fully resemble what we show to the Carl Jung's model of the psyche differentiates the shadow, and the animus or anima. Of these aspects, the persona is what we show the self. Or, as Jung put it: "a kind of mask, designed upon others, and on the other to conceal the End quote. Some people can be pretty intuitive and see they can notice behaviors about us that we But they can never be sure about our true because these are reserved for ourselves only. So, people's thoughts about us based on reality. Therefore, the feedback we get from others within ourselves. Deep inside, we know what we want, and the we become, and the less we conform to what Thank you for watching.