Since the dawn of humanity around 100 billion How many will live in the future of our species? We might hope for a trillion times that if But a simple statistical argument tells us In some recent episodes we've explored the used to explain the fact that both our planet allow the development of life. Our planet and/or universe can be rare and planets and/or universes to stack the odds We touched on both the potential power and Today we're going to push our luck, and to predict the physics of our universe, and human race. To use the anthropic principle properly we We talked about weaving in the Copernican equal, we should expect to be in a pretty This is seemingly the opposite notion to the But together we get something we can use: of potentially-rare observer-supporting environments, the most typical or likely type of environment In 1987, physicist Steven Weinberg used this value of the cosmological constant. As a quick refresher: the cosmological constant the stuff causing the expansion of the universe A number of theories in physics from string cosmological constant could take on different could be extremely high compared to this universe to the crudest predictions of quantum field Getting a low cosmological constant is extremely But it's a good thing ours IS low because up too quickly for stars and life to ever This is a good candidate for the anthropic the lucky universes with a low cosmological But if that's true, then we should be in Under the assumption that lower cosmological Steven Weinberg reasoned that our universe that would allow galaxies to form - and hence He got a value that was a factor of 10 higher when dark energy was discovered. However before that discovery even happened, He had assumed that we should be in the most He realized that we should instead assume He refined his estimate of the cosmological across the multiverse would observe, with astronomers in a universe is proportional galaxies in that universe. Weinberg calculated that the density of dark energy of matter. That was in the early to mid 90s, right before to be around three times that of matter. So, off by a factor of 2 - which considering could potentially have spanned many, many Weinberg's refinement of the anthropic principle is essentially using the Self-Sampling Assumption, "All other things equal, an observer should the set of all actually existent observers If a type of environment or type of universe likely to find themselves in that type. This sort of reasoning seems useful - it enabled So, let's push our luck and see how far we can Allow me to introduce you to the Doomsday after Brandon Carter who came up with it. And that's the same guy who brought to popular principle to start with. To start, let's try a thought experiment. Imagine you have two boxes. Each contains a number of balls which are balls are in the box. One box contains 10 balls labeled 1-10 and You don't know which box is which, but you the first ball that you touch. The boxes are set up so you can't tell the So you look at your chosen ball at it's Which box did you choose? The one with 10 or the one with 1000 balls? Well, probably you drew from the 10-ball box, right? After all, there was a 1-in-10 chance of getting from the 1000-ball box. OK, let's try another one. Let's say there are two possibilities for to spread throughout the Milky Way and forge of years across a million star system, and trillion individual lives - 10^20. In the second scenario, humanity never leaves about the same number of people that have or 10^11. We'll call these the doom-late and doom-soon Let's apply the self-sampling assumption of the past and future humans of our species. We can imagine that the two scenarios are 10^20 lives and doom-soon contains 10^11. Think of yourself as the numbered ball pulled on you is your birth rank, which for you is So which is more likely - that your birth of the species lifespan? Or that you in the first 100 billion out of 0.000001%? The same logic that led you to favor the 10-ball favour the doom-soon box here also. That's the scenario in which humanity only past. This is the doomsday argument. In it, our mere observation of our existence the way through our species existence. In fact we can use statistics to estimate amount of time. Estimates vary, but a simple doomsday calculation next couple of centuries. If all of this sounds fishy, you're not There are many proposed refutations of the - but it's worth covering some that get in particular through the self-sampling assumption Choosing your reference class depends on the In Steven Weinberg's case the question was typical astronomer likely to observe - so any observer capable of measuring the cosmological In the doomsday argument, the assumption is and future humans. But is that the right reference class? For example, if you define our reference class chain, then we could still be in the middle ahead of us. Then it all depends on whether you count all animals, or things with a prefrontal cortex. It also depends on whether we count all of I for one welcome the doomsday if it means some sort of cybernetic, gene-spliced ultra-human. In general, it's the fuzziness of this notion far less mathematically precise - far more from boxes. Another issue is that the doomsday argument scenarios - doom-early and doom-late are both thought plucked from one - in the same way the two But presumably only one is true and you weren't you are - a being with a mental experience into a civilization that may or may not end Speaking of which, what about this idea that Or, rather, all that you know is that you're mental experience? This is the definition invoked in the simulation We've covered both of these, but in short, that your current self exists besides evolving For example, you could be one of countless experiment to recreate the past - an ancestor Or you could be a momentary entropy fluctuation mental experience and memories to pop into one is a a Boltzann brain. As you can see, anthropic reasoning can lead the cosmological constant, it can lead to doomsday argument, and it can lead to some Let's try our own little exercise in anthropic Here's a challenge question for you: Your Assuming the doomsday argument are valid, until the year 3000? Assuming the current rate of population increase every hundred years over that period Email the subject line Doomsday Challenge within We'll filter by subject name so check your spelling. Best answers get a pick from the Space Time Whether or not doom is coming soon or late, argument: the chances of us being in the final tiny. Which means you'll be around for next week's Our Patreon contributors make a huge difference expanding Space Time until doomsday - whether And today I wanted to give a huge shoutout Bang contibutors. John, you are in a reference class of your As a special thanks we pulled a few strings . If anyone wishes to join John S in reference a big help. And any level - even $2 - also gets you access at this very moment brilliant and curious the nature of space and time, the weirdness And don't forget with the holidays coming OK, so our last episode was a journal club that the universe is not infinite after all. Let's start with a question from the discord: to measure the curvature of space to get an Well, the answer is maybe: if the universe is closed that curvature absolutely will give us the If it turns out to the universe is negatively curved then On the other hand, if we keep finding geometric it's finite or infinite because it may be curvature just beyond the sensitivity of our Daniel M. and Sam Harper ask whether a universe In a universe like ours where matter and energy the curvature does A flat or hyperbolic universe remains flat infinite, while a positively curved universe That said, patchs of the universe CAN change matter in those patches. The most obvious example is that regular gravitational curved patches in a flat or hyperbolic universe. That means it's also possible to produce a within an infinite inflating multiverse. One commenter, O.N., pointed out that an infinite bubble that otherwise looks finite from the Well, that's something I need to dig into deeper in a deeply, abstractly theoretical sort of Rei Spring points out that there are flat closed - for example the 3-torus embedded which is like a donut, but with more dimensions. Now the non-brain-breaking analogy is a 2-torus where opposite walls connect These are basically flat mappings of a donut. And there are weirder, multiply connected finite space times that are also flat. Now while these are valid geometries for spacetimes general relativity, it's not clear how such a universe as a bubble out of eternal inflation might Ni999 dropped some wisdom from Ethan Seigel, paper emphasized a point that we mentioned that is that the baryon acoustic oscillation signatures seen in galaxy clusters are an independent measure of curvature, and these point to a much flatter universe than In short, there's still significantly more Last time in an attempt to be &quot;funny&quot; I dissed Shaun Humphreys kindly took the time to pen is really optimal for humans. I stand thoroughly corrected, Shaun. Coming from Australia, where it swings between I do envy the consistency of your 17 different Also, thank you for Douglas Adams - and thank god most people got the hitchhikers reference in that last episode - you really are the hoopiest froods on the