As intriguing as space is, you don't have and beautiful celestial object out there, an oxygen rich atmosphere, and a comparatively unique characteristic, it is the only place it being the place we call home. And yet, much we have still to learn about our own the vastness of space so special, and what I'm Alex McColgan, and you're watching everything you could want to know about Earth. to this planet. You may have heard people I think that is a bit disingenuous, designed Earth, although it is true that the Earth at the equator than at the poles, but only of the planet, causing the planet to bulge from the Earth's centre of mass is not the volcano in Ecuador. On average, the Earth Earth has long been the talk of ancient scientists, us in the universe we live in. Does the universe Sun? And - dare I say it on Youtube - is of a round Earth had been bandied around by it wasn't until Eratosthenes around 240 estimated. The method he used was quite ingenious, Syene, a city in southern Eygpt, the Sun was in northern Egypt, the Sun still cast a shadow. to work out the circumference of the Earth brought about the heliocentric model, where Copernicus, mathematical predictions by Johannes that the Sun is the centre of the solar system, Today, building on the legacy of these and we are the third planet from the Sun, and Earth orbits on average 150,000,000 km from and 152,000,000 km when its furthest away. It takes one year to orbit... rather unsurprisingly. But what is interesting is that our method may think. For instance, Earth actually takes why every four years we have a leap year to A month is meant to match up with an orbit and moon being closely connected. But the once, and our calendars do not reflect that! exact, our days aren't exactly 24 hours words Earth's rotation of 360deg relative and 56 mins. So where do those 4 minutes go actually use a sidereal day to measure our the point where the Sun goes full circle in our sky, and reaches the same place as the previous day. How is this different from a sidereal day? Well, we use and as it orbits, it moves slightly forward angles relative to the Sun. It needs those overhead again each day, which is what gives even more complicated than that if you really slightly elliptical orbit and axial tilt, throughout the year. In order to counterbalance all these variations throughout the year together. the moon slowing down Earth's rotation, 2 milliseconds per century. This doesn't years ago, models show that days were under a year! With all this combined, keeping time have thought! observed from the ground through time lapses across our view, the exact axis of rotation the stars seemingly circle around. The orbit of the Earth means that throughout the year, day will be different. This can be seen in throughout a year. As you can see, the Sun the course of a year. The north to south movement orbits, something you've no doubt noticed higher in the sky in summer than in winter. orbital eccentricity of Earth combined with is very basically what we talked about with day and a mean solar day. This graphical representation of time, the axial tilt of Earth and its orbital Although we haven't actually done this on other worlds yet, if you were to make analemma would look different. Here is a simulation Again, the differences are due to the differences The Earth's rotational axis is roughly 23.5deg tilt is what gives Earth such varied seasons. between seasons are not mainly due to the that hemisphere's summer, but rather it point. Being an extra few thousand kilometres role when the distance between the Earth and find that the Earth's perihelion, or the would make massive difference, because at closer to the Sun than at the aphelion, or still think it does make a big difference, reached perihelion? It was actually only the difference to the temperature between seasons summer, with the Sun overhead, a point will of sunlight. During winter, with the sun low out over a much larger surface area. Also, sunlight to reach the surface compared to As sunlight hits the ground or ocean, heat a reasonably dense and compact atmosphere, to places like Venus and Titan. It consists argon, with trace amounts of other gases like in the atmosphere, but it can vary wildly 1%. It's this water vapour that makes clouds a special layer in the atmosphere called the harmful ultraviolet radiation from the Sun, Earth would be a dangerous place to go outside serves life in many different functions, it causes small meteors to burn up before striking around the globe. Without the atmosphere retaining be a far chillier -18degc on average compared The atmosphere also drives one of the most As the Sun warms the Earth and its oceans, gases near the surface, causing them to rise. vapour, which rise, cool and condense on dust water droplets can travel considerable distances The water is then transported back to the cycle. Not only does the water erode the surface, the surface, from plants, to bacteria, to Another hugely important system on Earth that hydrosphere, predominantly its oceans. The on the oceans of Earth. The oceans on Earth mass. To give you a sense of the scale of was completely smooth, the entire planet would for us, that is not the case, and the Earth's part to quite a unique feature of Earth, its You see, Earth has a comparatively thin crust, We sometimes see the effects of this mantle crust bump, scrape and pull apart from one and trenches. Using an exaggerated 3D map mountain ranges and deep trenches that have of this, you may think that plate tectonics to individuals in the wrong place at the wrong surface keeps the Earth fertile and fresh. consisting of what is thought to be metals in the Solar System at 5.5g/cm3, and this compared to other planets, the outer core inner core is thought to be solid, but also 6,000degc in temperature. of Earth originates. As the core moves, it generating a massive magnetic field around around a giant dipole magnet. This magnetic diverts solar winds - or highly energised and also to its poles, causing beautiful aurora. is green due to the solar wind's interaction There's one more very unique aspect about and that is its Moon, also known as Luna. has the largest moon relative to the size sight in the sky on a clear night, a huge out details on its surface with our naked to us has a very real effect on our planet its own gravity, which pulls at the water rotates. This bulge even exists in the Earth's However, these tidal forces could be the reason Having done all the research for this video, factors had to be right for life to have formed all these factors aligning, we are now part 8 billion people, a species with the intelligence our place in this universe of ours. It also Thanks to space exploration, we get a view of only 100 years ago. Will anything else as this our home planet? I'd be interested else you got from this video in the comments! Solar System's Planets" series. for you and you'd like to try learning something daily problems? Here's one I liked, how do Each problem provides you with the context so that you learn the concepts by applying there's more like it in the quiz on the in great detail and develop your framework. then join the community in discussing these challenges will lead you from curiosity to waiting for? Go to Brilliant.org/astrum and 200 of you to do so will get 20% off the annual in the archives too! video enough to consider subscribing so you If you want to go a step further and help like these in the future, please like and have Patreon you can donate to here. All the