Sperm Whale, thinking my head It's high time mankind I live in a world that my ancestor had conquered long before man and staked their claim My odyssey begins where creatures survive including the largest For millions of years, the freezing waters Man never ventured this far, but that wasn't to last. What corner of the planet has man including the Roaring Forties, in the southern For so long, thousands of feet underwater, Who better to explore I dive deeper 10,000 feet or more, No light penetrates The only light in the dark zone like this comb jellyfish, for instance. For my story and the cameras, the deep ocean to cast light Life down here subsists Temperature is stable and pressure is simply unbelievable. At 3,000 feet, it is 100 times Darkness prevents photosynthesis, Among them is the dumbo octopus. I mustn't let dumbo It begins more than 200 years ago before these islands between the Antarctic In spite of their no trees grow here, even though My grandfather, settled around this archipelago because only they, could stand the waters, No wonder As for grandad, because their shores were patrolled With its six-foot-high dorsal fin, led by a female, the matriarch. One can tell the females and young The matriarch polices the coast which creates She gets the full picture as sound travels than it does through the air. The killer whales are on the lookout and there's plenty of it. A happy band of 2 million king penguins. That's a lot of mouths to feed, especially hungry chicks to chance the waters for food. The matriarch knows only too well Males too know the ropes, but king penguins have a memory of sorts, a memory that Underwater, penguins emit for the killer whales So, the matriarch bides Killer whales are not it's the way they eat that's so awesome. Pressing the animal they squeeze the meat, fat The older female will pass who, in time, Keeping a healthy distance who was doing well but one day, totally out of the blue, those who would finally They came from places granddad never knew. Nothing would ever be the same again. Remember, I'm talking, of course, about men, In 1772, stories began of a French Captain, Marion du Fresne. He was sailing in search when he crossed waters At 46 degrees south, Du Fresne took possession and called them but France was a world away The American whalers, Lead the way. Steady now. Steady, I say. Pull her in, boys. Pull. Stop it there, boys. Guess who they were after? The great whales, like my ancestors. Boys pull. Pull together. Our powerful forward blows and gave us away. The south seaman knew our weaknesses. The ten minutes we need to That's what you've come for, boys. Keep going. They came from behind into our first dorsal bump. He's going, sir. He'll be back. Steady lads. Now, give it to him. He won't reach the depth Keep your course. When my grandfather felt threatened, he'd call other males They're the most powerful and can be heard over seven miles away. His mates responded in kind, a group of Shut your mouth and pull. I don't know if I can, sir. Their instinct was to stay close Discovered. The whalers wanted the group to break up. They were as patient as Job. On this fateful day for my ancestors, When an adult male perceives a threat a second instinct drives him head The larger member has just such competition and broke away. It was my grandfather. As long as the whales stayed close, the men Then they plunged, all except grandad. What's happening, sir? Don't worry lad, Where's he gone, sir? Sly devil, he's eyeing us all right. Steady, lads. Nice and easy. Right, let him have it. Some of my ancestors and their fat boiled down for oil They nicknamed because each one of them To avoid risky landing, south seaman They boiled the whales directly on board. The slaughter ended There were simply The Crozet gang was all but wiped out. Nearly 100 years later, whaling was officially banned and France was granted In particular, that was visited He knew all about All dead matter This is what remains of granddad. When the whalers had finished with him, to be picked over by scavengers. This cemetery is full of them. Take the crinoids or the sea lilies. They filter and feed off organic Here's the aptly named tripod fish and the Antarctic toadfish. It can engulf prey larger than it is. The penny Ogoni sea cucumber to avoid predators Millions of these crabs confident their armory ones with fins and jaws. Most common of all with its uncommonly The drum simply helps them In the shallow abyss around 1,500 feet, schools of alvin but the rattail is no match on the Crozet shelf. It's all eyes and teeth for killing. It weighs up to Patagonian toothfish, killers in ambush. Toothfish share the alvin with squid. That's if the toothfish Their secret weapon, the largest neurons to power lightning reflexes. My father, like all Sperm Whales, but he doesn't rely but on his own sonar. Now, let me explain why Fact one, the oil helps amplify Those sounds we send out Fact two, we have and they create images If we raise the frequency, we can hone in But what's this? The comb jellyfish certainly My father never heard at the end of his long life. It's coming from the surface. Men with their toys again. Thankfully, they are not whalers, but French oceanographers, My father carries a similar map He must, to move on to find a mate in the tropics. The ban on whaling in to reproduce and regroup. Unsuspectingly, in the Mozambique Channel. This is where my mother lives, You can tell they're a mere 30 feet long. Old bulls In addition to their super-sized brain, they are the largest toothed predator but enough boasting. This was only a nursery, While my mother hunted, another female They taught me the codas so we know who's talking. As I grew up, I met males from other and one day we headed, like my ancestors, the Crozet Islands. Today, the waters around from what my father, Such unnatural sounds, but including ourselves and dumbo. It's like a dinner bell. What are these lines with nasty hooks? Twenty thousand of them? My ears see everything. The anchors drag mile upon mile of All eyes are on what Holy baits, slices of oily mackerel, but the Abralia squid knows and makes itself scarce Dragged down the lines finally lay on the bottom. The restaurant is open for several hours. The menu entices none In fact, none of the squids at all. Like this Antarctic flying squid. They prefer their meals At night, they go to the surface in as long as it's the right size. Far too large and dangerous Squids are always welcomed White-chinned petrel, but who or what Inside these floating factories, Finally, fishermen equipped with radar transmission. Their ruckus won't go unnoticed. Others will hone Our old enemy killer whales, Today, Unlike my family, So they've developed a specific dialect The matriarch's language is so precise. She's able to alert Her cries but what exactly is her message? That she's found some toys? Such mammals used to feasting but the longliners changed all that. They attract one of the least in the southern polar seas. Hourglass dolphins. They're the only dolphins Anything serves as a pretext including me. Now, thanks to the confronting fishermen, We are after them. Perhaps we first keep a healthy distance Oh but why oh why Have they lost their taste for penguins? Can't they see we are four times There must be another reason. The toys? Or do the killer whales know, The matriarch They hauled the toys out before the lines, They've got the answer. But it's all for nothing, I could have told them. To avoid killer whales, I can but I'm happy to stay around 1,000 feet, It really is a bad day for this longliner, Same shape, different color. The fishermen hate us, whom they blame most for trying The white boat even if it means These desolate islands by the westerlies with winds At such speed, clouds hug the earth, and waterfalls reach for the sky. In this extreme environment, Even land is no barrier They whip up The winds are oily-sweet. They carry the scent of fish. I'm drawn in the same direction, beating below the storm, far out to sea. Another floating restaurant. When the longliners and their it's first come, first served. The matriarch Curiously, the males wait patiently on The interval is enough and the most prized catch The white boat devours I'm in no hurry. I'm alone this time and vulnerable. Killer whales could easily attack me. They'll certainly be The matriarch leads a blockade against me. I know their game. It's called intimidation. I have tried to stay close to the boat. That way, They chase me off. The matriarch shadows me Ha, very clever. A killer flank The pod tries with underwater I'm determined to hold my own. I'm completely surrounded. I follow my granddad's but my clan must be beyond Alone like this, What's more, a male sneaks They even know My only defense They're too quick and noisy for me. I have one last card to play. I've got to make room for myself. Made it, the deep beckons. That's what they wanted. They got it. Good luck to them up there. Oh, I hear their victory songs, all right. No way I'm going to risk my life when the abyss provides all I need. Over a ton of food every day. Still, I put up a good fight, for distracting the killer whales. They return to their routine. Males on the surface, The females are very picky. They only take the oily Here's a male's just desert. He isn't the only opportunist around. Others fly in for the occasion. White-chinned petrels and dive down to 30 feet for a catch. Giant albatrosses wouldn't but the longliners Neither killer whales nor albatrosses could ever hope otherwise but now have adapted The fishing boats for scavengers and long, may it last. Fewer longliners are now to protect the overfished toothfish. So our adventure As for me, who says I don't It's a secret I'll keep I have three last little secrets. First, as a senior which excludes killer whales, I can say the natural Fewer toothfish to age quietly and grow incredibly. Take this one The giant clams That gives some idea of the squid's size, tentacles three feet long, I clearly lack for nothing Now, for my ultimate confession. It's buried deep The secret is inside my head. It's how I sometimes When the south they discovered one of the fiercest There were no tooth marks on its body. The truth is that we, to focus high-frequency The first whalers got my name wrong, Let's keep it that way.