The letter "c": it's not just a certain It also represents one of the most c is often called the speed of light, It's more like a speed limit for light. Because in a pure vacuum, or roughly 300 million meters per second. But if it's traveling through it interacts with all those Except it also...doesn't. From the light's perspective, Which is super weird. But do you know what's even weirder? You. You are also traveling at c right now. And no matter what you do, you cannot And...how is that possible? Well, that's Relativity for you. And it all comes down to the fact that We're moving through spacetime. [ INTRO] How fast do you think you're going right now? Nope, you're wrong. No matter what your answer Relatively wrong, at least. The problem is that your answer depends on the specific frame of reference from For example, right now you might be sitting on So from your perspective, But from the perspective of a sunbather pretty quickly because the Earth is If you were in our studio bathroom in Montana, you'd be going 318 meters per second! Meanwhile, an alien neighbor might be watching our solar system And if they could measure your velocity, their result would reflect the fact that, But also, it would include the Earth moving our solar system hurtling at 230,000 meters per second, plus the So who's right? You, the lunar sunbather, or the Andromedan? Or some secret fourth answer? Well, one of the most is that none of these reference They're all equally valid, and our in every single one of them. So how do we reconcile the observation that but some alien out there would see me This was one of the most headache-inducing And it took a tremendous amount of work, and no small amount of academic Albert Einstein gets a lot of credit for but there were many scientists before Einstein published his seminal 1905 paper. We can see the origins of the Principle of on moving reference frames. But things really hit the Basically, physicists were unpacking how stuff like electrons and And it seemed like the laws of physics did or whatever was moving relative to the that was the emptiness of space. But thankfully, a Dutchman named Hendrik be locally preserved by introducing And in 1900, the mathematician Henri Poincare published a set of "Lorentz between two different local These equations seemed to mathematically But they led to a somewhat freaky side effect that every science fiction fan Basically, if you're standing still and observing which would put you in the rest frame you and that moving object wouldn't More specifically, the object's clock would And the faster it was moving the greater that time dilation effect would be. For our puny human minds, But these Lorentz transformations They could describe how that matched observations, even if Einstein, however, was unsatisfied so he completely discarded the idea of an Instead, he placed himself in the And from this beam's point It was traveling through a For Einstein, it didn't matter It only mattered that it was constant, and stayed constant no matter which Everyone...from the person sitting on to the beam of light itself...would always And based on this assumption, Einstein including the time dilation side effect. His 1905 paper--which, by the way, did not cite any other published papers finally united our physical intuition with the strange mathematical conclusions Then in 1908, Hermann Minkowski by introducing his idea of a unified spacetime. Instead of time being a separate dimension spacetime lumps them all together. Or to put it in Minkowski's own words, "Henceforth space by itself, and time into mere shadows, and only a union of the Which is a totally metal quote and proves we But anyways, Einstein wasn't quite satisfied yet, and went on to publish his work General relativity incorporated Minkowski's with the important distinction that gravity which in turn dictates the Thanks to Brilliant for Brilliant is an online learning platform with thousands of lessons in And with Brilliant, you're with lessons made in partnership with But you don't have to sit through Instead, you can learn something new You also don't have to apply or prove They offer lessons for the total You can give Brilliant a try for free for the QR code, or the link in the description. That link also gives you 20% off an So after all that, we finally had both and the equations to translate Which allows us to get back how fast are you going right now? Just like Einstein, we must shed our to enter Minkowski's 4D spacetime. To measure a distance in 3D, let's ds squared equals dx squared dx, dy, and dz are the difference in Minkowski's proposal introduces an equally important axis of motion. So to solve for a four-dimensional But there's a catch! First, you'll notice that the units of Meters are not equivalent to seconds. So the dt term usually gets also known as a velocity. Also known as c. And to preserve the rules of physics, such as the speed of light being dt squared also needs to have the opposite But I'm definitely giving some of you out there Physicists refer to ds as the invariant interval, because it's always the same no In other words, if two observers they may disagree on how much it moves through But if they plug in their values for they will always agree on ds squared. In the laws of relativity, the And now, we can finally show how everything including you...is always traveling at Let's take a look at your invariant interval. From your point of view, you're sitting still. It's the world that's moving around you. So all these terms are reduced to zero. Meanwhile, you still You're moving through spacetime, And how fast are you moving through spacetime? Well, it's written right there! c! But what about that outside observer who sees you traveling through space with a non-zero velocity? Doesn't that change the calculation?? Can relativity explain that? Well, think back to the invariant interval. That has to be the same for both of you. So if they measure a larger amount how can ds stay the same? That's right. The amount of time they measure has to be lower. It's our good old friend time dilation. And that's that. The invariant interval must be the And because you can always define a your speed through four-dimensional You can swap this example for any proving that everything in the whole And if someone ever measures you traveling well it just means they're probably only Those silly billies. It is difficult to stop thinking And in our defense, we have done for If not longer. But we need to think beyond that if and awesome reality is: we are traveling alongside the rest of the Universe Which is probably much faster than you expected. And in light of all this, maybe we should [ OUTRO]