There is some medical news is prepared to hear. I certainly wasn't. It was three years ago with the test results of a recent scan. I was 35 and finally living I married my high school sweetheart and had finally gotten pregnant And then suddenly we had a Zach, a perfect one-year-old boy/dinosaur, depending on his mood. And having a Zach suited me perfectly. I had gotten the first job land of a thousand crushed dreams. And there I was, working at my dream job with my little baby and the man I had imported from Canada. (Laughter) But a few months before, and had gone to every expert No one could tell me. And then, out of the blue, some physician's assistant to tell me that I had stage IV cancer, and that I was going to need And all I could think of to say was, &quot;But I have a son. I can't end. This world can't end. It has just begun.&quot; And then I called my husband, and I said all the true things I said, &quot;I have loved you forever, I have loved you forever. I am so sorry. Please take care of our son.&quot; And then as I began it crossed my mind for the first time, &quot;Oh. How ironic.&quot; I had just written (Laughter) I am a historian and an expert in the idea I research a form of Christianity for its very bold promise I never considered myself I was simply an observer. The prosperity gospel believes if you have the right kind of faith. If you're good and faithful, God will give you health and wealth and boundless happiness. Life is like a boomerang: if you're good, good things will always come back to you. Think positively. Speak positively. Nothing is impossible if you believe. I got interested in this when I was 18 or so, and by 25 I was traveling the country I spent a decade talking to televangelists with spiritual guarantees I interviewed countless megachurch pastors about how they live their best lives now. I visited with people and plush offices. I held hands with people in wheelchairs, praying to be cured. I earned my reputation for always insisting on being dropped off If there was a river an eagle flying freely in the auditorium, or an enormous spinning golden globe, I was there. When I first started studying this, wasn't what it is today. It was not, like it is now, an entire line of &quot;#blessed&quot; home goods. It was not yet a flood of &quot;#blessed&quot; and neon wall art. I had no idea that &quot;blessed&quot; would become one of the most used to celebrate barely there bikini shots, as if to say, &quot;I am so blessed. Thank you, Jesus, for this body.&quot; (Laughter) I had not yet fully grasped had become the great civil religion, offering another transcendent account of the core of the American Dream. Rather than worshipping the prosperity gospel It deifies and ritualizes their hungers, their hard work and moral fiber. Americans believe in a gospel of optimism, and they are their own proof. But despite telling myself, &quot;I'm just studying this stuff, when I got my diagnosis, I suddenly understood in my own Horatio Alger theology. If you live in this culture, it is extremely difficult of believing that virtue The more I stared down my diagnosis, the more I recognized of the idea that good things Aren't I good? Aren't I special somehow? I have committed zero homicides to date. (Laughter) (Applause) So why is this happening to me? I wanted God to make me good and to reward my faith with just a few OK, like, a lot of shining awards. (Laughter) I believed that hardships on what I was certain would be As is this case with many of us, The gospel of success drove me to achieve, to dream big, to abandon fear. It was a mindset that served me well until it didn't, until I was confronted with something until I found myself &quot;But I have a son,&quot; because it was all That was the most difficult the phone call, the walk to the hospital, when I realized that my own had failed me. Anything I thought was good my hard work, my personality, my humor, my perspective. I had to face the fact that my life and so is everyone else's. It is a hard thought to accept from a problem that could or alter our lives completely. We know that in life I am asked all the time to say or that I've gained And I tell them no, before was better. A few months after I got sick, and then I sent it off to an editor In retrospect, taking one of the most and turning into an op-ed is not an amazing way (Laughter) I got thousands of letters and emails. I still get them every day. I think it is because I asked: How do you live for the bad things that happen? I asked: Would it be better to live for why people deserve what they get? And what was so funny I thought I asked people to simmer down on needing an explanation So what did thousands of readers do? Yeah, they wrote to defend the idea for what happened to me. And they really want me People want me to reassure them A few letters even suggested so I could help people People are certain or proof of something terrible I've done. They want me to know without a doubt that there is a hidden logic They tell my husband, while I'm still in the hospital, that everything happens for a reason, and then stammer awkwardly when he says, &quot;I'd love to hear it. I'd love to hear the reason And I get it. We all want reasons. We want formulas to predict whether whether our love and support and our kids love us. We want to live in a world of our hard work or our pain We want to live in a world But what I have learned is that there is no easy correlation between how hard I try and the length of my life. In the last three years, than I ever thought I could survive. I realized the other day that I've had that I'm on my fifth belly button, and this last one is my least favorite. (Laughter) But at the same time, so much love, love I find hard to explain. The other day, I was reading the findings of the Near Death Experience and yes, there is such a thing. People were interviewed in all kinds of circumstances: car accidents, labor and delivery, suicides. And many reported the same odd thing: love. I'm sure I would have ignored it of something I had experienced, something I felt that when I was sure I didn't feel angry. I felt loved. It was one of the most surreal things In a time in which I should have I was not reduced to ashes. I felt like I was floating, floating on the love and prayers of all those who hummed bringing me notes and socks and flowers and quilts embroidered But when they sat beside me, my hand in their hands, my own suffering began to feel the suffering of others. I was entering a world people stumbling around in the debris of dreams they thought and plans they didn't It was a feeling of being more connected, experiencing the same situation. And that feeling In fact, I'd grown so accustomed to it that I started to panic So I began to ask friends, theologians, &quot;What I am I going to do And they knew exactly because they had either or they'd read about it And they said, &quot;Yeah, it'll go. The feelings will go. And there will be no formula But they offered me and I clung to it. They said, &quot;When the feelings recede like the tides, they will leave an imprint.&quot; And they do. And it is not proof of anything, and it is nothing to boast about. It was just a gift. So I can't respond to with my own five-step plan and magical floating feelings. I see that the world is jolted by events gorgeous and tragic. I can't reconcile the contradiction, except that I am beginning to believe do not cancel each other out. Life is so beautiful, and life is so hard. Today, I am doing quite well. The immunotherapy drugs and we are watching I hope I will live a long time. I hope I will live long enough and to watch my husband And I think I might. But I am learning to live and to love without counting the cost, without reasons and assurances Life will break your heart, and life may take everything you have and everything you hope for. But there is one kind I believe that in the darkness, even there, there will be beauty, and there will be love. And every now and then, it will feel like more than enough. Thank you. (Applause)