- Welcome to the Huberman Lab Podcast, where we discuss science for everyday life. I'm Andrew Huberman, and I'm a professor of at Stanford School of Medicine. Today my guest is Dr. Peter Attia. Dr. Attia is a physician who's focused on nutritional, supplementation-based, behavioral, prescription that promote health span and lifespan. His expertise spans to sleep physiology, emotional and mental Today we talk about all starting with the very basics, such as how to evaluate and how to define one's health trajectory. We also talk about the that one can take in order while also extending Dr. Attia's uniquely qualified to focus on the complete depth and breadth And indeed, these are the his patients on in his clinic every day. Dr. Attia earned his Bachelor of Science in mechanical engineering and his MD from Stanford He then went on to train in general surgery, one of the premier hospitals in the world, where he was the recipient of including Resident of the Year. He's been an author on of general surgery. He spent two years at the as a surgical oncology fellow, at the National Cancer Institute, where his work focused on immune-based therapies for melanoma. In the fields of science and medicine, it is well understood that of our mentors and the Dr. Attia has trained and most innovative gynecologists, sleep physiologists in the United States and Canada. So the expertise that funnels through him and that he shares with us today is really harnessed from and his extensive training and expertise. By the end of today's episode, you will have answers to should you have blood work? How often should you do blood work? What specific things on that blood work, that or not often discussed, and yet that immediately influence your lifespan and health span? We talk about hormone for both men and women. We talk about drug therapies as well as the body. And of course, we talk about exercise, and predictors of It is an episode rich with information. For some of you, you may want in order to take notes. For others of you that learn I just want to remind you all this information so that you can go back most of interest to you. I'm pleased to announce that is now partnered with We partnered with Momentous First of all, they ship internationally, because we know that outside of the United States. Second of all, and perhaps most important, the quality of their both in terms of purity and precision of the amounts of the ingredients. Third, we've really emphasized supplements that are single ingredient supplements, and that are supplied in dosages that allow you to build a that's optimized for cost, that's optimized for effectiveness, and that you can add from your protocol in a way that's really If you'd like to see the supplements that we've partnered with Momentous on, you can go to livemomentous.com/huberman. There you'll see those supplements, and just keep in mind that the library of supplements on a regular basis. Again, that's livemomentus.com/huberman. Before we begin, I'd like to emphasize that this podcast is separate from my teaching and It is, however, part to bring zero cost to consumer information about science and science-related tools to the general public. In keeping with that theme, I'd like to thank the Our first sponsor is Thesis. Thesis makes custom nootropics that are designed for your unique needs. Now, to be honest, I'm not a because nootropics means smart there is no such thing as a smart drug, because there's no neural There are neural circuits or for task switching or for focus. And as we all know, whether or not they're require different types of Thesis understands this and has created a kit of custom nootropics that To get your own personalized you can go to takethesis.com/huberman. Take their three minute quiz, four different formulas to That's takethesis.com/huberman, and use the code Huberman at checkout to get 10% off your first Today's episode is also InsideTracker is a that analyzes data from your blood and DNA to help you better understand your body and help you reach your health goals. I've long been a believer in getting regular blood work done, for the simple reason that impact your immediate can only be assessed from And nowadays, with the you can also analyze, for instance, what your biological age is, and compare it to your chronological age. And obviously it's your biological The challenge with a lot of however, is that you get information back about metabolic factors, but you don't know what to InsideTracker makes it very easy to know what to do with that information to optimize your health. They have a personalized platform, it's a dashboard that you go to. You can click on the level of lipid, et cetera, and it will tell you the various sorts of supplementation, et to bring those numbers into the ranges that are ideal for you. If you'd like to try InsideTracker, you can visit insidetracker.com/huberman, to get 20% off any of That's insidetracker.com/huberman, Today's episode is also Helix Sleep makes mattresses and pillows that are of the absolute highest quality. They also have some because they are customized I've talked over and over and on other podcasts, about the fact that of mental health, physical There's just simply no other substitute for a quality night's I've been sleeping on a Helix mattress for well over a year now, and it's the best sleep And that's in large part, because the mattress was designed for me. What you need to know, however, is what's the ideal mattress for you. And you can do that by You can take their brief do you sleep on your side, or maybe you don't know, do you tend to run hot or cold maybe you don't. At the end of that short quiz, they will match you to the I matched to the dusk, the that's what I need. That's not necessarily what you need in order to get your best night's sleep. But if you're interested go to helixsleep.com/huberman, take their two minute sleep quiz, and they'll match you to a and you'll get up to $200 and two free pillows, they And you get to try out that mattress for 100 nights risk-free. They'll even pick it up for but I'm certain you will. Again, if you're interested you go to helixsleep.com/huberman, for up to $200 off your mattress And now for my discussion Peter, thanks for joining me today. - Thanks for having me, man. - I've been looking forward - [Peter] As have I. - I'm a huge fan of your podcast. I know that you went to Stanford and worked with a number of people that are colleagues of mine. So for me, this is already a - Yeah, well, it's likewise. - I have a ton of questions, but I want to start off with something that I wonder a lot about, and that I know many other how to assess their current in terms of health and wellbeing, specifically as it relates to blood work. So what are your thoughts on blood work? Is it necessary for the typical person? So this is somebody who's not dealing with some acute syndrome or illness. And at what age would you suggest people start getting blood work? How frequently should they get blood work? How often do you get blood - Yeah, there's a lot there. I mean, the way I talk first, taking everything So what's the thing So if a person says, look, I'm trying to break 10 I don't know that blood a game-changing aspect of their trajectory and their training. You know, they're going from sort of functional So I'm assuming, based on the question, that you're really coming living longer and living better through the lifespan health span lens? I think most people have or lack of vitality, but whether or not they could feel better, and whether or not blood work how they might go about feeling better. - Yeah, I think it does to some extent, but I also think that it So I kind of break things down into the two vectors that make up longevity, which are lifespan and health span. So lifespan is the easiest of because it's pretty binary. You're alive or you're not alive. You're respiring or you're not. You make ATP or you don't, end of story. So what gets in the way of lifespan is essentially the four So atherosclerotic disease, cancer, neurodegenerative disease, which directly isn't the but basically creates the foundation to all of those other diseases. So, you know, if you're a non-smoker, what I just rattled off is So how does blood work help address those? It varies. So on the atherosclerotic standpoint, it's a very good predictor of risk, if you know what to look for. So primarily ApoB would be the single most important I can explain what that means in a second. And then also, other endothelial health, and metabolic health. When it comes to cancer, you know, blood testing in the sense of biomarkers is not particularly helpful, outside of knowing that the or modifiable cause of cancer is metabolic ill health, after smoking. So we don't actually in the sense of what causes it. It's really stochastic, So we know that smoking even though epidemiologically what it really means is It's probably the hyperinsulinemia that comes with obesity that drives it. So biomarkers help with that, but there's still an enormous We could talk about liquid biopsies aside, 'cause those aren't but put that away. On the neurodegenerative side, you know, I don't think we have a lot of insight that comes to understanding but when it comes to dementia, particularly Alzheimer's disease, which is the most I think the biomarkers They overlap a lot with the So the same things that drive the risk of heart disease are driving the risk of dementia. And then there's some novel stuff as well, if you include genetic testing, which you can get out of a blood test. We get a whole suite of but far more nuanced stuff than that, that can also play a role. So you can stratify risk in that sense. So in aggregate, I would say, you know, blood testing of biomarkers provides pretty good When you get into health the cognitive, physical, I think here the biomarkers and here we kind of rely So when it comes to sort of you can do cognitive testing. In terms of long-term risk, a lot of the things that imply good cognitive health as you age, are in line with the same things that you would do to reduce So all the biomarkers that through dementia risk reduction, you would be improving On the physical side, I mean, outside of looking which we look at extensively, and understanding how those might aid in or prevent some of the metrics this is a biomarker aside thing. I mean, I'd be much more CPET testing, VO2 max testing, you know, zone two lactate testing, fat oxidation. Those are what I would that give me far more insight into that. And then of course the emotional piece, which depending on who you are, might be the single most important piece, without which none of this If you're a totally miserable human being, your relationships suck, I don't think any of And certainly there's in biomarkers that's giving - Do you ask about emotional state, or do you try and assess when you do an intake - Probably not so much in the intake, because I think it takes a with a patient before something that they're talk with you about. But I definitely think of of what we do. And I think without it, none of this other stuff really matters. Again, the irony of thinking about how many years I spent fully optimizing every without any attention being is not lost on me. And look, there are some patients who, that's just not something that, that's something that's compartmentalized. Maybe they're, you know, they're doing well in that but they just aren't willing - In terms of frequency of blood testing, if somebody feels pretty good and is taking a number of et cetera, to try and extend lifespan and improve health span, is once a year frequent enough, and should a 20-year-old just to get a window into what's going on? Assuming that they can afford it or their insurance can cover it. - Yeah, I mean, look, I should be screened early in like, what's the single most of atherosclerosis, is Lp[a]. So unfortunately most what Lp[a] is, and yet somewhere between has a high enough, and I had a recent guest on my podcast who suggested it could be as high as 20%, have a high enough Lp[a], that it is contributing So to not want to know that, when it's genetically determined, right, this is something that, and you only need to really check it once, why we wouldn't want to when it can contribute to a lot we see in people. It's leaving money on The frequency with which you need to test really comes down to the I don't think it makes for the sake of doing blood tests. There has to be kind of a reason. Is something changing? You know, a blood test a static intervention. It's a look at a window in time. And there's benefit in having a few of those over the course of a year, if you're unsure about a level. So if something comes back and it might make sense just to recheck it without reacting to it. But typically, you know, in patients, we might check blood two but we're also probably doing like hey, you know, we gave this drug, did it have the desired outcome? You put on three pounds of muscle and lost three pounds of fat, did it have the desired outcome? - Speaking of tracking weight and fat, lean mass percentages, is that your patients do pretty often? I know people that step I know people like myself that frankly, I might step on the I don't really care. I pay attention to other things that are far more subjective. Maybe I'm making a huge mistake. What are your thoughts about quantitative measurements of weight, BMI, for the typical person? - I think they're pretty crude. I think a DEXA, I'd rather and then maybe follow weight to get a sense of it. And so with a DEXA you're getting, at least the way we look at the data, four pieces of information. Now, most people when they do a DEXA, should I explain what that is, I'm? - Yeah, I think some people In fact, I confess, I of what it is. Tell me where I'm wrong, and hopefully where I'm My understanding is that there are a number of lean mass to non-lean mass ratio, and there's one where There's one where they non-underwater chamber. There's calipering. And then there's the looking and changing the lighting. - You know, it's funny, if you've done it enough, you can, I can sort of tell my So I can sort of tell by, you know, how good the six pack or what the leanness is. And that's actually not A bodybuilder, for example, can tell you the difference just based on the degree of But basically, a DEXA scan is an x-ray. So it's the same principle as where ionizing radiation And there's a plate behind the body that collects what comes through. And the denser the medium that the electrons are the less of them that are collected. So when you look at an x-ray, as everybody's probably seen an x-ray, that which is white is most dense. So if you had, you know, a it would show up as a bright white thing. That's why ribs and and the things that are the where it's just air, are the blackest. And everything is a So a DEXA is just doing that effectively, but it's a moving x-ray. So you lay down on a bed and and this little, very low power x-ray kind of goes over your body. And the plate beneath it that is basically allowing between three things, bone And the other is quantified So that's organs, So when most people do a DEXA, and the reports are horrible. I've yet to see one company that isn't abjectly horrible. We've created our own templates, so we have our own dashboard 'cause we've just given up But the first thing most people look at is what's my body fat. And this is the gold standard outside of like MRI or something, that's only used for research purposes. So a DEXA is going to of body fat, than calipers or things like that, provided the machinery is well-calibrated, and the operator knows how to use it. I've heard some people argue the guy who's been doing it could probably be But nevertheless, for DEXA is amazing. Of the four things that we think that the body fat And so I would rank that what's germane to your health. The other three things are bone mineral density, visceral fat, and then the metrics that like to basically compute what's called appendicular lean mass index And so those three metrics are than body fat. And the reason is as follows, right? So, bone mineral density of osteoporosis and osteopenia. And that doesn't sound very sexy to people our age, you know. 50-year-old guys listening to this, it's like, yeah, big deal. But for a 50-year-old woman, A woman who's just about or has just gone through menopause, is at an enormous risk for osteopenia, and then ultimately osteoporosis, because estrogen is the in regulating bone mineral density. And we can come back and talk but it's very interesting how the biomechanics of bones work, and why estrogen And this is a huge cause So, you know, if you're over the age of 65 and you fall and break your hip, your one year morbidity Which again, just to put that in English, if you're 65 or older, you there's a 30 to 40% chance - [Andrew] Wow. - Bones matter. So we want to really get a for your age, for your sex. And if you're anywhere off the pace, we have to ramp up our strategy about how to increase prevent any further decay. - And are there age-related charts for these sorts of things? - Yeah, this all gets spit out So when you're looking at your BMD, it's going to give you a Z-score. So a Z-score of zero means, but it's like, a Z-score referring to a probability distribution So Z-score of zero means for your age and sex. A Z-score of plus one, you're minus one, below, et cetera. There's also a T-score, which but comparing you to a young person. And so the T-score is technically used to make the diagnosis of We tend to look more at the look, if your Z-score in four years I want Not necessarily because you've but maybe you've increased slightly while it's expected that - I see. What are some things bone mineral density at any age? - So it turns out there's in which we are malleable. So depending on the age at discuss this, you know, you are still in that time of your life when you are able to reach your potential. So it turns out that strength training is probably the single And this was a surprise to we did an AMA on this and that's when I got really deep on this with our analysts. My assumption was like some sort of impact must You know, I assumed than swimming and cycling. But it turned out that power lifting was probably the best thing you could do. And I think once you it became more clear, which is, you know, power lifting is really from the muscle via the and that's what the They're sensing that sheer force that's being applied through depending on the bone of course. And that's what's basically which are the cells that are So this turns out to be probably because how high you can get during that period of development, basically sets your trajectory So where we get into real for example, used large during that period of their life, 'cause let's say they Or patients who needed large for some other immune-related condition. So during their critical they were taking a drug that So, you know, we have in our practice and that's that we're working with nutrition, with hormones, And, you know, it's just - I wasn't aware that inhalants for asthma and things of that sort can - If they're steroid-based. Some of them of course and they're fine. - So anything corticosteroid like? - Yep. And then I always get asked this question, and I always reflexively want to say no, but I don't really know the What about topical corticosteroid? You know, people will put cortisone cream. To me, it seems almost inconceivable that it would have a systemic what do I know? - It's all dose and time-related. So, you know, if you're a little rash under my skin, I'm going to put corticosteroids But certainly, with enough of it put on, I mean it is absorbed, But that's not typically I mean, we're mostly taking even modest amounts of prednisone for months, years at a time. Or, like I said, kids that for years and years and years. Again, I'm not suggesting that if your kid's on a steroid You have to solve the and if asthma is the most I think you just want to how much more imperative is it that our kid is doing a high amount of stress on to make sure that they're in - Do you think that somebody could still benefit from bone mineral density and longevity, as it relates to bone mineral density, given that there's this they might have missed that one. - Oh yeah, no, no, this is because you're now trying So basically the way it from birth to say 20 you're in growth. From 20 to 50, you plateau. At 50, men start to decline, Women start to decline - And it's related to the drop in estrogen associated with menopause or premenopause? - [Peter] Correct. - And can we get into of what that strength training looks like? We had Dr. Andy Galpin on the show, he talked a lot about versus hypertrophy versus I think there's pretty good physiotherapy, et cetera, in terms of how to do that. But my understanding is so this is anywhere from Typically not aiming that sort of thing. But heavy loads that are hard to move, 80% of one repetition maximum or more, done with long rest periods, two to three times a week type - Yeah, if you look at it's going to tell you, it's going to differentiate In other words, yeah, you do need to be kind of moving Now again, that can look very different depending on your level of experience. Like I really like deadlifting. Now, I mean, I can count the when I'm going to want to But, you know, I'll pick and But, you know, I grew I'm comfortable with those movements. If I had a 60-year-old woman who's never lifted weights in her life, who we now have to get lifting, I mean, we could get her I wouldn't make perfect the enemy of good. I'd be happy to put her and just get her doing that. You know, it's not as pure but who cares, right? We can still put her at and do so safely. So, now that said, I mean, there was a study that and I'm, you know, hopefully There's a video on YouTube that sort of walking through the results. I could send it to you. - [Andrew] Okay, yeah we'll track it down. They took a group of older women. They looked like they who had never lifted who had osteopenia, and some probably and they basically just put them on a strength training protocol. And it is remarkable to watch these women. They're doing good mornings. They're doing dead lifts. They're picking heavy I think one woman was picking up, God, I want to say she was like off the ground. I mean, just staggering sums who have never done anything. And their bone health is So the goal, frankly, never get to the point where you have to do this for the first time. Strength training is such an that it's never too late to start, but you should never stop. - I love that advice. Is it a systemic effect or a local effect? So, for instance, let's say that, well, my mother's in her late 70s. She actually used to be really She could move this fish long before I could move she's really strong. Over the years, I wouldn't but I certainly think she could benefit from some strength training. Let's say she were to start or start even with air squats and maybe work up to some pushups, are the effects all local, meaning if she were to just train her legs or just do pushups, would it only be the and muscles and tissues that were involved? the bulk of it is, yeah. - Okay. - [Andrew] So you need to train the whole body, essentially. - Yeah, now keep in mind, the diagnosis of is based on only three the right hip, and the lumbar spine. So, you know, that's just the convention by which we make the diagnosis. And I think part of that has to do with that's where the majority Now not all of the insults, you know, because of they're fracturing like they're having low tib So clearly bone density outside of those regions does matter. But much of it is really you know, you fall, you break a wrist, so this is a systemic issue. But the majority of the 'cause it really comes directly on that bone, and respond by laying down more bone. - Before we continue I'd like to just briefly acknowledge our sponsor Athletic Athletic Greens, aka AG1, is an all-in-one vitamin mineral probiotic drink that also has adaptogens I've been taking Athletic so I'm delighted that they're The reason I started and the reason I still drink is that it supplies total of my vitamin mineral needs, and it supplies important to support my gut microbiome. The gut microbiome, as many of you know, supports the immune system. It also supports the which is vital for for regulating focus, of our mental health and physical health that impact our daily in any endeavors we might be involved in. If you'd like to try Athletic Greens, you can go to athleticgreens.com/huberman, and claim a special offer. They're giving away five free travel packs plus a year's supply of vitamin And of course, vitamin D3 K2 are vital for all sorts of things and metabolic health, and K2 for cardiovascular Again, you can go to to claim that special offer. You mentioned falling and and breaking things, and I wonder whether or not there are also health-related effects that are not just about and dying a year later. That's obviously very severe. Because I think when some people might think, well, I'll just move more slowly. I'll sit in a wheelchair if I need to, even though I might be able to walk, if it keeps me from falling. Some people I think adopt that mentality. What are some of the benefits of having high bone mineral density that are perhaps independent - Well, I think it's actually the inverse of what you just said, right? It's sort of like, you have to what it is you want in So we use this thing in our practice called the marginal decade. Marginal decade is the So everyone will have a marginal decade. That's the only thing I can tell you with absolute certainty, right? - I believe you. - There's no immortality. There's no hidden elixir that's going to help us live I mean, we're all going to be in And outside of people who die suddenly or through an accident, most of us know when we're You might not know the day you enter it, but most people, you if you tell them, are you in they probably have a sense that they are. So I think the exercise with our patients very in exquisite detail, more detail than they've ever considered, so we have to prompt them lay out what their marginal - Wow, that's a serious exercise. - It's a very serious exercise, right? Like what, tell me everything in your marginal decade. I don't know when it's it could be 87 to 97 if It might be 79 to 89, I don't know. But, you know, it would really of that topic. And I think until you do that, all of this other stuff is just abstract and kind of nonsense. Until a person can tell you what it is that they want to you can't design a I mean, think about it. Someone wants to do an Ironman, we take it for granted that I have to be able to swim 2 1/2 miles. I have to be able to get hop on my bike, ride 112 take the bike shoes off, run 26.2 miles. Like we get it, we know And only by knowing that can you train. Can you imagine if I said to you, Andrew, I'm going to have you do an athletic event in a I'm not going to tell you Could be playing basketball. You know, it could be It could be running 100 miles. You wouldn't be able to do it. So similarly, if we don't know what our marginal decade is meant to be, there's no way to train for it. - Do you think this is a good exercise for anyone and everyone regardless of age here? I'm hearing this - and I'm thinking, I need to think about when and what I want that to look like. - Absolutely, I mean, when I that's only because that's But there's simply no reason everybody shouldn't be - And then you sort of figure out what people should be doing, given their current health status. - Exactly right, we call it back casting. So the first step we do is, what the objective function how do you break down that into So, you know, you described Okay, just to let you know, a VO2 max of 30 milliliters of oxygen per minute per kilogram. And the person will say, We'll say, well, that's a of oxygen, and that declines So if you have to be at 30, and let's just assume you're so what do you need to Okay, here's what it Okay, what are you now? Ah, there's a big gap. You're below where you need to be now. So you're obviously higher than 30 now, but if you're only at 42 now and you need to be at 30 and 40 years, you're not going to cut it. You have to be a lot fitter. Okay, now let's do the same exercise around strength and stability. And without exception, most people, when they do this exercise, will find out they're well So the gravity of aging is more and therefore the height much higher than you think if you want to be able to do the things we probably want to be - I absolutely love this approach. I've never done it in terms of my health. I've always thought about in the next three to six - And by the way, that's a great approach. That's forecasting. Forecasting is fantastic. Forecasting is really It doesn't work for long-term things. Long-term, you have to do back casting. - This back casting approach because in my career, well, I I never anticipated I'd be podcasting. But that's what I did at some I looked at professors, I'm like, that looks They seem pretty happy, I and then I figured out what in order to get to that and just kind of figured it out in a back casting kind of I think this is incredibly useful because it puts all the and how often to get blood in a really nice context I've never heard of this before, so. - And I should give a nod to Annie Duke. I used to always refer to but in Annie Duke's book, she wrote about this exact thing and I was like, I like the I think it's more intuitive - Yeah, there's a real 'cause it sets so many things into the appropriate I've heard you talk before for longevity and all-risk mortality. And I'd love for you to review I think we all know because it's very likely if we smoke nicotine. I'm neither a marijuana so I feel on stable ground there. But anytime we see smoking nowadays, people really want to distinguish between cannabis and nicotine. So I am curious about in terms of impact on longevity. But in that context, what are the things that should do, to live longer basically? - How long you got? - Well, you tell me. You tell me. I'd like to live, to be, I'd like my final decade - Oh no, I meant how long do you, yeah yeah. I'm just kidding. from now until you're - Well, there's a risk of that. But top contour is fine, I know you've done a and we will give people links to some of that more in depth content. But, you know, let's say from here to San Diego, and we got take off and landing, and we don't want to by doing this thing. So if I just said, hey, you know, gimme the extended version What does that look like? - So, let's start with that you've already highlighted. So smoking, how much does of all-cause mortality? And the reason we like to or all-cause mortality, is it's really agnostic to how you die. And that doesn't always make sense. I mean, if you're talking about, you know, a very specific intervention, like a anti-cancer therapeutic, you really care about or heart-specific mortality. But when we talk about we like to talk about ACM. So, you know, using smoking, smoking is approximately a 40% - What does that translate to in, that means I'm shortening my life by 40%? - No, it means at any point in time, there's a 40% greater risk relative to a non-smoker and a never smoker. - Yeah. So it's important to distinguish. It doesn't mean your lifespan It means at any point your risk of death is 40% higher. And, by the way, that'll At some point that catches up. High blood pressure. It's about a 20 to 25% increase You take something really extreme, like endstage kidney disease. So these are patients waiting for an organ. And again, there's a there's what's the underlying condition that leads you to that. It's, you know, profound significant Type II diabetes You know, that's enormous, that's about 175% increase in ACM. So the hazard ratio is like 2.75. Type II diabetes is probably So a 25% increase. So another question is So what are the things that improve those? So now here we do this by on other metrics. So if you look at low muscle what is the improvement? And it's pretty significant. It's about three X. So if you compare low muscle mass people to high muscle mass people as they age, the low muscle mass people have about a three X hazard ratio, or 200% increase in all-cause mortality. Now, if you look at the you realize that it's probably less the muscle mass fully doing that, and it's more the high And when you start to you can realize that 3 1/2 X as a hazard ratio, if you have low strength to high strength. - And high strength is at 80 to 90% of one repetition? - It's all defined by given studies. So, the most common things they're used for the that make it easy to do. And I don't even think So they're usually using like and like wall sits, So how long can you sit in a without support, would be a great demonstration A leg extension, you know, for how long, relative to You know, we have a whole with our patients, we have So it's the strength metrics assessment. And we put them through 11 you know, like a dead hang is one of them. Like how long can you dead stuff like that. So we're trying to be more but tie it back to these principles. If you look at cardio respiratory fitness, it's even more profound. So if you look at people for their age and sex, and you compare them to the 50th to 75th percentile, you're talking about a in the risk of ACM. If you compare the bottom so you're talking about bottom quarter to the you're talking about five X. - Wow! in all-cause mortality. That's probably the single for any modifiable behavior. - Incredible. So when you say elite, these are people that at a pretty rapid clip. - Not necessarily. It's just like what the like my VO2 max would be in My VO2, but again, I'm to make sure that it's in that. So I wouldn't consider myself but I still maintain a VO2 - I consider you an elite And guy all around. But true. But in terms of, okay, so- - But the point is like, you don't have to be a world class athlete to be elite here, yeah. - Got it. So maybe we could talk a little bit about the specifics around the top two tiers there, because it seems that those of cardiovascular exercise, far greater than the sorts let's just say supplement - Well, and that's, you know, like this is my whole It's like, I just can't get enough of the machinating and arguing about this supplement And I feel like you shouldn't until you have your exercise You shouldn't be arguing about this nuance if you're carnivore diet, versus this nuance if you're paleo diet, versus this nuance if you're vegan diet, like, until you can deadlift Like then you can come and or something like, let's just Like until your VO2 max is at and you're able to dead and you're able to wall like we could rattle off a bunch of relatively low hanging fruit. I wish there was a rule that said like you couldn't talk about - We can make that rule. - [Peter] No one'll listen to it. - I don't know about that. We can make whatever rules we want. We can call it Attia's rule. One thing I've done and on social media is, just borrowing from the which is it's inappropriate after yourself, unless you But it's totally after other people. So I'm going to call it Attia's rule. Until you can do the following supplements. from talking about - There it is, hereafter, and referenced as Attia's rule. I coined the phrase, not him. So there's no ego involved, Watch out. Hashtag Attia's rule. - Oh God! - Wikipedia entry, Attia's rule. In all seriousness, and Dead hang for about a minute for a lot of people. At least- I think we have a minute for a 40-year-old woman. Two minutes is the goal So we adjust them up and - Great. And then the wall sit, - We don't use a wall sit, we do just a straight squat, And I believe two minutes is the standard for both men and women at 40. - Great. And then, because for some of VO2 max is a little more complicated, they might not have access to et cetera, what can we in terms of cardiovascular. So run a mile at seven minutes or less, eight minutes or less? - Oh, that's a good question. So there are really good and you can plug in your activity de jure, so be it a bike, run, or rowing machine, and it can give you a sense of that. And I don't, I used to know all of those. - Oh, that's okay. actually do the testing, But it's exactly that line of thinking, like, can you run a mile in this time. If you can, your VO2 max - [Andrew] Great. - And I think, somewhere I've got all those charts posted of like, this is by age, by sex. This is what the VO2 max is - Terrific, we'll provide links to those. We'll have our people find those links. And then you mentioned - I just made that one up. That's not one that we include, but- - [Andrew] Something like that? - We use farmer carries. So we'll say for a male, you should be able to farmer I think we have two minutes. - [Andrew] Great. - So that's half your You should be able to walk For women, I think we're or something like that, yeah. - Great. I love it. As indirect measures of how healthy and, - Yeah. And how long we're going to live. - It's basically grip I mean, again, walking for some people initially, is really hard. You know, we use different ground contact time if things like that. So it's really trying to capture, and it's an evolution, right? Like I think the test is going to get only more and more involved 'cause it took us about a year. Beth Lewis did the majority Beth runs our strength in the practice. And, you know, basically I go out to the literature and come up with all of the best movements for what you need to be you know, what we call which is the person living at the best. - Well, what I'm about to say is certainly a mechanistic leap, but if you look at the literature on exercise-related neurogenesis in mice, or brain atrophy or brain in animal models, it's very clear that the best to atrophy, to lose and or lose connections between neurons, is to stop that animal from moving. Or to de-enrich its environment, deprive it of some sensory input And the best way to enhance the number of connections between neurons, and maybe even the number of neurons, is to enrich its environment while enriching that environment. - You know, Andrew, I think to say that the same And so the first time this I had an analyst, Dan I'm going to give you a project which is, I want you to look that we have, both mechanistic that talks about Alzheimer's prevention. And I want to know every And I want to have a clear sense of via what mechanism does it And it took Dan, and this was obviously, we iterated a lot on this together. And he came back with kind that took, I don't know, nine And what amazed me was when the single greatest efficacy And I was like Dan, that's There's no way exercise is the for the brain. There has to be some drug you've missed. There has to be some other And he's like, no, like this 'cause you're, you know, it's not just what it's doing to BDNF. It's not just what it's doing It's not just what it's and insulin signaling It's just touching every And I was very skeptical kind of really pushed I think you're missing something, Dan, I think you're missing something. And then finally in the end, who's a neurologist that on Alzheimer's prevention. And you know, ultimately that we wrote basically, and a few others. 'Cause again, I thought, oh, are you sure it's not EPA and DHA? Like that's got to have a bigger impact. And again, there are a lot of and there's a whole host for Alzheimer's prevention. But I think you're absolutely right. There's not one thing is more important than exercising. And by the way, it's not the sort of pathetic Like it's, you have to exercise a lot more if you want to get this maximum benefit. You will get, you know, going from nothing to something. So if you go from being to doing 15 MET hours per week, you'll get probably a - Wow. a MET, just for people who don't know, is a metabolic equivalent. So we're exerting about 1.3 If we were sitting here being quiet, it would be about one MET. Walking really briskly So 15 MET hours per week would be three one hour really brisk walks. That's not a lot of work. But just going from doing would give you 50% of the from going all the way. Now I, again, I think, I'm how much that's, I think it's I think there's more upside But the studies, I don't But look, you know, there's more than that, and capture more benefit, even though the rate at And it also speaks to the which is not necessarily The health span gets back to the functional piece we what do you want to be doing Do you want to be able to if they come running at you? Do you want to be able Do you want to be able to and then get up on your own? - And I think most people are they're trying to think, you know, how can they take They're thinking, how can I mean you have like really base, vegetative type functions, I love this, again, this and using that as a way to back cast, to actual methods and that one should be doing on a daily basis. I'll use anecdata, as it's now called, to cite just, I know which doesn't mean anything except that they did beautiful work. But the point is that So I'll name them 'cause for what they've done. Not just their work, but So Eric Kandel at Columbia. Nobel prize winner for work on memory. Torsten Wiesel, work on neuroplasticity. And then Richard Axel, Nobel prize winning work of smelling and molecular All three of them still alive, Richard's younger All three of them either or racquetball I think is Richard's thing, multiple times per week. They're all cognitively still interested in the curious about science, writing books, going on podcasts. I mean, it's incredible. Again, that's anecdata. But I was kind of surprised to learn that colleagues that were so were also so obsessed with exercise. I mean, they really are obsessed and early on linked that to their, some of their intellectual I want to just also use to ask about one kind of I don't think I'm going to out but one of those three individuals chews an excessive amount of Nicorette. Used to be a smoker and I asked in his estimation, it's protective against or at least the nicotinic acetylcholine 'cause nicotine is an is known to create a state of What are your thoughts about I just want to be really clear, vape nicotine, it's going Just terrible idea, addictive, But what are your thoughts through the use of nicotine, in order to keep the Again, this is one Nobel prize winner, so it's truly N of one, but he's so convinced the mechanistic data on that I'd love to hear your thoughts on it. - So I can't speak to the AD I'd have to run that by who I collaborate with on that. But I can definitely speak to the cognitive enhancement piece of it. And I actually did an AMA on where I went into all of and talked about my own use of nicotine, which I'll cycle on and off, I've been doing it for the last 10 years. I haven't- - I used to use the gum. I don't like the gum anymore, so now I like these little lozenges that, and I'll tell you a So our mutual acquaintance, mentioned a company to me a year ago. He's like, hey, have you And I forget the name of the company, but he gave me some name. So I go online and it's like And I'm like, I wonder why Well, I'll just order a bunch and then we'll figure out there was some reason we were doing this potentially through investment. So I get a, like literally of this stuff. And it's pretty good, it's actually, it's a really nice little patch, 'cause I, the thing I didn't like about the gum was I hated just the taste of it. So then the next week I'm by the way, I ordered you told me about. He's like what? And he goes, oh, the company's It was totally unrelated. It's like, oh God. So the short answer is, I a concentration-enhancing substance. It is addictive and people Now it's not addictive to everybody. I personally experience no So I can, I could do it and stop and experience no withdrawal. I could forget about it, it You have to be careful I mean, remember one cigarette is about one milligram of nicotine, and a lot of these lozenges will plow four to eight milligrams And for someone who is, you four milligrams is a lot So you just have to be very mindful of it. I got a lot of flack when I did this AMA, for obvious reasons, but as a doctor, encourage And I was like, first of all, I'm not encouraging anybody to use it. I just want to be able to talk And if disclosing that I is an endorsement then But on the list of things that you can do to make your brain a little more focused, I would consider this infinitely safer than what a lot of people are doing, which is using stimulants. I mean, to me, you know, I like we are under no circumstance I mean, yeah, we're not We're not giving anybody Not to say they don't have but they should be prescribed who's really monitoring And using that as a tool concentration in cognitive performance is not something we're comfortable doing. - Yeah, it's rampant on college campuses. - [Peter] I can only imagine. - Armodafinil, modafinil of course, but, so non-clinical use, not prescribed for ADHD, Recreational use, study-based use. - But the data I've seen on modafinil suggests that it only really in someone who is deprived of sleep. Is there data that in a there is a nootropic benefit of modafinil? - I don't know. I have one experience with armodafinil, where I took a half a recommended dose, this was prescribed by a doctor. I went to give a talk. This was in Hawaii and I'm My co-speaker came up to first of all, you got a little bit of spit in the corner of your mouth. And second of all, you haven't And third, there's only two I was so lazered in that Now I'm a little bit of a, OCD-type anyway, but one, I never took any more of it. It was a powerful stimulant. I take 300 milligrams of before some cognitive work, and I do subjectively feel in a nice way. But I don't take it more and more than once or twice a week. - See, this is an example of where, you know how we're talking sort of nutrition and I think there may be a that are kind of interesting around focus, but nothing would compare Like I think that if I to my focus when I was in Like in college, I was truly a robot. But I think a large part of it was, there was no distraction. There's no email. There's no social media. There's no internet. I mean, I was in college in the early '90s. Like I, you know, and you to get to the computer lab to do anything in, you know, So when you're sitting there was no distraction. And I think that's a far greater component of what it means to be focused, than the challenges we have today. So, you know, my thoughts if we really wanted to we're going to have to you know, our environment. And I don't know what the answer is. Like, I've tried every like closing my browsers but, you know, I'm just Like I'll pick up my to look and see if I missed a text message or something stupid. - That's pretty infrequent. I did an episode on habits It seems that people or interrupting themselves in the typical workplace, with a lot more people working at home. I do put my phone away but nothing focuses me like a deadline. A little bit of fear-based urgency. That's it, grant deadlines, you know, drop deadlines as I call them, or podcasts we're going to record today, that nothing works quite like it. But such is life. Well, thanks for that Again, you're not recommending but it's clear that augmenting which is what nicotine and some related type pharmacology, does enhance focus and pretty potently. So I think it's going to for real clinical trials Love to chat about hormone therapies, and hormones generally. When Robert Sapolsky came on the podcast, we talked a little bit about menopause and the data around menopause. He's very interested I think I'm going to get this right, that whether or not women to offset menopause really depends on when I don't know if you're but he claimed that if in the middle to tail end of menopause, the outcomes can be quite bad. Whereas if they initiate as they enter menopause then the outcomes can be quite good. I don't know what percentage are male versus female, and what ages those but what are your thoughts about menopause, and hormone maybe even testosterone therapy, you hear about that these days, and then we'll talk about men. - So our practice is So we have lots of women, and this is a very important topic. It's also probably, let me think. I just want to make sure when I say this. Yeah, I don't think I am. It's hands down the biggest screw up of the entire medical Now, again, it's possible in nope, there's a bigger screw up. - Another giant screw up. - Yeah, but I don't think I will. I'm pretty confident that a bigger act of incompetence than what happened with the in the late '90s and early 2000s, which is effectively the study that turned the entire medical field off hormone replacement therapy for women. So it's important, I think, to explain what this study looked at. So this was a study that was conducted in response to the widely held that women should be placed on hormones as they're going through menopause, right? Menopause is, I guess maybe I don't know how much your how estrogen progesterone work. Is it worth going into that stuff? - Yeah probably worth mentioning Some of them might be familiar with it, we've done episodes on estrogen as I think back to those, we didn't really go into the biology of estrogen testosterone enough. - Yeah, so, I mean, actually that I always tell my female patients who get a kick out of this. When you look at a woman's her progesterone, her FSH, her sex hormone binding But based on the units it's a very distorting picture of what the most common If you actually convert she has much more testosterone - Interesting. - I did not know that. - Then again, I've never been a woman getting my hormone profile. - Yeah, yeah. So even though a woman's testosterone is much less than a man's level, it's still more than she - [Andrew] Wow! - So phenotypically, right, estrogen is the hormone so it's the, she has much and much lower testosterone than a man, but in absolute amounts, she has more testosterone than estrogen. Just worth pointing that out. - [Andrew] Incredible. - So, you know, what's from the age she starts menstruating until she goes through menopause, outside of pregnancy and birth is she has this cycle, you but it can vary, where at we call that day zero, her basic, her estrogen and You can't measure them. And then what happens is the and it rises in response follicle stimulating hormone, FSH, that is getting her ready to ovulate. And she ovulates at about So if we're just going on day 14 she's going from one of her ovaries. And the estrogen level is sort We love to measure hormones on day five, because I want to have a standardized way in which I measure her hormones. So our women know if we're in the business of trying to understand her hormones, the day her period starts, even if it's just a day of spotting, that becomes our benchmark, I want to see every hormone on that day. And if everything is going well, I know what her FSH, LH, should be on that day. So the estrogen rises, starts as she ovulates, and then the because it's now going for the lining to accommodate a pregnancy. So now you start to see estradiol go back, but now, for the first So progesterone has been and now it starts to rise. And actually progesterone is the hormone that's dominating the second half, which is called her luteal cycle. So the first 14 days is Second is the luteal cycle. So once you get to about which is now, just to the body has figured out And again, most of the time So the body says, oh, I don't need this lining I'm going to shed it. So now progesterone and and the lining is what is being shed, and that is the menses. By the way, it's that last that in a susceptible those PMS symptoms. So it's the, actually, this is something that you would probably have a better understanding of than me. There is something about where the enormous reduction is probably impacting So this is a legitimate thing, right? I mean, you know, it's not like, oh, she's crazy because she's No. We know that that's the case because if you put women on progesterone for those seven days, - [Andrew] Interesting. - So if you can stabilize during the last half and sometimes we would just do it for the entire luteal phase, just put them on a low all PMS symptoms vanish. - Very interesting. I'll have to look up where are located in the brain. The Allen Brain Institute in situ hybridization, which for, 'cause they don't understand is, looking at RNA and sort of ought to be expressed in the human brain, by using actual human as opposed to just mice. So I'll take a look, I think- - Yeah, I'm really curious, yeah. progesterone emotionality link might be, and where it might exist, - So then, when the reach their nadir again, So that just, that cycle is happening over and over and over again. Okay, so it became well a woman's going to stop her estrogen goes down. Why don't we just give her estrogen? 'Cause that's clearly going to help with some of the symptoms of menopause. So what do women experience The first symptoms are what So this is usually in the form So, and depending on the woman, this can be really significant, right? These are women who can They can be having hot flashes They can wake up soaked Those tend to pass and then they get into sort of the more long-term complications of menopause. So what we call vaginal and then the stuff that we which is the osteopenia osteoporosis. A lot of women will complain of brain fog. So, I mean, clearly this was an issue and it was recognized 70 years ago. Why don't we give women estrogen back to replace that hormone? And so that went on for a maybe a decade, and then it we were driving up the And the reason for that is with no progesterone to antagonize it, you will thicken the endometrium endlessly and you will increase Well, you'll definitely and then ultimately dysplasia. Dysplasia is precancerous, and ultimately we were seeing that. So people figured out, well, actually, if you want to give estrogen to a woman who still has her uterus, you have to give her progesterone as well. You have to be able to have a hormone to oppose the estrogen. And then that became effectively the standard for HRT. So in the early 1990s the NIH said, look, we haven't really studied this. We have a ton of epidemiology that says giving women hormones seems to They feel better, so all They seem to have lower lower risk of, you know, lower risk of cardiovascular disease, lower risk of bone fractures. Everything seems to get better. Lower risk of diabetes. But we haven't tested this in a randomized prospective So that became the WHI. And it randomized, it So it had a group for women So these are women that for some other reason. And then it had a group for women that did have their uterus. In the first group, and then an estrogen only arm. And in the other group, there was a progesterone plus Everything about the way this Some of it is justifiable, but First, the women were all So none of these women were started when you would normally start HRT. And there were probably but one of them is, and I think they wanted hard outcomes. They wanted to know death rates. And if you're doing this you just weren't going to get it, right. You couldn't- - Wait too long. you got to wait too long. And this was only going to be So they had to do this on They also disproportionately I believe the prevalence, and again, I'm going to get some and people are going to get all I mean, I'm in the ballpark, right? Something like 30, 40% of The prevalence of obesity, So they really disproportionately picked the most unhealthy population they could, that was pretty advanced in age. And again, I think part we want to make sure we really know if there's a difference in these causes of death. The other thing is, this is kind of weird, although again, I understand but this is a great when you look at a clinical trial, that it remotely represents the patients you're interested in treating. So they also treated no The rationale being, if patients who are symptomatic, those who are randomized - Okay, it makes sense makes no sense if the study the real world. - That's right. So now let's just keep We have a disproportionately who are not symptomatic, and we're starting them more The next thing that they did, which again, I understand why they did it, but it's now the fourth and I've spoken with the PI of the study and asked this question point blank. I'm actually going to have her to go over this in more detail, is why did you use conjugated which is a synthetic form of progesterone. - [Andrew] Horse- - Yes. - It's horse urine, is so they're getting, it's- - Horses do urinate a lot. Or at least when they urinate, it seems like a large volume of urine, from what I've observed. - [Peter] You have a lot - No, but, you know, my sister rode horses for a little while, my high school girlfriend I mean the pees were legendary. It's a male horse. - Yeah. - So, yeah, so the is the estrogen that's And then it's a synthetic progesterone. And I said to the person, I said, well, why didn't you use what we use today, which is bio-identical Like today, when we put it's an FDA product So it's a patch that you just but it's bioidentical estradiol. And we use what's called So bio-identical progesterone. And she said, well, at the what was currently being used. And I said, totally makes sense. But again, now you have that you have to keep in mind, okay. So despite those four considerations, and I'm going to make a case created a real problem in that study, the synthetic progesterone, when the preliminary results but not yet peer-reviewed there was a huge fiasco, huge suggesting that the women in the group with the uterus, had a higher incidence of breast cancer. And that basically became the though it turned out not to be true. Let's talk about the numbers. What was the increase in in that group? Which gets to one of my, you know, if you ever listen to me on - Listen, I have about 3,800 My laboratory staff know these, So, you do not have one of them. for having many pet peeves. Because as long as they to support them, it provides- - So one of my biggest pet 'cause sometimes they'll they'll do this and I'll you never talk about without an absolute risk So, what does that look like? So the relative risk in the estrogen plus MPA was 25, 27%. And that became the only headline. HRT increases risk of Now, I don't think but let's even look at the data. What was the ARR? What was the absolute risk increase? It was a difference between and four cases per thousand. So the ARR was 0.1%, And it's true, going to five in a thousand is a 25% increase, but it's a completely - I agree, and I feel like which have come up recently around various dietary interventions, at least not for the time being, are nothing short of criminal because they really But also they steer the course as you pointed out, for And they can really take in serious ways. - So I'll bring this meandering even though I could spend the next hour talking about all of the ways in which this study was flawed, and all of the very unethical by a number of the investigators who went out of their way to from the world, I'll tell a woman today, we're going to start you on this when you're going through menopause. We're using bio-identical hormones. And if your upper bound is one case in a thousand, you should at least weigh that against all of the other benefits, Now, there's something else I want to say, because a moment ago I I think the MPA might have in that study. So there were two findings in One was the small increase and the small increase in But consider the other group, we forgot about the group 'Cause remember, those versus placebo. What was the difference Well, this is interesting statistical significance, but So it came very close, but it It was a 24% risk reduction, about one in a thousand as well. So when you had estrogen plus MPA, you had a barely the P value was 0.05, so it just hit statistical significance, one in a thousand cases for breast cancer. And then you had one in a thousand cases, but P value of 0.07, for reduction Which to me suggests that the MPA, the synthetic progesterone, was playing more of a The second thing I point which we no longer use, It does increase the ability of the blood to clot a little bit. And when we look at the using topical estrogen we don't see that at all. In fact, we see the opposite now. So now we see the risk of heart disease going down in women with estradiol. - And some women will be with mutations and things and other clotting factors. Is it appropriate to say that everyone, both male and female, should mutant forms of Factor V Leiden? - You know, we don't typically My wife actually has it, but we didn't learn it giving birth to our first daughter. But, you know, we kind of look for more family history reason to We take a pretty detailed family history, so we'll kind of look for - What about, so your reflex nowadays is to put women on these topical estrogen therapies? have the discussion, right? So here's where we still if it were up to me, I'd to be provided by her GYN, because we want to be able to who we would like to see an endometrial ultrasound done every year. That's, you know, some but we think she should every year as well. So if we're looking at the cervix, we want to look at the endometrium, we want to make sure the The other thing I should we now realize that not all pardon me, progesterone. So you have to be careful. So assuming, again, a the estrogen solves most of the problems, but then you have to decide, can she tolerate the progesterone? And it needs to be, if given systemically like a hundred to 200 milligrams. And for some women, that is I mean, they start sleeping they feel better. But for some women, it It's probably the reciprocal in the case of women with PMS. So in those situations we say, great, we're done with oral progesterone. We just use a progesterone coated IUD. So then you get the local for protection, and the systemic estrogen. - Fascinating. What about oral contraception in women? So the use of estrogen you know, college years or 20s, 30s, maybe even teens, who knows. What's known about the - I got to be honest with you, I don't think I know It's not something that really impacts my patient population. At least in what I see, for contraception than OCs. I mean, we use OCs sometimes for symptomatic control, a low low estrin, so a very which I don't like using these very much. But if it's the only thing that we can get to control certain symptoms, and we'll use it like half her cycle. But it's typically not something we're that experienced with. - What about testosterone, you know, nanogram per mill, when you said everything I guess it's nanogram per deciliter, - Yeah yeah. to kind of normalize everything. - Right, yeah. And so, what Peter was you look at your charts and they're all in these and so when you normalize, testosterone is actually That's a surprise to me. Do you prescribe testosterone - We do sometimes, but I do because I don't have the data, right. So where I'll, you know, I mean, we're now really where I can point to a lot of data. Like when it comes to I'll happily go toe to toe with anybody who wants to make the Similarly, when it comes to I'll spend all day, and I can until the other person cries and wants to just call uncle, right. When it comes to- prescribe them testosterone. - When it comes to estrogen in, testosterone in women, And I'd love to see that trial done. So what's the sweet spot, So it's not something I consider standard. And basically, if a woman first of all, is even though her testosterone's we still have a range. So if it's really at the she's really having difficulty and really complaining of low libido, I think in that situation, we'll go ahead and use topical replace her to a level that is - Yeah, that's key because they think about, super - Yeah, like I've never in a single woman that in terms of like acne, body Like those are real symptoms but, you know, like clitoral enlargement and things like that, under physiologic normal conditions. - I'd love to talk a little bit about hormone replacement therapy in men. When one looks on social there seems to be a younger and people in their teens and 20s, showing up to the table thinking that injecting or taking Anavar, whatever it is, is going to be the right idea. They mainly seem to be I'm not a physician, so I they were actually hypogonadal et cetera, but it seems to me, again, but it seems to me that as it relates to longevity, that we could come up in which if a male of any age is not trying to get decent appropriate nutrition, minding et cetera, et cetera, the idea of going straight to testosterone seems like a bad idea. That said, just like with there is a kind of a cliff after which low enough testosterone, prevents people from sleeping, exercise, social connection, et cetera. So I do want to acknowledge that. But with that in mind, and perhaps occasionally in terms of hormone person in their 30s, person in their 40s, who's doing almost all the What sorts of levels do Because the range is tremendous 300 nanograms for deciliter, I think on the low end now in the U.S., all the way up to 900 or 1200, What are some of the other estrogen, DHT and so on? - So, a lot to unpack there. So, let's start with the ranges, right? So the ranges you gave are for total testosterone, of course, and we don't spend a lot the way we, you know, I used to spend more time when I used more tricks to modulate it. So I'm actually far more simple in my manipulation of testosterone today than I was six or seven years ago. Six or seven years ago, I we would use a micro dose in a person who had normal testosterone, but low free testosterone. - What was a low dose of - 10 milligrams subling - Anavar basically being DHT. Oxandrolone- yeah exactly. - And again, we're not recommending this. This actually, if you're can get you banned from that sport. - No no, yeah yeah. This is- from having children if - Yeah, so a micro dose of that it doesn't impair your body's ability to make testosterone. But Anavar has such a that it basically distracts your SHBG from binding your testosterone. - Freeing up testosterone. - That's exactly right. So the goal was, how do I just give you more free testosterone? So if a patient shows up and they've got a total testosterone of 900 which would place them at, you know, depending on the scale you look at, the scale we look at, that the 70th percentile. But your free testosterone is, you know, eight nanograms per deciliter. So that's pretty bad. That means you're less than 1% free. A guy should be about 2% free T. So that dude should be closer to 16 to 18 nanograms per deciliter. So in that situation that I just gave you, his SHBG is really high. His SHBG is probably - That's very high. 'Cause I think the upper range - Exactly. - So we would first back stall So there's basically three hormones, so genetics plays a huge role in this. There's no question that people have a different Mine is incredibly low. My SHBG is like kind of But from a hormone perspective, there's basically three So estradiol being probably insulin and thyroxine. So we're going to look at all of those and decide if any of So insulin suppresses it. So this is actually the great irony of helping a person get is in the short run, you can actually lower all things equal. Because as insulin comes and if testosterone you're lowering free testosterone. - So somebody who goes on a in an attempt to drop some is going to increase their SHBG? - Yeah, if their insulin goes down enough. less free testosterone. I can tell the carnivore diet people are going to be coming after But then again, after this discussion I'm sure the vegans with celery stalks, so it's a. - So then the same as with estradiol. So except in the opposite direction. So higher estradiol is higher SHBG. So again, occasionally normal testosterone, but he's a very high aromatase activity person. So he has a lot of the enzyme that converts testosterone into estradiol. You can lower estradiol a bit and that can bring down SHBG. Now, again, these things to move the needle. The last is thyroxine. So if you have a person whose you have to fix that before you, you're going to interfere with SHBG. There are also some supplements which I think you've on the podcast. I feel like I've heard you talk - Yeah, there are a few there's this idea now it just came out, I'll send it to you, I'd love your thoughts on it, and I've been perusing it line by line. But I love input from experts like you on the use of Tongkat In my experience, it does By which mechanism it isn't exactly clear. And the effects aren't that dramatic. Right, they're probably multiple effects. For all we know, it increases generally, by way of which can also increase So we don't know the exact mode of action. So we've talked about a few. The one that a few years could reduce SHBG was stinging nettles. - Stinging nettle, well I'll just, urinating seems to be on this podcast, for whatever reason. Stinging nettle extract, I took, the most pronounced effect of that was you could basically urinate What the underlying mechanism I took it for a short while, it didn't drop my SHBG very much, but it did drop my DHT stopped taking it. - I do not like anything that impedes DHT. I don't care if my hairline retreats, I don't care about any of that. DHT to me is something to because you feel so much better when your DHT is in the appropriate range, and I'd love your thoughts on that. - Yeah, again- - It really depends on the guy, and it depends on what risk So prostate size starts to become one of the issues with DHT. - Luckily my prostate-specific the things that I know can reduce it are things like finasteride, Propecia, things like, yeah, right. Things that people take can dramatically reduce DHT and lead to all sorts of mood-based side effects, et cetera. But yeah, so I'm not aware of anything that could be taken in supplement form that can really profoundly drop SHBG. much attention on it anymore. Basically, I used to have differential diagnosis eight years ago. Like, I mean it was, I with the whiteboard diagrams when in the end, I think they what do I need to take? Today we take a much more simple approach. So the first question is, have your free testosterone being higher? That's the metric I care about, is free testosterone is the second most important is estradiol. - And sorry to interrupt, you said, if you look at your total testosterone, you want the free T to be - Well, it should be, right. Now I can't, I might So in other words, if a guy's at 1%, then I know I have to really If he's only going to converted to free, I need to boost him. And that's why I don't care Like, I'll have a guy who's free T, I might have to get a to get his free T to 18. - I see, so free T is the target. I like this approach. - And do you still use Anavarax, - I don't use- to try and lower SHBG. - I don't, no. - No, because it's just too It's a drug that can't be taken orally, so you have to take it under the tongue. - Like a troche or something. - Right, but then, you know, even though we told him he was like swallowing the and he was like, we're three times a week is a tiny or whatever, two months of tripled his liver function test. So it's like, I was like, you know, it's just not worth the for, you know, perfection. In reality, we can fix this another way. So the first order question is, do we believe clinically you will benefit from normalizing your free testosterone, or taking it to a level, let's call it 80th to 90th percentile. So upper normal limit That's the first order question. And that's going to come down to symptoms, and that's going to come I think there's, two years ago, was it two years ago or maybe a year ago, very good study came out that you've probably talked about this study, and looking at insulin with and without testosterone. And the evidence was overwhelmingly clear. Testosterone improves glycemic control. Testosterone improves insulin signaling. This shouldn't be surprising by the way, given the role muscles and a glucose sink. So now I include that as one of the things that we will consider as a Now, again, it's not the only one. So you can accomplish that with exercise, you can accomplish that but then you get into a little will having a normalized testosterone facilitate you doing those things better. So let's just assume that this person is a good candidate for testosterone replacement therapy. The next question is, what's the method we're going to do. Are we going to do it Now we used to use a lot And have you talked - Haven't talked too much about it. No, we've talked a little some people taking things like anastrozole to reduce aromatase activity, can potentially run into oh well, more testosterone, and then they end up with memory issues, and severe drops in libido. And I think a lot of the reason why- - And even fat accumulation. So if estrogen is too low, you can develop adiposity in a way that you wouldn't otherwise. There was a great New it's probably 10 years I believe it was five different doses of testosterone cypionate. So these men were chemically castrated and divided into 10 groups. It's pretty remarkable- - [Andrew] That somebody - Yeah, so you were with and five doses of testosterone. So now you basically had plus or minus high or low estradiol. And the results were really clear that the higher your testosterone and the more your estradiol 30 to 50 range, the better you were. So if estrogen was too low, even in the presence of high testosterone, the outcomes were less significant. - And this is 30 to 50 not 30 to 50% of one's testosterone. Okay, great. No, we haven't talked, but Clomid is, you know, we have not I'd love to get your thoughts on Clomid. - So Clomiphene is a fertility drug. It's a synthetic hormone. It's actually two drugs, M Clomiphene and I forget the other one. And it tells the pituitary So you, and so the advantage and it's meant to be taken orally. So, you know, a typical 50 milligrams three times a week. And if you do that, you'll especially young men, FSH and LH goes up. In any man, the FSH and LH go up, but if a man still has testicular reserve, he'll make lots of testosterone 'Cause that's the first order question we're trying to answer is do you, is your failure to make - Yeah, and I think, again, correct me if I'm wrong, but my understanding is that we're talking about, testosterone, estrogen, things et cetera, were discovered and designed in order to treat, and excuse me, in order to isolate and treat exactly these kinds of syndromes, whether or not it was the or the target tissue, the Correct? - Correct, yeah. I mean, I think, the easiest is just give the hormone that's missing, without attention to Why this becomes relevant is whose testosterone is low, but you can demonstrate that it's low because he's not getting from the pituitary, why would you bother giving when he has the Leydig to make testosterone. He just needs the signal. Sometimes, though not always, just a course of Clomid can wake him up, and he's back to making - So he'll do this three three times a week, for - Yeah, we would do that and then we reevaluate. - And estrogen and testosterone - Yes. And again, it depends, you know, aromatase activity is dependent on how much body fat And if estradiol gets too high, we think if it gets over about 55, 60, we will give micro doses of anastrozole. But it has to be real micro doses. I mean, you cannot pound To give you perspective, like if you just go to a you're going to get one milligram tablets. Like we can't give anybody a milligram. - [Andrew] They'll feel like garbage. - We have to have it and we might give a patient That would be a big dose of anastrozole. - Yeah, I think that the is giving 200 milligrams per mil, one mil, 200 milligrams of testosterone and then hitting people of anastrozole, and - I've never really understood, I mean, I guess I shouldn't be surprised, but it kind of blows my are up all over the place, given how bad. I mean, I see the results, 'cause I have patients and I don't understand like - I actually think it's worse than that. I think that they simply don't because it's a pill mill I think that nowadays it seems almost everybody who's doing TRT is taking lower doses more or twice a week, dividing the dose, and being very, very or aromatase blockers. - Most of our patients do not It's not needed. It's really only the high And so yeah, when we'll we'll talk about dosing The more frequently you and frankly, you don't than twice a week. - Because it's so slow-acting. the half life of the drug is, I think it's about 3 1/2 days, is the plasma half-life I could be off a little is really nice. So if you go to like a testosterone clinic that's giving you 200 every two weeks, 50 twice a week is the same is a physiologic dose. That's not going to give you would see. You're not going to get acne with that. You're not going to get gynecomastia. You're not going to get anything. The only real side is you will get testicular atrophy. It is enough to suppress. - Yeah, to maintain fertility, what do you typically do for? - Well, so this is where, so I'll finish the story on Clomid, 'cause we currently do not use Clomid, and that's due to a really that we made, that I don't in the literature yet, which is that Clomid was that we also happen to - [Andrew] I'm not familiar with that. - So, and the way that there's two pathways So it starts like with like Acetyl-CoA, and it kind bifurcates, and cholesterol is But in one of those pathways, the molecule right before in the other pathway So we constantly measure because we want to know how much cholesterol is being Not just what your cholesterol is. We want to know how much And those markers are when we're looking at So when we gave patients Clomid, we were noticing a almost universal rise in their desmosterol levels. Now, the most obvious though the last time I looked, I couldn't find clear explanation for this in any of the clinical, like the clinical trials that So I don't know if it was described. In fact, maybe it wasn't known. I suspect it is inhibiting the enzyme, which I think is called that turns desmosterol into cholesterol. Makes sense if you inhibit that enzyme, you're going to see a rise in desmosterol. This wouldn't have been a concern to me, if not for the fact that Tom Dayspring, who's one of the physicians we work with, who's one of the world's pointed out a very obscure story, which was that the very to treat cardiovascular disease, at least to treat hypercholesterolemia, was a drug that attacked the same enzyme. So this is in the early 1960s I believe, maybe the mid '60s. This drug was approved and And it was approved on the Now today, no drug for ASCVD is approved on the basis of it lowering cholesterol. That's not a high enough bar. You have to reduce events. Actually have to show that you're preventing But at the time it was like, it's got to be good. Well, in the late '60s it because events were going up. So cholesterol was coming How could that be? We don't know. What we are suspecting which is still a sterol, was and created more oxidative in the sub-endothelial - [Andrew] I see. - Which would at least we're taking a lot of leaps here, that maybe having high is not a good thing. And so once we kind of a few years ago, we were like, yeah, we're just not going to And we then switched to HCG, which we used to use but it's more cumbersome to work with. It needs to be refrigerated, it's a much more fragile molecule. - Yeah, I think we talked about this once. It's almost like if you the little bottle, it's - Yeah yeah. is very challenging. It's a needle, you know, So easy to administer, it's but it's just more of a hassle factor. But that said, it has the which is it preserves testicular function. It preserves testicular volume. So, you know, body builders in their post-cycle therapy, as a way to kind of recover function. And we would just use it for a guy who still - So on its own, no testosterone, no aromatase inhibitor, nothing. Just a way to crank out from the testes. Maybe some additional estrogen also? - Yeah, and HCG is a different model. HCG is just an analog So it's basically like giving - So it's going to crush endogenous right, because it's- - Actually, yeah. You don't really see but you do see endogenous Actually, no, I correct that. Both FSH and LH will go Yep. - Just as a mention, and here I'm not making recommendations, but one supplement I've is Fadogia agrestis, which is this weird Nigerian shrub that- - You talked about this on Tim's podcast. - On Tim's podcast and Joe's there was a bit of a backlash that at high doses, in rodent studies, it can cause some toxicity of the testes. But at lower doses, it does seem to increase And after talking about this, a number of people went out there, did pre and post blood work, and the consistent effect in luteinizing hormone. There's a noticeable effect So a lot of people take this their balls are getting bigger, that something good is happening. But we don't know the of something like Fadogia, whether or not it needs to be cycled- - Yeah, this is why I'm also in this space, because at or testosterone, like we You have to remember how many for reproductive medicine. So, you know, I think the I think I have an entire the corruption of the FDA and all of the mistakes with respect to their oversight in, especially generic drugs. But it's way more regulated nutty supplement land. - Absolutely. I think that the reason we're Tongkat and Fadogia was to provide some intermediate discussion between doing all the correct things, but no supplementation or hormone therapy, and then going straight - Yeah, I- the leap from, I can't focus without a real diagnosis maybe some things like Alpha-GPC low doses of nicotine, right? But I agree entirely. I mean, the sourcing is important. The dosages are worked out empirically on an individual basis. And there aren't There just aren't. - Yeah, and, you know, this is another Peter Principle, right. So I got a lot of patients that you know, during our intake, we go through what drugs and supplements And, you know, a lot of people come in, I'm not taking anything, Peter, I just, you're in charge now, like And then you get a lot and they're like, are going for this part of the documentation. - Right, the people who that you can hear as they from all the pills rattling. - So I give these patients which is you have to answer for every supplement you take, and here's the spreadsheet And it basically just runs it's basically walking of why do you take this molecule? And I think for many people, it's very sobering, right. They kind of, a lot of them you know what, I don't think along this really as to why I'm taking 80% of this stuff. - Well, I know people, and actually we know who are fanatic about like sunning their testes, putting It's kind of all over the place. The number of things that in order to increase testosterone is pretty remarkable. And that said, among the number of things that they're doing to try and promote and in particular skin health, is also kind of outrageous. Everything from collagen which may actually have some But. - As an interesting aside. right? One of the things that I hope is the use of rapamycin for So the animal literature on this is pretty impressive, right? So in mouse models, rapamycin And so- - Interesting. I mean, it totally makes sense why the most potent GRo would also preserve and at least in mice. So I'd love to see the to test this hypothesis. - I definitely want to come back to this, 'cause that's a key thing. I know that a lot of female fertility out there, So going back to, so now I understand why you don't prescribe clomiphene, because of this desmosterol, What about testosterone therapy? So less, - Yeah. less or no estrogen inhibition or aromatase inhibition. we're only using an aromatase blocker, and we use Arimidex when we do. It's just to get that estradiol I like to see it between 30 and 50. That's the sweet spot. And I don't know, I would not even a third, I'd require a micro dose of Most do not. And I'd rather err on the than a little low. So I never really want to be below 25, unless sometimes it's it is what it is, that's fine. But if we're suppressing it to below 25, I never want to be in that zone. And then yes, so TRT is giving testosterone cypionate - Injectable, so as - Correct. I used to use pellets with women, for some who were really adamant about the convenience of it, I just, I'm mostly not doing that and I've never been a - You can't control the right? the dose, yeah, that's But I don't think, there's putting a pellet into a man and a woman. So when you're putting a it's like, it's that big. When you're putting for six months of testosterone, it's two sums of pellets that So you're putting like a V-shape. - [Andrew] Where are you putting this? - You're putting it into the gluteal fat. So it's just a more morbid procedure, and I don't think it's necessary. I think if you know how through sort of the injections, and now- - [Andrew] Injections are no big deal. - Yeah, well especially we're having them do So it's not IM, they're using 25 gauge needle, which is you can push the oil through, once to twice a week, depending on. And by the way, if we use Xyosted, which is a preloaded pen. - And are you having all men take HCG to maintain fertility and testicular size? - Got it. - And by the way, we do not we don't like to use who still want to maintain fertility. We just steer them away from that. - Because total sperm count goes down. - Yeah, we just say, why risk it. Like we'd rather use HCG. - [Andrew] Yeah, just on its own. - Yeah, just wait till Bank sperm, wait till before we go to testosterone. - What are some of the benefits, and what are some of the cautionary notes with appropriate TRT, meaning the kind of contour A lower dose with the yes People, what did generally What does it allow them to do that they couldn't do or feel before? And then in terms of what Is it LDL, blood pressure, those kinds of things. Are there some other things as well? - Yeah, it depends on the doses, right? I mean, again, we're using so it's pretty rare on more than a hundred milligrams I think for comparison, like a bodybuilder could during a high growth phase. - I know some of these or they're doing moderate levels but they're also taking you know, SARMs, and a I mean, their stacks I mean, no disrespect to that sport, but I mean, people are dying like crazy in that sport right now. - [Peter] It's outside of physiology. - Yeah, and I think for they look, they hear bodybuilder why would somebody do that anyway? - [Peter] Right. - I think that's the typical response. - So the point is, a lot of, but we owe those guys a 'cause they've shown us the boundaries. - Including the women. - That's right, yeah, yeah. And so, those bodybuilders like what happens. And so yeah, the bloating, hair loss, hair growth, all The truth of it is, we just don't see those - But a hundred milligrams My understanding- I mean, the reality of it is I mean there's, probably the is maybe 70 twice a week. - What's the youngest patient - Actual testosterone? - Probably, that's a good Maybe 40. - I think that's great for people to hear, 'cause I know that a lot of TRT is the way to go, and I would argue unless you're doing everything else right and you're still hypogonadal put that time off. Because also the fertility issue you want to delay, delay, delay. - Well, again, it depends if you're in your 20s I would hope you would to at least preserve testicular function. Now again, we don't actually know if after being on HCG for 10 years, your pituitary will still work. - Right, you won't be luteinizing hormone. So, it might be the case that you're going to need something to kick start it, and I don't want anybody who's using Clomid for fertility, to think that there's I was, my concern over this became like, if you're going to be on this Not if you're using or something like that. So, again, if we felt was not working, I would be happy to put three months of Clomid on them to kind of try to see if - Do you have men cycle at these low dosages? Are they taking a month vacation from it every once in a while? You know, I was talking to we're going to do, we just eight weeks on, then eight weeks on HCG, eight weeks on, then eight weeks on HCG. So that's going to be a cycle that maintains his testosterone level, but fluctuates between endogenous, exogenous, Sometimes we'll just do And there it's like, how much but understanding his T will - Seems to me there's for somebody to develop a molecule that can directly target SHBG, besides Oxandrolone and Anavar, right? If one could just drop it seems like one could adjust the free T in a way that would be great. I don't know why that but somebody ought to do it. The chemistry can't be - that hard. about this many, many years ago. I wish I could remember what his ID, he had a comment about this and I don't remember what it was, 'cause I had that thought too, like man. Especially for that subset of guys who have normal testosterone, but they're just over binding it. - I'm really glad that of total testosterone versus ever since going on podcasts and talking about it on this podcast, people will send me their numbers. They'll send me their charts and then they'll send and I can tell you, and I haven't done fancy statistics on it, there's very little correlation between someone's absolute testosterone I mean, some of these guys really strong, and they'll say, oh, total testosterone is 550, 480, right. And then other people, you but you look at them and you think, oh, they kind of have kind of And so it's got to be this plus estrogen, et cetera. And so cosmetically- and nutrition too, right. - I mean, I just think, I think for all this which I enjoy talking about and, you know, I enjoy talking about long-term health 'cause it's another controversial topic, I also think people kind of - [Andrew] I agree. - And I think there's a if I could just fix my testosterone, everything will be better. And it's sort of like, no, Really, the only purpose in is to give you the It's really going to help you recover more from your workouts. This should just give to experience muscle protein synthesis. So, you know, if I just give and you sit on the couch and and you're not exercising anymore, you're not going to experience I mean, my testosterone level throughout my life. And when I think about as an adult, not sort of including when I was sort of a fanatical teenager, but as an adult, when was I at my absolute like my best performance on I was 38-years-old, by My fat free mass index was like 23.2, 23.3 kilograms per meter squared. I mean, I was huge, My testosterone was in the toilet. I was over-training like crazy. I was, you know, exercising killing it in the gym, cycling like my life depended on it, grossly over-trained, I mean physically looked like You know, today my T's as it was then. So, you know, now you what if you took T back then? How much better could you have been? Sure. But, again, I think the take home is just giving somebody T It probably helps on the without any other thing. But to me that's a waste, like that's squandering the which is the ability to do capture the benefit of it - I agree, and I think that the psychological effect of testosterone, whether or not it's is it makes effort feel good. - Yeah. it really seems to do that. And Sapolsky tells me the main reason, or mechanistically the main is by adjusting levels of - Interesting. some interesting imaging there. I'd love to chat more about and I know this is a but I think we're doing a but not getting stuck in the There's tremendous debate dietary cholesterol directly relates to, or does not relate to, serum Here's my- - I think, well, let me put it this way. There are people that argue, - Yeah, yeah, yeah. that if one eats a ton of saturated fat, that LDL goes up and HDL goes down. - Oh, okay, but that's not - No, not dietary cholesterol per se, but, and then there are people any increase in saturated fat that you already synthesize for hormone production, et cetera. I'd like to talk about this in terms of how one should read their charts. My LDL is in what I'm My HDL is in what I'm I do try and not overeat and red meat, but I do and I feel pretty good. But most people are operating eating saturated fat is bad, and you only do it insofar And then of course there's that love to eat organs and meats, and really pack cholesterol, and would argue that it doesn't it's not going to impact your health. What's the reality around saturated fat, at least in your view? - So first let's differentiate just for the listener, I want to make sure people understand. So, cholesterol is a really So it's a ringed molecule. God, I used to know exactly but like it could have 36 It is a lipid, so it is that is synthesized by every It is so important that without it, if you look at sort of genetic conditions that impair cholesterol synthesis, depending on their severity, So in other words, anything our ability to produce cholesterol, is a threat to us as a species. And the reason for that the cell membrane of So, you know, as you know, even though a cell is a spherical thing, it has to be fluid, right? It's not just a rigid like a blow up ball, right? It's got to be able to to mesh with other cells. It also has to accommodate that traverse its membrane to allow ions and things And it's cholesterol to that membrane. It's also, as you're alluding to, the backbone of some of in our body. Estrogen, progesterone, So we have this thing, super important. Okay. Then let's talk about, can you Yes, you can eat foods that What was known in 1960, but somehow escaped until finally the acknowledged this a few years ago, is that the cholesterol you eat does not really make it into your body. And the reason for that So we have, and not to get I really think it's how this thing works. So we have cells in our they're the endothelial cells of our gut. They have, each one of them has basically two transporters on them. So the first is called the Niemann-pick C1-like 1 transporter. The second is called the Okay. The Niemann-pick C1-like 1 transporter will bring in any sterol, cholesterol, zoosterol, phytosterol. Any sterol that fits through Virtually all of that is that gets taken back to the liver, that the liver packages So that's what aids in our digestion, which is another thing I In addition to using cholesterol for cell membranes and hormones, we wouldn't be able to digest because it's what makes up the bile salts. So our own cholesterol is throughout our body, and this is the way it It's through this Niemann-pick When it gets in there, the body, this is the checkpoint of regulation. This is where the body says, do you have enough cholesterol If yes, I will let that into the circulation. So it'll go off the not the luminal side, into the body. Alternatively, the body We have enough cholesterol. I'm going to let you poop this out. And now the ATP-binding it'll go back into the luminal So all of the cholesterol in our body is not esterified. And it doesn't have that attached to it. The cholesterol you eat is esterified, and an esterified cholesterol molecule simply can't physically pass through that Niemann-pick C1-like 1 transporter. Now, we probably manage to de-esterify 10 to 15% of our dietary cholesterol. So in other words, there are small amounts that do make their way but it represents a small fraction of our total body's pool of cholesterol. Again, this was known, even by Ancel Keys, the guy who turned fat of all time. Ancel Keys acknowledged this in the 1960s. Dietary cholesterol plays no Again, it took the another 60 years to figure that out. But even now they acknowledge that. Dietary cholesterol has no bearing. - So why is it that it's or at least people who from good institutions, claiming - [Peter] Saturated fat's different. - Saturated fat and red meat, things that are rich in is bad for us in terms - So this is two different things. So saturated fat will erase LDL cholesterol. So it's important to what is saturated fat? So saturated fat of just so people understand. Totally different Cholesterol is this very multiple rings stuck together. SFA, saturated fat, is just that is fully saturated, and it can exist in isolation. It can exist in a or, you know, a phospho lipid, or all sorts of things like that. So when we eat foods that contain fat, basically there are three Is it saturated, is it or is it polyunsaturated, The observation that eating saturated fat raises cholesterol is generally correct. But again, now it makes, because if we're going to we have to explain what LDL is. This is another one of those things that's just so grossly it makes having discussions Let's go back to the So every cell in our and almost without There are a handful of times, however, when a cell needs to borrow Okay, so how would you do this, right? So if you're sort of, if and you want to design a system, you have to be able to from one cell to another. The most logical place is through the circulation. And the problem with Plasma is water. So now you have this problem, which is, I want to transport cargo in a hydrophilic medium. Can't do it. So if you think about all in our blood, sodium, things like that, they're water soluble. It's easy. They just move back and forth in our blood with no chaperone. But when you want to move cholesterol, you have to package it in That something is called a lipoprotein. So we have these spherical molecules that are lipid on the inside, protein on the outside, lipoprotein, and inside they contain So now you've got this spherical thing, triglyceride, cholesterol on the inside, and it's chaperoned by that allows it to move And those lipoproteins exist So if you run these out on you'll identify different densities. The density is a function and how much lipid is in it. So the highest density of this is called a high density lipoprotein, and the lowest density of this is called a very low density lipoprotein, a VLDL. And then next to that you have an LDL, a low density lipoprotein, and then next to that you have an IDL, an intermediate density lipoprotein. So, you know, it actually goes So when people say my LDL what are they saying? They're saying the of my LDL particles is a hundred So the total cholesterol concentration you have in your circulation is that number that So if someone's blood panel it means that if you take all the lipoproteins in their and measure the cholesterol content, it's 200 milligrams per deciliter. And for all intents and purposes, because the IDLs are so short-lived, that's basically the sum your VLDL cholesterol, Those three things sum to - What about LDL little a - [Peter] LP little a is another- - LP, excuse me. he's another actor. He is a special type of LDL that, again, in sort of 10 to 20% of the population, is a really bad actor. So that's an LDL that has called apolipoprotein little a. - [Andrew] Got it. - The other thing I'll just say on this, because earlier I mentioned ApoB. There are two broad There are those that are wrapped in ApoBs, and those that are wrapped in ApoAs. The ApoA family is the HDL family. The ApoB family is the - I see. So for somebody who let's say let's just stay with 200 for simplicity. What do you like to see in - Couldn't care less. I only care about ApoB. I only care about ApoB. I care about the causative ApoB is the thing that - And what levels are when you see levels of you get really concerned? - It depends on the person's objectives. So again, we take a very different view. I mean, we have. - Vitality now, and I want - Yeah, so if you see- - If you tell me you want you're going to need to keep your ApoB below 30 milligrams per deciliter. - Let's say I want to live to how about, I don't care how long I live, but I want to feel great while I live. - Again, it depends, right? Like anybody who's had a heart attack is going to be compromised to feel well after. Right, so. - I guess, I say it that way, because if you're going to tell me that in order to achieve that I'm going to have to and my- - No no, to get- then I'm not really interested. - Sure, but to get LDL people think of it as LDL, ApoB is this total And that's what matters. Those are the big atherogenic particles. LDL also includes the Lp[a], although the concentration of Lp[a] is relatively speaking so small that it doesn't generally So we treat ApoB, and basically you want ApoB to be as when you were born. So we start developing heart That's just the way it is. The autopsy studies make When you look at autopsies of young people who are dying in their 20s, and this was first done in the Again, it's always done So in the 1970s, it was who died in Vietnam. In the early 2000s it was but some young women, who were, you know, dying in Iraq and Afghanistan. And we saw without any ambiguity that cardiovascular disease is who are 18, 19, 20-years-old. - [Andrew] Wow! - And to be clear, they aren't at that age. They're still 40, 50 years away from it. But this is a lifelong disease. And we also know that the until ApoB reaches a certain threshold. And that's the threshold by the time we're sort of in our teens. So it's this really young ApoB level of kind of 20 to 30 that makes it impossible So ApoB is necessary, but not Now that, go ahead. - Oh, I'm sorry, I was just going to ask, what are some of the top behavioral nutritional and prescription drug-based - Well, nutritionally, you basically have two big tools, right? And it depends on what's driving up ApoB. So ApoB, remember, is the concentration of And what do they carry? Cholesterol and triglycerides. So anything that reduces cholesterol and reduces triglycerides, Triglycerides are generally So more insulin-resistance, more carbohydrate intake, So we, I mean clinically, this is readily apparent to If you restrict carbohydrates, you will reduce triglycerides. That just happens all day long. But if you reduce triglycerides by raising fat intake so So you have to be able to think about it. So in an ideal world, it's which tends to be the one while lowering carbohydrate, But here's the reality of it is, there's nobody with dietary intervention that's going to get to a level of 30 milligrams per deciliter. I mean, I've never seen anything. - Pure dietary intervention. - So what are the other things that- - [Peter] It's got to be - Statin type interventions? - Well, now you have So the tried and true is the statin. So statins work by inhibiting and the net effect of that is that the, so the liver is really It doesn't want too much, When you inhibit cholesterol synthesis, the liver says, I want more cholesterol. So it puts more LDL and it pulls the LDL out of circulation. That's what lowers the So, you know, again, nine we typically use four of them. The side effect profile, contrary to kind of all the sort of statin-hating propaganda out 5% of people experience muscle soreness, which reverses upon cessation. - Cognitive effects? - Again, I think it's, in in a placebo, no effect whatsoever, right. So does that mean that they won't complain of something? No, but if you look at clinical trials, there's no evidence whatsoever that statins impair cognition. There's also no evidence that they accelerate the risk In fact, it's the opposite. Now we will, there's a very which is we'll look at patients with highly suppressed desmosterol levels. We will back off. We do want to maintain because of some evidence very preliminary, but why take the chance? We have so many other why would we over-suppress synthesis in a susceptible individual? So the next tool you look at is a drug that blocks the absorption, or the reabsorption of cholesterol. Remember that Niemann-pick So that guy has a drug called ezetimibe that just mechanically blocks it. So in people, and that's we measure all those sterols in people, so we also measure things And the phytosterols give us an indication of how active that transporter is. So the higher your phytosterols, the more likely you are Next class of drugs is a drug that blocks but only in the liver. So the statin does it globally. This other drug called bempedoic acid does it only in the liver. So it has a very similar Different enzyme. Not quite as potent, but So any patient that's that's adverse, we'll - What's it called, one more time? - [Peter] Bempedoic acid. - Bempedoic acid. - The most potent drug of the So PCSK9, it's a protein in the late '90s, I believe, is responsible for the This was first discovered in called familial So these are people that have Typically their total Their LDL cholesterol north of 200 milligrams per deciliter. This is a disease that is not the genotype. So the phenotype has a which I basically just gave you. The genotype is, there's a There's over 3000 mutations that are known to produce that phenotype. This was discovered to be one of them. In people who had hyper functioning PCSK9, this protein was just constantly hammering and destroying the LDL receptors. And so their LDL would be huge. And by extension, their So in 19, no sorry, in 2006, Helen Hobbs and colleagues discovered an opposite group of population. People who had LDL cholesterol naturally of 10 to 20 milligrams per deciliter, which would be an ApoB of about and who never got heart disease. They were immune to heart disease, no matter how long they live. And they had the opposite, And so that was 2006 in the &quot;New England Journal of Medicine.&quot; That basically got a whole hot on the trail of So now we have these antibodies, and they're wildly effective. - What percentage of your patients over 45 do you have on either a statin or on one of these - Well, often it's in - [Andrew] Eight zero? - Well you have to remember Like, we're in the business people live as long as possible. And you have to take a sort If you, like what's the most prevalent cause of death globally? - [Andrew] Say cardiovascular disease. - Yeah, and like, how close is it? So the last year before COVID, COVID kind of messes up but if you go to 2019, 18.6 million people died of heart disease. Number two, cancer, 10 million. Like nothing's in the zip And if you remember what I just said, if you took everybody in their 20s and reduced them to a you'd make ASCVD an orphan disease. - So. can you do that? why don't we hear more about this? I realize there's some nuance. It's not straightforward, eat less cheese, red get on a statin. But why do we hear so little about ApoB, in the general discussion? Social media is such a People shouting into Some are beautiful bronze tunnels with clean walls and others And they all converge in the same place. - Yeah. But why do we hear so little about this? I mean, I'm not on a statin, but now I'm beginning to think that maybe that might be a one of these other compounds. I don't know the last time I I'm guessing my physician did. But why don't we hear more about this? This sounds so important. It sounds like the most 'cause all the hormone stuff and all the stuff about and ADHD and all the rest, I mean, is irrelevant - Yeah. It's a great question, I don't as to why this isn't I think the bigger problem is how to think about it? I mean the, and there's a I'm working on that really why aren't we looking at atherosclerosis in terms of treating the causative agent? Instead, we look at So that's the fundamental medicine 2.0 and medicine 3.0. Medicine 2.0, which is what we're generally practicing today, when it comes to ASCVD says, look, we will treat you, we will they still don't talk about ApoB, but that's a very American thing. If you go outside of the United States, everybody's talking about ApoB, it's in the guidelines and everywhere else. The United States is and it's due to a couple of in the lipid world. But the paradigm is, when when there's a 5% chance a heart attack, stroke, or now it's time to treat you. Medicine 3.0 says that's not You treat the causative agent. If there's a causative If blood pressure raises you lower blood pressure. If smoking raises the risk of And the reason that the when you're looking at 10-year risk, is age is the biggest driver of risk. I mean bar none, right? So if you take a 70-year-old and perfect blood pressure their 10-year risk of ASCVD is probably four to five times higher than the most unhealthy 30-year-old. It's not even close. - It's a lot like eye disease. You know, there are exceptions, of course, but we always say that for going blind from glaucoma is being an older person, frankly. - So if you could identify for glaucoma, imagine if the paradigm was, we're only going to treat it when your risk of blindness reaches 5%, which isn't triggered until Wouldn't you rather know - Absolutely. if maybe being in the sun using this type of eye drop has a negative impact, I So that's the fundamental difference. It's a philosophical difference, And I will acknowledge that I make no consideration. I am only coming at this through I am never coming at this That makes my life easier, and it makes the problem I don't have to answer the quality adjusted life year problem. I don't have to ask the question, is it economical to treat people at 30? I don't know the answer to that question. But I also know that when really complicated problems, the more you can simplify the better. So I've just acknowledged if you want to criticize Let's be transparent. But all I care about is the and in that situation, if they can justify the cost of treatment. - An esoteric question, and The esoteric question relates to something that I think is a little bit which is, peptides and stem cells and PRP. I don't want to go off on too but I know you've done a number of posts on social media recently that were, I have to just tell you and I really appreciate your own tissue rehabilitation experience, and point people to that, because this is a landscape and they don't know how to navigate it. And a mutual friend of sent me a text and said, I'm and what do you know about this gastric peptide that people report getting injections knee, et cetera, and feeling but there really aren't good And you hear all the same platelet-rich plasma, PRP, there are a lot of stem There are not a lot of stem cells in them. And you also hear about stem cells, which are not FDA for most uses in this people are flying down to And what is your with things like BPC-157, specifically, 'cause peptides is a huge landscape. We should probably do a Things like PRP. PRP is now approved for, I mean, women are getting injections to improve follicle count. We know this. People are getting injections of PRP into every tissue and organ and, hell, men are getting injected for all sorts of reasons What's the deal with PRP, Do you ever see interesting effects? Are you curious about these compounds? Do you prescribe or direct The FDA approved ones of course. - Yeah, so short answer is, I'm definitely curious about them and I'd love to see the work done, but I also think this is as it gets. PRP less so, but certainly And, you know, I just think, if you're going to do something you got to show up with So let's use rapamycin I'm a huge proponent of rapamycin. And you can say, well, Peter, how can you take or prescribe rapamycin for GRo protective effects, when we do not have a human clinical trial demonstrating that it lengthens life? And the answer is, because I that all point in the same direction across every model organism going back more than a billion years. And that's really different from, Joey, Sammy, and Sally did this thing, and I think it works. And they just can't be compared. Now I have no idea if stem cells work. I have no idea if BPC-157 works. I have no idea, frankly, though it might seem to have some efficacy and some indications. For example, maybe when it Maybe when it comes to, you But the reality of it is like, I think we just have everything we do has an opportunity cost, and that opportunity cost But I actually find a lot of times it's in time and effort and energy Now, when I was, you know, waiting to get my shoulder surgery, this is an injury that This is an injury, you know, this injury was actually probably the greatest source of discomfort I had swimming the Catalina Channel So that tells you how But, you know, I sort like, I'm going to have to have it fixed. And I sort of went down is there anything I can do You know, would infusing a And in speaking with as many the answer was kind of unambiguously no. And by the way, it doesn't if I injected a bunch of stem There are a lot of reasons that Just like there are a bunch if somebody injects saline So the question is, is it going and if so, will it do So I'm pretty sure that if with my particular injury, and injected them with stem cells, it wouldn't do a thing, because I had a complete labral tear. Are there some injuries Yeah, possible. So the question is, how to narrow down your patient so that you might see a signal? 'Cause the other risk of doing a trial is you have too much of a You don't know what the and you get meaningless results. You get a null result, when in but you were underpowered to you only had 10% of that was the right patient So, you know, will we ever get there? I don't know, because I don't see what You have people who are doing procedures on the what would their to sort of see this legitimized? You'd really have to be able to say, well, there really needs to be sort of a pharma angle to this. It's sort of one of the Like if I was a billionaire, I feel like the way I would would be running clinical trials on stuff nobody cared about. - Yeah. - Likewise, I will join yesterday we recorded a sit who works on aggression and rage, and other things related to that, and has identified peptides for other reasons that might even adjust aggression and went off on to a none of these drugs exist on the market for the treatment of psychiatric illness, and yet probably would work. And what's missing is a billionaire, or a billion dollar company, that is willing to invest in something that very likely will work, but the market value isn't quite there. Or it failed in a previous trial, and so no one wants to touch Hopefully someone listening to provide this sort of a venue for that. The kind of work that we're talking about. I have to ask. - But I want to make one other the problem with a lot of it's a crutch. You know, it's sort of like hey, just fix my T man, and And it's like, no, that's You know, what I worry who are clamoring for this stuff is a lot of times they don't realize that, whether it's psychologically or otherwise, they sort of say, well, now I don't have to do the hard I mean, if I've learned anything through my shoulder surgery, - How does it feel? - Amazing. I mean, look, I still It's going to be, you know, a while. I haven't even been And it'll probably be a you know, long dead hangs I mean, I dunno, maybe nine months. But it's, you know, I'm not there yet. But what I learned through a really amazing prehab like you just got to do the Shoulders are the most tedious, I mean, three days a week I am doing, four days a week I am doing one for this shoulder, that super boring, super frustrating. But, I mean, I have faith And I think a lot of people are saying, just shoot the stem cells into me and I don't have to do any of that stuff. And the reality of it is, I think that's a very - Have you ever tried BPC-157? - Yeah, we tried it. We had, you know, again, we had a bunch of patients ask about it, so, you know, my view is, okay, I was pretty convinced that to it so I was like, well, I wouldn't prescribe it to a patient unless I tried it myself. So me and another doc we did it for, I don't I didn't notice a single thing. - Interesting. Well, thank you for that. Shifting to a less esoteric, but, and I think probably more Metabolomics. We're talking about this What is, what are metabolomics? Why should we be thinking about them? I have some idea of but most people I think metabolomics at all. And for those that are, I'm So tell us about metabolomics and what you'd like to see more of in the world of metabolomics. - Yeah, so omics is just to describe the study of something. So genomics right, is like and, you know, proteomics, the broad study of proteins So metabolomics is just and metabolites, unlike a they're a relatively finite many of which are known, but So glucose is a metabolite. Acetyl-CoA is a metabolite. Lactate is a metabolite. And so the question is, what and how they work? And more importantly, what do we know about and the metabolomic profile So let's use two extreme Everybody understands, the exercise produces about the most favorable phenotype imaginable. So if you wanted to to understanding that, you might look at, is there a change in the And the answer is probably not, but maybe if you looked at and epigenome, you could But you might instead look at kind of the proteomic side of that. Like, what is gene expression doing? And there you would see a lot of changes. Well, what I don't think people although there was a that just came out two weeks ago that looks for novel is they're a huge signal that looks different in versus non-exercise. And could that represent part of how exercise is transmitting You know, people always talk about the holy grail of metabolomics would be can you find a pill to mimic exercise? And I think the answer to that question is going to be undoubtedly no. For a couple of reasons. One, even if you could mimic the longevity sort of lifespan parts of it, you could never mimic the But what if you could do both, right? What if there were small some of the protective and you could combine those with exercise? What if those could be treatments like diabetes, things like that? So that's why I think is relatively untapped, and I think potentially - Speaking of frontiers, I hear a lot nowadays about that prescription drugs GLP-1 directly, glucagon-like peptide. People are talking about this as the blockbuster obesity drug. I haven't heard this to adjust human body weight favorably, since the discussions of and then of course fen-phen because people were dying. Not left and right, but enough people died that they pulled it from the market. - Which, by the way, is You know, it was the enantiomer that was the wrong enantiomer. And what it resulted in was, - Was it mitral valve prolapse? - It was an MVP, yeah, it was Yeah, I think the chordae in the mitral valve, and it was mostly young you know, horrible pulmonary Probably pulmonary hypertension But there were, you know, there were two enantiomers of the drug, and had they just used the other one, this issue wouldn't have happened. And there was a stupid reason to use the one they did. And it's one of those things where once you make the mistake, It's not like that company we want to do over, but we're going to do it So it's a tragic outcome. But you're absolutely right. I think the GLP-1 agonists you know, for all intensity certainly seem safer. - Are you excited about them? - Yeah, I am, yeah. I mean, I think we're tip of the iceberg. They're not miracle drugs, right. They come with problems, they're catabolic across the board. So patients are losing fat, but they're losing muscle as well. So, you know- - You just sent all the [indistinct], that's all you have to say. All you have to say nowadays it's going to drop change someone's skin, hair or it could extend life and people are gone. Humans are humans. That's a neuroscience not a biology medicine issue. But I'm pleased to hear 'cause I hear a lot of excitement. I haven't heard anything - It takes a while to So if you're looking at semaglutide, the dose that was studied, or maybe it was a little But it took about 16 comfortably up to 2.4 milligrams weekly, which was the dose that In our experience, when we use it, we don't even usually We can usually get enough benefit between one and two milligrams. And we usually move people But we've definitely had who can't tolerate it due to the nausea. - Interesting. - Which might be part of is the sort of suppression of appetite, which, if taken to an - Interesting. - Yeah, I think most of is central, not peripheral. - Huh. So I don't know, I saw is acting both on cells in the periphery, to cause gut distention in some ways, or sort of make people feel full, through promotion of that make people feel as if even though their stomach is empty. And then perhaps some Is that what- - Yeah, I think it's doing, I would bet 80% of it's It is also improving insulin but I don't think that much of its benefit. - Super interesting. - And there's next gen versions of these that seem to be more long-lasting. So right now, if you look you're going to see a weight regain. So there's newer versions that seem to preserve the So it begs the ultimate what's the total use case Is this going to be a Or is it going to be a drug that a person has to stay will they become tachyphylactic? Will they gain resistance to it? So it's still super early - My hope is that it the way that you describe testosterone and estrogen therapies, that it would allow people to that's absolutely required - Yep, and we've also seen, you can cheat through semaglutide, right? You can drink a lot of calories, and sort of get around the drug. So, you know, for example, like, you know, we always encourage patients to really just eliminate alcohol. That's like, that's the to lose weight. And so if you're still which is incredibly caloric, and just drinking a lot of caloric stuff, we've seen that that's less, this is just anecdotal with our patients, but we've seen that that's, it's easier to get around the - Interesting. I so appreciate your answers today. First of all, they were and pointed towards I also just want to thank you more broadly for the work that you do, because obviously you have this incredible clinical experience that you work very closely with. But I see you really as one of the few, both clinicians, and I did you do a PhD as well? No, but I consider you a clinician scientist is the appropriate in the way that you really still drill into studies in detail. I know a lot of clinicians, not all of them do that for sure. And the fact that you're so hungry for the new incoming knowledge, as well as the old literature. So, it's an incredibly rich and I really appreciate both in your podcast, which I think that we'll in anticipation of that. But I know I, and a ton of other people, are really excited for the book. And in the way that you and your podcast and going on podcasts. So thank you so much. I learned a ton, I know - Thanks Andrew. Great to be here, man. - Thank you. Thank you for joining me Dr. Peter Attia, all about in order to maximize our I highly recommend people &quot;The Drive&quot; is excellent, based on today's conversation, and it's easily available Overcast, and Google. Please also check out It's peteratillamd.com. There you can find links as well as a signup for his That newsletter provides related to health that If you're learning from and please subscribe to our YouTube channel. That's a simple zero Please also subscribe to the podcast on Spotify and Apple, and you have the opportunity to leave us up to a five star review. If you have questions or about topics you'd like us to cover, or guests you'd like us to interview on the Huberman Lab Podcast, please put those in the We do read all those comments Please also check out the sponsors mentioned at the beginning and check out Momentous supplements, our new partners in the supplement space, and check out Athletic Greens. That's the best way to If you're not already please do so. We are hubermanlab on Twitter, and we are also hubermanlab on Instagram, and both places I cover science some of which overlap with the content of the Huberman Lab Podcast, but much of which is unique the Huberman Lab Podcast. Again, that's hubermanlab on Instagram, and hubermanlab on Twitter. Please also check out our Neural This is a newsletter that has It also includes a lot It's very easy to sign You go to Hubermanlab.com, go to newsletter. You supply your email, but we do not share We have a very clear and which is we do not share And the newsletter comes out once a month, and it is completely zero cost. Again, just go to Hubermanlab.com and go to the Neural Network newsletter. I'd also like to point out that that the Huberman Lab so these are brief clips anywhere that encompass single concepts related to sleep, to focus, We talk about things like caffeine, when to drink caffeine when and how and if relative to sleep, dopamine, physical health, and on and on. All the things that relate to the topics most of interest to you. You can find that easily look for Huberman Lab and it will take you there. Subscribe, and we are with new clips. This is especially useful, I believe, for people that have missed or you're still working of Huberman Lab Podcast, which admittedly can be rather long. And last, but certainly not least, thank you for your interest in science. [upbeat music]