- I have a little story for you. Back when I was first my chef was making a risotto and she asked me to brunoise some onions, and a brunoise is just a micro I didn't have my own knives back then, and so I was working with a It was big, it was bulky. I spent maybe 20 minutes and she came back, she asked me to do something else. I come back three minutes later, she had perfectly brunoised they were going into a staff meal. They weren't good enough. And I knew at that moment I needed to develop better knife skills. (upbeat music) Having great knife skills and it's not just about pretty food, although the adage you eat with your eyes exists for good reason. As you get more comfortable cooking takes less time, there's less food waste, when you have to prepare a large meal it's less intimidating, and best of all, you don't worry about hurting I'm using a chef's knife in this video, but the techniques we'll be talking about, they can be applied to That being said, if you're I think it has to be a chef's knife. As we go through this, there First, you need a sharp knife. A sharp knife offers It's just critical. Now, if you wanna see a let me know in the comments. Second, there's no one and these are just techniques I've learned over the years that really work for me. (upbeat music) My default grip for pretty much all knife You use your thumb and just above the handle. The rest of your fingers wrap around. This hold kind of gives me a nice balance between precision and power. Now, when I'm holding a knife, I want it to be an extension of my arm. I imagine a line that runs from my shoulder through my wrist through all the way to This is just ergonomically It's really important if you're I don't wanna see any of this action, this twisting of the wrist. It's not great, and if I need it's my shoulder that's rotating and doing the work rather than my wrist. Now what about my offhand and the food? I've seen a lot of cooking right on the center of the board. The knife is at a right angle. You see a lot of right angles in these videos and they're But if you zoom out, you'll notice that my arm is kind of in order to hold onto the food. My wrist isn't quite as I'm standing at a weird angle It's not how you really work in a kitchen. You really wanna make use of your board and sometimes Cutting at right angles isn't necessary. What you want is for your arms to be in My elbow isn't jacked up anymore. I'm not reaching forward unnecessarily. Everything is just more And finally, I wanna make sure It keeps them away from so I won't hurt myself, but for other reasons that we'll see shortly. (upbeat music) So for slicing, I wanna be or third of my knife, and rather than pushing straight down, and damage it, it also I wanna use my entire arm for this motion and I want to push the and that diagonal motion makes It doesn't require as much force, it doesn't compress the food, and it's just really, really effective. You can actually hear the of pressure required when It sounds aggressive. You can hear the vegetable crunching. Not great. What you wanna hear instead (knife clacks softly) If we were to zoom in on that it's actually not perfectly smooth. There are micro serrations on really makes use of them. As I'm doing this knife work, and my blade is actually They act as a guide to help me as I slice. You don't have to use a push cut. You could also use a pull cut where you're drawing the knife back. I find that this back is really great for really delicate foods. It puts very little There's very little compression. You can hear it's almost silent. Not the easiest one to master, but worth learning after Now let's build on what for another cut, dicing. (upbeat music) Dicing foods is pretty straightforward. You're using either a push or of whatever it is you're dicing. You take those slices and you cut them into strips, and then and cut them into small pieces. Really the only thing is how much waste is acceptable and how uniform do If you're after uniformity, you're gonna wanna do what's taught at culinary schools where You have a little bit more your dice is perfectly uniform For a quicker and less wasteful approach, you can skip squaring off those edges. You still end up with a uniformity and that's perfectly fine It's kind of what I expect for other folks and it's what If you're dicing an onion, the method is gonna be and this is a great opportunity to build on the skills we've just learned. Let me show you how I dice onions. I like to cut the onion That root holds the petals together. When you dice an onion, because you can't rearrange what you're doing instead of horizontal and vertical cuts. I like to do the horizontal cuts first. I find that if I've done I have a hard time holding to come back across the other way. The mistake I see a lot of is they push the knife straight back towards the root end, and you're not making use of along the blade. I think it's much more and at an angle. That diagonal motion means as much pressure when you're You don't wanna push down with a ton of pressure on the onion. You really only need to keep If you push too hard, it can through the onion as you're cutting. The other thing to keep in mind is to keep your I've seen people kind of use their palm and they kind of flex their fingers up. That works. You can also just place After the horizontal cuts are done, I'll move on to the vertical cuts. The first thing I do is so that my arm isn't jacked Rather than this pinch grip, I might move my finger to What this does is it gives me more control of the placement of the tip. That can be really useful if I've gotten an especially long knife or a heavy knife that I'm unfamiliar with, or if I'm trying to space to each other. That extra level of precision moving your finger gives is really nice. For these cuts, I just and you can either push straight down or you can draw the knife back. It's kind of up to you. Once those are made, you and it's another push, or All right, we've covered Let's take it a step further (upbeat music) A mince is simply a really I'm not looking for everything to be I'm just looking for How I mince food really and flavor and aroma that When I'm done, sometimes and smash and damage the food. Other times I wanna be One example of a time where is when you're working with herbs. What I often see when people of this pushing straight will kind of run the knife And what I think is for the food to be be all the same size. And so, you know, if you see you just keep going across, By the end you end up with something that's really dark in color, it's wet, and a little bit sticky. It doesn't sprinkle well As this sits, all those damaged and you get a dark clumpy mass of herbs. Not great. So what you really wanna do is to be a lot more What I like to do is run in one direction, and then I'll of sliced herbs, rotate it 90 degrees, and then come back across the other way so that I'm only cutting the herbs twice. You wanna see as much horizontal motion and as little vertical motion as possible. It's a lot more delicate and gentle and you'll Herbs cut this way will It's pretty different, right? Like you can see that color difference. There are times where that Like if the basil were going into a soup, I wouldn't stress it so much, on a salad, that would not be ideal. These herbs, by contrast, they still have that beautiful before I started cutting it. They're gonna hold onto onto their flavor, which is One instance where I really wanna do a lot of damage is with garlic. In most cases, I like my and in order to get that and break as many of What happens when I do within those cells, and one of the things Allicin is the compound that So really all I'm doing of my knife on the garlic, smashing, and then running my knife back with as much of an up and Kind of like this. What I will also often I'll move my fingers to the tip of the knife and use What this does is it means that my right arm is doing Great, now let's take a look at a dish where knife (upbeat music) What I have in front of me is japchae. This is a Korean sweet potato noodle dish with a bunch of vegetables and some beef. I have a photo of the first day of recipe development where I was making five and as you can see, it It was a great opportunity and maintain my skills, and or maintain yours, I think This dish was actually created for a king. It was served to him by an official and you had best believe he really cared about how his vegetables were cut when he was presenting this dish. The really nice thing that he ended up getting a promotion because the king was just Of the recipes I've developed recently, this is hands down my favorite. I just, I have to dig in. Is it rude to not make eye contact with you people while I eat? This is so good. For all that this is a noodle dish, it's really the vegetables that shine. There's a lot of knife and so having great knife skills means it doesn't take you too much time. You don't waste a ton of food, You get these vegetables There's still crisp the but that tiny bit of heat They just taste better for it. Great knife skills will make a less wasteful cook, and it makes being in the kitchen just a lot more fun. (lively music) (chef laughing) - [Man] We're done. - So what's your go-to Do you dice onions the same way I do? Let me know in the comments below. Be sure to like and subscribe and check out cooksillustrated.com for more great recipes and techniques.