- Enrico Fermi is one legendary Italian physicists, who laid many of the foundations of modern 20th-century physics. The Fermi Paradox is probably the thing he spent least time on, actually. It's almost one throwaway remark. The question is: &quot;Where are they?&quot; By &quot;they,&quot; I mean aliens. We know that we live in a big old galaxy, in a big old Universe. The Milky Way galaxy we now know has something like 400 billion suns, and we now know that most of those suns have planetary systems around them. And so there's a lot of real estate, and there's been plenty of time for civilizations to develop. The Fermi Paradox at its not withstanding the fact that there have been billions of years on billions of worlds for we see no evidence of any of So the paradox is: Why? A possible answer to the Fermi Paradox, the question of why there is because the Earth is pretty much unique in the Milky Way galaxy, in that the climate, the conditions on Earth were for life to go from cell to civilization. If you think about that, that's a big ask. We know that we live We know there are supernova We know that there have the famous impact that wipes There's been no impact big enough to break the unbroken chain of life So maybe, maybe it's the case that whilst there are billions of planets, which may have liquid may have oceans that can support life, it may be that none of those planets in the Milky Way galaxy for long enough to produce civilizations. So that will be a property the so-called 'Rare earth hypothesis.' Another explanation for the Fermi Paradox might be that civilizations live and die. They rise and then they fall. And because of the sheer and the sheer size of the galaxy, no two civilizations ever overlap. I once had the great pleasure the Drake equation, a legend, and he also grows orchids. And I arrived at his on the day that this rare orchid flowers, and it flowers for I think one or two days and then goes away again for the year, and then flowers again the next year- and he used it as an analogy. He said, &quot;Well, maybe So maybe civilizations And so they flower and And just because of the none of them ever overlap. And so there could be the wreckage, the ashes, the fossils of but of course we'd have no way of knowing until we explore the galaxy and maybe find the ruins of these other civilizations. Who knows? Another possibility is They are here. So there are intelligent and they are present in the solar system. Let's think, for example, what such an intelligence might look like. Well, who knows? They could have sent There could be probes all over the place, but if they're the size of an iPhone then we'd have no way of detecting them. So it could be that the advanced alien species, a civilization, is so beyond anything we can comprehend or detect that we haven't seen it- and that's certainly, entirely possible. Another possibility is just The distances between stars are so great that if you imagine there's let's say on the other side of our Galaxy, even if they had the most powerful radio transmitters you could imagine, then it may just be that the distances are so great that the signals are diluted, that we can't detect them Now, perhaps you can build a few light years away to but you can't build a spacecraft Now, it's possible that there are many civilizations out there, but the advanced civilizations sometimes called the the 'Quarantine hypothesis.' Let's imagine that civilizations, when they get technologically advanced also get intellectually, morally advanced. And let's say that they choose, let's say they choose to remain hidden because they don't want to Let's say it's inevitable that if you think about it carefully, and you think there are other advanced civilizations out there, then you choose to remain silent. You hide yourself as best you can. Maybe that's a logical thing to do. I find it difficult to believe, given human history, that that's the way that We certainly haven't made any attempt to remain hidden so far. We broadcast radio We've launched on our pulsar maps, in that case, which shows the location should any other civilization find it. We've tried at every opportunity Carl Sagan argued that a a civilization that can and communicate across perhaps is is wise enough to have overcome those primitive instincts: the instinct to cause to colonize, to walk Perhaps it's inevitable that with technological advance Maybe it's like Star Trek. Maybe it's the &quot;Prime Directive.&quot; - 'Animals who happen to look like us. Still thank the Prime - I don't think we have a right however a planet is evolving.' - Maybe it's morally certain that if you're sufficiently advanced, you decide to take the introduce yourself or interfere but it's a hypothesis. There's an idea in this field, in trying to explain the Fermi Paradox, called the 'Great Filter.' So let's think about what it would mean for a great filter to lie in our future. That would mean that civilizations do arise in the Milky Way galaxy, and get to somewhere like the so they develop rocketry, nuclear weapons, for example. They industrialize. But then there's a filter in the future that stops them becoming true so stops them becoming and stops them ultimately to begin to colonize a galaxy. So why might that be? Why might there be a filter waiting for us in our not too distant future that's gonna stop us from becoming an and ultimately traveling I don't think it's technology. As far as I can see, I don't see anything in principle, that would stop us from becoming an interstellar species. It could be that our knowledge, our scientific prowess exceeds our wisdom, exceeds our political skill. It could be that once the means to destroy itself in the form, for example, of nuclear or maybe some kind of a lack If you look back through there have been several where we came very close or at least setting us For example, where there could have been nuclear launches and weren't. I'm sure there are many others There's the challenge of climate change. We're completely incapable of as a global civilization that could set our civilization back. So it might just be I think my favorite's the other ones, so I'll do the other great filter. If I was to guess why we see no evidence of other civilizations out there, the so-called 'great silence' is because there aren't any The reason I guess that, and I emphasize it's a guess, is biology. So if you look at the then we see that life began 3.8 billion years ago, let's say. But then we see for the best part of three billion years on this planet that there's nothing more And there could be good One that springs to mind is the evolution of what's called the 'eukaryotic cell,' which form all multicellular Those cells, which seem to be prerequisite for complex multicellular life, evolved once on this planet Pretty widely accepted. It's called the 'Fateful And so it seems that there is a very unusual evolutionary event at some point that lead the foundations for us. If it typically is the case that it takes four billion years from then I think there may be very few planets in a typical galaxy for long enough for I think there's one civilization and there only has ever been one, and there might only ever Which, by the way, means that we have a tremendous responsibility not to mess this up. That means the Earth is the only island of meaning in a sea of 400 billion suns. And so if we destroy this, we might destroy meaning However, that's a hypothesis. I will be delighted if it And that's not just because it removes some responsibility from me, and you, and everybody else, but also every scientist should be delighted if they are shown to be wrong. Because the moment you it means you've learned something, and that's the way that So nobody should be worried advancing a hypothesis, an educated guess. And me being wrong, by the way, would constitute a flying saucer landing and some aliens coming out So that would be brilliant. But it would be doubly turn out that I'd learnt which is that complex civilizations are not as rare as I think they are, or civilizations aren't as rare, so that would be a good thing. So there's a lesson. - Want to dive deeper? Become a Big Think member and join our members-only community. Watch videos early and