COOPER: Dr. Kruger, you will know, is that we want to talk about, which is &quot;How and Samuel C. Patterson Professor of New Testament and Early Christianity at Reformed And something I didn't know about you until an undergraduate. Now, for those people who don't you explain a little bit about who he is and maybe KRUGER: Well, that's a great opening everybody. Glad you're here. Just so you know, going to even be a crowd at this interview. it's great to see all these live faces here. Yeah, University of North Carolina in Chapel Hill I I had shown up to my college years as a committed at the time, Bart Ehrman wasn't even famous, tell me why it was filled with fabricated wasn't transmitted reliably. And it was tough; For those of you who don't know who Bart Ehrman written over thirty books, many of them New York critics of biblical Christianity out there today. COOPER: And so, what was it that got you I mean, what was the importance of it to you then KRUGER: Yeah, well, in Ehrman's class he knows Scripture, then everything else is going to way of undermining Scripture...by the way, there And there are lots of new ways today people are dealing with which books belong and which been reliably transmitted, so issues of what to be very troubling in what he was saying, but like it's a whole new world. I was what? Eighteen world I never knew anything about. My pastor had pastor never said anything about these things. I think I want to learn more about this.&quot; So, as that led me into this new field where I realized, and the authority of Bible hangs on these COOPER: And I guess they could go right? And I know you've written recently KRUGER: Yeah, Surviving Religion 101. COOPER: Surviving Religion 101. So, exactly to and suddenly you're getting bombarded by these telling you why the Bible is complete nonsense that unscathed and I know that you have, do KRUGER: I do, yeah. So, for those published last year this book called Surviving Christian Student On Keeping The Faith In College. So, if you read the introduction of the student I'm writing to. It's actually my is at UNC Chapel Hill, right where I was. And I said, you know what? I've been thinking to be written. I wish I'd had this book when and I have been very encouraged to see the me photos every now and then with them holding And then, my daughter gets stopped by people &quot;Are you Emma Kruger?&quot; She is like, &quot;Yeah.&quot; &quot;Are that's been kind of a funny phenomenon. But here's people get their faith challenged in college, And the Lord was good to me to preserve me, but of what was in that class. I see people just faith, they just start doubting and questioning COOPER: Yeah. Why do you think there has not so called Gnostic Gospels? There seems to and so on and so forth. What do you put that a little bit like we had with COVID and you realized that your Aunt May on Facebook epidemiologist. And you're like, &quot;Wow!&quot; You know, everybody wants to quote the Gnostic Gospels. KRUGER: Yeah this is interesting. I've written this cultural fascination with lost gospels. And whether it is the Gospel of Thomas or others. You talk about the canonical Gospels with people the Gospel of Thomas or the Gospel of Peter, then to a number of things, I think actually it goes So, what do postmodern people believe? Not just postmodern people believe that because there no one view can be right. And that is phenomenon. If they can show in their if they can show in their mind that there is a a bunch of different gospels about Jesus, then be right. No one gospel could be right. It has relative.&quot; So, I think driving the fascination which is if I can just show that no one agrees follow the evidence. I can just sort to make up their own ideas. And COOPER: That's interesting. So, there's almost almost that it's almost as if it's not so much these texts. It's more of a moral issue, you &quot;Do you know what? I know what it New Testament prove to be true and what huge claims on my life which I am not KRUGER: Yeah. So, I think people are different reasons. I think, there probably are the historical facts. They just don't know how what the date is. And so, we want to address those number of people who don't really want to know the in their head that multiple gospels must mean no it all away and say, &quot;Okay, I can go live the life like that. You know, I often get in conversations like, one of the classic places I get in You know, every time I get on an airplane, you first thing they ask you is, &quot;What do you do?&quot; I'm as soon as I tell them, you know, &quot;I'm a biblical you know, then right into all the questions, right, which is that, &quot;Well, aren't there COOPER: So, let's just dig down on that KRUGER: Okay. COOPER: You're getting on a plane later on KRUGER: Yeah. COOPER: And they say to you, and maybe, you know, &quot;Okay, I've got sixty seconds to sort And they ask you a question about, Could you give us a bit of a handle on? I know beginning of an answer. But, what might if you've got sixty seconds? And they say, &quot;Well, wonderful gospel. It ought to be included and just all ruled by a load of, you know, KRUGER: Well, I just pretend to No, the Gospel of Thomas is probably the most question a lot, you know, &quot;What's wrong with the to a person who said that. First of all, I would Chances are they haven't or even read the whole in love with the Gospel of Thomas, do they know Logion 114 in the Gospel of Thomas says, &quot;Every woman that makes herself male COOPER: Wow! That's something KRUGER: Yeah, the culture is not going for that, like, &quot;Have you read it?&quot; That would be the first on the date of the Gospel of Thomas?&quot; Across scholars, almost all agree that the Gospel probably, the late second century. In other It's not connected to an apostle. It's late, who was not connected to the original Twelve. want a gospel that at least has a chance to If so, the Gospel of Thomas is not it. if Thomas didn't write the Gospel of Thomas, Well, I say, &quot;Well, look, if you're trying to century, you got to give it a name that people Bob's Gospel or something, right? how about you stick an apostolic name on it? COOPER: It's very interesting. And &quot;Alright, okay. It's fair enough. Good answer on how we got the canon as a whole? How come we've twenty-seven books, you know. What's that all you know, if there was a different they would have just decided on a different set KRUGER: Yeah, that's a common misconception books we have in our New Testament were usually in the fourth century, usually linked well, Constantine basically picked the books banished all others, sort of a &quot;Da Vinci really interesting and good. The problem is that If someone thinks the canon was arbitrarily they just don't understand the history of the much earlier than that. By the middle of the say, twenty-two out of twenty-seven books church. In other words, they weren't picked you know, smoke-filled room discussion. They from the beginning. So, one of the things in that people chose books in the early church, and I If you would have gone up to a Christian in the why did you choose Matthew, Mark, Luke, and &quot;Choose? We didn't choose Matthew, Mark, from the apostles.&quot; And I think you see a very encourage people to get away from that sort of bottom-up version of the canon. It grew naturally COOPER, B.&quot; Yeah, that's very helpful. I mean, not so much talking about this is what the church taking that, could you talk a little bit God giving answers? KRUGER: Yeah. So, here's one of the ideas out canon. Okay, so imagine...this is what people Paul wrote some letters in the first century. friendly advice. And then it wasn't until the &quot;Wow! Have you read these letters? These are we should make these Scripture. What do you is a vote and they sort of make them Scripture. what does it suggest? It suggests that books were later by the church for another purpose and was there from the beginning? What if it's not but simply recognized them as authoritative? And is so important that I've said repeatedly, which simply recognized by the church or chosen by the by God through divine inspiration that means these And they're authoritative and canonical the moment single person. Even when the ink was still dry in God's mind. I mean, yes, it took time for is not from the church. The authority is from COOPER: Should we read KRUGER: I do think we should read apocryphal places I'll actually use the audience I have an audience here. How about I ask How many of you have not just heard of, Okay, maybe four hands. See, this is a good sign. only reading ... you're not doing your COOPER: Is the Gospel of Peter the really KRUGER: Yes, exactly. COOPER: Yeah, okay. KRUGER: Alright. So, when people say, &quot;Should it would be very interesting for people to read realize how different they are than the canonical only works if you've never read them. And, the canonical Gospels. It's one thing if you Matthew, Mark, Luke and John? I mean really read them, and when you do, you realize Gospel of Peter as an example, one of the things actually shows you the resurrection happening. what it looks like Jesus walking out of the tomb, the Gospel of Peter tells you that. It shows &quot;Well, that's pretty cool,&quot; until you realize comes out of the tomb, He's not the Jesus you like sixty-foot Jesus, right? I tell my students And then it gets weirder because the cross follows how did it get in the tomb? Usually, Romans don't but okay so there's a cross in the tomb. floating? Is it walking? And then it in the Gospel of Peter. So, you have a giant and you realize this is not like the canonical them, because when they read them they're going COOPER: I'm certainly going KRUGHER: Yes. COOPER: It's like somebody who has had KRUGER: Yeah, it does look like someone's COOPER: Yeah, the sort of Pink Floyd Gospel. Makes KRUGER: That's probably never been said in any COOPER: No one's ever said those two words. They KRUGER: But they have never COOPER: Never together, never. KRUGER: Yeah. We said this, we didn't know COOPER: That's right, and if they did go to a Pink let me just read you this quote. This is from response to this is. &quot;I did my very best to hold of God with no mistakes, and that lasted for we had over five thousand manuscripts of the alike. The scribes were changing them, sometimes And it finally occurred to me that if I really if He went to the trouble of inspiring the text, the text? Why did He allow scribes to change KRUGER: Yeah. So, I heard this argument as a freshmen have heard ever since because Ehrman argument from textual criticism, which is a field manuscripts. And he says because of the scribal you can't trust them. They are unreliable that led him to abandon his faith. Well, a there are scribal variations, okay. We do know errors, just like anytime you copied a book would New Testament across the board that have been what was originally written and Ehrman takes the variance at all, therefore, the whole thing is And in his mind the reason it's shot is because, then He would have made sure it was preserved Ehrman imposing his own private definition of &quot;Well, if I had my druthers, I would have it the way you would like to do it doesn't mean inspired the original authors. But are we really at any point in all of human history whenever always get it exactly right? I mean, is that kind of insane and ridiculous to think that God decided to write the words down and never let Word through normal historical channels, and yes, but He preserves so many manuscripts COOPER: And that's the strange why didn't He go to the trouble of preserving KRUGER: Yes, He did preserve the text. COOPER: There is a recognized text. KRUGER: Yes, exactly. COOPER: That's the thing, otherwise He wouldn't bit more about that textual variants because, you Let's talk about textual variants. Reading through a very famous passage, to 8:11 where you People are about to stone her and Jesus the first stone.&quot; And you know that in our superscript there which says something like, &quot;The We have a similar thing, of course, at the end of those passages with the same degree of surety and just as authoritative, and if so, why the slightly KRUGER: Yes. So, everybody has run across these say, &quot;The earliest manuscripts do not contain entire article for Tabletalk magazine on exactly You can dig up my article in the archives. But variations, most of them are very small. There are size. There's what is called the long ending of Jesus and the adulterous woman. The earliest and most scholars, most evangelical scholars, think those were not original to either John or People panic when they hear that. They think, &quot;Oh, if you would have had a copy of John in the second okay? And this is the good news, is that we can of manuscripts that we have. In fact, I take my John we have called &quot;P66&quot; where I show them how right to 8:13. There is no story of the adulterous Well, I mean, every pastor has to do his own is original. I don't think it's original. If I wouldn't preach on anything that Word of God and there from the beginning. But English Bibles still retain it in brackets a minority report out there of people who think COOPER: It's actually reassuring, isn't it, that to you in the Bible? I think it's good to see. Let because I know time is running a little short. it's bright. When you taste honey, you know it's you know He is Lord. And when you put God's Do you ever say to people, &quot;Listen, I know the questions. They're e all valid questions. But you ever tried actually taking Jesus at His word, Because there is a sense, isn't there, in which would you say? Do you think that's a valid KRUGER: Oh, absolutely, yeah. COOPER: That was me. KRUGER: Was that Pink Floyd? COOPER: Yes. KRUGER: That was you? COOPER: That was me, yes. KRUGER: Oh, very nice. COOPER: Well, I didn't want to bring it up, but a Can I Really Trust the Bible? But it's a bit like, junior boxer talking to Mike Tyson or something. KRUGER: Well, I think your quote's spot on. to recover more in the church. I've written Revisited, which is a whole book on why the big word. What do we mean by self-authenticating? Word is God's Word is because God demonstrates other words, the Word bears God's own divine know the Bible is the Word of God just from I know the Bible is the Word of God from the characteristics. By the way, that's true of the a book? Well, you would say, &quot;Well, when I read the characteristics of the author coming through. It's like that with God. So, what are the Word? Well, I covered this in my book Canon is the amazing unity and harmony of these but another is what we would call the power your point, which is people need to realize that you read it, you expose yourself to it, you'll God's Word is reading you. It's not so much that is doing something to you. In other words, it's of book could be a living book? Only a book given COOPER: Yeah, that's really, really helpful. One last question then: book of KRUGER: You just couldn't end COOPER: I couldn't help it, I'm sorry. KRUGER: Yeah. So, I just lectured on this at the book of Hebrews is in our Bibles, but the author. It's not in the text anywhere. And so, the Paul may have still been the author and a lot of My answer is Origen's answer. Origen, who was &quot;Only God knows.&quot; So, I think I'm going to stick Now, that is something we cannot hypothesize. I think there is some merit to that, but at the its canonicity? No, because the book of Hebrews an immediate disciple of the apostles, that he what makes a book part of the canon. It's not so in it is apostolic material. And in Hebrews' COOPER: That's super helpful. Will you