- [Andrew Huberman] Welcome where we discuss science for everyday life. - I'm Andrew Huberman, and I'm a Professor of Neurobiology and Ophthalmology at Today I have the pleasure of introducing Dr. Robert Sapolsky. Dr. Sapolsky is a Professor of Biology and Neurosurgery at Stanford University. His laboratory has worked on including stress, hormones, including testosterone and estrogen, and how the different members according to factors like hormones, hierarchy within primate troops, and how things like stress, reproduction and competition impact behavior. One of the things that so unique is that it combines including field studies in essence trying to unveil how are controlled by different as well as our psychology. Dr. Sapolsky is also a prolific such as &quot;Why Zebras Don't Get Ulcers&quot;, &quot;The Trouble with Testosterone&quot;, and &quot;Behave: The Biology of During the course of our discussion today, Robert also revealed to me that he is close to completing &quot;Determined: The Science And indeed we discuss the science of life without freewill during this episode. We also discuss stress and and how stress controls us at both, conscious and subconscious levels. We talk about testosterone and estrogen and hormone replacement therapy and how those impact and our interactions with others. As with any discussion with Dr. Sapolsky, we learn about scientific mechanisms that make us who we are. And today we also discuss tools and how we can leverage in order to be better I should mention that on the Huberman Lab podcast, this one had to be carried out remotely due to various constraints, so you may hear the please excuse that. We felt that the value of a was well-worth those And indeed the information is tremendously valuable, interesting, and in many cases actionable as well. Before we begin, I'd like to emphasize that this podcast is and research roles at Stanford. It is, however, part of my desire and effort to bring zero about science and science related tools to the general public. In keeping with that theme, I'd like to thank the Our first sponsor is ROKA, ROKA makes sunglasses and eyeglasses that are of the absolute highest quality. The company was founded by two All-American swimmers from Stanford, and everything about the and eyeglasses was created There are several things I like One of them is that the aesthetic Unlike a lot of performance that you can wear while swimming and running but also indoors, these glasses don't make The aesthetic of them is really terrific, and they have a lot of In addition to that, the on both the sunglasses The optical clarity is great, you can move from brightly and you don't get any degradation in the quality of the visual image. And that's absolutely essential. If you'd like to try ROKA glasses, you can go to roka.com and to save 20% off your first order. That's ROKA.com and enter the Today's podcast is also InsideTracker is a that analyzes data from your blood and DNA to help you better and help you reach your health goals. I've long been a believer in getting regular blood work done. And now with the advent you can get a lot of and how that also impacts your immediate and long-term health. The reason I'm such a fan of that it is really the what's going on in your system at a level that can really inform your decisions about your immediate and long-term health. The problem with a lot of is that you get numbers and your metabolic factors, etc., but you don't know what to With InsideTracker, they have that gives you that information, and then gives you some about things you could about your exercise and that can help you move those that's best for you and for your health. If you'd like to try InsideTracker, you can go to InsideTracker.com/Huberman any of InsideTracker plans, just use the code Huberman at checkout. Today's podcast is also Belcampo is a regenerative that raises organic grass-fed and finished certified humane meats. I eat meat about once a day, in general my lunch or my and that meat has to be and generally I'll eat And then I tend to eat pastas and rice and things of that sort later in order to facilitate So I'm eating meat about once a day, and I always insist be of the very highest quality and that the animals were While conventionally raised and eat a diet of inflammatory grains, Belcampo's animals graze on open pastures and seasonal grasses resulting in meat that's higher in nutrients In addition, they raise that's not just better for our health, but also has a positive They practice regenerative agriculture, which means the meat is climate positive and carbon negative. So you can feel good at the environmental level You can order Belcampo's to be delivered to you at Belcampo.com/Huberman and to get 20% off your first time order. I'm partial to the ribeyes so on one day I might have a ribeye, the next day I might I also really like the meatballs, I'm a particular fan of the meatballs. So, again, that's Belcampo.com/Huberman and enter the code Huberman at checkout to get 20% off your order. And now without further ado, my conversation with Dr. Robert Sapolsky. Great, well, thank you so much, Robert, for joining us today. I've been looking forward and I appreciate it. - Oh yes, glad to be here. - There is an enormous range of topics that we could drill into, I want to return to a topic that is near and dear to your And one of the questions what is the difference between in terms of their benefits And the reason I say benefits is that, obviously stress and the stress but stress, of course, can and things of that sort. So how should we conceptualize stress and how should we conceptualize stress in the short-term and in the long-term? - Well, basically sort of two The first one is just all of stress short-term, and then once we get into chronicity, it's just downhill from there. Short-term because it saves short-term because you're and you think more clearly all sorts of aspects of that. And what then winds up how long does it take to go And that's somewhat arbitrary, but the sorts of chronic stressors that most people deal in the chronic range, like daily traffic jams or abusive The other curve that's sort is dealing with the fact that sometimes stress is a great thing. Like our goal is not to because if it's a right kind, we love it. We pay good money to be stressed that way by a scary movie or a rollercoaster ride. What you wind up seeing is when it's the right amount of stress, it's what we call stimulation. And the basic curve there is, here is an optimal level of and function goes down with and too much and function goes down with what we would call stress. And the optimum is what all of us aim for. - In terms of the benefits one thing that's really striking to me is, how physiologically the stress response looks so much like the excitement response to a positive event. And we can speculate that between short-term stress is some neuromodulator like But is there anything else that we know about the biology that reveals to us? What really creates this that an experience can be or it can feel wonderful, this somewhat subjective Do we know what valence - On a really mechanical level, if you're in a circumstance that your heart races and and you're using your you're going to to be brain activation profile, whether this is for something wonderful or something terrible with that if the amygdala is this is something that's going Whether that's the circumstance, an adverse circumstance and how much it's the biases you towards interpreting The amygdala in some ways as to whether we're talking - Let's use the amygdala to another topic that you've and thinking about, which is testosterone and other sex steroid hormones. I heard you say once before that among all the brain areas that where testosterone that the amygdala is among the most chockablock full these receptors. I realize there's a lot here, but how should we think about the role of given that the engagement of in this transition point positive response and a Or maybe just broadly, how should we think about testosterone and its effects on the brain? - And pertinent to the transition from whether this is a stressor or revoking aggression in also because the amygdala four points on those axes. Basically, almost everybody out there has a completely wrong idea which is testosterone makes you aggressive because males, virtually have more testosterone and seasonal measures at the time of year, they're And you take testosterone you castrate any mammal and levels of aggression will go down. And the easy thing then tends to conclude that testosterone causes aggression. And the reality is testosterone it doesn't cause aggression. And you can see this both What does testosterone do? It lowers the threshold that would normally provoke so that it happens more easily. It makes systems that are rather than turning on aggressive What does that look like behaviorally? You take five male they form a dominance hierarchy. Number one is great, number three is right in between. Now take number three and shoot the guy up and he's going to be Aha, testosterone uniformly but you look closely and is number three now for their place in the hierarchy. Absolutely not, he is brown-nosing them exactly as much as he used to. What's going on is he's to poor number four and five. And in that case, what is amplifying the preexisting Amplifying the social learning, that's where it'd gone into there. Now on sort of the more reductive level, so how does that translate Does testosterone make amygdaloid neurons have action potentials? Does it cause those about fear and aggression spontaneously? Absolutely not. What they do is, if the amygdala is it increases the rate of neuronal firing. What its worth? It shortens after-hyperpolarizations. So the theme there exactly is, it's not creating your aggression, it's just upping the volume of whatever aggression is already there. And once you factor that in, it's impossible to say anything outside the context of what how they get treated [laughs] - Mm-hmm, yeah. And in terms of status between individuals, either can we say that testosterone Or I should say, can we say that relative levels of is correlated to status - Yes, but in a way that winds up being totally uninteresting. Like you go back on the endocrinology texts, and there were two totally Let's see, I have a dog in here that's- - Oh, good, we like dogs at - Oh, okay, it is jingling with that. - They are welcome, they are - And there'd be two truisms, which is higher levels of testosterone predict higher levels of aggression in humans and other animals. Higher levels of testosterone predict higher levels of sexual activity. Whoa, testosterone causing both, and the correlation is there. And when you look closely, we've sexual behavior raises aggression raises testosterone levels. Your levels before had of what's going to happen, so it's a response rather than a cause. When you look at that though in terms of making sense they don't matter a whole lot. You can spend an entire career that produce 3.5% more and expect to see all sorts And that's not really the case, it's somewhat of a yes or no modulator of the much more subtle social - Very interesting. I think that there are about human biology, but where at least from what I it's sort of at the peak Maybe we could just ask about testosterone and sexual behavior because there's an interesting story there about castration versus non-castration and the causality, again. But before you address that, I just want to highlight that I think is so vital, such as aggressive behaviors can actually increase testosterone. Did I hear that correctly? - And the reverse is sort of Is that right? - The opposite direction - Yeah, yeah, so if I were to increase somebody's testosterone by 30%, male or female doesn't matter, their sexual behavior - Essentially zero effect at all. Your brain is not that sensitive to fluctuations in testosterone levels. In terms of things like aggression, raising testosterone, If you have the right type of willing to die on the trenches watching your favorite team play a sport will raise your testosterone levels as you sit there with the So it's not the physicality of aggression, it's the psychological framing of it. So, yeah, testosterone And a great way to appreciate that is, okay, so you had all these testosterone sexual behavior correlations, and you do the definitive which is you do a subtraction study, you've removed the testes. And as I said before, levels Good, we've just shown that testosterone is Critically they go down, whether you are a rat or a And what predicts how much residual sexual behavior is there, how much sexual behavior What that's telling you is by then that's behavior that's being and context rather than by the hormone, exact same thing with aggression. Drops after castration, the more prior history of it, the more it just keeps even without testosterone. - Very interesting. Can we say that there is an exception in terms of the early Like, for instance, if a a testosterone or estrogen or aromatized testosterone into estrogen, there's a whole story there is, you know. But then I could imagine that that are responsible for in the first place might not emerge, and therefore not be sensitive to the testosterone later in life. Is that right? Okay. And a great way of seeing that is this totally nutty biological factoid, which is the second to - Oh yeah. - Totally obscure thing, the in some way reflects androgen exposure during fetal life. And I can't remember which and you need a thousand to be able to see anything, but you see it in other primates, it's already there in fetal So that's a readout of subtle differences in prenatal exposure, and that winds up being a sort of stuff in adult behavior. So, yeah, at the fetal end, when you're still building everything, testosterone and the amount of that is making a huge difference. By the time you're an adult, it's just somewhat of - Yeah, I have a confession, which is that I was a in Marc Breedlove's arena, so although I'm deep within the author line, and you got the description that it's the D2, the index is more similar in females In males, the index finger And for people out there who are now freaking out or measuring, that there is a proper way eyeballing it doesn't work all the time unless at the extremes. And there's some very It actually has been replicated Marc Breedlove tells me. But yes, in terms of these those seem very robust in most studies. These later effects are neural circuits by hormones. I'm absolutely fascinated by this. And I do have a couple other questions, which is, we normally associate but of course, females from the adrenals and I'm guessing if we looked hard enough, we'd probably find that of androgens in females. Can we say that these general contours also pertain to females? And I suppose I should ask in particular about female-female aggression, which does exist in many species, female-male agregression as which is a robust aspect of that the mother will, of any kind protecting her in the best sense of the word. - And that type of post-parturition, period after birth aggression progesterone, those sorts of things. Female aggression, the rest of the time has testosterone as a major on the average. On the average, one always has to say, but it's basically the same punchlines. In females, the lower levels for typical levels of Nonetheless, they're not causing it, it's not sensitive to small Same exact thing. You can get way over-impressed with the importance of just as readily as in males. - So in line with that, how should we conceptualize testosterone? I realize there isn't a single sentence that can capture a because hormones have and fast effects on the brain, on the very glands that produce them. But as I've heard you talk and over the years, I that as the most misunderstood molecule [laughs] in human health in the universe, it's clearly doing It's shifting the way that adjusting the gain on the and certainly other things as well. Is there any truism and its relationship to effort or its relationship to resilience, and in a way that maybe will to sort of think about how - Yeah. Maybe three separate answers to that. The first one is, I think that when it comes to what testosterone does is make you more of whatever you already are. And that to me, sexual arousal, libido, aggressiveness, reactive aggression, things of that sort. It's upping the volume of things that are already strongly there. Second way to think about it is, well, here's like my favorite And this was some wonderful who's one of the best behavioral And about 20 years ago he The Challenge Hypothesis What does testosterone do? Testosterone is what you secrete when your status is being challenged, and it makes it more likely that you'll do the behaviors needed to Okay, so that's totally if you are a baboon. If somebody is challenging your high rank, the appropriate response on your part is going to be aggression. All right, so we've just got testosterone and aggression, again. But then you get to humans, and humans have lots of or maintaining status. And all you need to do is go to like some fancy private school's annual auction, and you will see all these competing to see who can as a show of conspicuous like property that they have. And in a setting like that, I mean, I haven't been able to take urine samples, if there's times, unfortunately, but that shows the flip side of it. If you have a species in a very different sort of way, testosterone is going to boost that also. Okay, so that generates a Wow, take people in a circumstance, say playing an economic game where you get status by being trustworthy and being generous in your If you give people testosterone, does that make them more generous? And that's absolutely the case. Totally cool finding. I'm showing you, I don't know, basically if you took a and shot them up with testosterone, they'd get all competitive with each other as to who could do the most And if we have a societal the first culprit to look the first to look at is that we hand out so much for aggression in so many circumstances. So I find that finding to be fantastic. Third thing about Okay, so like some subtler you give testosterone to people and they become more confident, they become more self-confident. Well, that's good, people pay to take all sorts of nonsensical self-help courses that will boost your self-esteem. And that's a good thing unless testosterone that is inaccurate, and you're more likely to What's shown in economic game by making you more confident because who needs to cooperate because I'm on top of this all on my own. Testosterone makes people And that might be great in one setting, but if and the other is, you're absolutely sure your army is to get over on the other So hell, let's start World War I, and you get a big surprise out of it. Testosterone altering probably played a big role in - Super-interesting. I always think about testosterone and dopamine being close not just because of their relationship through the pituitary and hypothalamus. That, of course, but also because in creating this bias When somebody takes a drug, or they're chockablock full of dopamine. They tend, I want to highlight 'tend' because this is, I'm but they tend to focus on outward goals, things beyond the And testosterone seems it tends to put us into a similar mode of perceiving the outside world in ways that we're asking questions like, how do I relate to this How do I relate to these goals? Is there anything that we can the relationship between testosterone and dopamine and motivation? Or would that just take of neural pathways and the hypothalamus? Which is fine too. - Well, I think it's got lots to do with sort of this massive Everyone, since the pharaohs that dopamine is about It turns out it isn't, it's and it's about generating the motivation, the goal-directed behavior And before you know it, you're your entire life to motivate you to do whatever is going to get after-life kind of, it's So it's really about the motivation. And what testosterone who are not aggressive and is often a very helpful it increases energy, it a presence of alertness So that's a whole aspect, is your motivation to get up and like go, hand out lots of soup in a soup or is it to get up and go It's got much to do with before the testosterone got onboard. So it's activating in an energetic sense, testosterone within minutes into skeletal muscle. You're just more awake and that has a lot to do And as one might predict then, getting just the right infused into your bloodstream They will lever press to that optimizes dopamine release. So there is, you are absolutely right, they're deeply intertwined. - Yeah, such beautiful biology there. And I love the way you I want to ask about estrogen, we don't hear about estrogen as often, and it's always some public facing education, that testosterone is this just to say it is almost [Robert laughs] to hold the same controversial weight, and yet estrogen has a on both the animal brain of males and females. Men do not want their Terrible things happen, they libido can drop. So men need estrogen as well, but perhaps maybe we can put as we did on testosterone. Are there any general themes of estrogen that people should be aware of or that you think that are Is it really all about and making us more sensitive? I sense not. - No, and it's once again And if estrogen after giving in you wanting to shred getting too close to your we know it's not just warm, Estrogen in lots of ways if you've got a choice in the matter between having a lot of estrogen go for having a lot of estrogen. It enhances cognition, it stimulates neurogenesis it increases glucose and oxygen delivery, it protects you from dementia, it decreases inflammatory which is why it's good for protecting from cardiovascular disease which is making everyone This springs up this which is, so what about And all sorts of lab studies suggested that you keep after a monkey's equivalent of menopause. And you're going to keep or decreasing the risk every such thing. Estrogen is a great So in the 90s I think when Healy, I'm forgetting her name, but when there was the first Bernadine Healy set up this what was going to be the looking at the pluses and minuses of post-menopausal estrogen. And tens of thousands of And they had to cut the study short because what they were seeing was, estrogen was not only that you expect in terms of but it was increasing the risk and it was increasing the risk of stroke, and it was increasing And this ground to a halt and everybody, they stopped the study and front page news and everybody panned at that point. And nobody could make sense of it who had been spending the the exact same thing in primates and seeing all the protective effects. And the explanation turned where like the law of Okay, menopause in women, it lasts different lengths of time, that may be a factor that's going to come. You know what, let's not start more estrogen until they're And when you've got that you shift all sorts of and that's where all of - Wow! had involved just maintaining ovulatory levels into the And you do that and you get great effects. Estrogen is one of the protection from Alzheimer's but it needs to be physiological. Just keep continuing what for a long time versus let and suddenly like try to at the bottom of the and get that going, there you get utterly different outcomes. And that caused a lot of when people suddenly decided that estrogen is in fact neurologically - Wow, that's fascinating. And I never thought that these steroid hormone receptors being devoid of estrogen could then set off opposite Fascinating. I guess it raises the question about testosterone replacement too, whether or not people should [laughs] talk to their Men and women talk to your to avoid these, whatever is where there isn't sufficient It sounds like could even when therapies are introduced. - Two additional misery So, okay, you're trying to understand, you look at women with a history with or without post-menopausal where it's done great. And you're seeing 20 years later, estrogen is a predictor of a Then you got to start prospective type studies. How much estrogen? At which times? Estrogen is a catchall term estrone, estradiol, estriol. How much of each one of them? Natural or synthetic? Go try to figure all of that out. And the second complication is, it's often hard to say anything outside the context of And often it's not the it's the ratio of the two. This is such a more than testosterone. And because you have to that like no male hypothalamus It's a much, much more complicated system, thus, it's a lot more let alone like figure out what - Yeah. I don't know what to dropping rates of testosterone I was at Berkeley when Tyrone Hayes published his data on these frogs that were drinking water throughout the United States, and seeing very severe through blockade or, and of androgen receptors And you hear this all the time now that sperm counts are dropping, that there are all these that there's birth control in the water, in the drinking water. It all starts to sound a little crazy, and yet I've also been fooled before by, I guess a good example would be, there's a lot of crazy about all the terrible stuff And yet you've got very endocrinologists at UCSF yeah, a lot of these hidden sugars and these emulsifiers, So I've become more And so, are we suffering and testosterone and as a consequence of endocrine disruptors in the environments and food, or because of social reasons? Is there anything that like real data that you're confident in? Or is it just a mess? - No, the phenomenon does Cross-sectional studies, or I still don't understand why this was one of the first things Decreasing testicle size in crocodiles. [Andrew laughs] Go figure why that was one of the first contributions to this. And I think the phenomenon And what you're then left with which is this is correlated with something broad environmental toxins. Which ones, how much, when, etc.? And the other one always dropping is a dropping How big of an effect is this? And those are where the - Yeah, it's an area that I know there's a lot of interest in, and you've got groups of people who won't touch a receipt at a store because of the BPAs that And then [laughs] you've got people who don't care about those things. It is a fascinating area. I hope that more biology I'd like to briefly return to stress. You described a study once about two rats, one running on a wheel voluntarily, one who is basically and it's forced to run So in one case the rat is And in the other case, to go to PE class, so to speak, but really, and seeing And I'd like to just as kind of a case study for I'm rather obsessed in our Associate Chair of Psychiatry at Stanford is obsessed with this question of, how humans can start to What do you think about stress mitigation and what should we do as and as a culture to try to mitigate their stress, but in ways that are not going to turn where we're being forced and therefore it becomes - And what you see is, rat number one gets all the benefits of exercise. Rat number two gets all the with the same exact muscle expenditure and movements going on. Perfectly yoked, great example that it's the interpretation on your head. And I haven't kept up but I'll bet you, rat number two is having a whole lot more than is rat number one. Okay, so stress mitigation. Anything I should say here I'm reasonably good at telling people what's going to happen if they but I'm terrible at actually or advising how to manage that. I'm much better with the But what you see is, by now half a century old, sort of showing what are the building blocks of stress. Not, ooh, you step outside and you've been gored by an elephant, and can you grow from your experience? And what doesn't kill In that you could have a stress response, but you're in the realm of the gray zone of ambiguous social Some people have massive stress responses, others not at all, in between, enjoy it. Like what are the building blocks of, what makes psychological stress stressful? And the first one is exactly what is brought up by that running study. Do you have a sense of control? A sense of control makes And the running wheel shows you lab rat or you have been trained that you're less likely to get a shock. And today you're at the and unbeknownst to you the and it has no effect on shock frequency, but because you think you have less of a stress response. If you were a rat and doing you're less likely to get an ulcer. So a sense of control. And related to that is a Rat get shocked, human and the scenario either is or the shocks come now and then, and 10 seconds before a And when you get the warning light, the shocks are distressful. You got predictability because if you're not any second you could be a half second away from the next shock. You get a warning light, and you know that if there isn't one, you've got at least 10 You know what's coming, you can prepare your coping responses, and best of all afterward you when you can recover from it. And that's enormously protective. Others outlet for frustration, you take a rat who is getting shocked, and if it could run on a running wheel, that's a protective thing, If you've got a rat and he a stressor is less stressful. Unfortunately, if you have and they're stressed, the somebody smaller and weaker also reduces the stress response. And the fact that displacement accounts for a huge percent So all of those are variables, That's a good one. Interpreting circumstances is being good news rather than bad. Hurray, so you've got this very simple sort of like take home recipe of go out and get as much control and as many outlets and as much and you're going to do just fine. And you go out and do that, and that's a recipe for total disaster because it's much, much In one great example, okay, you want a warning beforehand, get a little warning light it's wonderfully protective. Get a warning light one doesn't do anything. There's not enough time for you to get the psychological benefits Now instead, gets the two minutes before each shock, and it's going to make things worse because you're not going to and sort of your sense of predictability, and it's soon going to be, oh. You're going to be sitting damn, here it comes. Predictive information only Similarly, control. Do you want to have a sense of And the answer is, only if it because what's happening then, your sense of control is of the reality of whether but in the face of mild a sense of control gets interpreted as, wow, look how much worse Thank God, I have control, I'm on top of this to master my fate. In contrast, if it's a major stressor, all that arbitrary sense of control does is make you think, oh my God, look how much I could have prevented it. And we all know that intuitively like we do that in the face Nobody could have stopped the car the way the kids suddenly jumped out. It wouldn't have mattered and if you had gotten them instead of now, it You didn't actually have any control. And what you see is, you absolutely want to have over mild to moderate stressors, and especially ones that Hooray, for me, and in the what you want to do is and like truth and beauty hand-in-hand at that point. And that's why stress management and predictability wind up if you're preaching that or somebody with terminal cancer, or somebody who is a refugee. Tell a neurotic middle-class person that they have the psychological tools to turn hell into heaven. And there's some truth to that. Do the same thing to somebody who is going through a real hell, and that's just privileged heartlessness to do that because that doesn't work. More and more outlets, if that's not a good way to mitigate stress. Social support, if you're for real social support, you're going to have the rug pulled out from under you at some point. If you're mistaking going and bitching and moaning from everyone around you some of that reciprocally, that's not going to work very well either. It's not simple. It's not for nothing that It, like being good friends and why it takes a lot Because you do it wrong and it may temporarily but when it turns out to be you're going to be feeling - Interesting. These days, there's a lot of interest in using physical practices trying to get out of the ruminating, and to some extent take in the brain by using exercise and using breathing and hypnosis. And, of course, hypnosis has What are your thoughts from the standpoint of, okay, so we don't want we want to select something for ourselves, so we have to take the Being forced into exercising is not, it could actually have So we need to pick something that we like, we need to take control of it. In terms of supporting other people, you touched on that a bit. What is the best way to Is it to talk about the stressful thing? I mean, I'm not asking you but I find divergent data on this. We can spin ourselves up into a lather by ruminating on something. And language seems to me but it's also a fairly deprived tool because it doesn't really get into the core of our physiology like something like breathing would. So what are your thoughts on more, for lack of a better way to cognitive approaches to stress mitigation versus kind of going Cold showers now are even just to get people stress acclimated, voluntarily taking cold showers. - That makes some sense physiologically, preconditioning for when In terms of what you bring up, oh, transcendental meditation, prayer, sort of reflecting on gratitude, all that sort of thing. Collectively they work on the average, they work in terms of, and cholesterol levels and have but they compromise us. One is exactly the caveat that comes out of the it doesn't matter how by the stress management technique. If doing it makes you want to scream your head off after 10 seconds, that's not the one that's So read the fine print but it's got to be something Another one is the stress that work, you can't save you can't save them for hold on the phone with It's got to be something where and do it virtually, and spend 20, 30 minutes doing it. And what you see coming like 80/20 rule from economics. 80/20, 80% of the complaints 20% of the customers, things like that. What you see is, if your every single thing on your shoulders, that you can't say no to 24/7. If you've stopped that and finally said, my wellbeing is important enough that I'm finally get to that I can't say no to. And I'm going to do it whatever stress management technique you then do in those 20 you're already 80% of the way there simply by having decided your that you're going to stop every single day and have that as a priority. And that's exactly the same finding that you find people with that merely calling and to see a mental health professional, people start feeling better already because it's evidence that and you matter enough to do this, and you could conceive have a good outcome rather Just doing something meditative or reflective every day or so, and it hardly even matters And what comes out of that which is do not trust anybody who says, it has been scientifically proven that their brand of stress management works better than the other ones. Just watch your wallet at that point. - Yeah, amen. I think one of the core goals of my lab and David Spiegel's lab, and I know you've worked with David and published papers with David as well is to really try and find out what are the various that we call the autonomic nervous system and the stress system, and these systems that when gone unchecked really can take us down a dark path. And the idea that there is really the one that keeps, what the data keep telling So there's no magic it's any variety of those or one of those. And, again, we come back to this idea that it's the one that you select and the one that you make space for, and it's the one that you hopefully enjoy that's going to work best - And [mumbles] benign for those people who were stuck around you. - Right, right, absolutely. And that brings me to this question of, I find it amazing that and whether or not we chose can have such incredible different effects on circuitry of the brain and biology of cells. And in some ways it boggles my mind, like how can a decision made presumably with the prefrontal cortex, although other parts of the brain as well, how can that change of a response in the body. And, I mean, you've talked before about Type A personalities in there. We don't have to go into for sake of time, but it is interesting that the effects of endothelial cells. I mean, literally of the size of, [laughs] of the portals for blood depending on whether or not somebody wants to be in a situation Maybe you could just give because I think it really illustrates this principle so beautifully. And then maybe if you would, how the brain might one experience from terrible to beneficial or from beneficial to terrible, - Well, all you need to do is like tonight before you're going to sleep and you're lying in bed and your heart's beating nice and slow, you start thinking about the fact that that heart isn't going to beat forever. [Andrew laughs] And imagine your toes and imagine the flow of and all of you clotting. You're going to be doing at that point that 99% of if they're running frantically. And you're going to be turning on your sympathetic stress response with thought, with emotions, with memory. And the measure of that is and the limbic system to all the autonomic You can think autonomic in ways that only other animals can do with like extremes of And given that and the autonomic rule, I mean, the other big is gigantic individual differences. And that's, when you talk about the the counts of stimulation, and in general that stress and doesn't go on for too long and there is overall in And under those conditions, by something unexpected and like a really interesting plot turn in the movie you're watching. That's great, but you get that somehow has to accommodate the fact that for some people, the of stress is like getting up early for an Audubon birdwatching And for somebody else, like a mercenary in Yemen. And tremendous individual differences that swamp any simple prescriptions. - Yeah, the prefrontal cortex, that we all harbor, it's And what's remarkable to me is, how the areas of the brain and the amygdala, they're I mean, there is context You talked about the gain but they're really like switches. I mean, if you stimulate you get the right neurons, an animal will try and kill even an object that's sitting next to it. You tickle some other neurons, it'll try and mate with that same object. I mean, it's really wild. I think there are probably but it sounds like the context plural from which prefrontal cortex can draw from is probably infinite, so to perceive threat in anything. Whether or not it's another group or whether or not it's science or whether or not it's the shape of the earth versus another. I mean, it's like, you can and give it enough data, and I think it sounds like you or a love response. Is that overstepping? - Or [laughs] a mixed that is changing by the millisecond, and then like could be No, that's absolutely the case in the prefrontal cortex, I more than once have regretted of my life studying the hippocampus then I shoot him and studied because it's so much more and it's all this contextual stuff. It's all the ways in which it's not okay to lie in this setting, but it's a great thing in another. It's not okay to kill and then you get a medal. It's not, all of this social context and moral relativity and that's the prefrontal cortex that's got to master that. And that winds up meaning more than anywhere where you can powerfully influence the reality of what's coming into you. - I mean, a great example, just Okay, so exercise boosts Does exercise and success do it more than exercise and failure? A literature back in the 80s or so looking at outcomes of marathons. Did testosterone rise more in the people who win than the losers? Wrestling matches. Things of that sort and the answer wound up being, you didn't see a simple answer. Okay, you win the marathon, that's not necessarily a predictor of increased testosterone. What's that about? And then you find like the and you find out the guy who came in 73rd is having a massive testosterone increase. Whoa, what's that about? What's that about is The guy who won the race has because he came in three minutes later than he really, really was expecting. And everybody now is about how he's over the hill. And the guy who came in 73rd is having a boost of testosterone because he was assuming he'd by the third mile, and instead he managed to finish. It's this interpretive and that's what prefrontal - Amazing, it raises this Can we tell ourselves that even if we're not enjoying it? And can we wriggle around these corners of choosing the exercise or doing the... Personally I'm not a big fan but I've benefited dedicated breathing and Can I tell myself that it's good for me and wriggle around the corner and get my physiology Do we have cognitive flexibility? Can I be that third place well, at least I came in, That was my primary goal, but another goal was to and I did do that. And so, [laughs] I mean, it's... To what extent can we between the prefrontal cortex and these other more primitive systems? - Well, an enormous amount. For example, being low in a hierarchy is generally bad for health in including us, but we do something special, which is we can be part at the same time. And while you maybe low you could be extremely you're like have the crappiest but you are the captain this year for the company. And you better bet that's somebody who is going to find all sorts of ways to decide that nine to just stupid paying the bills. And what really matters is You're poorer, but you're the And so we can play all sorts of psychological games with that. One of the most like consistent, and need to use the frontal somebody does something rotten and you need to attribute it. And the answer is, they hmm, because they're rotten. Always have been or always will be this You do something rotten to somebody, and how do you explain it afterward? A situational one. I was tired, I was stressed I misunderstood this. We're best at excusing because we have access to our inner lives and we've got prefrontal cortexes that are great at coming up rather than, hey, maybe you're just like a selfish rotten And that's all prefrontal cortex, we don't let somebody merge even though you curse somebody who does the same thing to you and... Endlessly. - I love it. Your statement about the multiple hierarchies to participate in. To me it seems like a particularly with social media being so prevalent. I know you're not particularly although you might be pleasantly, or I don't know unpleasantly that there's a lot of and your work, so you don't We'll just continue to But what's interesting about is that the context is very, very broad. I mean, one could argue that and which news articles can create a kind of a that itself can be dangerous. More verification of crazy ideas or even just less exposure to new ideas. But there's also this idea that social media is an So as you scroll through like being in your eighth grade classroom or your office or your faculty meeting. You are being exposed to thousands, if not millions of contexts, this person's body, YouTube is another example. It's a vast, vast landscape. So the context is completely mishmash whereas I'm assuming we evolved. I think we did evolve under contexts that were much more constrained. We interacted with a limited and a limited number of different domains, seasons tended to be constrain us all. Of course, then we got and this started to expand, but now more than ever, our and our sense of where we exist in these multiple hierarchies has essentially wicked out into infinity. How do you think this might be interacting with some of these more primitive systems and other aspects of our biology? - Well, I think what you get is, in some ways the punchline of, what's most human about humans, which is over and over we the same hormones, the same the same, everything were built as all these other species out there, and then we go and use it And usually in terms of being able to abstract stuff over space So, okay, you're a low ranking baboon and you can feel badly because and you're about to eat and some higher ranking guy boots you off and takes it away from you, and you feel crummy and it's We are doing the exact same and bodies when we're losing but we can do it by watching a and feeling inadequate or attractive they are. We can do it by somebody driving past us in an expensive car, and we and you can feel belittled by You can watch like the or read about what Bezos is up to. And for some reason, decide because you didn't fly And so you can feel miserable that no other organism can, simply because we can have include like the party you're that you weren't invited to because it's taking place in Singapore, and you don't know any of those people, but nonetheless, somehow to feel less content with Do you take steps in your own life to actively restrict the contexts in which you think and in order to enhance your creative life, your intellectual life? Are those steps that you actively take? - Well, I very actively of anything [laughs] with social media. So I guess that counts as my having thus actively chosen not to learn how. So that's the case certainly like lots of people, I've where I've managed to sort on looking at the news, and I think in the larger sense though, in addition to me being a neurobiologist, I'd sort of spent decades studying wild baboons out in a And I'd spend three months without phone calls, without saying a word to somebody. And when I finally would, nomadic pastoralist guy Yeah, I did 90% of my about anything in the laboratory during those three months each year, and not one in the lab, and - Well, I think there is a shifting trend towards trying to create a And I like what I see, I have and she and her friends are very good at putting their phones away. They say, we're not for this interaction, especially after... And I realized we're It's unclear where it's headed, but 2020 was so restrictive and she was so separated from her friends. Now it's, let's really and not bring in all these And that brings me great hope for that generation, [laughs] Or who knows, maybe they'll we need more field researchers. So along the lines of choice, I'd like to shift gears slightly and talk about freewill, about our ability to make choices at all. - Well, my personal way out in left field inflammatory stance is, I don't think we have a shred of freewill despite 95% of philosophers. And I think probably the are saying that we have freewill in at least some circumstances. I don't think there's any at all. And the reason for this is, you do something, you behave, you make a choice, whatever. And to understand why you did that, where did that intention come from? Part of it was due to like you were in the previous minute. Some of it is from the hormone levels in your bloodstream that morning. Some of it is from whether or stressful last three months and what sort of neuroplasticity happened. Part of it is what hormone levels you were exposed to as a fetus. Part of it is what culture and thus how you were All of those are in there, and you can understand where without incorporating all of those. And at that point, not only are there all of but they're ultimately all one factor. If you're talking about what evolution has to do with your behavior, by definition you're also If you're talking about what your genes have to do with behavior, by how your brain was constructed or what proteins are coded for. If you're talking about you're talking about the sense of efficacy you were getting as a five-year-old. They're all intertwined. And when you look at all those influences, basically like the challenge is, show me a neuron that or show me a network of neurons that just caused that behavior. And show me that nothing was influenced by anything one second ago to the And there's no space in there that winds up being in your There's simply no wiggle - So I can appreciate that our behaviors and our choices are the of dominoes that fell But is it possible that I can intervene in the domino effect, so to speak. In other words, can my that genes have heritability, there is an epigenome that, there is a historical context. Can the knowledge of that give me some small shard of freewill? Meaning, does it allow me to say, ah, okay, I accept that my choices and yet knowing that gives me some additional layer of control? Is there any philosophical in which that works? - Nah. All of that can produce the that change can happen. Even a traumatic change, even most unlikely people, things can change. Don't be fatalistic, don't decide because we're a mechanistic, that nothing can ever... Change can happen, but where people go off the rails is translating that into, We don't, we can't because However, we can be And the point of it is, like you look at an Aplysia, a sea slug that has learned to retract its gill in response to a shock on its tail, you can do like conditioning, and it has learned, its by its environment. And you hear news about something like horrifically depressing going on, and refugees in wherever. And as a result, you feel and a less of a sense of and both of your behaviors Okay, okay, yeah, I guess that, but the remarkable thing is, it's the exact same neurobiology. The signal transduction in that sea snail incorporate and proteases and phosphatases that we do when you're having or when you're alert, it's conserved. It's the exact same thing, in obviously a much, much fancier domain. And because you have learned that change is possible despite understanding mechanistically that we can't change but because you understand you have just changed to respond to optimistic stimuli. And you have changed the to now send you in the more information that will seem cheerful rather than depressing. Oh my God, that's amazing, what Nelson Mandela and Martin Luther king and all these folks did. Wow, under the most they were able to do. Maybe I can also, maybe I can go read more about people like them to of change the neurochemistry, so that your responses are different now. And you're tilted a little of feeling like you can make a difference instead of it's all damn hopeless. So enormous change can happen, but the last thing that we are nothing more or less and its interactions with environment, is to throw up your hands and say, and thus it's no use - So we can acknowledge that to impossible, that and yet that striving to is still a worthwhile endeavor. Do I have that correct? Because simply the knowledge, or making it to the end of has taught you that change can happen within a framework of a You were now more open by the good news in the world around you. You are more likely to be you were more resistant to simply because you now - Mm-hmm, yeah, somebody who spent much of his career working I have to assume that you are that neural circuits can change and that some of the same of prefrontal cortex that can play a role there, that the decision to try and change and the pursuit of knowledge can shape our circuitry, and therefore make us different - Yeah. And not only can say changed the way your brain but learning that can change the construction of your brain will change your brain right now, and how you think about where Wow, maybe that had The knowledge of the in and of itself. - That's such an important and I think that many people if it doesn't involve that it's useless. And certainly there that are very useful for a variety of things, but whereas you put it, knowledge I think is a very important to embed in their minds. And, listen, I'm so and for you raising these topics. I think that people, many people know your work and we've covered some of that today, the work on freewill and this or that we are in total control. I think I'm realizing in listening to you that it's neither is true, in understanding more about freewill and lack of it, [laughs] You're working on a book about freewill, are you willing to tell us and where you are in that process and what we can look forward to? - Yeah, it's going really slow. Title is, &quot;Determined: A Science And essentially the trying to convince a reader, okay, if not that there's but at least there's a lot And I'm going through all the standard arguments for freewill, and why that doesn't make sense And that has led to reading philosophers who basically that stuff is made out of And like there's a physical they're not just relying on magic, but that they believe in and where it doesn't make sense. Okay, so the first half of the book is to hopefully convince people that than we used to think. And then the second half built around the fact there's any freewill since And despite thinking that way, I still have absolutely no idea how you're supposed to How are you supposed to if anything you feel If any angers and hatreds if there's no such thing as appropriate, blame or punishment or praise or reward, and none of it makes any sense, and somebody like even and you've been conditioned as if you had something to do. How are we supposed to function with that? And so the second half and what the punchline there is, is it's going to be incredibly hard. And if you think it's going to be hard to subtract a notion of freewill out of making sense of it's going to be a thousand times harder making sense of when somebody [Andrew laughs] same on reality of sort It's going to be incredibly hard, but nonetheless when of how we have subtracted out of all sorts of realms of that witches caused to the notion that cause schizophrenia, we've done it. We've done it endless number of times, we've been able to subtract in understanding how the And we don't have murderers and society hasn't and in fact, it's a more humane society. So the good news is it's possible because we've done it but it's going to be hard as hell. And it's hard as hell to try [laughs] I'm discovering, - Well, I speak for many, that we're really excited and we will patiently wait, but with great excitement You said it's the title, correct? - Yeah, &quot;Determined: The Science It seems like you can't without a sub-title, so that's it? - Fantastic. Well, very excited to read the book. I'm very grateful to you I learned a ton. Every time you speak I learn, and for me it's really been a pleasure and a delight to interact with you today and over the previous years, And thank you again, Robert, and all the hard, hard work and thinking that you put into your work because it's clear that and thinking, and we all - Thanks, and thanks for - Thank you for joining with Dr. Robert Sapolsky. If you're enjoying this please subscribe to our YouTube channel. In addition, you can leave for future episodes and guests in the Comments section on YouTube. Please also subscribe and on Apple you have the up to a five-star review and a comment. In addition, please check out the sponsors that we mentioned at the That's a terrific way to support us. And for those of you supporting research on stress, on sleep, and how to better access you can do that by supporting the research being done on those You can go to HubermanLab.stanford.edu, and there you'll see a tab entitled, Support Research in the Huberman Lab. So that's for work at the not the Huberman Lab podcast. And there's a Make a Donation tab where you can make a And if you're not already following the Huberman Lab on Instagram, please check out Huberman Lab On both those channels, I and science related tools Some of that information but a lot of it is unique and different from the And last but not least, thank you for your interest in science. [upbeat music]