(upbeat music) - All right, so you've seen the unboxing. Now it's time for the breakdown. What is using the Apple This is easily one of Apple's possibly dystopian products of all time. And I have a lot of thoughts here, like I've been using it There are some parts of this thing that are absolutely incredible, and some other parts that feel weird, or borderline unfinished. There are all kinds of new technologies, from a new operating system to virtually reconstructed I feel like there are so that you have to understand of what this headset So I'm gonna break this This video is all about It's everything I've of wearing and getting used to But I'm also working possibly more existential, review video. But let's just start with the more hardware fundamentals, right? Like what is this thing Apple Vision Pro at its core, well, it is a VR headset. Now, Apple would never say that, and they probably won't like You know, I made an entire video about why they refuse to use those words, and they're calling it We'll get there. But the truth is it's a virtual reality headset. It's something we've seen before, right? It's got displays and lenses and speakers and fans and buttons. And this is a form factor. This is a thing that we have seen before, but before I even turn this thing on, there are clearly several things that are a little So first of all, it's made of metal. Lots of metal and glass but heavy materials, relatively speaking. So there's this precisely around the outside. And yes, those are intakes And then vents for those fans at the top. On the right side, that can be pressed in or turned. And then on the other side is So kind of basically the same And then when you get on this band here, these little pods with downward facing which are pointed straight at your ears, and work surprisingly well. Though of course, it also can hear a little bit There's a little bit of bleed, and I have a lot to say so stay tuned for that. But the main event is at the front. There is an enormous piece of glass, which, yes, is very easy And then behind that thing, OLED display and a bunch of outside facing sensors that go forward, sideways, and straight down. And there's depth sensors, lidar scanners, and just all being processed by an M2 chip and an R1 chip inside this thing. And then maybe the craziest part, inside the headset, there facing your eyes, tracking for all the eye control and And also then to display a on the outside of the headset. Kinda, we'll get there. But overall, when you put it all together, you get a very well made, very high end, but also pretty heavy So officially, this headset when I weighed it, showed up as 638 grams, which some of you on Twitter is actually slightly less than But that Quest Pro also on the back of your head as so the weight distribution Also, the Quest Pro is not But the point is this, of taking the battery off of now there's nothing on so you can wear it and and that might be an upside, but that also now means you have to deal with this cable all the time and the fact that it's All of the weight is on So this is the battery, as If you haven't already seen the I'll link it below the like button. But this battery is a surprisingly small 3,366 milliamp hours. I say surprisingly small of this size, you might 20,000 milliamp hours. I suspect there's a lot of But it comes with a and a proprietary connector that will twist and lock to the headset. And so the lock is really solid. It makes sense that it's that could get disconnected easily. Once you connect it, it starts glowing, and then it starts booting up. And there's even a little on the outside screen a little under a minute to turn on. So there is no on or off button or switch anywhere on this headset. Maybe kind of like AirPods So if you ever take the headset off and put it down, it will after some time, but it won't turn off. If you wanna turn it off, and unplug the cable. That's the only way to Now famously already, the battery life with this included on this headset. Two to four hours is actually realistic for what you can expect for But that's also kind of right in line with a lot of other VR headsets. Battery life on VR headsets If you do wanna use it longer, is there's USBC port on the battery, and you have to plug the battery in. So you could plug the for infinite battery life, or I guess you could plug it into like a, you could daisy chain another or something for even longer life. But yeah, two to four hours. Now at first it seemed weird to me that the port is on the as the non-removable cable, but I think it's because to putting this battery in your pocket, probably in your back pocket. So even if it's plugged into the wall, it can still be in your back pocket. You're just gonna want to So there are no controllers Now it does support other input methods that are like game controllers, and those can be incredibly useful, but by default the primary input method for everyone using the Vision Pro is your eyes and your hands. So the first time you put on this headset, it goes through this calibration process, and it's pretty interesting. So the first time you ever put it on, it first adjusts the physically moving them inside the headset to match the distance between your eyes. Then it does this sort of a hand scan so it understands your hands. And then you go through this process of basically looking at a bunch of dots all the way around the screen, and then tapping your fingers Kind of feels like an And then you're in. So first thing you're gonna notice is you can actually kind as long as the headset can see this, just your fingers touching together. So there's a lot of pictures with their fingers, like pinching like that. But you actually don't have to do that. It's such a wide angle facing forward and sideways and down. You can kind of just in front of you, in your lap. As long as you pinch like that, it can generally pick it So you're pinching to control anywhere in that 180 degree bubble in front of you. And then the digital and the app drawer Doesn't seem that impressive. But this is actually a peek thing about this headset to incredible spatial positioning lock, and like, it's really hard through a YouTube video. Reviewing VR headsets is hard. But turn around in the room you're in, and picture a wall or a window just appearing locked in place and no matter how much you move your head, or move around, it stays where it's supposed to be. But when I say floating, I a soft float, but it's locked, So now you're in Apple's new Vision OS I would describe this as but way more glassy, and of course with the extra dimension of 3D space. So hitting a digital crown back in front of you, and you want and pinch your fingers together, to select it and open that app. Scrolling is basically as you'd expect, you just kind of pinch and then pull as if it's on a string, and physics let you pull It's pretty intuitive, it's Sometimes it's kind of bouncy even. I would say the biggest adjustment is only being able to control exactly what you're looking at. And I don't think people realize how often they're controlling things that they're not exactly with other computers and other UIs. But with this, you can look and if you look at the you're no longer controlling the button. You have to look exactly to interact with things. It takes a few extra brain cycles to remember to always be looking exactly at the thing you're controlling. So when you open a window like any one of the it locks into place, it's floating there. It kind of looks, again, like an iPad app, but very glassy, like this sort of lets you see through a little bit to the color behind it. And it even sometimes casts in the correct Z space, that it's floating in front of you. All this makes it feel like the window is in the space around you. Then if you look at the you get a little bar, you can and pinch to drag it around. So drag it forward, in X, Y, and Z space, and then let go and it just stays absolutely locked. And then you can look at to make it bigger or smaller. And then finally there's you select that, that closes it. So that is the basics of Vision OS, and just using an app. Now this entire time, by default, and almost any time they which means you have the headset on, but you can see with the cameras right through to everything around you. And I think this is to normalize the term spatial computing, because it feels like augmented reality. It feels like you're always around you, but technically because you are still looking through a camera feed instead of the actual world around you. But maybe it's all just semantics. I will say, this is the best I've ever used, and it's Now again, it's so hard to get It does have screen recording built in, so I'm gonna try to use that. But imagine putting a headset on, and not really feeling like with the real world. Because of the pixel density, because of the 90 hertz refresh rate, and because of the impressive and the correctly adjusting shutter speed, you just almost don't, you almost just feel like you're looking at the real world, not through a headset. Also the passthrough is that I could legitimately I could catch items flying at me. I even tried playing ping pong. It was easy, no hesitation. So officially, the R1 chip of all this stuff and for different lighting conditions and always keeping passthrough latency under 12 milliseconds, which But it's really combining the colors and brightness that keeps it feeling kind of real. Basically, the only noticeable restriction is super close up items and and then you can't quite or fine texts, so you can't read an email or a tiny text on your phone in your hand, but you can absolutely text people, or read your notifications, If you've tried other VR headsets, you know how impressive that is. It's just, it's really good with the tech that exists now for VR headsets. But you can definitely and be like, oh, it's way brighter in here than I thought it was. Either way, that's all passthrough, but if you ever wanna I mean it is a VR headset after all, all you gotta do is rotate just keep turning it, and it will slowly dial your environment more and until you dial it all the way So all of the windows will still stay stuck where they were, but everything you're doing So yeah, there's a couple environments Apple has built in here, most of them relaxing scenic locations, like in California somewhere, or one really nice one is Mount Hood with a little bit of rain falling. They're not quite photorealistic, but they're just short of photorealistic, like they're the most that I've seen. So then the last two big quirks So the only way to get to control center is to look up, and you can't just look up, but you have to physically and look at this arrow So once you see that, you select that and then you get your control you know, battery life and and screen recording, But the other big quirk is text input. So you might be wondering with no physical controllers? So there's basically So let's say you are in Safari, and you want to go to mkbhd.com. You really want one of those for the rest of winter. Great, how do you do it? So the first way is to poking the keys on the keyboard that appears in the air in front of you. So this one is tough, because to your pointer finger on each hand. So you actually can't type fast, like with home row or anything like that. Not great. The second way, though, I It's at least faster, you want to interact with, and So just looking around and selecting the keys. And you might be surprised how if you actually know your way I actually prefer this to because I at least get a from my own fingers tapping together. But then in Safari, the last way to do it is literally to just and say the URL out loud. MKBHD.com. And then it just hears you and goes to the site pretty quick, if it's a URL that you So, what can you actually Like now that we know what a computer on your face with the displays and the lenses inside, and all What can this thing actually do? And I feel like the most is what is the killer app? Because that's, we feel of justification to spend Like applications made the like apps made the iPad. So what is the app So there are two types of apps The first is apps that for the Vision Pro to take advantage of its awesome experiences. And there are a few of those right now, and then there are all the other apps, which basically are iPhone and iPad apps that happen to be compatible because the developer didn't opt out. And the first kind is way cooler. So these are Apple's stock apps here that come with the Vision Pro. And so these are all, of course, So they're gonna have stuff of what this thing is capable of. Apple Music is a pretty classic one, like it has all the same functionality of any other Apple Music app, but in this super glassy frosted window, and shows the colors of And you have the sort of sorting instead of across the bottom. That's the basic layout. Same thing with the Notes Very glassy, almost looking just rebuilt with this And then there's the media apps. So Apple TV and Disney+, which they have built entire environments inside of them for watching media. And there's even a small on the Apple TV app that are shot on a new proprietary format specifically for Vision Pro. So it drops you into a space and Alicia Keys walks right up to you and starts singing right to your face. It's crazy. There's also the Photos app, which will let you look for example, in this fully immersive view. So you can blow them up to full screen, and then it gives you a around the edges, so it into a window of your own It's kind of incredible. And then there's also third party apps that I've tried that were built ahead of time. So Sky Guide, this is a good one. You can look around a real around you or any of the you can look at it a little You can pull it outta the sky to get more information about it. It's a pretty great idea. There's another one called Jig Space, which is, it's a sick app, I don't know if I'd ever use it, but basically it lets you load 3D models into the space you're in take 'em apart, view them in actual size. And this really takes the placement lock is on the Vision Pro. And you can walk around, a better understanding that you don't get to And then Keynote is another funny one. So you can of course go just like normal if you want to, but then they've built for practicing your presentation skills. So you press that and it to a conference room, or the so you can rehearse with your Keynote slides behind you. It is genuinely incredibly immersive. And there's already a in the App Store already at launch that are specifically So they'll take advantage Now, are any of these a killer app? Not really. I mean I don't, if you're to be the reason why you spend I don't think we have that yet. But then at least there's but technically still compatible, apps that are in the App Store. And these are gonna look just Actually, there's a pre-installed when you get this thing and there's a bunch of They look exactly like iPad apps. I'm surprised actually fully built out to take but like, Apple Maps is just the iPad app. And so it would be cool augmented reality overlay but nope, it's all the that you would find if you And you can go to the App Store and search a bunch of the names of apps you already know and love, and grab them, and they'll Crazily enough though, there are already some notable exceptions. No Netflix app for the for the Vision Pro, no Spotify Apple has kind of a with a lot of developers right now, especially some of the bigger ones. And so some have made the They're like, we don't wanna be there. This won't be a big enough to justify the work. So they're not there. Now I totally get it, but also now as a Vision Pro owner and someone who's using it, I'm like, oh, it's kind of a bummer. I really wanted to be able to downloaded it ahead of time, But at least, at least you can use the browser, and anything that would So if you pull up Safari, and you get a full screen and locked in space, or it looks great. It's razor sharp. Like, I could totally watch But you will definitely of having the dedicated Honestly to me, the killer isn't just an app, it's And we knew this was coming, but the second you log into a immediately it starts and all the stuff that you're used to from all the other Apple And I said this before the I was like, this is the most because there are lots of people out there who have never considered that are considering only this one because they have an iPhone, and this is the one that and none of the others So all of your iMessages are already here, all of your photos are already here and loaded up and backed up. All your Notes are already You already saw the Keynote app. But okay, easily my favorite feature is connecting to your Mac, right? So anytime your Mac is in front of you and it's turned on, hit that arrow and then there's this little icon to Become My Mac's Virtual Display. So I click that, and then pick my Mac, and it pretty much instantly, the display of my Mac, and into a 4K window inside of the headset. So now my keyboard and even if it is a desktop. The keyboard and the trackpad and you can continue using it but with the ability to as big or as small or close which is super sick. And then the bonus is and place other Vision Pro So like you can have your and maybe you're editing or and then you have a Safari or whatever else you want And then your keyboard seamlessly between them This, to me, as a Mac user, to make this happen, this feels like the biggest game changer, like the most compelling use of this headset to me. Especially on a plane. Oh my god, I can't tell you how many times I've had an awkward conversation because, like, I'm editing a video on the plane, the person next to me sees and it's kind of weird but I'm picturing putting the headset on, the display blacks out, but now I can do all the editing I want, and I can make the So I've really enjoyed using that feature. Again, the biggest challenge, though, is still remembering to you want to control. So aside from typing on the real keyboard on whatever window is open, if you want to control something, you Again, it doesn't sound like a big deal, but when you try it, And then also, odd From the Mac, one virtual So if you usually run a for Final Cut Pro, big timeline on the other You have to use the big one All right, so you might have realized I've left one thing out this whole time. One thing, you could call It's one more huge crazy thing, but it's kind of the defining and that is Personas. So in all the advertising there's these eyes on the that looks like they're like in a dark astronaut Easily the most memed, most unique aspect of this headset, right? It's the only headset And I mean it's very, very but in real life, as you've started to see from some of my footage, and I think I figured out why. So first of all, it's not There's a whole bunch of computer in between me and you right now. So the eyes aren't on the outside. It's a representation of my eyes based on what all the sensors It's reconstructing it on the outside. So those sensors are tracking and they give you optic ID, which is, it's how you log into the It's basically the same it's just looking at and And it also powers the one which is Personas, which and weirdest thing about this I'm calling it right now. So the purpose of the eyes on the outside is really not for you, In fact, you'll never see it. But it's for the people around you. So when you're in a passthrough mode, your eyes will shine through to indicate that you wearing the headset can see the person outside. So that right there is But then, when you're and you can't see what's around with this sort of like a blue, So that intuitively makes sense. You can see the eyes you can't see the eyes But crazily enough, there's also a feature where if you have someone looking at you, talking to you, and you are in an immersion, but you want to talk to them through that, they will kind of appear through the fog of whatever immersive So you just start talking and It detects that, and sort of and that person's eyes It's pretty decent. It basically only shows And when this is happening on it shows a little bit of the purple and blue glow. It's, as you can see, it's all working, but also, I think it looks from the ad. So in an effort to make the eyes as presentable as possible, two things. First of all, this a lenticular film, which from the initial media they had published. But if you've ever heard of that, it's sort of what gives it this 3D depth. You might have seen this on and stuff, but the point of that is to make the eyes appear to like on your actual face, instead of glued to the which would look a little more weird. But then two, to represent they've built in a way to scan in and create a digital which is called your Persona. And it looks like this. So to get those eyes on the outside of the Vision Pro headset, called registering your Persona. This is how it creates that includes your eyes So let's do that now. It's actually kind of a cool process. So I'm gonna put it on, and works so you can see I'll hit the digital crown. I'm gonna go to Settings. And you can do this when But I'm going to Persona, and So let's refine my hands real quick. This is capturing detail of the hands in front of me. Once it's done with that- - [Automated Voice] Your - It's gonna ask me to take it off. So this is how it goes. - [Automated Voice] When you're ready, hold Apple Vision Pro at eye level. Keep your arms and shoulders relaxed. Align your entire face within the frame. - [Marques] My face shows up like face ID. - [Automated Voice] Slowly Now slowly turn your head to the left. Now tilt your head up, then tilt your head down. Next, let's capture Smile with your mouth closed. Then make a big smile Now raise your eyebrows. Close your eyes for a moment. Capture complete. Put Vision Pro back on to continue. - I will do that. So now I have a menu that and it says it's in beta, and now there's my Persona right there. Kind of uncanny. The hair's a little bit Wow, wow. Okay. So there's different lighting. You can choose it to always and always be in contour lighting. I'll just leave it at You can change the color Cool to warm, I think I'm around there. Brightness, darkness. I think I'm around there, near the middle. Next. And then I can add glasses. So if I typically have glasses, which obviously I wouldn't be able to wear in the Vision Pro, you can still anytime you're on that FaceTime call. And then next. Save. And that's it. So I think now you should see my eyes. Maybe. And that that's the You can barely see my eyes Now I've tried a couple so I've tried different I've tried different tried different shirts It doesn't really ever I think if you have a just don't expect the eyes on the outside of the headset. It's pretty subtle. Even when it does show up, The eyes are a little They're a little dim. You see one eye at a time. It's kind of weird. But that Persona though. Whew. That is some pretty interesting stuff. It's crazy that this is actually like first Meta started doing it. Now Apple's doing this. This is, again, it's technically in beta. So I dunno, there's room for improvement, but it still works. But as of right now, I feel like this is both incredibly impressive Like, it's very impressive this headset I'm wearing on my face, is tracking all these and little movements for and my mouth and everything. But at the same time, It's right at the edge of I'm not looking at a person. So yeah. But the crazy part is you as your camera feed for that require a front facing And so I've tried, I've a few times in the Vision Pro, and it is, technically So I've made a few FaceTime with some fellow reviewers, who you'll probably recognize who are also testing the Vision Pro. And universally, once we oh my god, it's you. It looks like a digital version of you. This is crazy. I've never seen anything like this before. Once we got past that, there So you can see the FaceTime windows literally appear as just that. They're just like glassy with people looking through them. And then the angle that is gonna match the angle that Meaning if we're all in unlikely, but hear me out. If we're all in Vision Pros, and you've got a bunch of so there's somebody to the left, and somebody to the right, and make eye contact with the person to the left because I'm looking at somebody else. That's already pretty cool. And then the same thing So we tried this out. Turns out you can reach out and make hand gestures that in this bubble in front of you, and they show up at the correct angle towards the person that so not towards everybody else on the call. Oh wait, wait, wait. Okay, good test. So wait, Justine, do you see this? - Yes. - And Brian, do you see? I don't see that, Marques. - Now wait. So now Brian, do you see this? - Now I can see that, Marques. - And then on top of is incredibly well developed. So again, you're on the to the right comes from the right side. The voice of the person to But also, you can just pick and that angle will match where and where their sound If I put you on the it sounds like they're further away. And if I turn up the environment, and bring them into the it actually sounds much more with no echo, versus in the actual room. It's all very subtle, So once you're in this a while, you start to notice all Again, it's not quite human-like. It's not like looking at a but it is still, like this would be the best avatar Like no one's ever done a 2K face scan and had it look this good, but it's still not as It's a, you've heard the I think the number one or the Personas that I've seen is hair. So basically everyone I've talked to has like a frozen lump of hair instead of flowing realistic hair. And that's true about all flowing things, like however your hair it's frozen that way. And so is any necklace you're wearing, whether it's crooked or not, or I guess, technically or however you looked Maybe that could be a good thing. Maybe you did a scan when you and then you get on a 7:00 AM call, and you still look perfect even though you look like you just So I guess there's that too. But anyway, all that is to say FaceTime. FaceTime is the most well thought out, like most futuristic It just is. So I'll end this video with this. Now you know what it's the Vision Pro. But there's still a lot more to consider when actually considering and own this thing, from the use cases, to the things that work the philosophy behind it, the That's what's gonna be for my full review. Like there are parts of this thing that are absolutely amazing, unparalleled, best I've ever seen. But the reason it's so interesting is because it's actually a young category. Like we're so used to this in mature categories, like and you always see the comments talking about how tech is so boring, but now they're actually and it's actually fun, and and it's fun to actually So I'll be expanding on all these way more in the full review, but I've got my upsides and It's been a week. Upsides, some of the stuff in a headset. Immersion, placement and hand control, passthrough, ecosystem, and spatial audio. And the downsides, weight and comfort, the eyes on the outside, app selection right now, So the full reviews in the works. Definitely get subscribed to see that when it drops. Either way, till the next one. Thanks for watching. Catch you later. Peace.