- This is a bird feeder, surrounding me in my yard from four thieving squirrels. If they want the birdseed of walnuts in this bank to pass through my By design, it's extremely challenging. It's meant to test their mental limits and their physical limits. I held back no punches, but I I once again completely And truthfully, I never in the neighborhood but they started it first when they would constantly pillage the birdseed from any bird feeder I would That led to me defending which they handily defeated, and so after a year of ruminating on how to avenge that L with and then two months of got together for a (upbeat music) (tools whirring) (nuts clattering) Here are the basic elements. For starters, here's their at the end of the course, and the most secure walnut vault Now since birds can fly, as they please and eat but the only way for the is by surviving my nine-part which all starts right here. Climbing up this pole to this platform is the single gateway to enter the course. Every other pole you see has to keep the squirrel from just climbing up and then entering the And so the first challenge is this casino, which may seem like an odd choice until you realize that as we also built them some So we put them up in a and after a few days, it made some renovations, so I and sure enough, here's the Even on the inside, they made some questionable decor updates. So while it might look like to relax, or stretch, or look the satellite communications gear and the tactical mission planning and the mini vault to told a completely different story. This gang of four high-end were secretly planning to pull off an honest to goodness &quot;Ocean's 11&quot; style mega walnut heist, which is why I was gonna protect the birdseed and walnut vault with the most state-of-the-art just like the casino did in &quot;Ocean's 11.&quot; So once in the casino, and the classic Vegas take more than an ounce, you're gonna nap to deal with security. Now that I got the squirrels on the run, they'll naturally want to jump to this bar but there's a twist. It actually twists, which I think is gonna give 'em some problems, but if they can figure this out, they'll jump into this is that it's filled in the brim with their favorite and I know this 'cause I tested and they always went But the bad news is that to the system, the just like the helicopter Oh, and we've got a baffle here at the top to stop a squirrel from just crawling along the wire from the fence. The helicopter stops next to this wall, which seems simple enough, randomly move and adjust And of course, at any they gotta go back and start over the whole course from the beginning. After that, we come to their hideout, and this is when they'll because it's where they hang out and plan. You can see it's sort of and their blueprints on the wall that show if they open the floor on the elevator, the elevator shaft leads them underground and into the sewers. Then if they crawl through the sewers, it will take them right for a second room that And just like in &quot;Mission: Impossible,&quot; their goal is to go up through the ceiling to access the air vents, to make it up there unless into the keyboard in the control (motor whirring) And at that point, they and they're in the vents, and There's lots of different twists and turns they'll need to navigate up here, So at any moment, if they're too lost, they can always exit the whole course by using the one-way which also exists for any And for the penultimate challenge, it's back down from the air ducts through this laser maze, their inner Catherine Zeta-Jones. If they sufficiently the metal base contacts which sends a signal from this to a solenoid, which causes which slams this door shut for one minute. And because I'm basically and get to this point by on top of this tube, with another enforcement And so finally, if they've and everything that came before it, they've made it to Fort Knuts, if they crack the safe by giving they've earned every After the course was set up, they could definitely smell and then you could see them sort of working things out from the fence line. And so after two months of prep work, it was time to test our against this formidable (light music) And right out of the gate, And as he sticks his entire absentmindedly reading the sign, you can see the exact moment he realizes he might have screwed up. And the slow-mo shows Rick Oh, by the way, that's Rick. All four squirrels have like any crew looking to pull off a heist, they all have specific roles to play, starting with everyone's who of course is the On a heist, this is the role of the Frank Ocean or an Ethan Hunt. Now, I just have to say for last year I named one of because he loved to eat and but then halfway through, which it turns out means and a pregnant one at that, so it was just a whole PR disaster, and I switched the name to Phantastic Gus and Rephrased a few other things but to be honest, roll off the tongue like Phat to use my preferred I got full consent. Next up is Rick. He's the acrobat, the He's the go-to for any task that is gonna require And then we've got Marty, he's the hacker. Anything with computers or but while he's really smart, And finally, we've got A good heist starts with a good plan. He's got the whole course memorized and he's mapped it out and And so back to the course, who, again, is a bit he's coming in pretty cautious. But who can resist a buffet? Once again, the real magic Eventually they realized at this casino, and Rick goes Excellent. Here's try two. (light music) And with some motivation form the bird, he's like, &quot;I got this, I don't think I got this.&quot; The real time replay on (person screaming) And at this point, Phat Gus is like, &quot;I'm gonna get that crate of walnuts. Let me show you how it's done.&quot; Which turns out somewhat predictably. (light music) Now really frustrated, tries a totally different route. (light music) I gave this a 9.5, but sorry Rick, the Russian judge gave it a six. You gotta stick the landing. Logistics man Frank knows the leads to the helicopter crate, so he tries sneaking in the back door and And finally, Marty the hacker realizes if you're just scared the bar doesn't have time to spin on you, and you can see Rick just So after about two days, through the first part of and Fort Knuts was already Phat Gus is like, &quot;Wait, is Here, Rick Hypothesizes if it won't move, and here with a legendary leap, to remind ourselves that squirrels are one of the few a fall from any height, they make their body super effectively becoming their own parachute. But just in case, you okay Rick? &quot;Yep. All good.&quot; And Marty the hacker &quot;Yeah, I am super not down with this.&quot; Eventually it's the who demonstrates the ride And soon you've got Frank and the rest of the gang following suit, which leads us to the wall And first up, you got Phat with a pull of his parachute. And Rick just barely misses. Skittish Marty gets one and absolutely yeets And while there were plenty of instances where a moving brick causing them to start what was even better was in the anticipation even though the wall wasn't powered on for any of these clips. (light music) And thanks in part to the eventually, like all the they got it down to a science where they could cruise by (light music) And now's a good time to mention, the squirrels weren't the only This is Splinter the rat, and here he is with one of his buddies. He liked to make the rounds which sometimes were vacant There goes frank to And you might've noticed The squirrels would from various sources, just steal from each other. Here's a bonus Santa Claus impression for all the Phat Gus fans out there. So from Splinter and his buddies to not at all creepy possums. there's a surprisingly that passes through a suburban backyard, including a dumb dog who, for some reason, is much less interested in squirrels than he is my camera gear, back to the squirrel hideout, where the heist was really (&quot;Mission: Impossible&quot; theme) (&quot;Mission: Impossible&quot; theme continues) And after hacker Marty and lowered the ladder, and joined him in the a critical tool dropped down, which led to a lovely (&quot;Mission: Impossible&quot; theme) And as a side note, they figured out the and they functioned as a one-way And now with the vents, it You can see here he's just double checking the actual air duct layouts to make sure they match the blueprints he's memorized, and once he's satisfied, he steps up, and as you can see, he nails it first try. You can just sense his confidence here. (light music) Contrast that with Marty, who's like, &quot;All right, I think it was a Oh, was it Left? Crap, I and as a result, most of his runs would end up looking something like this. So here's Frank coaching And you can see Marty's a So Frank hops in so they can and then with a little encouragement, he gets him going down the right way. All the while, Phat Gus Focus, Marty. There you go. (light music) Which brings us to the laser maze. Here's acrobat Rick's first approach and he's like, &quot;Yeah, that sucks.&quot; And just as expected, he and he's like, &quot;Yeah, I totally got this,&quot; when in fact, he didn't have it. In real time, it happens so But if we slow down this second attempt, we can remind ourselves of how squirrels have mastered the laws of physics to always land on their feet. Did you catch it? The first is the locking of the head on a landing target in If you go back and watch that locking of their they always do, and the second is using conservation of angular momentum like an ice skater to in and out at the right and then hold in the right orientation. Combine those two tricks and extending their to absorb the shock, and for living high in the trees. In fact, squirrels have been around for over 30 million years relatively little in all that time. So then Rick's like, &quot;Fine, like a normal squirrel. What is this? See, I knew this was suss.&quot; And here's Frank, who and therefore is appropriately cautious. But he hops right back on the saddle and this time he nails it. And in the end, it feels appropriate that the Mastermind Phat to make it successfully and then to subsequently I mean, how Phat Gus is this? Falling not just for one decoy nut, but for both of 'em, which paves the way for Marty the hacker to be and as you could see here, (light music) And first he just checks it out like, &quot;Yep, mm-hmm, yep. This is just And then the big moment. (nuts clattering) (light music) once the safe opened, which just allowed better But interestingly, more often than not, after getting a walnut, they would go all the way Here's jumpy Marty even though I'd already So once again, the squirrels took the W but as far as I'm and I can't complain 'cause Rick buried all his Marty and Frank made up and and Phat Gus got some with the bird feeder, Well, almost everyone. (bird chirping)