Are you in John 11:1? All right. And we will skip the 40-something verses. to come and heal Lazarus. Jesus doesn't show I want to speak about three states that a a Christian. The first state is when you're the third one is when you come back to life, the full message. Let's pray, we can be done a witch doctor, he was a friend of Jesus and and Mary got worried and they realized that cured, if this thing doesn't leave, Lazarus didn't get treated, he died. And when he died, came and raised him from the dead. I want God wants to do deliverance on people. He tonight He wants to bring prodigals back home. some people up who are about to spiritually to lose people. Tomorrow during our second I'm going to be ministering more on the topic going to pray for healing, we're going to all of that stuff. But tonight I want to do and that is to call people to repentance, is sick. A sick is a state of a Christian Sick is a state of a Christian that's on the God, and has enough of God not to enjoy the Sick is a state of a Christian that says, there?&quot; Sick is a Christian who will dress is no Bible verse against celebrating Halloween.&quot; Sick is a Christian that will say, &quot;Well the as long as I drink and don't get drunk, I who then becomes a tripping Christian, who dies. Sick, still alive but sick. Sick a complacent by culture, is filled with what the culture their unbelieving Christians that they will smoke weed, but take pride in the fact that prayer. Sick is a Christian who comes to church But they're not in Him, they're only in church. only in church. Sick is a Christian who flirts simply say, &quot;Well, you know I'm not like hooked But I'm not like addicted, I can quit it any of covid than going to hell. Sick is a Christian who will wear a mask but Sick is a Christian, is somebody who plays with God but doesn't have a reverence for many times, physically in my life, a lot. in your life. But what happens when you get your body and you go into this mode. You start a doctor, you start looking for help because sucker is going to take your life. And though because I treated those sicknesses, those Every Christian can and will get sick once what I want to provoke you today is if your your temperature spiritually, if your love day when you loved God more than today, you're dying and my desire today and the call that up, and to say, &quot;Listen, find an Advil, find not stay sick because you will not stay sick, calvinistic preference is, or if you've been a Christian cannot lose their salvation. You one thing, if you don't treat your spiritual The Bible says those who are complacent, Jesus does not abide, dries up and dies and gets a man who burries his talent, he doesn't go That tells me that you can be a Christian state, it will turn to a place where you are it, when I get sick. It comes on me. I become Jesus doesn't mean anything. Devotion goes I don't fast. The only thing I fast is the Prayer is very quick. The Word of God is just to notice that it's three days or four days have to pull back. I have to stop and I have to get recalibrated. This happened this week, last week in Los Angeles. A few days before ministering, on the go, on the go. And then as well so my homework was due on Saturday and I need to read this book, I need to read to one service, second service and third service instead of a person that is in love with God. &quot;Babe, I'm leaving.&quot; I said, &quot;I'm going to stop everything that I'm doing, why? Because my intimacy with God and that terrifies me. And when I feel that I'm getting that, I have say, &quot;I need to get alone with God.&quot; Because I can't fool my wife and I can't fool the right now, today. If you find yourself binge find yourself aimlessly scrolling for hours you've opened the Bible. If you find yourself If you find yourself that the old demons you I want to warn you Lazarus. Just because you're not gonna die. Just because your daddy is mean that you're not gonna die. If you don't today, if you don't get rid of that thing die. Guess what happens when we die? Sick is when dead, you don't feel it anymore, and there actually dead. Everything I'm speaking is going into one other one as fast as it's coming in. Even because you probably even have maybe a theological Pharisees knew everything about Jesus and &quot;Where is the king of the Jews?&quot; Pharisee Except they didn't move a finger to go actually Pharisee. I know everything about the Holy don't know the Holy Spirit because I'm watching am not being committed to God. I am desensitized. feel any guilt, I can watch porn and feel my mouth and say, &quot;Well I just satisfied some go and confess my sin. I don't have a sense I don't feel anything and because I don't And the one thing about dead people is they the most behaved people in the world. They and they're usually very well dressed. Dressing up on Sunday, doesn't mean you're Just because you can act the act, it just Hollywood shouldn't be hiring from Hollywood. have the best actors. Because once we die, spiritually, guess what still sing the song, we can still claim that in God and they're still demons and they're when you spiritually die. And I want to speak that are sick or spiritually dying. Be the when your kids start getting sick. Don't wait switch my body gender.&quot; Don't wait until your my faith.&quot; If you even notice your kid is begin to pull down the heavens. Begin to fast Begin to go into the battle for your child. Be like Mary and be like Martha. They said was coughing. Pray for your children, amen. And something and this speaks of a state where we become place where we become completely desensitized. And the worst part about it, not only we don't part about spiritually that I, I am so terrified that Christians cannot get to that state, state. The Bible says in the last days five no oil. The Bible says in the last days many spirits and to the doctrines of demons. We of complacency and lukewarmness. The culture secular Christianity, a liberal Christianity If you love it, it makes it right.&quot; That twist That culture is going to fill you with demons, dress that up and not even know that you are cultural sewer. Why? Because when you're dead, clothe you with whatever they want to clothe only that you separated from relationship to bind you, because when you're dead, he One of you that is strong, young man, that's And that will not sue me after this, okay. still I just have to ask. Where I am from, just things are slightly different there. What the devil does is that... Does anybody Can I? Are you willing to sacrifice it? All Covid is over from what I've heard but that's, right, I want you to put the mask on. This that anybody who wears a mask is sick. But sick, and is not treating their spiritual and you stop repenting, and you stop drawing and living according to the Bible. Not according not trying to fit in to the culture but to Then spiritually you can actually die. When The devil doesn't just kill you, he binds So what the devil does when He makes you sick kills your relationship with God. Now it doesn't it doesn't mean you're not going to get a you become disconnected to God and then he binds you. He binds your hands. Pastor, What does that mean when he binds your hands? When your hands are bound, you somehow can't Oh you can lift them during traffic to show to stand out, but not during church. It's game though. During a football game both of enthusiastic fanatic. But in church you simply somebody on the street, just not to love and a million times take the garbage out. Your they're bound. And then the devil not only He will never forget this message as long feet don't walk in the ways of righteousness. your mama's prayers get answered and you get The devil wants to bind your feet, he wants hands. And the Bible says, and this is the we are going to. Let's leave the eyebrows and the nose, and I warned, you all heard, he says he's gonna Yeah, tomorrow we have a healing service. All right and then I wanna, I wanna cover Some of you are feeling bad for him. I want of you, I'm just describing what's happening So make sure that he can have a nose. The so that, so that God can have mercy on you, So and he makes you like a mummy, where you only sick and Lazarus was dead, he was in to put him in the grave. I'm gonna put him Benny Hinn thing but I. Okay, thank you. Okay, lie there. So while he's in the grave for three days, about Christians being tormented by demons. He was bound when he was dead. Jesus came shouted, He said, &quot;Lazarus come forth.&quot; First open your heart to the Gospel. Jesus' Word say, &quot;John,&quot; or it will say, &quot;Chris, come your spirit. Your spirit will say yes to Jesus alive spiritually. I believe there are people to you. Jesus is going to call you out from from your complacency. Jesus is going to call in, whatever that you've been dabbling with. and He will revive you, and He will reconnect of your sins. Can somebody say, &quot;Amen.&quot; Can notice that something that happened with Lazarus, not free. Lazarus when he came alive and Pastor now because unfortunately Lazarus in the Bible was alive,and so what I'm going to do is I'm sight. The Scripture says this. That's it, his little teary eyes. The Scripture says I want you to follow me. Follow me. This is the life of a Christian Some of you are like, &quot;I don't believe Christians want, but have you seen Christians live like in an area of your life? You see in the Bible This brother is alive but he is bound. When walk, you can't walk. You have to take these live and if I would ask him to run right now, is oppressed by the devil to begin to be disciple That's why the message of Jesus is not only let him go.&quot; I believe Jesus Christ is calling to liberate the captives. Jesus Christ is souls for Jesus but drive out demons, heal Freely we've received and freely we will give. to the church in the last days, because the hell into our generation. Our movie theaters are packed with sorcery. Our young people don't know where the Book of Genesis is, and has anointed a David. And that David is the is your mama, and that David is you young go and drive out demons, to go and give the heal the sick, raise the dead and preach the The ministry of deliverance is extremely necessary, ministry of deliverance because it shows the shames the devil and shows the kingdom of forever set free. A lot of Christians are the stuff they've been involved before they ouija board was never thrown away, the dream were never unsubscribed, the porn magazine demons was never renounced. And though you a church membership class, and though you slain in the Spirit, and though you speak spiritual life. And I came here today from free is free indeed. Jesus Christ is the same still sets the captives free. He still delivers people from spirits of fear, anxiety, heaviness, Jesus is the same. Can somebody give God some Unfortunately Pastor, the church has embraced a vacation. Life on this earth is more like Studio. I would rather be a warrior in a garden, a cruise ship, where everybody seeks to be is deployed into war and everybody's engaged and put diapers on them, and so they act victims. a word, instead of picking up a sword and and begin to speak to their own soul and walk Ministry of deliverance is essential in this deliverance is something that was only somewhere in Siberia. It's over there where people don't the spiritual realm. Somewhere, somewhere three, four years, something has happened. of hell on the American youth, upon our young just learning about science, they're learning math, they are learning how to conjure up church denies supernatural. The pastors are in my church,&quot; why? Because it will drive ones possessed. Who are we trying to please? It's not the religious people that will get offended. Let The first deliverance Jesus did was not in time the demon manifested, it happened right belongs in the church, why? Because many people Sunday like this, and we say, &quot;Why can't they hands in worship? Why can they sign up and are they still struggling with that?&quot; Why? He also said, &quot;Lose him.&quot; Jesus did not tell Lazarus to lose him. He tells the church to demons. He tells the church to heal the sick. if we gave an opening to demons before we Maybe you came to Jesus and everything is I'm talking to your neighbor then. But if have attacks in the sleep and somebody sleeps That's not normal. if you came to Jesus and you're hearing voices normal. If you came to Jesus and you can watch into reading the Bible and you're yawning. If you came to Jesus and you are afraid, there getting sick, fear of driving, fear of elevators, fear of dying out of cancer. And it's not you paralyzed. My friend, that is not normal. And what we do is we go to a therapist and we go to a doctor. I'm not against doctors, and I think that we need counseling. But what foremost we need to know that the physical Imagine if I would say that this brother, That's what's going to fix this problem. It for fasting. But if the problem is spiritual out. I remember when I was exposed to pornography was in Ukraine where I came from, at the age had no computer. We didn't even have a television. number one, we're a Christian; number two, The only bad thing that we did was play soccer would come in and he said, &quot;Let me measure And it would take us six months to save money at the young age but I don't think that something a half, I'm in the United States. I'm asked cats. This guy had more cats than Abraham Six months in America. I don't speak any English, some money and secondly to see how American I examined his whole house. I went and I checked, his safe. Not because I wanted to break anything. I'm from Ukraine so I just wondered how Americans their kitchen? What's in there, under their and I see 250 VHS tapes of porn, and, and but I'm thinking at the time it makes sense. like Billy Graham's crusades. I mean and now I'm thinking, what in the world the devil that was thinking through me. So I thought it was just the hormones that I the road that something entered me, was because I will never do this again. Only to come back to come back the next day and watch another my only hope was for the owner to come back control. I wasn't practicing witchcraft, I And that's what I want to mention to you right door to the enemy. But there are sins, if keep playing games, you keep playing games, tells us in Ephesians, &quot;Do not give place you belong to a Pentecostal church. The devil house and says, &quot;Oh, that's a Pentecostal. fly doesn't come near your house and say, Jesus is Lord. We will not fly into this person's there is an opening, that's an invitation. You don't have to invite a fly, just open just open the door. You don't have to invite put a Facebook post say, &quot;I invite every mouse door and they will come in. The moment we sorcery, through continuous habitual sins. but you will see, something begins to enter came in. I know something came in,&quot; and this area of your life. The devil didn't gain possession my spirit is filled with Jesus. But in the were moments where something else took control I was on the back seat and something else from the age of 13. At the age of 16 I became care that I got slapped with the title of many evangelists, how many fathers and how they're simply coming into church. If we would how many people are pleading on the inside, people.&quot; God didn't say, &quot;I heard the cry that are crying in bondage, that are crying and God says, &quot;I have come to deliver them.&quot; God is here today, He wants to set you free. Can somebody say, &quot;Amen.&quot; If you dabbled in the occult, you dabbled and maybe you simply said, &quot;Well, it looks and it has water inside. It does look like you tell me that you're just gonna put a dream why don't you go drink your toilet water? then putting a dream catcher over your bed. the stuff that goes into it, the bacteria. is demonic, any spirituality that is not grounded care how the Hollywood packages it. I don't care how many bishops seek to sign it. It it's not grounded in Jesus, the Holy Spirit what she said was a hundred percent right.&quot; feel the same if you smoke weed. &quot;Oh but you this law of attraction, this love manifestation lost your soul. And you're drinking from a toilet and the you're spiritually dead. My dog drinks from You know why, because it's water for him. My dog would love my human food. He would But I never put dog's food on my plate. The and for you to cheat on God, why? Because when you bring other religions, other demonic to unforgiveness and bitterness, it opens say, &quot;But you don't understand, I have the praying for a young lady who came because town. Actually very outspoken lesbian. Parents to church but an uncle sexually abused her. She didn't tell anybody. A deep resentment resentment, and hate, and out of this pai,n because she wanted women, is because she hated similar like this, but probably just a little like crazy and the demon took three days, and so was the lesbianism. It was gone. And demonic attacks is because they've opened influences. And I want to encourage you today That if you have, maybe you have some kind to set you free. God wants to liberate you when we're sick, He wants to raise us from life. But if we find ourselves bound, whether Jesus or the stuff we did out of ignorance, into wrong things. That we have to repent objects in our house, get rid of those things Jesus today, and experience the freedom and end what practically I just want to share First Lazarus gets alive. This speaks of you especially if you're a young person today you're sitting on the balcony or somewhere came, you deconstructed from Christian faith. know, I don't believe in none of this stuff.&quot; a girl, last week was actually Tennessee. was there. Parents bring this girl to receive And I look at the teenager and I'm noticing receive prayer. So I asked the teenager, I if you don't want me to pray for you.&quot; She like, &quot;Tell him that you want to.&quot; And I said, something and I was like, &quot;Mom, just let her like, &quot;Do you want me to pray for you?&quot; She's like, &quot;Okay, I'll pray for you.&quot; So we start you know sweet, beautiful girl just standing I'm passing out to the next person, the Spirit back and I start praying and she just goes but this girl seems like she would tear me out. So I stopped the deliverance and I talked you a Christian?&quot; She's like, &quot;Oh no.&quot; I was like, &quot;No, I don't believe in Jesus.&quot; I was I'm like, &quot;Your demons, the one that just you tried to slice your wrist and kill yourself. and I was like, &quot;Your demons will drag you She's like, &quot;You, you have a point. Yeah, don't, so my demons know theology even better to give your life to Jesus? If not,&quot; because exactly what they said. She's like, &quot;Okay. demons came out. And so if you're sitting in Jesus Christ.&quot; The devil does. I'm pretty ask you to surrender your life to Jesus today. who poisoned your mind, who is on the sixth and he's telling you what not to believe, says, &quot;Fool said in his heart, 'There is no loving daddy and every religion serves him, to repent and believe in His Son Jesus Christ. Jesus's Word to come into your soul, He will because the stone was removed. And Jesus will heart and you say,&quot; Jesus, I repent and I to notice is that Lazarus the Bible says, that you have to make a step forward today are struggling, even if you are tormented. Bible because it's very hard. Like these demons &quot;I can't go to church, I don't feel like going Bible says, &quot;I will eat in the presence of because you're free and sometimes you come which worship song, which sermon and which of your life. And the fact that you are here, is gonna be my day. Today is gonna be my day Today is gonna be my day of healing. Today I want you to notice that not only Lazarus, walked. So he first became alive through the is that he got out of the tomb, he started after God even if it's hard, even if you don't demons out and maybe some kind of a thing keep on pressing into Jesus, keep on pressing on reading the Bible, keep on pressing and also have to leave your tomb. And the tomb tomb is the tiktok, for some people tomb is their boyfriend, for some people a tomb is dead people. For some people the tomb is the Saturday you didn't go there. And you're here homies and my cronies. I missed all that stuff tomb. God will not go into your tomb to deliver of your tomb. Throw away that weed, flush say, &quot;Well God deliver me from alcohol. Then Jack Daniels and say, &quot;God, I'm ready for delivered me from weed and then I will flush of the tomb. God will begin to bring help, did not set Lazarus free. He sent everyday set him free. Which is what's going to happen come to church. God wants to use everyday you're taking notes, if you're taking notes, be layers and deliverance is not cute. Sometimes the reason why people don't like the ministry get stained. What will the other Church think of our church? And guess what begins to happen, but it's process, sometimes there are just layers. happen, what's important, what I want to finish got enough freedom to have a little bit more look, he's so much better. He's no longer that.&quot; But he still can't run. So the question The question is are you fully pursuing Jesus? friend, God wants to set you free. Freedom so you can love Jesus more. Jesus doesn't at night. That's the benefit. The real purpose I can pray next morning. The real purpose instead of demons tormenting me. Have you that he's able to do the rest. Some things some things He'll leave it for you to deliver And so many people, they come to church. Okay, hold on, hold on altar God does the major work of getting stuff holy Scriptures, your small group and other there and saying, &quot;Lord, another work, do to now work with what I've started. I want Amen, amen. Now I want you to finish this Amen. Come on somebody testimony time. This is your testimony brother. You went from been delivered. How does it feel? Oh all right, Come on somebody. How do you feel? Freedom. applause. Amen, God bless you. God bless you.