This week I've discovered one of the most amazing our Pig feeds for our farm. It's a crop that I've our pigs because I never thought that it would be Farms and over the last several years I've been on farm to reduce our reliance on feeds grown from pesticides, herbicides, and synthetic fertilizers. we need to understand something about whole. Pastured pig producers I think really We have this tendency to think that we can just them out in the woods and they'll supplement a a lot of different grasses and different things However this is not always the case. Pigs - sows like these are - especially growing pigs than most other livestock that we have grown on when you think about it because pigs from the they can become bacon is less than a year. In they're taken to the processor at about 250 to 300 so they gain a lot of weight really quickly to do this - more so than cows or chickens or talking about Pig nutrition most of the time need is 16 give or take a little bit. Protein is but protein is not everything. Proteins are made acids - if they're not right in the right kind of no matter how much protein they have. So the Lysine usually is found in higher concentrations meat, fish Emulsion, blood meal, milk, dairy, States restrict the amount of meat that can be to pigs, most of the proteins that are given to that pastured pork producers really forget about so if they're getting a significant portion of they can get a lot of protein, but if that in it they don't grow or they'll increase the their forage just so that they can get the amino Pigs need about 20 grams of Lysine to put on one feed conversion ratio three pounds of feed to three kilograms of feed to produce one kilogram of it must be lysine. So if we're feeding a 16% feed, must be protein and of that 20 grams of that must to be lysine would need to be about 4.17%. I may are a lot of crops that we can grow that have a of 20 to 25 percent protein in some of them. you've probably heard of Alfalfa and so many other immature stages - can have up to 20% protein as levels include things like lespedeza, soybean even though the protein levels in these are high, they need higher levels of protein or more forages there are other amino acids that they need but it tends to be the one that is the most limiting week, though, is that buckwheat is an outstanding I was just pulling up some plants to see if the had not gone to seed yet. And they did eat them and bagging it, and bringing it to the pigs, don't have a whole lot of forage, so I'm trying necessarily to provide their nutrition, but just eating forages so that they when I turn them out of the forges. So I started feeding the green they've done really really well on it. I knew that them on pasture to eat the buckwheat seed before. lysine percentage of the protein is 5.7 percent 5.8 percent of the protein is lysine. So they forages that we can feed. So what that means is percent or so lysine that it'll boost the lysine the Sorghum sudan grass and the millets and the So the buckwheat grows very quickly - 30 to 40 to eat but it also has a higher percentage of other forages. In fact the lysine in buckwheat higher than brassicas, and any other forages peas - both the forage and the pea pods and the One other plant the leaves of corn the leaves of percent lysine, but if you include the stalks in of Lysine drops down to like three percent or leaves and feed them to the pigs it might work it just so happens that this year I've planted crop mixes. It's more than we've ever grown last year so I just went on and grew it. Now I one-fourth or one-fifth of the rate that I would the buckwheat, but I grow the buckwheat in our it helps the honeybees and it grows so quickly provides nutrition for the other cover crops and probably hear people talk about is that it can if the buckwheat is at less than 30 then it should not be an issue, especially growing our buckwheat and our cover crop mixes but there's a lot of cow peas, Pearl Millet, and other things in that mix that provides just a pig aren't getting even 30 percent buckwheat. Once away by how well pigs can perform on growing some a week to week and a half now and I've noticed but that's kind of ancillary evidence. I or even reduced their normal feed rations I've Buckwheat in the mixes of the green chop that I've We'll see if that continues over the next few acres of Buckwheat out here on this side of the by the time we feed it, will have already gone the buckwheat because there will be hybrid Pearl whether the pigs are gaining from the buckwheat or even some of the dry forage. The buckwheat of Lysine for the pigs. Until now, one of our crop that adds a lot to the pig nutrition and so crops that I grow for our Pig nutrition great for soil Improvement. Check out our other other beneficial insects. It's just a wonderful for the pigs that is not made up from other Until next time, I hope you