Chocolate hands and peeing Belgium has you beat at the weirdest Unfortunately, Belgium's phenomenal chocolate The labor of enslaved people was what initially of chocolate. The Belgian colonization of the to some of the best cocoa beans in the world -- as early as the late nineteenth century. Belgians got a head start in developing the chocolate they're known for. This dark past is Belgium now produces more than 270,000 metric than 2,000 chocolate shops, including some which is based in the Belgian &quot;Locals buy their chocolates fresh Luckily for chocolate lovers around of those goodies for itself. According to dollars in chocolate exports ranked it as the But of course, quantity is just one chocolate dominance -- Belgium's location As Belgium's largest city, Brussels has always capital of Belgium and the administrative and politicians pass through this bustling urban Belgian chocolate as gifts is something both Helping to spread Belgium's reputation for fine Given the long-time presence of chocolate chocolatiers have devised so many innovative famous example of this is the story of Swiss bitter bars of dark chocolate at his pharmacy Neuhaus' bars weren't being sold as a Apparently, even back then, people knew Eventually, the pharmacist's chocolate attention away from medicines to become When it comes to the history of Belgian Sadly, it was the year Neuhaus passed away, also named Jean, created the first known as &quot;bonbons&quot; to the rest of the world, are and the kind of treats you might see in A few years after they were invented, Jean's for how to package them. By placing them she would create a new luxurious appeal to most famous chocolate offering is the praline that are popular in the American south. Though quite different - as they are flat discs From Champagne to Parmesan cheese, from Gorgonzola protected by strict laws. And in 2008, Belgian was developed in 2008 to protect the image and any chocolate labeled as Belgian must be refined protect the quality of Belgian chocolate stated Surprisingly, however, the rules protecting For example, it's not required that the Many characteristics and qualities commonly applied to other types of chocolate. This means special lies in the skills of the artisans While chocolate quality and flavor can vary there are a few characteristics that make Belgian higher cocoa content. For example, while and lower in cocoa, Belgian chocolate &quot;Very dark, bitter chocolate. And though the European Union does permit the use Belgian chocolatiers refuse to do so. Chocolatiers percent of the cocoa butter in their chocolate Belgian chocolatiers only use one hundred percent Another element of Belgian chocolate-making that is a technique known as conching. Conching is a it's being mixed - and it can take up to 78 any undesirable flavors through evaporation. also use conching, there are certain techniques and dry conching. This process helps develop In an interview with the American Oil from Barry Callebaut, the largest &quot;The balance between dry and particular caramelized flavor Given Belgian chocolate's international Belgian chocolatiers are highly competitive For example: in 2021, Togo Matsuda took where he faced off with two other Belgian Some of Matsuda's creative creations included a and speculoos. And a chocolate sculpture depicting The win earned Matsuda the right to represent which will take place in October of 2022. This in his chosen trade against expert The most recent Belgian Chocolate Master, Togo not the only foreigner to bring a uniquely Belgium's chocolate scene has been evolving thanks Most notably Ryan Stevenson, a two-time and Yasushi Sasaki, a Japanese pastry So it is a bit odd that, even though Sasaki told BBC that international arrivals traditional Belgian chocolatiers. However, of so many international chocolatiers on sign that Belgium's chocolate dominance Have you ever heard of a Grand Cru cake? This single word: decadent. Or maybe just...YUM. the Grand Cru is a mouthwatering, coated in a layer of super-dark chocolate - and Pierre Marcolini is a French and his shop is where to go if you And hey, if you're not in Brussels, just 14 euros - if you happen to live But what about all the chocolate fans who don't try a slice? Sorry to say, you'll have to add in Belgian chocolate comes in many shapes, chocolate versions of the &quot;Well now I've seen everything!&quot; But on a more serious note, one of the most known as Antwerp hands. The Brussels Times conceived in the 1930s by a chocolatier as a soldier - Silvius Brabo - who severed the hand destination is the Brabo Fountain, which But the story isn't as straightforward as it also refers to a dark part of Belgian history The Belgian Congo was a brutal slave state, was a routine punishment. So it's no surprise According to an article in the Brussels the chocolate hands have nothing to sociologist Jenny Folsom, of the University of &quot;The severed hand [...] is also a enacted upon Central Africans This controversy certainly In recent years, there has been a push for and chocolate is no exception. In a 2020 report a major focus for the country's The challenges are two-fold - making chocolate while ensuring that cacao farmers in Sustainability remains important to Belgians, more than doubled in the last two years, Major chocolate labels like Guylian it comes to sustainability. Known for its one hundred percent fair-trade cocoa in all Though there are existing laws in place to of what makes Belgian chocolate &quot;Belgian,&quot; still persist. And while Belgian chocolate yes, Belgium, there's still what you might Basically, the thing that separates &quot;real&quot; Belgian cacao butter used. High-quality and artisanal which means distinguishing fake from real But Together Magazine credits the rise in what they describe as the &quot;chocolate wars.&quot; &quot;Hmm, seems like an overreaction.&quot; Okay, maybe it's more of a chocolate skirmish. over there! No matter what you call it, the solicit to tourists and offer chocolate putting more reputable chocolate it's not just in the tourist centers where Vague labels like &quot;Belgian Royal Flavor&quot; chocolate allude to all the thrills of artisanal Each year in Belgium, chocolate is celebrated festival called Salon du Chocolat. According to stop for chocolate enthusiasts. And while Belgium the Salon du Chocolat features - and Of course, the best part of the festival chocolates - and to see how they're affords a rare opportunity to participate in the trade and recipes from some of Europe's of the event is a chocolate-themed fashion designers teaming up with chocolate-makers and Be it bonbon, bar, cake or pastry, no matter all chocolate is amazingly delicious. But