It's mid-morning in Marseille, Two vehicles are on fire. A trapped armored vehicle A dozen men held up the van The gang is transferring to a powerful Audi station wagon. They have machine guns Within a few moments, The bullets fly just a few feet It's open warfare in the city center. I saw this guy in a balaclava, and with a Kalashnikov Then a bullet hit my car's windscreen, That's when I left the car, and I got out and sheltered behind it, The driver His windscreen, riddled with bullets. This is a dangerous gang of madmen. They shot off dozens of rounds the police and bystanders. Bullet casings The intense violence in broad daylight This is a well-organized gang. They know about explosives, and aren't afraid of murdering people. They were shooting to kill. Luckily, The criminals make off with EUR2 million. Determined, heavily armed, a commando-style operation, which is becoming the norm For the first time, members have allowed cameras They explain how the bosses have made it to the top It's eleven o'clock at night in an isolated parking lot The young man we're meeting converts them and sells them He's known as the Fox. It's like a uniform. From 11:00 each night, we cover our heads. If you take it off, That's not very discreet, though. What's not discreet The car is an Audi station wagon, The RS6 is a 600-horsepower monster Obviously, it's stolen. The driver, Fox, is from the suburb He became a petty thief His passion for cars led him to specialize over the past ten years. Tonight, his hunting ground to the west of the capital. His targets are high-powered sports cars for drug traffickers We cruise, drive about, That's what we are, I suppose. Look, there's a station wagon there. Two liters, that's clean. After a quarter of an hour, a German station wagon, Is it 2.5 liters or two liters? -Two liters. That won't work. The model's no good, -You're figuring out your deal? So far, nothing. Look, there's a Mini. The thief spotted a high-end Mini sports, a small racer and is very popular these days That's more like it. That's worth it since it costs EUR30,000. That's not just any car. Oh, there's a light on, on the right. I better make sure Fox has found his prey. After a good look around, Okay, this is good. This is safe. His secret to sealing any car, is an electrical device made in Russia. The high-tech toy can start any vehicle [French spoken audio] Look here, you see you got Alfas. We can get those, Cadillac, Chevrolet, It's all happening here. There are all sorts of cars here, Anything that moves, we can take, Anything worth some money, They have a machine but it weighs more than 150 kilos. This portable device is extremely rare. This is just for thieves, There's probably How much is it worth, then, More than EUR10,000, One good car sale They tried to take it from us, Back on the street Look, the light, that's weird. You'd better watch out. At midnight not all the locals but that doesn't worry the robber. He assigns a task Listen, take the gel with you, and let no one This large spray can A very powerful weapon. Yes, that'll calm you down a bit. It's for those who are a bit too curious. Instead of hitting them, Don't turn the engine off, okay? It's very dangerous here. Come on. We follow the thief It takes Fox about ten seconds to open the car door Once inside, to the onboard computer. Let's hope it works. The high-tech machine Come on, start, you son of a... Start, will you? If I tell you to get out, then get out, They'll figure out They're not stupid here, you know. Oh, good, excellent. I love you. -Now you need the card, right? The card has replaced keys Fox has a card Now the computer has been hacked. The card will become the only way It's now looking for the key code. It worked. I heard the engine. You can see the tank is half full. That's ready to go. Some defaults light up, like the ABS system That stuff's malfunctioning now, Okay, let's not hang about. Come on, we better get out. Fox gets out. Nothing says What a pain? It's taken an hour to get going. It's too cold. That's what happens, Do you see the risk you're running? To be honest, no, I don't pay attention I just focus on the job. Taking risks has become second nature. He's been shot at in the same neighborhood There's a lot of security around here. As if to prove it, at the red light, the car thief There they are. Fox is hooded and driving a powerful car. He knows he'll look suspicious, They'll follow us, just you see. The patrol car does indeed follow. We're being hunted now. Look there in front of us now as well. Two hundred meters further ahead, a second patrol car The police have called for backup. Okay, boys, you want to play? All right, off we go, then. The chase is on. Civilians, mind out! You don't stop when they tell you to? No, you see that? That's quite a few of them. They're playing a dirty trick on us There are several of them now We try to play their little game, They're all over the place. They're on the left. They're on the left, look. Look down there. Flooring the accelerator Now he needs to disappear Fox has a trick up his sleeve. They won't see us on that bend. Usually, we turn off the lights, Usually, we never turn the headlights on, We're now doing all the way to the motorway. -Have they stopped chasing us now? We need to clear out of here, This little roundabout is nothing, If I'd carry going straight back there, you could see the blockade Oh, they were tough. If you're not cold-blooded here, Fox drives even faster to leave the area. This is more like it. Two hundred and eighty, that's good. We're safe now. No more hassles. Even better at 290. A few days later, Fox shows us He's not just a car thief. He's the boss of a thriving business Where are we? This is my little paradise, well hidden. He's driving a Renault Megane, We need to change the number plates Otherwise, We'd be dead, the plates and insurance. Where will these cars end up? Often, it's to those who need fast cars -Then there's the battering ram. That's when you crash You reverse it, Using a vehicle as a battering ram is, one of the first things In March 2010, near Paris, this man repeatedly rammed his vehicle before fleeing with his loot. Spectacular attacks like that The Internet is full of similar videos, usually filmed by passers-by In 2009, a record number of banks, The Megane stolen by Fox's gang A crook ordered the car, especially. How much will you sell this for? Since it's for a good friend I admire, This car would only be used once, then? Well, used as a ram, Cars like this In a year, he sells about 100 cars. It's a lucrative business. You can earn good money: You could make as much as 50,000 a month? Well, today, it could be EUR50,000, Fox estimates there are about 50 gangs The demand for stolen vehicles is high, in particular for the rapid transport The so-called &quot;go-fast&quot; is said to have begun in the 1990s The city is still a stronghold In the police car park, an Audi coupe both of them seized Commissioner Sebastian Moras He shows off the haul, on their way back from Holland. This is what we call the transport car. It was used to carry the drugs which was 150 kilos of powder. The police officer admits with a sports car like the RS4, We suspect a car like this. We have to take a lot of precautions Turning the siren on isn't going to stop this kind of vehicle. Once the chase starts, there's little hope of catching up Arresting this particular gang Sebastian Moras shows us and stored inside this wardrobe, -It's all of this. Heroin, 112 kilos, and cocaine, 55 kilos. That's 112,000 doses You definitely need a good number and 55,000 doses The resale value is a lot. Several million for heroin Four or five years ago, a kilo of coke or heroin Now it's 100 times more, The drug runners detained and are all from the same suburb of Lyon. Most violent crime here is committed They started off as small-time dealers and are now calling the shots Lyon is the perfect example Here drug trafficking by the young wolves and the pattern They now control It's how they've accumulated It's late afternoon on a March day in 2010 We are due to meet up He's chosen this upmarket part of Paris and popular with tourists. The man is on time. A cashmere coat, a designer-label suit, The boy from the suburbs We'll call him Stephane. For the past six years, he's led a team He offers to take us along to stock up on hashish and cocaine. We're looking to pick up and 200 kilos of the best-quality hashish We'll meet here in Paris. I'll pick you up. You'll need to be equipped. I don't have the time All you need Don't wear the hood, You'll only need it Then you put it on Secondly, don't bring a phone unless you want someone The trafficker doesn't deny the trip A confrontation with the police I'll provide you with bulletproof vests in case we need to smash or if there's a problem. It's better to have that extra safeguard Naturally, we won't be stopping We'll be flooring it instead. Sometimes the cops get angry but usually, they don't. You never know, I've never been caught, Stephane heads up to Holland and promises to call us We'll have to wait a long time September, six months after our first meeting the drug dealer is wary Finally, we fixed a rendezvous It's 10:00 at night There are two cars. Behind the wheel of a powerful -Okay? Are you ready then? Let's go. We will take the motorway. Destination: Hollander. It's 10:30 PM, a 400-kilometer journey. Belgium and two border crossings The same coming back of being back in the French capital Up ahead, two accomplices Their job is to look for police and warn Stephane to change his route. They're the pathfinders On the way up there but we've got all the cash. No cash, no merchandise, Usually, though, How about the car in front, No, the car up ahead is fine, Well, tell them to stay well ahead because a pathfinder Stephane uses cell phones to keep in touch with the car in front. Drive, but not too fast. Do about 150,160, no more. Any problems, let me know. If there are no problems, don't call. Only contact me if there's a problem. Okay, see you soon. Let's go. The drug smuggler is taking a big risk. In the boot, he has EUR600,000 in cash. At an average speed and without stopping, By 1:00 in the morning, a medium-sized town some ten kilometers The supplier is based here. When he arrives, Hello, are you already here? Tell him I'll be there in a minute. Don't tell him we have someone with us Otherwise, he'll freak out, so keep quiet. I'm dropping him off, so don't worry. See you shortly. You see, won't be thrilled if I take along someone They won't appreciate it, As I said, they'll freak, probably. When I've done my shopping I'll pick you up again, Okay, see you later. There's no chance of filming Stephane We hang out patiently in Breda's center The drug trafficker Let's drive for a bit, I've got 150 kilos of hashish Can we take a look? Yes, look there in the back seat. That's the nine kilos of coke. I'll show you the hash later, Amazingly, the drug hasn't been hidden. The nine kilos of cocaine are in a bag The coke always stays on the rear seat. That way, if there's a problem I'll grab the bag. I'm not leaving that as I can afford but if there's a chance I'll at least try and save the coke. That's several kilos? Now, that was one kilo How much did it cost? Well, like that costs 30,000 each. The cost, therefore, plus another 300,000 Once we've left town, Come on then, quick, I'll show it to you. -Is that what they call a Moroccan bag? How much is inside each package? Thirty kilos. They're well-wrapped, but it's a real pain in the ass Especially if you're in a hurry. Well, here's two of them anyway. You see, each pack has 100 grams. There are five bundles, I'll not open up the coke Each gram is expensive nowadays. By now, it's 3:30 AM, There's no time to waste and the border needs to be crossed The trip back is at 160 and stays at 160. Cruise control. No point attracting attention, and there's no point No point whatsoever. The only reason I have a powerful car Only if there's a problem. While everything's fine There are no flashing We cross through Belgium again At 4:30 AM, the first hurdle: Right now, I'm calling the lead car Hello? Are you through the barrier? Okay, good. I'm just coming up to it. This is customs. There it is. There's nobody at the Post Since the 1995 Schengen Agreement, there are no longer border controls Mobile phones have also helped Former small-time crooks like Stephane We're in France, that's it, right? -The next? The first tollbooth in France Any stop makes the drug dealers nervous, and the police and mobile customs units The lead car should let them know If the phone rings, it's bad news? Iif it rings, it means that and we'll need to get off the motorway, use some of the local roads Let's see what happens first. To set his mind at ease, Hello? So... To get through, all quiet? Good. Okay. I'm speeding up to make sure just in case the customs police There's always a chance after the lead car has gone through Let's rock and roll. This is the tollbooth, and there are no uniforms in sight. It's now 5:00 AM, The trafficker will be home We've done the hardest part. Stephane is confident. There's little chance of being stopped His drug run has worked, There's 150 kilos of hash, and nine kilos of coke. You've invested EUR600,000, I'd say about EUR145,000, -You share that between the two of you? Usually, we make on average three a month, say. Therefore, you can work it out: That means EUR450,000 profit a month. Over 100 trips, Stephane's only had to abandon to avoid the police. The go-fast drug smuggling has allowed him to build a fortune The boys from the poor housing estates in a holy grail of hold-ups: the armored cars. We tracked down the pioneer His name is Redoine Faid. He served ten years in prison here in Villepinte, a Paris suburb. He was 24 years old at the time. When I decided to attack the armored vans, I was ambitious. I wanted to go up in the criminal world. Attacking the vans transporting money, This is because when you attack it's as good as it gets. That's where the most money can be made, In a July evening in 1997, were laying an ambush They were waiting for a van On board a 50 million francs, The van pulled up Then it turned left Then it headed off At that time of day, the roads The van slowed down before turning left Suddenly, a car rushed forward. I smashed into his front left wheel, A Peugeot Expert came and parked in front. The truck behind stopped in front as well. We all got out and got in front of the windscreen. We attached a strip of plastic explosive The criminals were hooded With the additional threat the security guards The side door opened up. It was about here. I pulled out one guard, I took out a second guard When he opened up the safe, It was like Ali Baba's cave. When I saw the sacks, I told myself, &quot;There's too many sacks here.&quot; You see, the mistake we made, the mistake was we'd underestimated After four minutes, trying to empty it all. Four minutes is too long. The local police station and the alarm was raised. The police now confronted Redoine The crime squad arrived I remember I was about here. The van was on this side, and I was hit here by a bullet. Then I fell to the ground, told me to get up. I wasn't even holding my arm, Someone with me but he didn't kill anyone. They returned fire We got in the cars, The criminal isn't seriously injured. He and his accomplices disappear with several million euros which will never be recovered. However, the blood from his wound After a year in hiding, In all, he is charged with a holdup Redoine Faid today He works as a sales manager in Paris, He spent his youth growing up and turned to crime. Thefts, break-ins, and eventually, How did this lout from the suburbs from petty to serious crime? Well, typically, small-time crooks to get out of a bad situation. Just by looking at them, We dress the same in tracksuits, We eat kebabs, and we drink Coke Zero. I mean, what is that? Organized crime has always been suspicious and that's what's allowed the delinquents Why? The police keep watch and don't bother A flood of cheap weapons has meant the boys from the suburbs The drug dealers There was no one to bother them, The hold-up man had unlimited ambition, and by climbing up in the style of Michael Mann, Michael Mann is a Hollywood film director He learned about holding up the money vans starring Robert De Niro and Val Kilmer. It was February 1996 Like anybody else, We sat down with our popcorn I was stunned. Like the earth stopped spinning. It was like being smacked. We'd seen lots of films, That's when we decided You see, to make each robbery Val Kilmer will open the door, Robert De Niro and then Tom Sizemore grabs the money. All those little details interested us It gave us the courage We said: okay, we know how to do this now. Redoine and his friends watch the film Hollywood is a mine of information They even disguise themselves the same way as the criminals What we did, like in a previous holdup when we had these masks of politicians the film with Patrick Swayze. Well, we decided we'd wear hockey masks We'd do it the &quot;Michael Mann way&quot; Redoine Faid is a perfect example inspired by Hollywood. He grew up in the suburb of Creil, He, however, is still banned Sixty kilometers north of Paris in the agricultural area Creil has 35,000 inhabitants. Half the population lives in the plateau's built in the 1960s. Redoine Faid was raised where he's still known Redoine, yes, I've heard of him. Great guy. The best. Redoine Faid's career in organized crime is something some youngsters here Forty percent of those that live Serious crime is rare, but small operators outside the apartment blocks. It's pure CC. As on every afternoon, have gathered here. In the entrances, dealers make no attempt The visible part of the drug trade They are the last link Who heads up the networks? Police blame organized crime. After several days spent in the plateau, He started as a dealer on the streets before slowly working his way up We meet in an anonymous stairwell. I'm the guy who provides The bag man, the packet man. I can provide it by the kilo too, for those who want I'm a semi-wholesaler, I suppose. Karim says By getting through 100 kilos a month, There are ten or so bigger dealers Karim has been the boss In our group, people that work for us. We have guys We have the financial means, and most of all, we have the people. A hundred and fifty thousand foot soldiers for a bit of cash, The stakes are indeed high. The drug business Aren't people envious of you? It's a dangerous profession, There's nothing that's not dangerous, There are some shows of force. When it gets too dangerous, Small handguns for the housing estate. Something bigger in case we need What's that? This is an Uzi. It's Israeli. It's an automatic weapon It's a nice little toy, Almost shoots itself. For the housing estates, it's perfect. Obligatory, really. It's like safety shoes worn in a factory. Same thing. Weapons of war have become for drug traffickers. In Creil, machine guns are being used It's happening all over France. Among the criminals, in much the same manner In the Greater Paris region, one crime lord is about to make and we meet up near the city's ring road. The gunrunner is from the suburbs His first crimes were small, before turning to weapons. He's cautious and insists we wear gloves He also disguises his voice Those who know him call him PSG. This is the ring road, and then out of the suburbs too. We're going to a very quiet place indeed. It's where we hide our stuff We head out of town We cover about 20 kilometers in the open countryside. This is like our fallback position. It's the right place these days It's far more discreet Not somewhere you'll meet Okay, slow down a bit. Slow down. Stop over there on the side! Good, excellent. Now we're going to go He's keen to cover his tracks a nondescript van with another driver. There's no way he'll let us see You're okay in there? Okay. We'll be driving for a little now, It's good. I'm closing you in now, We spend 20 minutes shut up PSG hides his arsenal in the undergrowth. He's with an accomplice that has been ordered We're digging up the goods out here there are too many caretakers, We had a lot of problems Stuff is in the rubbish bins down here. What have you got there? This is a special suburban Kalashnikov. It's very popular. It's much valued and quite easy to obtain. How much would a Kalashnikov cost? Well, one like this would sell for EUR2,500. Do you make a profit? Well, a guy who sells it to me Let's make sure Safety is on. Okay, excellent. The arms dealer He unearths the Czechmate, which he sells for EUR1,300 each. Now, this is a really nice gun, There's no bullet in the barrel, It's a powerful weapon. All the drug guys want one, I've got two left that will sell soon. I had ten of them, got them last week, You see, this is a bulletproof vest. There's even a bulletproof vest This model is highly valued The cost is EUR800 a piece. There's still more buried treasure, the dealer suggests, Seven days later, PSG and his business partner are after the Kalashnikovs Where does he get all these weapons? A small timer from the suburbs has become one of the region's How? See, before I used to steal, so obviously, I needed a weapon. Some people I knew put me in touch He used to bring in small stuff Then one day, he had a rocket launcher. I realized he was a big-time dealer. Now I've converted myself The weapons are all from countries Like a good salesman, PSG wants to convince us Here, let's test this one. All the bullets are clean. Don't leave your fingerprints You never know Aren't you worried No, we'll shoot over in that direction. There are just a few boars Come on, then. It really works well, excellent. Very nice weapon. There, okay, let me pick that one up. You see, now this one is a Luger, The same, 9-millimeter. It works really well, Perfect. Fine, that's all there is. Yes, good. Gangsters often aren't just satisfied robbing banks calls for explosives. The arms dealer has a sports bag, and inside is a few samples Let's see, Hang on, here's something special for you. That's plastic. It's C4. It's also called Semtex. The C4 explosive, You need a detonator to make it explode. It needs to be well wrapped up Now, how many grams Oh, here it is, about 400 grams at least. What can 400 grams do? Well, actually, 400 grams is dangerous. It's a lot and too powerful. Fifty grams is enough to blow There's enough for four here, [French spoken audio] Each kilo is worth EUR1,300 to the dealer, and he has seven kilos in his bag, all of it from the Balkans. This is very dangerous, too. A detonator can go off all by itself. The army has plenty of problems It's very sensitive. You need to handle it carefully. See, here's a detonator, You light it, you got ten seconds. For a remotely controlled explosion, that are battery-powered. To show us, he's put 50 grams of plastic We've put the charge here The detonator goes here, Let's get back now. Come on, let's get back. What do the guys do, then? You see, say it's a cash machine. One sets up the detonator, Then this is what will happen. The first attempt fails. The humidity from the rain PSG sends one of his men The blast sends our camera flying. [French spoken audio] Here it is again, in slow motion. Let's see what it did. The manhole cover, where did it get to? There you go. Look, it's made a hole with a perfect right angle, The cast iron cover Fifty grams of plastic was all it took used on armored money transporters. Aren't you worried Do these people take some precautions? Won't civilians get killed? What do you think of it? That's their lookout, What happens next is their business. They're not psychopaths, What if terrorists get hold of this? No, we don't sell to terrorists. If some guy shows up to blow up an underground train, They might not tell you what it's for. We're not stupid. Someone who comes up and asks has never happened. You can spot them a mile off. We're not crazy, either. I don't fancy being chased Selling weapons and explosives brings in Money is the incentive What kind of life do they lead What do they spend their money on? It's not possible to visit their homes Fox, the car dealer, agrees to be filmed It's in a games arcade, and once more, We're not honest people, but I hope to be able They won't do what I do. That's why I work so hard. Why I'm 100% committed to what I do. Fox is married I have a family like anybody else. My wife's at home waiting for me, but she doesn't get much chance to cook She knows not to ask questions and I've asked her not to. When not working, these crime bosses live like anyone else. They're not marginalized PSG, the arms dealer, Each Sunday morning, because he likes cooking for the family. I'm like Joe Blow, like anyone else. I pick up my kids from school. I drop off my kids at school. I prepare their snacks for them, I've been married for a few years now. The new generation keeps a low profile. They don't flaunt their wealth. They don't drive fancy cars. They want to blend in with the masses. We're careful. I don't buy wonderful watches, I save everything up, How do you live then, I can't tell you everything. Some people own snack bars Some are in car rentals, Others buy up property abroad. PSG and Fox prefer for their children and their retirement. Well, frankly, it's an awful life, but I like my life. I couldn't do anything else anyway. I'm scared the whole time. What are you scared of? Of dying in a stupid way, stray bullets, Fox has not been shot by a stray bullet, but since we spoke with him, He could face ten years in prison. Redoine Faid is once again on the run. He's suspected of planning a holdup that left one policeman dead in May 2010. Drug smuggler, Stephane to Holland and back, With the money he's put aside, he wants to set up As for the weapons dealer, He struck gold through his contacts and the demand for large-caliber weapons In 2010, at least one person a week in the housing projects around Paris.