What is it like to raise a family in the world's to -64 degrees Celsius? Today, we'll explore the daily life of the children who call this extreme place - home. Aleksandr Pavlov - the father of the house, to gather ice to make sure his family has Raising 22 children is a challenging task, like Yakutsk Aleksandr his family live in the suburbs of the challenge of not having access to the Instead, Aleksandr's family, depend on water for their daily activities. Nastya, Ramina Nastya, it's time to go to nursery Meanwhile, Oksana, is waking up their children. Oksana and Aleksandr are loving parents to adopted Their family spans a wide age range, from who is just 6 years old. The youngest members of their family are Sofia, Ramina is 9 years old and attends the local to a nursery next to their home. Today, Ramina has a day off from school because -45 degrees outside. However, the nursery continues to operate Nastya still has to go to nursery. Today, the temperature outside is -48 degrees, As part of Aleksandr's morning routine, his family stays warm on this ice-cold morning Oh, the boiler's pressure went down Despite the extreme cold, Aleksandr and his home comfortably warm at 25 degrees. Considering the size of their 3800-square-foot around $200 a month. 7:40 in the morning. All the kids are finally awake! It's time to get ready for school, nursery The Pavlov family has 14 kids living with 8 of them are married and have their own families Despite having a big house, the Pavlov family queue each morning. Hello everyone And this is our daughter Aiyylaana Hello everyone, my name is David, I'm 25 years My name is Ruslan, I'm 10 years old My name is Nastya Filippova, I'm 6 years old My name is Ramina Filippova, I'm 6 years old What? You are not 6 years old! Oops! You are 9 year old! Oh I forgot, I'm 9 years old My name is Zhanna, I'm 11 years old My name is Kolya, I'm 12 years old My name is Algystaana, I'm 16 years old My name is Archilaana, I'm 14 years old My name is Lyonya, I'm 13 years old Well done! My name is Sasha, I'm 19 years old My name is Vova, I'm 17 years old My name is Yuliya, I'm 22 years old My name is Sophia, I'm... 6 years old? While children are busy with their morning Traditional Yakutian pancakes, is a high-energy Managing schedules and responsibilities for establishing routines and delegating tasks eager to help. Our homemade blueberry jam Now it's time for breakfast! With just one kitchen in the Pavlov family's fit everyone at once. So they found a way! They are eating in a two-row, with the youngest the eldest. In May 2003, we initially adopted three children. During that time, I had been working at an Later on, after several years We found ourselves adopting a total of 18 Currently, we are raising 10 kids separately They have started their own families But they often come to visit us They see us as their mother and father and During holidays, we love being together and playing games We feel blessed to have such a large and loving Oksana and Aleksandr have shared a happy life The decision to open their hearts and home was caring for her children. Being a teacher by profession, she has always love, care, and a comfortable home to as many As their family grew, so did the responsibilities This led Aleksandr to make the difficult decision better support for his family. Aleksandr and Oksana are fully dedicated to They receive government support for their food and clothing for all their children. After a hearty breakfast, it's now time for Archilaana is a 14-year-old with three years becoming an actress, dentist, or singer. Her school day runs from 8:30 am to 3 pm, focusing on subjects like Russian language, To get into university, Archilaana must pass subjects. Competition for university scholarships is Without high Unified State Exam scores, students to $4,000 a year for local public universities. So Archilaana is determined not to miss school, Not only Archilaana but also her siblings In Yakutsk, life continues even at such low Schools, nurseries, universities, and offices From a young age, locals understand the importance winters They wear insulated trousers and special winter Luckily, the Pavlov family lives right next walk away They chose their house location with their have to walk too far outside. The older siblings look after the younger school first to prevent them from freezing. Next in line are Algystaana and Archylaana. Despite their school being relatively close they arrive school safely The eldest members of the family are currently center In a city with no subway or other public transportation relies on taking the bus. Vova, Dayaana, Yulia, and Sasha start feeling This situation could quickly become dangerous, home or try to stop a passing car to avoid The bus will arrive in 3 min Luckily, the bus arrives just in time, so The buses in Yakutsk are red for a specific They're painted this way because the red color This makes it easier for people in Yakutsk Meanwhile, some kids are helping their parents the world, they're excited about not having Primary school are closed today, so they are outdoors, not minding the cold weather! Like most locals here, kids are relishing ice skating, and skiing. The kids try to play outside as much as they which point they move their activities indoors. Indoors, they enjoy playing chess among other Aleksandr takes sports and health seriously, his children Aleksandr built their own indoor gym where sports activities during the afternoon. The eldest members of the family are actively skiing, boxing, and archery, participating Growing up in the world's coldest city We aren't afraid of the cold weather The kids are always eager to help out wood I believe the cold weather makes us resilient After returning from school, the children activities Living in the coldest place on earth, it's Last time I cooked here at -52degC This is foal meat It cooks very fast The weather doesn't stop him from cooking temperature drops below -40 degrees. The meat takes on a unique and delicious flavor icy, special taste that the family loves! Aleksandr's wife, Oksana, is also busy preparing They're cooking up a delicious and hearty pies filled with meat and rice. Unlike other regions, vegetables are very growing conditions. Fruits are also rare in the traditional Yakut Instead, people often consume frozen berries, long periods. Dinner is ready! Dinner is served, and the family gathers around by loving mum. In Yakutia, it's a cherished tradition to their bellies but also warms their souls during As night falls over Yakutsk, and temperatures into their warm home, safe and secure in each In the heart of the coldest city on Earth, the enduring strength of family. Thank you for joining us on this extraordinary Until next time, stay warm and keep the spirit