You've been taking bullets, charging it up with kinetic energy. You turned off the artificial gravity everywhere but in here. It's quantum entanglement between the quantum states of Posner Do you guys just put the word quantum in front of everything? I gotta say, we do put the word &quot;quantum&quot; in front of everything. Hi, I'm Jim Kakalios. I'm a physics professor at and the author of &quot;The Woo, let's go! That's a scene from the first movie, and as they're Rocket turns off the artificial so that everyone else floats bearings, and they make their escape. I told you I had a plan. Say you're in an elevator, and the cables break, and You're no longer feeling It's as if you're weightless. You could start doing people in the elevator, say, and let go of the pipe, and because it's falling, you're But if you're already you'd stay standing on the floor. However, anyone who was they were walking, they were on the ground and then And at that moment, if the they would have launched themselves up, and without gravity to slow their ascent, they would keep rising in that way. So the people who were stationary and started to float up, not so much. Anyone who was walking would I'm not quite sure how is being generated in the space station, and the whole notion of artificial gravity that can be turned on and locations in the space Talking raccoons, that part's OK. Huh? My undying fidelity. Jim: So Thanos has just acquired and as soon as he has Loki's dagger thrust in midair. Undying, you should choose Well, there's actually some Back in the beginning of the 20th century, Emmy Noether was able connection between space and momentum. Controlling the Space Stone not only allows you to teleport but apparently also gives you command over momentum. Loki's dagger thrust is arrested, and all of the momentum is stopped. If you look closely around Loki's arm, you see a little blue the Space Stone that's arresting It's worth noting that in &quot;Captain America: The First Avenger,&quot; the Space Stone, which was at the time, is the only Infinity Stone that was actually to create force beams, thereby a connection between space and momentum. The first &quot;Iron Man&quot; movie, 2008, the one that started the whole Marvel universe. I love it, Tony Stark, and the engineer as superhero. When he built his first suit in a cave out of scraps, it was made of iron and was very heavy, about 150 pounds just counting the iron, Then he developed the Mark Titanium is lighter than iron and strong. And then in order to he used a gold-titanium alloy. Let's connect to the the shell metals, use from the Seraphim Tactical Satellite. That should ensure fuselage integrity while maintaining Now there are gold-titanium alloys. They tend to be very brittle. applications more than anything else. So unless he's fighting I don't think that he really would want to use a gold-titanium alloy. So much of the technology are things that we We have exoskeletons. We jet boots. The one thing we He has an arc reactor of a hockey puck and puts out the power of three nuclear power plants. If we knew how to do that, because otherwise you'd but you'd have to drag a long in order to have enough One thing that's realistic in this is that we never see him, or shoots a repulsor ray, we or give a voice command. He That's because he has a cybernetic helmet that picks up his thought waves and sends the information to the suit. This is real. Scientists and engineers at and at other universities and are developing cybernetic helmets radio waves that are generated them, sending them via They're trying to develop but if you had asked me &quot;Iron Man&quot; comics which would be the closest to reality, the last thing I would have Why don't you pick on Ant-Man shrinking down to the size of an ant, even much smaller. When Ant-Man shrinks, he's and he shrinks at constant density, so he's very lightweight. When he rides on an ant, smush the ant, but when he he's able to increase his more momentum behind his punch. How does he do it? In the comics and in the that were discovered by Hank Pym. If they had just given a to how one changes the size of atoms. They say that they're the atoms or the space in the atoms, no. The size of an atom is determined via quantum mechanics to fundamental constants: mass of an electron, Planck's constant. If, via the Pym field, to of Planck's constant, then the atoms would and the size of an object If you make it 10 times would be 100 times bigger, It's Spider-Man. Oh, my God, this is it. Tell everyone to hang on. Oh yeah, I see that look in class a lot. So here, Peter Parker, Spider-Man, needs to stop a runaway elevated train. He shoots out multiple web lines, they stretch a great deal, and he's able to stop the How strong does the webbing We can look up the mass of a train. We can estimate its how long it takes to pass city blocks. We can look at the distance over which the webbing stretches. We We can count the number of web lines, and we come up with a tensile that has to be about 1,000 megapascals, which is equivalent to 145,000 But real spider silk has a tensile strength of 1,200 megapascals. If Spider-Man's webbing as real spider silk, then He's shooting it out of his a real spider would do, but &quot;Doctor Strange&quot; is a Marvel movies, insofar as everything else in the Marvel Cinematic had some sort of hand-wavy, But here they're just Stephen: This doesn't make any sense. Ancient One: Not everything Jim: The notion that there is an idea that has been taken seriously Ancient One: What if I told you the reality you know is one of many? Quantum mechanics is the branch of physics that describes the properties of atoms and how they interact with light. One aspect of quantum find troubling is that it So you can calculate the giving the electron at a and time, but not exactly One alternative explanation an infinite number of parallel universes. You find the electron in universes, it might be at So presumably, maybe some of these parallel significant quantum As far as the science in a parallel Earth, the are able to affect the locally, I'm sorry, that's just magic. But he's the master of the mystic arts, so I'll give him a break. Now, I don't know what I've come here to put an Then prove it. Put that hammer down. Uh, yeah, no. Bad call. He loves his... You want me to put the hammer down? Thor puts the hammer down In the movies, the shield where in the comics it's an That's actually more realistic. You want steel to provide when Captain America throws ricochet, but you want the all vibrations, making it as it's absorbing Thor's It's completely vibration-absorbent. Jim: Energy can't be destroyed. It can only be converted to another form. The energy of the hammer sound waves in the hammer, absorbs it, what form does it take? What we see from the clip: It's converted into blue this enormous flash of It's showing that the a perfect sonoluminescent material. &quot;Sono&quot; meaning sound, You send sound waves in, This is a real phenomena in physics. The only real difference is that vibranium unfortunately doesn't exist. You're linked to Janet. It's quantum entanglement states of Posner molecules in your brains. Do you guys just put the word quantum in front of everything? This is a classic example of quantum mumbo-jumbo. There are some real words were used there, but they're in connection with other phrases, But quantum entanglement is a real thing. If you bring two objects so close together that their quantum-wave functions overlap, then they can only be two-object quantum-wave function. And if I bring them very disentangle them, then So something that's done on this end shows up in the other end on opposite ends of the of the solar system, they would still be communicating to each described by one single wave function. Scientists are using this property of entangled quantum states to try and see if they can develop superior computers. They're trying to make the context for a character in the movie &quot;Ghost&quot; who is quantum-mechanically tunneling through solid objects, a real phenomena, but the way they're doing it A little bit too much quantum woo. So I'd say less woo, more quantum. I'm not going to make it. Black Panther: Keep going. So here we see the Black Panther and his sister, scientific genius Shuri. She's using a holographically generated car in Wakanda to steer has commandeered in South Korea. Which side of the road is it? Black Panther: For OK, calm down. What makes Wakanda special is that its near-inexhaustible supply of Vibranium, an extraterrestrial mineral that has the ability to absorb all vibrations. The hard-light hologram Holograms are interference The hologram itself is it is an image. But I Using sound, you can create regions that have a pressure and exert a force as if they were a solid object. And presumably, if you overlaid that with a optical hologram, you feels solid but is generated via light. Presumably using their Shuri is able to do this and overlay it with an optical hologram, but still produces a visual I don't know if I could pattern overlaid with a hologram to create a hard-light object, but &quot;Shuri&quot; someone can. You show-off. Surprising absolutely no one, here we see Carol Danvers, Captain Marvel, showing up in &quot;Avengers: Endgame,&quot; obviously responding to by Nick Fury at the end of We last saw her in the of her own movie, &quot;Captain into outer space to try to She comes back to Earth doesn't appear to be any older. Einstein's special that all observers, whether have to agree on the value For that to be the about distances and disagree about times. There's an effect called time dilation that if someone is moving very close to the speed of light, time will appear to Say she spends six months the speed of light, then velocity would correspond to We don't know what's going to but if any of it involves then the time-dilation for the fact that she significantly from the last movie. This has been Jim Kakalios, your friendly neighborhood physics of the legendary Stan Lee, What's the matter with you kids? You never seen a spaceship before? Bring 'em over here, and That is hilarious!