A Toddler Played With His Cat. DD is a 3 year old boy, presenting to the tells the admitting nurse that he had You see, about 10 months ago DD was to be odd one day when his told his mom The next day, he was playing cried out in pain and found gripping his sides. At the emergency room, he was confirmed The medical team found he was Hydro meaning water, nephro meaning state. His kidneys were heavily damaged This was onset because DD had developed primary larger than it should have been and ureter being bladder. Primary meaning he had an anatomic where the ureter connects to the bladder. This produced by an aperistaltic segment, meaning causing that urine to back up, swell into limits the kidney's filtering capabilities DD was asymptomatic, until he was found it was discovered that the hydronephrosis was But this wasn't the only problem. His unilateral, compressed the contralateral, or right sided he was also obstructed on his right, causing His right kidney damage was also so severe had no functioning kidneys and thus had from his blood. He was put on dialysis and It's 6 months later. The family time to find a matching kidney donor The transplant goes well and he is He is put on immunosuppressive therapy the body can reject the organ. called an allograft. Allo meaning The immune system could identify and mark it for removal and damage it, do with a virus or bacterial infection-- it The boy is discharged from the hospital with prevent organ rejection and with the end goal of sustaining his new It's 4 months later. Things are going well no more dialysis visits, and preschool was well. Even at repeated pediatricians visits, It was here that the family made a new from the local shelter. She was playful and active. For some reason, DD was often found playing in he started complaining that his head hurts. It then turned into every day. He also had a he would often be found crying at night, Finally, one day, he was worse than normal. He particularly sluggish. Emily had a pediatricians While he plays with Lola, he suffers an ambulance where DD is brought to the Given this past medical history, there's Most immediately, DD is suffering Encephal meaning brain and This is shown by his headache and seizure. But how could this be? He underwent a kidney are far apart, what kind of direct interaction so if inflammation is an immune system Well, this brings us to the first clue. Because DD is immunosuppressed, his immune system, mainly his white blood cells have reduced Of the 2 medicines he is taking the first, mycophenolate produces Cyto meaning cell, stasis meaning subtype of white blood cell, a main This means the drug prevents white blood cells does this by inhibiting T and B cells DNA This is something you want to have as a cells can and will infiltrate, replicate in The second medicine, tacrolimus Again, this is something you want to have create signals to your immune system to and they can be cytotoxic, meaning they The benefit of immunosuppression is that it The downside is that it puts him at risk for Because Lola was adopted, her past isn't well animals that can be infected with lifecycle of some these parasites Which leads us to suspect that DD is As we know it today, Toxoplasma gondii is a cats. Birds and small rodents can often serve These cysts can be latent, meaning they don't But, when the cat consumes these carrier animals, Inside the cat, tissue cysts of toxoplasma burst zoite meaning common organism. In the cats are created and sporulated until they become to form millions of oocysts, which are secreted the cat in its feces, depositing in the litterbox likely from touching cat poop, then The oocysts traveled down DD's GI tract from his proceeded into the blood stream where they latched onto white blood cells that circulate these cells were unaware something was wrong The oocysts brokedown and formed They're fast in reproducing and traveled inside reproduced and caused lesions. As they infest causing DD's headache and seizures. If other neurologic tissue, including All of this is newly discovered by humans. The the Babies Hospital In New York. 1938. She developed convulsive seizures at 3 and brain at autopsy. Those same lesions were found on found to be congenital-- passed down from mother to not clean the cat's litterbox for risk of In Australia and New Zealand, marsupials and encephalitis. There wasn't a good explanation lifecycle in cats. Because Australia and New arrival of European settlers, animals there preventing their resistance to marsupials and monkeys in America and Europe, But wait, if animals and humans "evolved" to prevent susceptibility to It's because he is immunosuppressed, and would have happened in DD if he had AIDS T-cells containing the protein CD4 are a healthy immunocompetent human. CD4 creates a pathogen. In its absence like in AIDS, or means the opportunity for infection Had DD received a heart transplant instead of risk for toxoplasmosis as the parasite also of which the heart is one of If you own, or have owned a cat, or have eaten come in contact with a cat, you might have as an inactivated bradyzoite. It's estimated and estimated worldwide projection rates makes it one of the most common latent In general, this isn't something to worry about. central part of the human experience Many people here have had when they were younger. It's a form of the virus stays dormant in your nerves and Tuberculosis is a bacteria that has killed more was documented by Hippocrates in Ancient Greece, evidence of tubercular decay in their spines. the world have latent TB. For most people, it In the case of raw oysters, most people Raw shellfish typically live in water that hep A. Without cooking, the virus is passed to typically mild disease that confers Hep A may not be a latent infection in the same of the human experience of living in a world where after infection could be passed to humans several in the Egyptian mummies, and how it will be For DD, the suspicion of toxoplasmosis, before enough to warrant antiparasitic treatment. to inhibit its mechanism for DNA and RNA A dual therapy of sulfadiazine and pyrimethamine which is vital to producing parasitic DNA. Most named dihydrofolate reductase, which reduces Ok, but if we give DD something wouldn't we stop his own Yes. So to get around that, he is also a derivative of folic acid, which is enzyme dihydrofolate reductase, meaning DD's With proper anti-parasitic treatment, along with a strong social support system for the young and educated on the benefits of risk of to make a full neurologic recovery, and was Thank you so much for watching.