King Charles did the unthinkable and building beautifully is still possible. The name of the town? Poundbury. It was a daring experiment and many instead the town became a huge success. But how? I travelled to this newly built and even interviewed the very You will hear the incredible story of collaborated on this unique town, turning beautiful Britain into reality. We will discover how this urban believed it would fail, and how it live, proving all its critics wrong. In this video, I will also that led to Poundbury's success. But we'll also look at what Even better, we'll see how new developments elsewhere. The ideas behind Poundbury are spreading. So, let's get started. It's autumn, and once again I'm traveling Only, this time it's not in Paris, but A new town developed right town is called Poundbury. This new development in the has around 4100 inhabitants. That's a lot less than Le Plessis from one of my previous videos. When you walk around the streets, You wouldn't even notice it is new, It's just a pleasant place, that scream for attention. Everything is built with The town was the initiative of not the current King of England, His If you thought that this somehow meant it As you will learn in this video, almost a miracle as there were so many But before all that, we need to was built in the first place. And for that, we have to look at During his life, Prince Charles saw how Britain's cities and countryside were Pristine landscapes were torn apart areas encroached on peaceful neighborhoods were bulldozed to be Instead of streets lined by terraced stark, depressing housing estates galleries, leading to more isolation. Ripping apart communities. And the same happened in Even though plenty of cities escaped the Many city centers in Britain were ravaged. With hostile experiments in concrete All of this was the product of modern in the name of progress and approved something new and experimental. Many of these experiments, though, would to be torn down after just a few decades, The few cities that did escape Bath, became tourist attractions. It was this wave of unsustainable alerted a young Prince Charles. Silently, he observed this until he could no longer hold But before we continue, Have you ever stayed in a place that how an environment influenced your mood? Well, that's no coincidence. There are countless studies that prove impact on our physical and mental health. This is something urbanists and places that lift the spirit, that But even in an optimal environment, will feel well or be free of problems. In today's society, Factors like take a toll on our mental health. I've noticed myself that having be really challenging sometimes. Modern life is demanding and share of obstacles to overcome. This is where BetterHelp comes Out of personal experience, I've become problems we face lie within, but that BetterHelp makes that a bit easier you have sessions via phone call, Whatever works best for you. BetterHelp is a network of over 30000 and a questionnaire helps matching Even if you have a busy calendar, get help by scheduling sessions And if your therapist isn't a great fit, free of cost, with the click of a button. Because you don't want to go through if you have enough stress already. So, join over 4 million people live a more healthy, happy life. Click the link in the com slash AestheticCity. By clicking the link, you not only help 10 percent off of your first month of a therapist and see if it helps you. Thank you to BetterHelp for sponsoring Prince Charles was getting more and more until he felt he just had to act. In 1982, the National Gallery in Square with a design by Ahrends, It looked a bit like this and It was 1984 when Prince Charles legendary and that would can the He described the building as follows. What is proposed is like a a much-loved and elegant friend. The British architecture Soon, they banded together in But a future king wouldn't budge. Far from it. In 1988, the Prince took another big later a book called A Vision of Britain. In this, he poured his love for the Britain which countless generations He also criticized the treatment of well And how the opinions of the mass of But even this would not be The world needed an Proof that an alternative He decided that if he couldn't builders, he should join them. So around the same time that he created decided to create a town of his own. The prince had lands near Dorchester, of Wales, the Duchy of Cornwall. It is a private estate that was 1337 to provide independence to It would fund the charitable and private and his family for centuries to come. Of course, the prince also needed a for a new town into an actual plan. And it was one person who could turn When the Prince of Wales, when he 1984, it was a bombshell and all , people would talk about architecture architects and Foster's associates and that as a result of this speech they design policy towards something more In 1988, Leon Krier was appointed which would become Poundbury. He said, no, you don't have Would you want to be my consultant I said, well, why not? But then, a year later, I became head responsible for being involved with a But I remember when we first sat around had looked after the project before. The prince said, you know, Leon is now And then the head of his company, Jonas, he looked like Dr. Spock. But he said, of course, we will. We will take on board And so the prince banged the table going to take on board, you are Leon Krier had a clear The town would not be a simple an autonomous new settlement. It would have one town center but also consist of multiple smaller communities. Between the local village centers attractive pedestrian routes. The village centers had some basic accessible within a 10 minute walk. The plan was divided The first phase bordered It was built in the early to mid 90s. And it has a more diverse vernacular By now, the trees have grown and the The second phase was much After this, the South Then Queen Mother Square. And then the North Eastern One quadrant is yet to be built. The Northwest Quadrant, which A number of different architects worked Pentreath, George Saumarez Smith, Quinlan During the creation of Poundbury, huge and sometimes bizarre challenges. It began with an internal struggle There were faulty project revenue calls of an influential entrepreneur by a Poundbury supermarket. At some point, Leon was finally and things seemed to go more easy. But that's when the From opposing views on street design to To opposition against the towers the surrounding landscape, one after Then there were budget constraints, paving of the streets, and the during the 2008 financial crisis. But nothing could stop Slowly but surely, one by one, the As the town was getting built, opposition, the constant sneers Poundbury was supposedly the lost all touch with reality. It was an experiment doomed However poisonous the journalists, they couldn't change the fact look like an enormous success. Apart from one final phase, most The reason that it There was strong demand And people simply loved the homes Poundbury became so lucrative reason to attack the project. The success of Poundbury must have made and 'mock' even more angry, as it the very thing they hated so much. The funniest thing about for the most part at least. Queen Mother Square is a Both the old and the newer I especially loved the Woodlands Crescent. With its fully grown trees in the park, future when all the trees have matured. Also, Poundbury has sparked similar principles, like in Newquay and Truro. And thanks to Poundbury, the architects other projects, all over Britain in fact. So, in the end, it seems that a success and is spreading. Just look at the many projects by And you see the beginnings of So now it's time to dive into the First of all, mixed functions. Poundbury was not just supposed to autonomous town with mixed functions like Why was that so important? Well, many newly built towns or dormitory suburbs that don't This is the result of the failed They kept housing separate, put shops in But this makes these towns community from forming. As life happens where living, producing, In Poundbury you will see small shops, And the town is full of at home created a living for themselves. 2600 people work in Poundbury, I said social housing is useless if you the people who, who start their life independent, if they find cheap workshop, Number two, the walkable city. The second design secret was that the for pedestrians and cyclists. The town is designed in a compact way The sidewalks offer plenty And there are many parks and village With windy roads and slightly down naturally, eliminating the need Cars are parked in the mews, the narrow at the backside of houses which you might in a similar way slowing down traffic. Number three, attractive The third design secret was that generic modernist architecture one with architecture that is adapted to the that's included using local materials. And this meant that local builders Number four, affordable housing. The fourth secret to Poundbury's success third of the homes as affordable housing. After all, to create a truly vibrant and society should be represented and have a We have about 35 percent of social So there is It's already a variety of instead of having them in one zone we, Number 5. Craftsmanship. The fifth and one of the most the town using as much craftsmanship Most of the building industry has leading to a monotonous, sterile, Craftsmanship gives buildings a more it often leads to higher quality as well. The prince found this To promote the crafts, he founded a which is now called the King's Foundation. This organization would train would later work on Poundbury. 6. Sustainability Finally, the town was with sustainable building materials instead of UPVC windows, which are hard and contain hazardous chemicals. Also, Bowery features things community orchard, and even an turns biomethane into electricity. But using local materials and masonry, so the buildings can sustain And the beauty of the town makes sure people don't tear it down prematurely. Because the most sustainable building Does this mean that Poundbury is perfect? Well, of course not. For example, I believe that aesthetically pleasing as it could be. But, as Leon Krier noted in our Ideally, they wanted to use natural Extra greenery would also In some places, Poundbury The first phase of Poundbury And in the newer parts, there are One point of critique I often and its many parked cars. I understand this point of the square much less beautiful. But from what I've heard, wasn't feasible financially. And the business owners surrounding able to easily load their groceries. A final point of critique exclusive, or gentrified. Although places should be accessible this point is a bit unfair. A lot of effort was put into offering 35 Also, people weren't displaced, And thirdly, the premium people signal that this place works. It attracts people. So perhaps we should ask, why has King Charles has, with the help of craftsmen and builders, showed the world still possible in today's world to create that are modern, but also respect local Even though Poundbury is a massive developers and municipalities who People are desperate for They simply don't care But, they want to live in nice places. The moment that decision makers start what people want, it gets much much less opposition, with happier It will result in popular places that And that's the key to a So this is the story about Poundbury. What do you think about Poundbury? Let me know in the comments. In the next video we're taking a look history, Dresden in Germany. The city was completely destroyed effort it was beautifully rebuilt. It's an amazing story Don't forget to check out the link to the I'll happily see you in the next video.