Take a look. Here we go Here we go. Here we go frigging awesome Wow! Wow! Wow! Have you got up yet? cry Wow cry Wow! Wow! Oh, my God. So ruthless Here comes our brother yangwangU8 How about no pressure today Hey, buddy, I need to get you some water Get some Water No problem. Get some water No problem Or call us? Said to have a tank 500 He said he could get you some water He wants to get you some water He can't do it on his own He said he'd fuck if you did You can't do it Fuck, fuck, fuck Let's get the tank500 driver to give him some water and see We'll get started right away Ah, yangwangU8 begins 500 old drivers live for U8 Hey, brother Wow, this guy's a little tough down here hahaha 500 people can't do it That's not gonna happen What's the matter with death I didn't drive up It's not a no You can't lose an U8 ah ah Come on down! Come on down! The dog gave a look Move over. ahem Is it that hard Ah, I dare not stand behind you I don't think you're that arrogant Let's move forward for a second Ge Li This U8 move over Go down the ditch Just go in the ditch I'd say 500 is as far as this corner is concerned Have to First turn first turn should be fine Put it in the worst possible mode ah The fish rolls down with me oh Let's see if it works purr Oh, no. None of these guys are coming up It can't be ah That's no good. I thought we were on our way up This posture All right, I guess that's about it U8 is expected to arrive there today Oh, hey! That's probably where the oil really is The wheel does not turn Neither wheel is turning over here The front wheel doesn't turn The front wheel doesn't turn That's U8 today It's probably the bottom of the pile Don't fall in the hole Oh, that's it, man. Don't fall back Wow! Almost, almost Oh, I thought I thought I was here Ah, right there, right there No, no, no, no, no hahaha Yeah, it works Have you washed it? cry Wow See no smoke Wow The beatings are starting to boil No, no, no, no, no, no. No Don't Seal off There's smoke. There's smoke The pot is smoking Fierce still fierce And they burned them all Bask in the sun There it is right there I thought I could get up here I think it's off You don't want to win against him Opposite lift I got that. I got that Unable to come up Can't come up, can't come up Right there Wow! Just to the first turn The effect is there The effect is coming The lion picked it up right here yesterday. Yeah Wow, you've got over 20,000 people in this studio So hard on you Wow, this studio is awesome There's over 20,000 people in this room Ah, so hard. U8 can't do more than 40 BJ40 can't do it BJ40 just went up there BJ40 just went up there The front wheel doesn't turn His main thing is the front wheel doesn't turn Did you see that? The front wheel comes up if one wheel turns He's got plenty of ground clearance No particle Don't say that You do, but I'm under pressure I'm telling you there's no pressure No pressure If you can make money, you can make it Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah Uh, get a new one Make a fresh start That's probably where my brother is Let's go later All right, there's a pit on the other side Oh, no. Unafraid of pits ah 7:1 This card What two beautiful drivers ah wow wow Make way, please This is coming. There you go Hey, that's it. Uh-huh Come on, cool guy yangwangU8 Bring your own smoke bomb See? Bring your own smoke bomb Own special effects Special effects Here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here Up. He's the biggest here. Take a look Here we go, here we go, here we go frigging awesome Wow! Wow! Wow! I have to stand on it Look at this audience Uh-huh. Let's see if we can do it cry Wow! Wow! Oh, my God. So ruthless Akh akh I got it. I got it There's still a scar I didn't save you. I didn't save you right cry This one can't stand in the back that hahaha Dude, 500, 500, you're not doing 500 Beyond the reach of Go for it. Go for it Hey, guys, give it a shot We support Take a look. Take a look U8 on the victory Ten grand plus the brothers Let's get a video Pay no attention to A little attention ah It's not a beautiful driver Which one drives the tank There are 12,000 people in the broadcast room See? First time, 12,000 people Come brother Give an interview There's no pressure on this slope There's no pressure to look up to the right bully A little bit of pressure A bit of pressure It's big. Do you think the other riders can drive it out I don't think the 700's gonna work 700 have Could be 700. Could be Let's see which one's on Whichever opens I can drive it. Aha, ha , ha All right, come over next time Welcome to my attention