As you saw my stairs are still my chance of tripping there is quite high. I made these daisy chain-able LED boards to beautifully light up my staircase But long story short; that video was a big fail, my staircase trying to find the problem. but there were tons of very helpful comments And initially I thought about testing each But then I realized that my solution an overkill and no one in the right mind So I scratched many parts of my original 2 small PCBs which make my light up So in this video let me show you how I did it, can make your own. If you are looking to DIY your own PCBs then sponsor of this video. You can get 1-8 Layer PCBs $30 coupon for 6 Layer PCBs meaning you can pretty link below to try it out today by using my design JLCPCB booth at Electronica in November and if branded gifts; I will see you there. problem of the last board which were the LEDs; according to a long and detailed comment could So after probing the circuit, it seems like But you know what? I wanted to keep it simple driver from the PCB and instead got myself this As the name would suggest you can simply hook use something like the Adafruit Neopixel basically light up each LED individually. strip is that it not only comes with white one which delivers way more beautiful Now this strip already comes with a and is basically made to be used at a bigger be no interference problems or similar. this LED strip go alongside the staircase at the top who basically notice when a person I know that this initially sounds Like for example; I wanted to continue using the Only problem is that I want to keep it powered This is a problem because according to the high voltage needs to be at least 3.4V. here can obviously only output 3.3V data them and thinks all this data are low signals. and super cheap logic level shifters which takes Will this work with the LED strip Because next I realized that after laying that I will have to address a total of 252LEDs. the more memory we need on our microcontroller Thankfully though there are more cheap Attinys cheap, can also be programmed through UPDI it has all the peripherals we need One big problem I realized almost at the the memory of this microcontroller So I had to remove the LED strip and switch basically halved the amount of LEDs to 126 and But anyway after adding that to the new schematic, because main power is this time already 5V, output and connect two pins of the Attiny to a Now the diode is necessary because to one data input of the LED strip and the And the output of each board will be connected boards will know when one got triggered by And as you might already have noticed, I did not because according to my tests, it can not only it is and that is of course very important since And with all of this theory out I went ahead a designed a fitting PCB whose choice is that the distance sensor is This way it can peek out at the top and bottom this sensor does not work through And with the design complete, I ordered my boards but also arrived pretty quickly within a for all of this to come together. 4 boards that I will assemble for testing. I let them reflow solder with my mini hot plate For testing I firstly powered them Next I soldered up an Arduino lines and that also seems to work just fine. should trigger at a distance value of around 30 light value of under 2.00 which is pretty dark. uploading an LED Data signal sketch to the up,.....but sadly not how I programmed it to. the data signal actually does look The problem was after that aka the used the voltage could not drop down fast enough. schottky diode, everything worked perfectly fine. boards to one another and to the LED diagram and come up with some final code. to use it for you own project and customize So let me show you what it can do after Now when it is too bright, As soon as it is dark enough, movement at and depending on whether you start Now I build in a timer so that after twenty you forgot something and you have to run back. the stairs, the LEDs also turn off. and hardware is sufficient because next to my wooden holder using pretty tough glue. secure that in place, put down a piece of Kapton wired everything up like talked about before and bottom and top PCB with one another. worked correctly after the first power up. trying to find the problem and this time I You see, the big problem was always the data noisy which is why I simply added a pull down that immediately fixed all problems. up the wiring and put in the milky white got my light up staircase which after all But what do you think? Let me As always thanks for watching and if consider supporting me on Patreon. subscribe and hit the notification bell.