(calm music) - So we have jalapeno and Fresno peppers. We're gonna seed them and then they'll get sliced and pickled, and those go mostly on which is one of our more Now, we're just gonna slice these and then they'll get pickled. Wizard Hat Pizza is and a residency. We're a takeout pizza operation focusing on making awesome pizzas. (calm music) The spicy pepperoni, that starts the same as the regular pie. There's like a blend of three We're using fresh, whole-milk mozzarella, low-moisture mozzarella. What I think is really important is an aged provolone, which just brings, like, a Pickled chiles on there, finish with basil, pecorino. Wizard Hat Pizza has a It's a 100% word-of-mouth project. At the end of the day, is gonna be great quality So, first thing at Wizard Hat, That's our biggest, These are einkorn berries here. So this is just one of the several grains that we'll play around with with the whole wheat So this is a stone mill, made by New American Stone Mills. They're in Vermont. This piece of equipment was using the bakery here Our space is a commissary bakery space where they were milling and had this big, beautiful stone mill that a lot of pizzerias There's two stones, one with furrows in it and then it's coming out, shooting out of here into this bag. The next step is gonna be and our pizza dough flour that So our dough is made up We have some white flours and we have wheat bread flour a little bit of an all-purpose flour, and then an organic pizza flour. Next thing, this is the starter. I'll just weigh this out. This is the backbone of That's like the gluten developing there. If it looks too much like a smooth dough, then probably it's gonna to let it keep fermenting. I check the temperatures of just 'cause the weather, temperature predominantly affects the fermentation of our starter overnight. Taking all of these temperatures to get the dough at the end to my desired fermenting temperature. So this is gonna be my water So this water I'm using is just and I'll start adding some of the water and bring over my flour. So now I'm gonna start and then the last bit of the water. So at this point, it's Yeah, in the mornings, it's usually always I talk to it telepathically, moreso just in case someone's &quot;I know he's in there alone. Weird guy, makes great pizza.&quot; So now I'm just gonna add in salt. I found that I like to put It seems to distribute If I put it on the outside, sometimes it'll just be kinda, like, skating around and spinning. I want everything to come That way, my actual mix time is really just the time of mixing, not just ingredients in So now this is all mixed. I'm gonna take it out, to start its bulk fermentation. So I'm just gonna see Okay, it's like, 81 degrees All right, so we're making our sauce here. We have two different types of tomatoes, one that's gonna get milled, the other one that's already crushed. It's really simple. It's just tomato, a little bit of salt. Our other tomato we use Jersey Fresh crushed tomatoes. These ones I feel like have a very, very strong tomato flavor and I feel like they balance Call all my friends that cook and stuff, when we're talking about &quot;How do you do the sauce, and I mentioned we use the Like whether they're pizza guys or not, just one person after another is like, &quot;Oh my God, the Jersey So yeah, they're winners in my book but that's it for the tomato. Next, I'm gonna cruise into dough. This time is really time-sensitive in terms of making sure we So these are just little dough containers. This is what's gonna hold our pizzas after they're shaped and proofing. We don't have a walk-in so we can't really fit in This a pretty, pretty wet dough so I like to just have a nice and then I find it while it's still in the And then this is the sweet release. Comes out like that. I've been working in restaurants I've always kind of wanted or start my own project So I started discovering that I wanted to go into pizza full-time because I love the simplicity of it. So I do like kind of a combination of shaping them on the table and finishing it off like that. The other way I like to and then kind of shaping almost kinda like you'd shape mozzarella. It's really important just to the underside, nice and sealed up. This is definitely, like, my Like, once this is done It's like, if I mess this up, then we might as well just skip tomorrow. Dude, it smells so strong in A large group of, like, like, trash guys have become regulars. Like they stop by and two &quot;Yeah, we were two blocks and then they just sauce out here and now they factor that into Yeah, our space is not aside from picking up pizza for takeout. It has kind of a speakeasy feel about it. Every day, we put out our sign. We have QR code for the menu and ordering that has the name on it. We have a sandwich board Come 10 o'clock, 10:30 when all that disappears. So if you walked by, definitely &quot;Oh, what's this? What's this place over here and some people don't know. Some people, you hear them like, &quot;Oh yeah, that's a pizza place. They make pizza there,&quot; and a Yeah, so this is our stamp. I think it's been really important for us to stamp all of our boxes, as a totally 100% word-of-mouth project. That was kind of one of our only chances to get our name out there. In my mind, it was just, or on the sidewalk and and they can see the pizza box So we don't have, like, a or anything like that. Ramon is going through all of our orders, transcribing them onto our boxes which then become our tickets and we'll just work off of this all the way throughout the night. We'll start making our just to give us enough and get them in the oven so Now, we're just getting the rest of our mise en place into place. We're gonna slice some mushrooms here. These are cremini mushrooms. They go on the Funghi Bianca. It's a white pizza with So I would say, like, on average, we're slicing about 50 Our Funghi Bianca, which that's mostly just mozzarella, a lot of mushrooms, black pepper, which is like one of the And then that gets finished basil and then that's our one I think we got someone here. Great dough today. Ramon, what did you have - [Ramon] The three by 30. The Nan one is pina. Then we got pepperoni and cheese. - [Josiah] So it's All right. So I was forever anti-pineapple-on-pizza up until finally one day, I gotta put an end to this.&quot; One of my favorite things or anything really, and I was just thinking and I'm like, &quot;What's the difference?&quot; I ended up doing that pizza as a special. It's our Speck and Pina. I think it works really nice on the pizza. The speck, the smokiness is really nice and the pineapples are cut the right size, and that they're actually ripe. That one has some chile on it as well. That brings, like, a nice and the sweetness of the pineapple. Ramon, when you have a second, - [Ramon] Yeah. - In our space we have three Rofco ovens which are bread ovens made in Belgium. They make incredible pizza. They get hotter than your or home oven for sure. That being said, they have a but it's hot enough to make pizza. There's three stones in each of 'em. So in total, we have nine spaces for pizza so we can just cycle through at the ovens. Hey there. - [Stephanie] I have a - Stephanie. Thank you. Spicy pepperoni, right, normal? - [Josiah] Spicy pepperoni for 6:00, yeah. - [Employee] Pepperoni or normal. Two pepperonis. - [Ramon] One cheese, one pepperoni. - [Employee] One cheese, one pepperoni. - Another pizza we have is which is our plain or regular. There's a blend of three We're using fresh whole-milk mozzarella, a low-moisture mozzarella, and then what I think is really important to our flavor profile, which just brings like a And then it's got tomato, Those are all, like, layered Yeah, we finish that one with basil and a little bit of Pecorino Romano. At Wizard Hat, we're really passionate about the pizzas that we're making. We're paying attention to and every pizza that we're is gonna be as close (calm music)