Every year before the holidays I make one year. I've gone through a lot of ideas over videos in the description below) but somehow to share with you this year. So without further Baguette Slicer Kitchen items are always a big hit for handmade to start things off. I have 3 pieces of walnut you can find all the dimensions for all six website. I'll leave a link to that down With the 3 pieces cut, I'll add some glue clamp it and let it dry. You'll notice the you want to see. It means you have enough though so here's a simple little trick. then kind of pinch the tip, and run it along Once dry I'm going to round over all the and it'll just look better too. I'm using router with a roundover bit just as well. Next I want to cut a slot to guide the bread it perpendicular. I want it at a slight angle, degrees. That should do it. I'm kind of my piece so I took several passes, raising bottom, just barely cutting into it. I could cut to widen the slot. I'll save you the boredom of the sanding, I want to add some feet to this slicer so I'll have these templates available on my use some light spray adhesive to secure them over to the bandsaw to cut them out. After on the benchtop sander. All that's left is to attach the feet with I could have just screwed them on from underneath. I laid out my dowel placement and used a center bit. I'll then use this drill block that I don't drill too deep. Now I can simply All that's left is to apply a finish. I'll and apply 2 coats of Osmo Polyx-oil. Now grab 3-in-1 bottle opener This one is a fun easy project for all the Now, you can make this bottle opener any shape videos before, you'll know I have a thing jig a while back and I'll leave a link up that out. The cutting process is simple: basically I'm using half inch ash wood for this, but The idea is to insert this bottle opener right the opposite corners to find the exact center. Alright, over at the drill press I'll start shallow hole. The closest bit size I have if you plan to batch a lot of these out. Looking good, so now I'll switch to a smaller through. It's a good idea to practice on And lastly, I'll drill the holes for the that I got at Princess Auto. To secure them, and use the accelerator to lock them in. I'll use a little more CA glue, then drop screws. Now you could stop there but I got myself resist trying out. So I designed this little bottle opener. I think it came out pretty Now all that's left is to pop open a cold a fridge magnet and coaster all in one. Floating Cube Tower Lamp This next gift idea was inspired by a design cubes with light beaming up the tower from The construction is pretty simple: just make it to be too chunky so I'm resawing some then clean up with the planer. I'm going to create miter joints to assemble to 45 degrees. Now you could simply run the safest or most accurate way to get a clean So instead, I'm going to use a 45 degree crosscut sled but dedicated to cutting long off all of my boards to create a reference can cut every single piece to the same length Ok so with all my pieces cut, it's time to to do this is to lay it all flat, edge to the edges. I'll then apply glue to the joints, a lot more tape here, and this is just to the inside corners. Totally optional, but The bottom cube gets a small lip that will see what that's all about in just a minute. Once dry, if you find that your miters are together and close the gap. Okay, now we're getting to the tower part. be cut. Now this will all make sense in a edge of my combination square as an arbitrary With my blade still set at 45, I'll gently some reason, this was super stressful, but Once assembled, it will be hard to sand this can. Okay, time to add the light source. I cut making a small hole for the wiring. I'll meant to be used as cabinet lighting, but will be perfect for a lamp. I'll just secure it on-center with the provided wire through the hole. One last thing is to make a small notch for it through the table saw. Now I can drop in the panel and assemble this balancing act to build up the tower. I'm the bottom panel and apply a spray finish Okay, let's light her up! Festive Holiday Coasters Next we're getting festive with some unique piece of walnut, no more than half an inch that I printed out. You can grab these for I'll use some light spray adhesive to hold out on the bandsaw. If you don't have a bandsaw, this might be jigsaw, but if you have access to a laser As for me, I'll do the best that I can on the curves is a little harder, but I seem Since the bandsaw leaves ridges along the up the shapes. top of the shapes. I mean, you can't have idea was to use a small saw to cut on the see how it turns out in the end, but I'm Alright, with that done, it's time to pour molds, my shapes and some fast curing epoxy. winter snow effect. I'll leave links to Working with epoxy isn't as hard as you case 2 parts A and one part B - then mix it and then maybe add some more, until I'm I'll first pour a thin base then drop in a little to make sure no air pockets get trapped up but no need to go all the way to the top later. The wood will want to float around in the use to hold them in place until the epoxy this. The next day, I can easily pop them out. As come out nice and easy. Now, I want to get them all down to the same some scraps to make a simple sanding jig using coaters and hold it in place while I sand that I'm aiming for my coaster to be, which edges as I go, until my sander bottoms out. these down quickly. Just be careful that you become deformed. And it helps to clean your Once all four are done, they should all be rough so as a final touch, I'll polish them to 180 to 220 to 320 and finally 400-grit. All that's left is to add some finish, let Cookbook / iPad Stand If anyone on your Christmas list loves to collapsible cookbook / iPad stand that can some walnut and some maple, and found a layout long by 9 inches wide, give or take. Just like making a cutting board, I'll apply clamp them all together. I won't be using away all the glue with a damp rag. Once dry, flat. I designed this cutting board handle on the you can download it for free on my website. light spray adhesive, I'll secure the template this radius jig to round the bottom corners, on hand, like a bottle cap or whatever. I'll use my bandsaw to cut out the handle. this actually because 1- I was too lazy to it impossible to cut curves, and 2- I probably to do this. It likely would have been a lot But luckily for me, there's nothing a little out the lower corners, then used the spindle Much better. I didn't even notice I forgot to drill the template, but I'll go back and do that later. Moving onto the other half of this stand, into a T-shape. But first, I want to break all the edges on the router table. To assemble them, I'll use some dowels. that I can use as a reference for my doweling kitchen items that might get washed, I always 3. I'll add some clamps and let that dry. The last step is to cut a slot in the board the width of the slot, then use those as a a Forstner bit at each end and drill all the bit and remove most of the waste, while staying I can now use a router with a guide and an I'll push the bit up against one side, then the router and run it along the first side, it again until I'm all the way though. Then And voila, a perfect slot. All that's left are the finishing touches, and applying a finish. Again I'm using Omso wipe-on finish that's low VOC and can be Now find your favorite recipe, and enjoy! Bookmarks The next one is really simple, but if you a lot of people in your life, this one might For this you'll want really thin wood, like I wanted to try using solid wood. The bandsaw leaves rough marks and my pieces run these pieces like this through the planer. to use a piece of particle board and stick Now I can run the board though until both pulling them up because you can easily crack Alright so now I've got some really thin for a bookmark. Now this wood is so thin that I thought of was taking forever, so I decided to use the a push block like this one to make these cuts Next, I taped the pieces together to make them all one by one. I used my small crosscut sled to cut them all the corners. And lastly, I made a small to remove any fuzzies. You can decorate these however you want. If first applying a coat of shellac to seal the if you're masking off sections with tape. So have fun with it! Here I'm painting a acrylic crafts paint, but I'll definitely designs as well for all the bookworms in my Hopefully you found some inspiration for your gift making videos that you can check out for watching, happy holidays, and see you