Vsauce -- Kevin here, with a game you can Grab a friend and take turns counting using The first person to get to 100 wins. Which can always be you. To demonstrate, let's have a friendly game I guess.. I'll just play with myself. Hey me! It's good to see me. Am I ready to play? Yes. Yes I am. Okay, add numbers between 1 and 10 and the I'll write the sum in between mes so you I'll start the game. 1 7 4 9 2 10 1 You're just picking numbers randomly like Uhh... yeahhh... Okay cool, 3 8 8 3 5 6 Seriously, though. We both have 50/50 odds of getting to 100. Um. Sure! Alright. 4 7 9 2 Uh. 89? If I play 1, that's 90 and you can play and you can play 1 and win. Oh, weird. I, uh, must've gotten lucky. Yeah, right. 5. [94] 6! 100, I WIN! Every. Time. Here's how. Uhh..you can go now, me. Uh, fine. Well, I want a rematch later. I guess I'll just uhhh...see ya in the mirror? Yeahhhhh. Okay, now let's play a match between me it works. The easiest way for me to know I'm going start with the number 1. No matter what number you add next, 5, 3, from 11 to get my next play. So if I start with 1 and if you say 4, then To get my next number, I do 11 minus 4, which our game a new total of 12. 8. 8 plus 12 gives our game a new total of 20. I do 11 minus your 8, which is 3. So, I play 3 and our new total is 23. As long as I stick to this strategy I'm This is why it works. Regardless of your number, mine will always series separated by elevens: 1, 12, 23, 34, Since the highest number you can play in the eleven... I rule the world! Or at least... this simple number game. Gotta start somewhere. When you play this with your friend can they Yes. If you mess up the series. While going first, playing 1, and subtracting way to stick with the series, after a few to prevent them from figuring out your strategy. You could do that by starting with a number later in the game when you land on a number So if you're playing with a friend and you you could play 2 to bring your total to 67 From there just subtract your friend's numbers first to 100. To players who don't realize that the optimal seems like a game of chance -- but once you knowledge. But if adding up to 100 isn't your cup of These are Inq's Durable Match-Like Puzzle that is out right now. It's packed with a booklet that features yourself when you get these matchsticks. But for right now we'll use the matchsticks Alright. You have eleven matchsticks spread out on You and a friend take turns removing either up the last match loses. If you go first, you can always win this game. Since you don't want to pick up that last secret. We'll play a game between Mr. T and Skeletor Alright, let's skip to the end of the game If it's Skeletor's turn and Mr T. leaves can leave T. with the final losing match. So, T. will want to make sure he leaves Skeletor jewelry. Here's why. If there are 2 matches left, then Skeletor losing match. If there are 3 matches left, then Skeletor And if there are 4, then Skeletor takes 3, But if T leaves 5, no matter what Skeletor move and pity the fool accordingly. The arithmetic series that will rig the game 1, then 5, and then... 9. Mr. T. will want to leave Skeletor with 9 up with the series. If Skeletor and T start with 11 matches and will be to remove 2. Since each player can only remove a maximum game every time by going first and making ... which is why the game works with 20 matches, To guarantee a win with 20 matches on the 3 to land you at 17. So let's say T. starts and removes 3 to No matter what Skeletor does, T just needs So, if Skeletor removes 2 to get to 15, then Now T. needs to get down to 9. So, if Skeletor removes 3 to get to 10, then 9. The next milestone is 5, so if Skeletor removes get to 5. And now it's officially over. Skeleton can't do anything -- 1, 2, 3, it Mr. T. is leaving Skeletor with the final Let's see if it'll fit in his hand. What about this one? Good enough. Both the counting game and this matchstick they're conceptually similar to a game from ancient times that evolved now call Nim. Players take turns removing objects from heaps object loses... but it gets a lot more complex We like complex. Humans have been inventing brain-teasing games extend collective knowledge for as long as One of the oldest games we know about is Senet, back over 5,000 years. About the same time humans were inventing systems, we were developing number games to occupy ourselves and tease of the quantifiable world. Creating artificial challenges -- and then our minds. By discovering the hidden patterns that govern a matchstick game or challenges of our times, we're engaging in an integral part of what makes us -- us. Even those of us who use Skeletor to explain And as always - thanks for watching.