At the end of this An Asian-style tea house. A generous donation to the Timmendorfer "Are you pleased "No, absolutely not." Municipal leaders and don't see eye-to-eye "If I'm gifting you don't have any Either it's built or you can say no, How much power do the in their hometowns and cities? Holstein! Who decides what "I never like committing I always like to reserve the "It's a new feudalism, and Municipal was skeptical Was the gift-giver acting in Now, his doubts "The building materials and now the windows We're the ones The original costs were I'm estimating there'll be that's over a million Euros The back-and-forth over the tea At the time, we visited Jurgen A self-described self-made man, he said he was a fan And, he told us, he had worked "For 40 years I've Then I exercise for two I feel good about it. Then, for 35 years, I've treated every morning. There are a hundred and they're happy to and give me a massage The tea house was his big vision. It "What would you "Just art, exhibitions, All in glass, and Gleaming over the whole Just like his own white houses, gleaming behind the At the time, the would-be at least a million Euros which is named after Critics slammed it, as But Hunke was dismissive. "People with no argument I think 'Mikado' is better The important thing He got his way. Today, the tea house just like he wanted. As far as the follow-up Hunke rejects responsibility - and accuses his For the local council, the "Has the council "Yes, absolutely." All of Jurgen Hunke's have been gracefully Donations are a good But who decides university or opera Democratic bodies, Cash from the wealthy We travel to Kiel, where a soccer patron's big This is the story of Home to local soccer Holstein! Wealthy Holstein fan Gerhard The 81-year-old entrepreneur's The new arena: car-friendly, with an event- and betting office and Garden allotments and a Does Gerhard Lutje know the people expected We can't say: He turned down As one of Kiel's he exerts a tangible Locals know him as the on the outskirts of the city. Car-friendly shopping, that's his thing. He used the same architects On match days, residential are already jammed People worry that when there'll be even more traffic. Earlier this year, neighboring garden to make way for "Watch out you don't slip." Residents and environmental to fight back. "There's a sense that whether or not we It feels like we're not "It's not that we're against the but the ddimensions The plans include which is just completely And a huge road, for a "And in the case of there's another factor I think this is some that he wants to establish a "Whenever Herr Lutje presents No one seems interested in These people are calling of the stadium expansion. In an era of climate change, Perhaps even made of wood. Gerhard Lutje's plan And required 30 million Aloys Altmann from the Taxpayers' "Herr Lutje is a generous supporter But it's not only altruistic." "What's not "Well, it's a way for So that he can earn But he's not contributing all The investor wants But if the city and the state don't then the plans might need That's not my job, to say. I'm the guardian of taxpayers' be careful. You can't throw cash around Professional soccer and the earnings We've got another club in Kiel, they're the Bayern They don't get any public money. I approve of that. Public money belongs in not in professional sports." How does the club see it? The German Football League or DFL earns around 1 point 1 billion Players and So how come there's no money On the day we're filming, the first rumors emerge that due to skyrocketing Holstein club president "The fact is that if the stadium it'll require 30 million Why do you need the money? If you're getting six million and doing very well..." "I can't answer that. You're mixing everything you haven't done your He cuts the interview short. "Yes." The media ...but doesn't want to Questions about money Evidently, questioning the idea is viewed as outrageous. Our cameraman tries again. "Who's making money from it "So if you're involved in soccer...I Okay, you can't earn "Yes." "Yes, that's interesting. "Yeah, I'll happily "Please do explain. "But not in front "Why not?" "I can't." "But why can't...I Of course you can "The question your "Who will benefit if it goes ahead as planned, "Yes. Of course the club from a much-needed new Improving our national standing which is most definitely a the fortunes of the state capital." "Okay. So, when investors are they just passionate "You could say that." The day we have an Gerhard Lutje's expansion The development is about to Ulf Kampfer is aware regarding traffic and What we want to know - to what extent can a where funds are tight? "So how does it work? What Do you say, 'perhaps we can Then he says: no, that's Is that how it works?" "Well, I'm speaking in "Oh, please, be specific!" "No, no! It's always Of course, there's No one can force the just by offering to Conversely, the city to spend millions on In other words, you need on a joint solution Yes, this is how the "Critics say the city "For me, I'm happy if which is likely to be made up relieves us of this burden, If I want to make all the decisions, And then I have to the city won't manage with We'd have to spend Then we can build the stadium But that also means the taxpayer And we'd bear A day later, the news hits: Gerhard Lutje has due to spiraling But his office also tells us has been overwhelmingly Who's picking up the tab now? Success...or failure - What motivates them? The city state of Hamburg has Germany's highest Today we're meeting one Klaus-Michael Kuhne, Hapag The shipping company is at Hamburg's City Hall. For Hamburg's high society, Kuhne's own distributes some 30 million The billionaire agrees We meet along the Alster river, Whenever he visits his His father transferred the to Switzerland, a The Kuhnes haven't paid Klaus-Michael Kuhne Leaving us ample time to The 30 million Swiss francs that reflect his interests He owes his In Hamburg's HafenCity, he set dedicated to educating A die-hard soccer fan, Kuhne Hamburger SV. The Elbphilharmonie benefits Critical reports about most recently concerning stonewalling over We're only granted an interview because he wants to talk to us "Sorry about the delay." "You could just but you're still very active. Why?" "Because I have It keeps me young physically, And at the same time if you've been successful, then you should allow I think it's a very healthy instead of just paying on unnecessary things." A major beneficiary of the Kuhne The billionaire sponsors and donated over a million Anyone who's anyone in Hamburg On the wall listing the Swiss national with other illustrious "The names along the top are who donated more than a million. Some private donors prefer to remain anonymous. We've got some very well-known but it's not publicized." The Kuhne Foundation is His name - unmissable. Also part of the agreement: the "Christine and He can entertain friends on the exclusive roof terrace. "For sure, no one gives He's doing it for a reason. It It could also be status. "Does he decide "'Decide,' that's He has a firm opinion. He doesn't He has very "You're a major donor. And if you say 'contemporary I don't really like it,' do you "No, no, no. Unless I'd stop But I won't go that far. I'm always very, very "But that's a possibility? You "If something really if the nature of the performances then it's not out I don't like to make I've just reconfirmed this music but that's the longest I always like to reserve the Do good and exert influence - Klaus-Michael Kuhne regularly But not all of them Fans use salty language to condemn a planned Another unwanted gift: his recent The Lord Mayor said no, Kuhne has a lot of money to Hapag-Lloyd's profits are huge: some six point two Klaus-Michael Kuhne nine billion Euros in dividends. Due to a special regulation known as the tonnage tax, company profits were taxed at a "Critics say it's an obscenely small "Given Hapag-Lloyd's current "So you have a problem "Yes, correct, it's too much." "It's too much?" "Much too much. I didn't When I first realized how I was surprised. It's an anachronism since it doesn't exist to be honest I find The tonnage tax is the Deputies recently voted against for shipping companies. The motion was brought a representative of the The leftwing politician is "Well, his patriotic duty would be if he really feels like a citizen "In our interview he said he likes He's doing good things. Why aren't you "Because he's behaving He's acquired his wealth, for reasons we could and he doesn't even 'I'll just give it to you, do with it what you will, no, he wants to call the shots. So he's always trying That's a new feudalism - The private wealth of And more of more of them are Charitable foundations "Critics say the money would than in foundations; that it's better if the state get to decide how the money What's your view?" "Well, I don't see Because it's isn't capable of Firstly, a great deal is secondly state organizations In my view, the private sector to ensure that things The billionaire thinks the Others disagree. We're on our way to Mainz, to a political youth festival Stefanie Bremer She uses games to explain And that wealthy people like Along with other millionaires, she's involved in the not something "It's not as though by I'd be left with nothing. Not at all. But if I give something away, then In environmental protection, in functioning education and Stefanie Bremer could just "I'm wondering, why "Unfortunately we've seen who benefit from these tax people sit up and listen. When we say, 'I benefit but I'm so that everyone fares Other people who aren't are often accused of being And I can't be accused of that. Many people don't want charity We can't try to solve social or a bandaid in the And yes, the state isn't but I think it does a very competent Together with the "taxmenow" calculated could flow into public coffers on income from the super-rich. Looking at inheritance, capital, the tax activists arrived at an "The good thing is that in Germany, And in a democracy, if the the minority has to go along with it." In the German city of Heilbronn, one man's shadow Currently the wealthiest local man Dieter Schwarz which owns the discount "Do you know the "Yes of course, "That's the guy from "But not personally, "No one's allowed to publish a "Does he influence "Sure, he owns pretty "What do you think of that?" "I'm pleased he He could move "We're lucky to If we didn't have him, the city "He's a role model." "For you as well?" "Yeah, for me too." "Although it's good it's a double-edged sword. We also need room for people but do have great ideas. That's not the case." Dieter Schwarz, omnipresent yet No one here knows his face, but everyone is Namely: education and research. He even founded an where 16 buildings house five The main focus is Everyone in Heilbronn with Lidl's distinctive "i". Critics of the local benefactor They say Schwarz that his dealings with city Hard to grasp - just like The Lidl company's It includes seven limited-liability enterprises. Some profits might be tax-free and at the disposal of Dieter Schwarz. The billionaire's recent Heilbronn won the Artificial Intelligence The five locations in the Karlsruhe and Stuttgart. So why Heilbronn? That's a question that's bothering the Free Democratic Hans Dieter Scheerer. "The ministry of economic won the contract because 'there's a campus' And that the namely that the Dieter has pledged to make up So in a nutshell, a cynic "....that conclusion "Who bought what from whom?" "Dieter Schwarz said: And the committee said: If we've got someone And they ignored "You weren't able to "No, not at all. I checked The minister's response and she won't tell us. We'd simply like to see the criteria, And I think we owe Even if it's just one Euro of I believe we're accountable." The ministry of economic committee of experts a "transparent But details of the Confidentiality is important, the Dieter Schwarz We're at City Hall with the mayor of Heilbronn. Surprisingly, he and sends his media But it's soon clear she's not So, we insist on our pre-arranged And suddenly, he Dieter Schwarz supported in his election campaign. There are rumors that and that they meet It feels as if we've "People say, there's and Dieter Schwarz's relationship and so on. Can you understand how that "Certainly. We're an open book. You're doing your job and that needs to be uncovered and And stories like I don't think there's anything And as I said, we've already had a and we can live with that." "Then I'll just ask What's the nature of your What is your relationship? "We have a good relationship." "Are you friends? Have You're both from Heilbronn." "If you have a good and you want to keep it that way, "So what will happen when Dieter "He's in such good health. I hope he's got many "I wholeheartedly But still, he must What happens when a donor "I'm sure he's made all the "So that the tap isn't "That too." "You hope, or you know?" "Now, I'm like you. "You believe that." "Yes." It was worth a shot. We decide to try another tack, and meet with someone 'Frag den Staat', or 'Ask the State'. Max Kronmuller and his with specific enquiries, citing Often, they're able to break But in Heilbronn, Max Kronmuller encountered "State-level fee regulations can cost a maximum of 500 Euros. Heilbronn hasn't capped the rate Slight difference." "Interesting. So what "It's disastrous, of course." "No one can afford that." "Precisely, no So it's not used. The city of Heilbronn informs us that state legislation allows Today, Max Kronmuller of the municipal The city sold the land for to the Dieter Why? The mayor told us and recorded in the minutes. Max Kronmuller disagrees. "The truly relevant I want to know how projects come At what cost, what are the contributions which opinions are considered, All questions these Meanwhile, we've made seven the district authority With no success. One of the reasons given: The Dieter Schwarz Foundation hasn't agreed to We look for a donor who'll give and find him in Lubeck. The town has 122 foundations. Michael Haukohl This year, he donated some 400 Again. He likes to check in, in person. "Hello, can we come in?" He donated a five-day "How was the food "It was actually pretty ok." "We had to build a boat "Any other comments?" "I thought it was good that when the class motivated them." "We used to have But because each with people we it helped us to "I'm interacting a lot more "Super. That's excellent. I'm pleased you've done it and pleased to hear Thanks a lot!" "Thanks very much! Frau "Bye!" "It's real, it's direct, you "Why do you like "We set up the foundation and I'd say we have We live for this. Sitting at a desk, and saying 'yes we'll do it' - that's no fun. Principal Jorg Haltermann Thanks to benefactor Haukohl, Anti-bullying programs, conflict school trips. Foundations finance "We can be happy, whether it's if there are donors or foundations that support schools when Actually, it would be from the central government. If all schools were "So where you go to school "Precisely!" Michael Haukohl personally selects The chemistry between donor has to be right, he says. The school's annual budget planning The city has come to rely "The way it's is that we receive a proposal from about the projects you'd like To improve your "Let's start with the Marburg We'd really like to we offered it "Exactly, we did it in our school "The new Year 5 class is that something With a focus on swimming, and "We're open to that Everyone in Lubeck with all the water here. I'll go out on a limb, for You'll have to back me up. But my wife's on my side." A total of 14 projects are Some costs have gone up. Is the benefactor on board? "Now we've got to get down "So, that's three, four, I'm just adding it up roughly, So that makes 20 thousand. What did we do last year?" "Sixteen thousand." "That's more than a schnapps." "The parents' association contributed about three thousand Euros." "If we agree on a figure, the "OK, that puts us in the so we can sign off on that." "Fantastic." "Brilliant, we can keep "What a relief." "That's amazing." "I noticed everyone fell a is he going to say yes or no?" "Yes." "Whether the cash flows Doesn't that seem like something out "Well I have to say I'm very Other specialists will about the free market economy, about taxpayers' money But I think it's difficult between what's needed and what ordinary citizens And we're basically thankful I'm going to donate my Michael Haukohl inherited Selling it made him rich. More than 20 years ago, he and his wife decided to put In the years since, philanthropic boundaries have what should the And where should "It used to be, foundations be funding anything that But that changed 17 years ago, when the Possehl of the heating systems And everyone said: The state isn't in a position That's not something a We don't say things "Do you think that's right?" "To a certain extent, no. We're sometimes appalled certain things into its own hands." "For example, to this day, it still hasn't got a There isn't Wi-Fi everywhere "But we also say: OK, if Things the state The schoolkids need tablets "I actually think it's a good of competition between If it's something completely new and the state isn't willing foundations can try it out." Their donations do good. But even the Haukohls can't In the end, deciding - and who goes empty-handed - is entirely up to them.