These men belong They are parachute commandos, Tonight they're leaving with a Palestinian militia, Tonight, these men from the special forces ready to engage in combat. Yigal is 20. He's doing his military service. His specialties are the capture He's carried out some 60 operations. When you do this almost every night, and you do more or less the same thing, [French spoken audio] Two hours before action, and the leader of the commandos Our strength will be to remain unseen, Concentrate on your target. Don't forget details like camouflage, [French spoken audio] It's a Veso rifle. I've got 600 rounds. How many? About 600, and some grenades. It's 1:00 in the morning The unit is going into action Taking out a terrorist who they tell us is apparently too delicate. Our reporter, forced to stay behind, can neither confirm which were not only shot Therefore, when we show the sequence, They told us that this villa is Israeli. A Palestinian after having killed two of its occupants. The house is now surrounded and the outcome of the imminent battle The commandos opened fire. At dawn, inside the devastated house. They tell us that here, Four hours later, at 7:00 in the morning, the men we followed are back at Beit Lid, Yigal can finally go to bed He knows that this evening It's the daily round Do you like what you do? No, but it has to be done. Nobody likes to fight, We are here for that, If it's not us, it's our family. We get three years, we do it, The office of General Ruthi Yaron. Before being appointed spokesperson she played a central role at Camp David in the United States. We have all our 18-year-olds who have to come The boys do three years and the girls two. Those young people there They're convinced that their task but also to defend their homes [French spoken audio] That's why I believe although some do have problems, but the majority really find not just physical, but moral, [French spoken audio] The commandos awake Yigal has turned into a regular night owl. Operations never take place There are about 30 soldiers They learn to live together and they stay together for three years. Major Nimrod is the commander He's 35. -Is there lots of discipline here anymore? Why? Discipline is not one of our interests. Don't they need it? No, of course, I'm kidding. There is another kind of discipline. Not the one you can see in other units, in the big army. You can see a different The one that comes from the inside, It's based on the high-level Being in the army is enough stress not to add any other. When they are here, they must be cool. That's the main idea. The average age is 20, hand-picked. Each year from over 500 applicants, Since the beginning these young soldiers after just one year's training [French spoken audio] In Yigal's room, they're getting ready Each has his weapon, his specialty that complements during an operation. [French spoken audio] I'm patrolling with this gun tonight. It's called... It's more powerful than an M16. It's heavier, but it's less accurate. [French spoken audio] -Do you fire on every operation? Is it rare? It's not rare, but not in every operation. Tonight, we'll certainly be shooting. This is a missile. -A rocket? -Is it yours? -For this operation? [French spoken audio] What's this one for? This is for killing people, no. In fact, it's a heat-sensitive camera In this special unit, they self-manage. They select their weapons, They have similar freedom to perfect or check Yigal plays a special role in his unit, He is the advance guard. You know you have Usually, you're not scared. If you are, then you mustn't show it. Otherwise, that scares the others. Fighting is very psychological. [French spoken audio] In your experience, He falls, he screams, he's in pain, [French spoken audio] It's 5 p.m., They won't tell us anything [French spoken audio] -Can I attend the meeting? -Is it secret? Is it really impossible? Yes, it's really impossible. The unit has already carried out missions This evening, the unit's women parachutists in remembrance of the 836 killed in action since the unit was founded in 1948. The average age of the dead is 20. Is the ceremony Yes, it's important. Why? If you forget the dead, you forget why you came, -You're late. There are so many ceremonies, it's hard to feel The first time The mother of the last member of the unit She wears a photo of her son I speak to the Siegel family. Not only have you lost your son, They each decided to make [Hebrew spoken audio] They took risks, knowingly or unknowingly. They went into places where the chances of coming out alive [Hebrew spoken audio] He got a bullet in his head He was the first. -Did you see it? I was just behind, it was in a battle. There were bullets everywhere, That's war. [French spoken audio] For me, my religious beliefs That's how I remain human, because often it's very easy [French spoken audio] You're not killing all the time, but you're always carrying guns, and it's very easy to start enjoying that. [French spoken audio] Religion reminds you You have to do it, but you have no right When you do take pleasure, [French spoken audio] It's 11 p.m., They tell us who, according to the Israeli Army, took two Israelis hostage The commandos set out to fight This bus isn't armored. Usually, the buses are armored [French spoken audio] We're still young, That's nice. [French spoken audio] Like what, for example? When you eat ice cream, Later when you have to be serious, you're serious too, It's a lot easier that way. [French spoken audio] On the bus during the journey, the best that the officers is to show an American war film [French spoken audio] Now that's a film, Now I can smile, but when I'm fighting, It's 1:00 in the morning, the operation begins on the outskirts of Nablus. From this moment, Yigal and his comrades We go along with them, With lights extinguished, the truck sets the unit down a city the Israelis consider Once out of the truck, They may be fired on at any moment. The highest priority If they are spotted, This footage was filmed in total darkness. The white halo around the image but an infrared lens Look and see The unit works as a team. The first member The second is the sniper, the marksman, covering their backs. Progress is very slow. The unit has to cross this neighborhood to reach a hill The unit is in position, Down there in that street of Nablus is where Israeli patrols from the windows of the buildings. The unit leader informs There's the Israeli armored jeep, Engine racing, it fakes a breakdown to lure the Palestinian snipers From their position the commandos will locate One o'clock, two o'clock, and nothing's happening. The Palestinians -They didn't come? -They didn't come? Nothing, not one shot. Not so much as a shadow The unit was probably spotted Now they have to pull out. For the unit, this is the most dangerous They have to recross Nablus. Now they, in turn, especially if they were spotted. Finally, they reach their armored vehicle It seems that tonight, or no longer had, The day after the operation, the men and women of fighting units Like everybody else, including reservists, Yigal never parts I don't have any bullets. Do you always wear the kippah? Yes, in the army, I get out of the habit. I try to wear it less, He lives with his parents in Jerusalem. This is my house. They're all at the synagogue. How do you feel now? Okay, hi. -Hi. Is that your mother? No, it's the woman [French spoken audio] -Do you always keep your gun there? You have to keep the gun That way, if a child touches it, [French spoken audio] -Are there children here? Here, you're no longer a commando. No, I'm a child like everybody else. There's no more army, and now I can relax. All the more so because there have been Jerusalem, the holy city, Jerusalem, the city is taking time, not to dream of peace, It's a respite not afforded despite the reopening of the schools We return to this Palestinian city, partly destroyed by the fighting, and just a few days after during the special unit's that you saw at the beginning of the film. We went back to meet the men and women who were then barricaded and who were watching us and the children who challenge the Israeli patrols Their pet hates and the armored Jeeps that protect them. [Hebrew spoken audio] -Where do you live? [Hebrew spoken audio] The Jeep's job is to prevent anyone Even women, with children. They're afraid they may be wearing and turn into a human bomb. In all the Palestinian towns, along the streets and the avenues. It's on the orders of Israeli HQ or to prevent snipers Finally, the woman is able to cross the avenue [Hebrew spoken audio] The young Palestinians protecting the bulldozer. They know that's where the danger lies. At any moment, the soldiers may open fire and put an end There they go! Automatic fire from the Jeep We clearly see the soldier next to our camera. There's confusion. Everyone takes shelter. [Hebrew spoken audio] God is great, these children cry. A few days later, after the violent scenes two Palestinian extremists with their explosive-laden vehicle. Fourteen Israelis died that night. Ordinary passengers on a bus that the two Palestinian terrorists This came after 45 days It is said in the Jewish religion that every part of the body and that is what we are doing. We have to do it We put the small parts Recognizable body parts After each attack, there's retaliation. Terror is answered with repression. In the hours that follow, starting with the special units, [Hebrew spoken audio] Every time there's a terrorist attack, Why? Because tonight A terrorist who might do the same thing, create the same evil, It reminds you, It reminds you just why you're here, The first priority around the Palestinian territories, This is not an easy task, as you will see. All soldiers, are involved. Many of these young people some of them from France. They are barely 20 years old, interrupted his studies to do military service in Israel. -What's your unit called? -What does that mean? Our motto is Do Rifat, a fighting family. It really is a family. That's Erol, he's the comedian. There's the hard man, the tough guy. That's Evgenev, There's Nick, Do you have friends like that in France? Let's say that my friends in France My friends in France didn't have guns, We have fun here too. How are your parents coping with this? It's difficult for them, Do they sleep at night? They have trouble. I think that the army In a way, it's a pity because I look at the kids here, the kids who are my age here and it's a totally different mentality. Let's say that here, people live more. Here, there's discipline. In France, [French spoken audio] In my opinion, over the last two years, the fact that Israel is carrying this time in a war against terrorism, Young people from France too, who come here and decide They come to live in Israel They even do their military service here. The State of Israel it's also the only If you like, the Israeli Army is not only but it's also the army and wherever they might be, This here, is our territory. Here's the checkpoint. That way is Tel Aviv, I filter. For us, the principal dangers and I go up to the car, the guy can always That's the main danger, That's the suicide bomber. He can stay in the car [French spoken audio] Papers? Where do you live? In Jerusalem. [French spoken audio] What's good is that they give us We have a free choice. If somebody looks suspicious, That means that if, like now, a terrorist came along then I'm the last line of defense. Here, on this bit echoes of the latest attack as in the heart of the capital. Here, the fighting unit in the same boat as their male comrades. They have orders to stop terrorists from infiltrating. To the left To the right, Jordan. [French spoken audio] Here, you can see the tracks. They come over from Jordan to Israel It's really hard. Abby is 20. She gives orders to the men. She's accompanied by a Bedouin scout, the only man able to confirm [French spoken audio] Here, the people have left tracks, Do you enjoy this work? On a base or in Israel? Do I enjoy it? It's a bit tough, but yes, I enjoy it. It's an experience All women between 18 and 20 instead of three for men. There's a new phenomenon. They want to be exposed and the same fighting as the men. Which arm do I prefer? The small one is much easier. -Why? -Have you shot someone before? What if you have to do it? I would do it, I guess. [French spoken audio] My weapon, I like it. -Why? Is it like your boyfriend? Almost. We are with our friends, and there are a lot of nights and have fun talking with each other. It's nice. Rachel decided to put her life at risk. Like the others, she had to submit herself Not anybody gets into a fighting unit, I'm honored to be in the Tal, Why is it an honor? Why, because this is my country Here we protect a lot of students, I'm honored to protect them. Following the attack in Tel Aviv, the state of emergency is at its highest. Everybody knows that the main highways spreading out like arteries. [French spoken audio] Just to the right are Arab villages where he had to ensure between the Arabs and the Israelis. The suicide bomber vehicles The aim is to check them bypassing the checkpoints at all the roads This is Moshe's job. He's a lieutenant in the Israeli Army. His parents are of French origin. What are those lights there? It's a Palestinian car that I guess we better find out why. He has to find a little path The side roads responsible for preventing To improve their efficiency, setting up flying roadblocks Moshe, you go second. I'll go in front. Mayom, you bring up the rear. Be ready to shoot. Okay, let's go. [French spoken audio] Now we're in a Palestinian village. It's a village we know well A lot of terrorists and that's why we're doing our job here. [Hebrew spoken audio] Everybody will be searched, all the vehicles, If they don't have a record, [Hebrew spoken audio] This car here is completely closed in. It's quite possible That's why we get everybody out, because this is not a normal type of car. Get out of the car! Shimon, yell at him There are others with them in the back. Get out of the vehicle, get over there! Why don't you have your papers? [Hebrew spoken audio] My identity card is in the car. [French spoken audio] -Is it normal? In Israel, everything or almost everything The incredible division added to the Jewish settlements Israeli and Palestinian towns and sometimes even intertwine. This explains why, suicide bombers manage When it's a question right inside Palestinian territory, behind that barricade, [French spoken audio] Gaza is over there to the right. The situation is tense. Yesterday, there was a minor bombardment With what kind of weapon? It was with a mortar. [French spoken audio] Look at those Arabs, Palestinians. In the nearest spot to the road, Over there, it's Palestine. [French spoken audio] The commando unit is taking because the night following the attack is filled with danger. A hundred soldiers are responsible in Netzarim. To reach the Jewish settlement, through the Palestinian territory of Gaza. It's impossible to move Michael, who comes from Toulouse has lived here for 30 years. There was a little problem on the road. I think there were shots. Terrorists shot at an army patrol so the road is closed now I'm of French origin. I grew up in the Toulouse region, I'm very happy living there. We have some minor problems but we hope they will be sorted out [French spoken audio] The Jewish houses are a few dozen yards Clashes occur daily. This high-security road is the only way It's 11 p.m. An Israeli commando unit who fired on military vehicles. An infrared surveillance camera permanently scans A sand dune separates What's happening here? We heard noises, and they're checking to see The command post camera After a reconnaissance sweep, and the unit can move We're at the spot for the ambush. We're in position. We're here because this is where coming from over there. Do you see the sand dune? Behind are Palestinian officers' huts. We have hundreds of guys living over there [French spoken audio] From the Palestinian police? Yes. Are these police accepted They're accepted by the Oslo Accord but they don't do anything Is that why you're stepping in here? Yes, absolutely. Are you waiting here? We've been waiting several hours, If he does, we'll shoot him. Orders are categoric, This is confirmed by the press officer who hasn't left our side However, nothing happens the unit pulls out. The same night, a helicopter incursion leaves four Palestinians dead. We are not invited. Four days after the attack the identities The Israeli intelligence service in establishing that they came from Jenin. The city is immediately surrounded The inhabitants but the one that has just started promises to be heavier On the first day, and this is only the advance party. Despite their apparent relaxed attitude, know that the army and that it won't give up until it gets [Arabic spoken audio] Here, film this, film this! That was his headband. The headband of a suicide bomber. It's the Golani commando unit and destroying the network that supported The commander of the Golanis, insists on remaining anonymous. The operation that we are permitted according to the Colonel's whim, It's targeting some 20 suspects. They belong to the most extreme Hamas and Islamic Jihad. An enormous search gets underway. Every house is visited. Every man is identified. Jenin is stripped bare. Do the bombings encourage Conducting searches to get the terrorists. We are in an army Jeep without getting out. At dawn, surprise! We are put down outside a house. It belongs to the family who drove their booby-trapped car Clearly, the house has been occupied [Hebrew spoken audio] Israeli soldiers, are sleeping under protection positioned at the windows. [French spoken audio] Day breaks and we discover a poster As surprising as a confession, [French spoken audio] It's the terrorist who killed himself Ashraf Sal-Asamar. It's the photo -Right, what about the other one? I don't know. [French spoken audio] Suddenly, the brother appear in the living room. They were locked in the cellar and now they have been given permission [Hebrew spoken audio] Can we take the medicine for the children? Then the soldiers shut them in the cellar We are not allowed to film them anymore. Then, drama! During their search, the army finds a series In one of them are four armed men, including the brother The man we just saw. Was that the terrorist? This is the man from inside the room. His brother made Suspected of being part the man is immediately arrested. Hands shackled and blindfolded, he is led out of the house along with his cousin, [French spoken audio] The two Palestinian suspects so that snipers before they are interrogated. The sweep goes on The number of men arrested is so great that the soldiers In any case, The men the soldiers they say they have on their list. Twenty suspects with a fine-tooth comb. Despite the roadblocks and the curfew, the Palestinian firefighters not without taking risks. They don't make it, and humanitarian organizations They shot at the trucks from this side and the driver got out Do they want to kill them? We don't know, A warning for them. It's the last time for you here, It's a rescue team, Yes, but they don't care. They don't give a shit about anybody. [French spoken audio] I think anybody would be disgusted when they see them shoot at that are delivering water to civilians. For me, that's unacceptable. It really is unacceptable, The soldiers must not allow to approach their position. Officially, it's to foil with trucks stuffed with explosives. Now we come to the fifth and final night It's the final phase of the operation after the attack that claimed A phase that we can film It begins with the blowing up of the house Engineers set their charges [French spoken audio] Then the systematic A nighttime operation that mobilizes One of the officers The mission is to go from house to house, looking for wanted people, whatever we can find. [Arabic spoken audio] Open up, open up! Several of the commandos Only the Palestinian men and their occupation. [Arabic spoken audio] There's my son. [Arabic spoken audio] Nadia, Samia, come here! [Arabic spoken audio] Everybody's here. I want to check if anybody's missing. Nasam, Sada, that's everybody. Look, it's not right, Calm down, everything's okay. You there, put something on, Go on, hurry up, come on, hurry up. [Arabic spoken audio] Come on, open the door, come here! [Arabic spoken audio] Nobody opens, but the house is occupied. The soldiers heard whispering. Finally, the Palestinian neighbor with the Israelis. Tell him to open up Open up! Inside the house is a woman alone That's why she didn't want Who's in the house? Myself and my children. [Arabic spoken audio] Stay there, don't move! -Where's your husband? He's a night watchman. You, where is your husband? He's working. Where? At the university. That's enough, okay, go on. In the adjoining room, perhaps still warm. The soldiers don't seem Do you think We can't know. There are a lot of houses We can't assume All night long, all the houses in Jenin are searched. All the men rounded up, Those that are wanted It's a very dangerous job. These days, having a coffee When there are children, I stroke his head, I try to reassure him. I make him laugh, I talk to him, It's the end of the night. The end of Operation Advance Guard. The Golani Division commandos, have only held nine Palestinians suspected with terrorist networks. The nine suspects and are taken to Israel for interrogation. The Palestinians don't know where they are What do their temporary guards think? They are all conscripts To do our job, you need lots of morale. Do you see what I mean? -Do you like this job? -Why? -He likes it. -Do you like this job? -Why? If it wasn't for us doing it, Do you think it's a normal life Normal life in Israel, if you are 18, That's normal life They know the job the best. It's in their blood and brains. -What? Do you think peace is possible? I hope so. -Hope what? That we finally have peace.