I guess about five years ago I started something I've done forever it's building and selling census residential kind of impromptu so I just want to show trucks that we use in Nashville we stain of equipment you don't have to spend a there that's about a $800 sprayer a little stuff but whose stain defense who never wants to do it again a stain clean up it's faster it's there's the with the oil base with these particular film you don't have to worry about it can that fence right there you can walk ideally we've clean it first but that year two years three years later put your customers on you can come back prep it you just go right back over it who's got a question to get me started all right so what we'll do we'll go like I said we would clean it first we're gonna go ahead and stain it and I kind of we're just gonna move nice and guys stain this fence because I'm I'm staining it says after you spray it you'll see that in just a few minutes we your name in the fence whatever you want what makes it fast so many fence guys don't want to worry about overspray and truck we might if we had a road I road here right from the fence we wet it don't mix so we can wet everything down once you stay in the job just rinse it way I've got some videos I can show you get it on bricks we wipe it off rinse it it's you can be a knucklehead with it not worry so much about it cleaning is a big deep rabbit hole we practical and cheapest way to do it is spray up a bleach solution on it and it'll turn the fence a nice white color nice brown or red it'll give you a real decking we go down a big long rabbit different things there but keep it set fence about two or three days ago in staining day and we've got an airless airless and it's about eight hundred that's a workhorse you know some and stuff and we bought a couple of them don't use them anymore we use these need a couple guys to help me mask this already got it started if I can do that this is easier than breaking rock spray over your your gonna sell staining to nice bright cedar color and they've got you just gotta be mindful that the the finished product so so for this everybody's all right with that for the and it'll just be more of a placeholder stain something that's freshly installed question two times right now and the fence age for six months or a year or it'll never look as good as it did when it's brand new it's gonna look better in weeks out so if you build the fence ahead and let's get you on the schedule week later two weeks later and in go this is a moisture meter and in Florida content as we get back home and thirteen percent here we're probably percent seventeen point nine you just and right around 17% it's humid here it's raining it's not ideal but this it's got dummy lights on it so I even I oil-based even water-based stains when shaker for five minutes so you just want It'd be ideal if you had a bucket opener. So that stain probably looks different nice and thick and you want to vortex. There you go that stains mixed up and probably won't work what you want to bet. your hose in (let's see). It doesn't have anything in the line so Here we go, nothing blew up. So that's the first it's brand new. Normally your line is not how often do you think we clean Never clean them. Ever. With oil based stain and so it stays dry and some guys spirits or something to clean it out. pumps is if we use a water-based product would think that oil is harder to clean clean up or you can just wipe it right truck wipe it off and nobody would ever You say it doesn't dry, but does it dry on the fence? It will, it will, it's a non and that is a non drying oil but it's left on top is your colors, your pigments, your sealers and things and they are, I'm not a chemist but if the wood grain is a fingers the sealers just come right in makes a nice flat surface but there's no what I'm talking about once this dry and things and I don't know how deep we'll go but we like this tips called a number 521, that's what we like to use but you can the things that make our job easier heads. So we can turn this head any way low, main part you got your bottom runner runner anything you want to do and that's about it. Does that line come with the sprayer? The hose? The line that you are holding. The gun and the guard come, and I think, I don't know what these are, thirty or forty bucks to get one of those, the You probably got a extra hundred bucks make you so much faster, gonna make you a lot faster. How long like for your what's your average privacy prince how many would your average one? Two three hundred. Two, three hundred feet. What about what about you? Privacy fence. Yeah well we put up about five hundred. Okay, your two hundred foot job, a good crew can get in and out in about an hour and five hundred feet maybe three hours you sometimes there swimming pools just fence if if I wanted to I could I could and been gone maybe 20 minutes 15 20 hoses and stuff than anything else so what way the winds going. May be best to Is it a one coat deal? Or you going back? It is a flood coat. So what that means, think of a sponge you know a sponge, it's hard and dry and then you drip it in the water and it'll only get so soft and saturation point that's when you stop put enough on and put some more and you any more to now or later. Will it get to the point where it will start to actually run? Yeah, we want it to run. Okay, yep. Yeah, this is gonna blow your mind if you've always done water coatings painting a car so, so let's get started. I didn't have my tip on tight enough. but I guess we won't do the backside, I don't think we can get back there anyways. All right so what I like to do, there's a I like to get the top first and a lot of won't so you guys can do it was pulling my hose out so I would take my tip, turn it down and just walk and get the whole top. I've got my end grain done, doesn't look like much but it is. I am just going to start spraying. Alright, now the hard work is over. There is a lot of over spray you are going to see with this. It is atomized so finely that you are going to get less visible over spray on the house. When you use this flood coat versus like The bump up sprayers and the low they're splashing and where this is so to clean up but you are going to see the under your belt you'll get some Simple as that. You can do whatever you want, it is not going to affect the finished product. So, who wants to give it a shot? Come on! I tried and I don't know if you notice, but I like to hit between the boards, on the first pass. That's about it. You see how it's running? That's what you want. That's it and you'll get, as you as you do staining job when it's done you're not between mine and yours. Did you get that on camera? Those things happen and that's the main reason you don't smell our stain, do you guys smell all those solvents in the Smell that? Exactly, I used to go home every day terrible. I would get in the shower, take all those oil based stains have solvents and a lot of really deadly that's why we made our stain without still works. A lot of people say low BOC doesn't. That's not true. So things happen and you just gotta run with the punches. I just didn't have my tip tight enough, cause I am a salesman, you fence guys always say we salesman don't know what's going on. Prime example, been in the truck too long, but there we go. That's it. Do the top like that. Who's brave enough to try it now that You going to try to stain some? Yeah, I am going to give it a try. *laughing and jokes* Pull the trigger, Stop, let go. When you get to the top let go. Hit it again. Then stop at the bottom. Again. Just like that, you'll figure it out. With a flood coat you can be tempted to go nice and fast, just slow down and go nice and easy. When I'm going back to inspect a job or look for a few things, I'm probably gonna posts. We didn't get those, maybe a few That's it, it is pretty much done. If somebody wants to finish the back here, we will start wiping the gate handles down. You feel like doing it? How much coverage you get out of a 5 gallon bucket? About 10 foot a gallon. That's what makes this type of in you can flood it on and you can walk about peeling, chipping and you're not things. You see a few runs, those will And it cracks? You don't have to do from both sides, it'll fill in? If you notice when I tried to hit between the cracks first to get that and when you spray both sides you double it. when you spray both sides you double it. It's really not much of an issue. I know you guys, some of you owners over spray going man what's what's going gets on a car you can wash it off, as you to do it you're gonna learn how to I'm gonna walk over there if we got it you know obviously this is just for it's blowing in a good direction for us see a little stain on the grass for a it's no big deal our stains are ponds or children's backyards and stuff make deck stains to. Whole other class but but this right here is a really good way to add money to your you could, 2007 you could make about in 2008 you can make about 300 bucks on the woodwork building fences and so this enabled us to not have as many call going to warp and twist if it's new and to just give something more to your Is it playground safe? Yes! What happens to the car that gets sprayed and you don't know it and doesn't get washed immediately? With some stains that's a big problem, over there with de greaser in it. The solvents are what makes it bite into finishes, vinyl siding, things like that, stain is what really makes it bite in do when we remove the solvent we found times more easy and so when we're done you want let me see something. Just so we swivel tip comes in, where those posts are. You missed one? I missed one? Salesman *laughs* That's it. Now we just open the gate up and start wiping the hinges down. And it's gonna be safe as soon as you little Timmy to come out here and open whatever. What if you get it in your eye? In your eye? Don't get it in your eye! *laughs* Now does it stick to galvanized steel posts, *Overlapping discussion* Almost every gate frame in middle Tennessee is metal and we spray right over them, just like you saw these hinges. We will spray right over it, will wipe it off box of rags. But if it's a galvanized post or a galvanized frame what happens? Nothing. Does it stick? Well you noticed how I got it all over this? Just wipe it off, it will not stick. I know if you never cleaned it you might in this stain and the pigments and stuff non-porous it won't stick to. We're 90 percent treated, is it you who asked? Yeah we are 90 percent treated pine in Nashville but these stains work on anything and and away and a few minutes the finished here something like that it's gonna have like the fences just change colors and I mean you could come back the next day have interfering lap marks or anything didn't make the whole backyard sink for based stains do and we made on this would charge to build it but you would this fence you might double your price stained it a whole lot faster than we We didn't charge them nothing *laughs* That's not good for business though is it? That's it. There is one metal post on the end that is not covered. Would you just leave it after you spray it, I Yeah I can spray it, you want me to spray it? Yeah but and then don't wipe it off. Is there one here? See if I can reach in through. When you spray your gates just a side note you guys probably know, it's just so it looks good but here's the cool it'll it'll shoot a long way if you turn it so you can see is that alright? I want to see if it is the same color as the fence. Does he? He wants to paint the post to see if it sticks or not by next year. Let's do it! On the galvanized post. It is just going to look kind of brown. You want 50% if it works? *laughs* That's it guys! I am new to training, so if I left something out just make sure an ask but this is a whole lot hot, it's hard work you know because you it's not hard like digging post holes. A is but you guys do and staining is a lot Who's gonna be the next stain crew? Anybody ready? You said it is better on wood fences? Yeah. You can put it on new or old fences. For instance this fence here has come in maybe 15 minutes clean it charge come stain it $6, $7 bucks a foot located and your material costs probably fifty cents a foot of materials in Nashville we pay about sixty cents a linear foot for a crew to go stain the fence so 150 feet they're not gonna pay sixty cents isn't dollars labor to have a crew go out employees but we pay them like subs, Okay guys, well this is the Stain &amp; Seal, we put it on this fence and the fence was really dirty and everything, they were able to like crazy last night it's still on as you can see. It only sticks wipes off it's the best thing.