Hi. I'm Michael. This is Lessons from the Screenplay. No film frightens me like The Shining. Other movies may have moments that make me the characters' survival, but The Shining Hypnotizes me. Makes me look over my shoulder, suddenly feeling in the room with me. Today, I want to look at how co-writers Stanley the film. What they did to set it apart from the conventional exactly, is so creepy about The Shining. I should begin by saying I wasn't able to The only version available is post-production After much Googling and tweeting at Lee Unkrich, website TheOverlookHotel.com, it was confirmed far from where I live. But from my research I've learned that the Co-writer Diane Johnson said she even toured for the script. In fact, re-writes happened all the way through &quot;I quit using my script.&quot; &quot;I just take the ones they type up each day.&quot; This may partly be why it's so hard to find wasn't a fan of publishing the screenplays "A screenplay isn't meant to be read, it's to be realized on film." Regardless, in the case of The Shining, the film were created together. And luckily there is a lot of documentation So what was the writing process? According to Johnson, "Stanley's approach was to think in terms of time segments in relation to the totality of the film." There ended up being ten segments, each marked In the beginning of the film, the titles refer to the But as the film moves on, the time intervals to specific times on the final day at The increasing passage of time helps create We know we're getting closer to whatever and there's nothing we can do to stop it. In an effort to understand why The Shining I was on the look-out for differences from other One thing that stood out to me was its set-up. It directly indicates the dangers to come Rather than giving the audience reasons to we're immediately told that he's an alcoholic "My husband just used too much strength We're even told in one of the first scenes his family with an axe, the very thing that "Well, you can rest assured, Mr. Ullman, The film gives us every reason to suspect But what I always find most surprising, is are revealed and explained. "You know, some places are like people.&quot; &quot;Some shine, and some don't." All of this removes a lot of the potential is essentially told what's going to happen. But the point is that the frightening part it's how it's going to happen. From the beginning Kubrick didn't want to instead aiming to hold themselves to a higher standard. Johnson said, "It must be plausible, use no failures of motivation . . . it must be Which brings us to the thing that disturbs It's creepy. What is the difference between creepiness In a study published in 2013 by Francis T. "Creepiness is anxiety aroused by the ambiguity and/or by the ambiguity of the precise nature An example of this is a popular theory which When someone is wearing a mask, you're unable Their intentions are ambiguous and unknowable. I think this is why I find the two little When they appear, they're at a distance that "Hello, Danny." And even when you can they're completely expressionless. Their presence indicates they want something their faces betray nothing. That same study on creepiness also offers If you're walking down a dark city street your brain will first respond to do you harm. Even if it ends up being a gust of wind knocking to assume danger in ambiguous situations. "Hello?" The filmmaking in The Shining activates these The music is unsettling and unpredictable. At times startling when nothing has happened. And other times unresponsive despite visual It signals to the audience to constantly be It's the noise we hear down the alley that But visually, the hotel is inviting. It's brightly-lit with seemingly natural light This adds to the unease. The Overlook hides the horror that resides Like it's wearing a mask. Perhaps my favorite example of creepiness After a few moments a ball rolls up to him. And when he looks up to see where it came In and of itself a ball being rolled is not Who rolled it? What do they want? "Mom?" As Danny walks down the hallway he finds the the room he was warned to stay out of. "Stay out, you understand?&quot; &quot;Stay out." But instead of being dark and foreboding, The clash of these two things -- implied It's not clear how one should react. The flip side of this is why The Shining actually Or rather, it becomes a different kind of The more the film reveals the boundaries and who reside there, the less vague the threat. "I fear you will have to deal with this Once Jack is committed to killing his family, "Run and hide!&quot; &quot;Run!" By the end, it's simply a crazed man with "Danny!" More suspenseful than creepy. "Danny!" The Shining is a great example of how film the psyche of an audience. Kubrick and co-writer Diane Johnson show that a monster on the screen, but from within our Kubrick demonstrates how great filmmaking while telling a deceptively simple story. After all, as Kubrick described it, "It's just the story of one man's family quietly going insane together. Hey guys! I hope you enjoyed the video. The Shining really does creep me out and I've because I keep picturing the twins standing It's not fun. Thanks to my friend Ryan McDuffie, who "do you have any resources about Kubrick?" gave me all of this. There are many things. There is a great Vsauce video about what makes for me, so a link to that is also in the description. And finally, a hundred thousand subscribers! That's insane! That's the population of my home town times So that's crazy. So thank you to everyone who subscribes, thank And most of all, thank you for watching.