Today, we're going to website step-by-step in tutorial for beginners. Hey, there I'm Christina we create simple tips and And other times like If this video helped you like, it really helps out. And all the links that I in the description below. So let's dive in to get started WPBeginner forward slash refer. Forward slash blue host. And that is our affiliate link. We will get a commission So once you get set up, you can see that normally it's about $9 With this link, you also get a You'll also get free SSL just says, SSL stands And that just makes sure that encrypted between you and So super important to have, Automatically you also get one So before it was pretty five minutes installation. Now it's even simpler. And then you get So you have any issues They're there to help. So let's go ahead and click on In right out of the gate. I always like to, when I'm who want to set up a website, well, which one do I use? The choice plus is probably you to have to worry about really into several websites I would say you want to look basic and a couple of the the basic and the plus is the And you have a few other whereas with the plus you And so this is a choice When I talk to my friends, your first website, it is more to create more websites or or family members who say, Hey, So a lot of times, for me, do just the next step up website for this tutorial. I'll simply choose the basic. Now from here, this is where name or the website where So now you can put it your website name to be. And when you click next, it you know if it's available. If it is available, it will or it says, or a big green If it's not available, of some other website names You'll want to fill out And then when you scroll down then this is where you How much savings do you want? And you have your choice between And that gives you the savings worth of savings. And then it resets Or you get three years at need to look at, do you registration is free and the So just for the sake of to do basic right there. And then scrolling down there, really can uncheck all of can either choose to do later, Legos that I mentioned that you want, and then scrolling for this is at least 50. Percent off, and this So you just want to go credit card information. You want to go ahead and read That's just letting you renew at the standard price. And you'll want to say that you, that, and then once you're done And then once it goes through, Once you get all the will go out and install is the backend of it. If we go over here, up at the save visit site, and this is that we can already work with So let's do that next. Now, this is the backend of you'll go to every time you want you want to add a plugin, this So you'll get an email with you should already have it. Go ahead and keep Safe so that you don't And we can go to dashboard view of how our site looks. Now, we're going to do a little default, there are a lot of It's like when you get a like that, you already You already have plugins or installed and that's kind of the So there are some that Some of our sister and I'll show you why. I think that those are good that we can go ahead and remove. So the best way to do that Installed plugins. And this is where So I'm going to just come up And we want to keep Google by MonsterInsights that analytics with your website. So you can see. How your site is doing how and things like that. We also have WPForms Lite, up a contact form or a So we're going to All these others that we still ones that we want to get rid of. So under bulk action, we you haven't, you need then you can remove them. We'll click apply to deactivate, And then I'm going And I want to delete. So I'm going to highlight all the inactive ones. Okay. Taking a look at the front end website and this is our theme. Theme is the color, the font, And you can choose how through choosing a theme. So let's head back over to our way that you pick your themes Themes. And from here, you can see what For instance, we have active right now, the 20, 21 theme. And that's what we just saw. You also have 2019 and 2020. These come the 2020 series, the default installation. And it always changes each WordPress, but you can choose You can do premium Themes that are free. And a lot of them are WordPress repository is where all the themes are good to go. So we're going to go to add new. And if you had a premium theme party, you would upload it here. But because we're searching for all of these and there are There are a few ways that there's just so many you So these are the featured ones right now you can click on most popular downloads. Obviously the 2020s will go with each installation. And you can also do So if you know, you want a feature, like e-commerce can pick those from here. So I know which one I want to easy to install and set up. So really looking This is the one we want and, This is just the So let's go ahead Now we have the Astra I can show you Real quick, going to our site, say it's real, it's changed. We know that it's changed. It's still very bare We're going to fix Next, we want to download a make our site look exactly So to do that, let's go to searching for starter template. And this is the plugin So click install now. And once you install activate this plugin. We can scroll down and say, see come back to maybe change your with it and go to appearance. Starter templates to come to select the page builder. We're actually going to is the default page And now these are all of these can pick for the Astro theme. And what's perfect is this will takes off hours of development because as soon as you pick It will fill out your site and you're seeing, which so many So you can scroll through, All right. So for this tutorial, I'm and landscaping on and you through this and you can take services, contact the gallery. These are all the page And what we want to Preview the garden that's what we want you to And yeah, this is So then what you can do is you home or whichever one you're When I import the complete site, So, you know, go through say, okay, we're going to Once we import that. We'll let you know If you've done this before themes, then you want to delete previously imported. Site, we haven't done that yet. So let's just click import. And if you want to give can do that or click skip. And now what that will the images that you see. Some of the content, some will create certain pages contact us, things like that. And then once it's Great. So I took a couple of minutes And this is our actual site. We have a logo up here and Create your own logos. So stick around for that. We have a beautiful You scroll down, you see all of interest for the site, is our site scrolling up. We also have these new pages can also adjust and a gallery. If we want to show off some of that one, you installed it. And you're like, eh, I Then you can go back to And you can look through For instance, maybe we I've used that one So you can keep doing theme that's perfect for Yeah, I think I'm more on an to do the same thing and we're because I imported the last one. I actually do need to and go ahead and import. Okay. That one took a little had to delete the old So let's visit the site and Okay. So this is an adventure And I've used this So I'm going to We have the about us. We have services. And when you see that I'm So these are the new But if you look up into don't really like this. URL structure is web That'd be really hard to, Hey, go to my page. Underscore ID equals 1645, So I'm going to close these over to our WordPress dashboard. I'm going to go down to to go to permalinks and way that you structure your You see that it's. Structured like this, What most people use, what So it simply is your web about us, things like that. I like that much better. If you want, you can choose Uh, we try and keep away post name is really good. So we'll save changes. And now when we go to another page, Then you It's pulling in the page better way to do that. So make sure you save that or you're seeing that as well. Okay. Now that we have it installed couple of more customizations. For instance, I don't want I want it to actually So we can do that under of go through the customized easily customize your website. So depending on what theme you this will be different for you. And then you'll scroll through. And once you have the scroll through, you'll see lets you make these changes. So I can click on the little what I want this to say. So let's go ahead So you see, as I'm making goes in real time over here, And under the section says copyright and current If you want the copyright just keep the current year And then if you wanted to say, since 1996, then you can do And then it's good to go. And then you can change the None of the changes that I've have actually gone public on And that's what Now. We're going to publish this and Going back to the main If we go to global, change your topography. So all of the fonts that make these changes here. You can also change And it's been recommended to so that people can read it. So you can make You can also change and fonts that you see here. And once you pick it, it'll So maybe you want open saves. Maybe you want rubato. You can also type in the one. If you know it. So you make those And when we go back, we can So this is the current can change these out to For instance, this is the text. So if you want a little might be too light. You also want to consider And if you don't like what the little redo icon. It'll take it back. But you can go through here. If you don't already know the then go to colored@adobe.com different colors out there. Once you find a color palette the color palette, and then you I'll keep it like that. Under header. We already did That was these items. You can also change So you can change this to will move around and you the left or the right of You can also choose how you So when it is mobile, And you can see what Just down here. We have little areas So that's the different layout it different for that as well. We'll keep this layout. We like that. And if you need to go on the desktop area. And now we can take a look You can choose. This is the primary menu. That's up here. We can choose here, For instance, this last is a You have the And so then that call to action. Won't be there. I like the button, but I don't going to say, contact us. And then this is So where do we want to It's not going anywhere. I want to send them So I'm going to, I I'm going to paste it. So it's going to send So say contact us. I'm going to remove So that looks really good. I like it. I'm going to keep that and this and we'll definitely page and also want to add a have a blog on this site. Great. So now let's go ahead and you how you can do that. So I'm going to Now we need to create a page and work more on the menu. So let's go to pages, add new. And from here, I want to add to put anything on it because blog posts are going to go. So I'm just happy We're going to say to hit publish again. And now we see that this is our We can add it to our menu. So let's go to menu this time. We're going to go Menus. So we can make some This is the menu area. You can create new menus, You can have multiple it's theme specific. So this theme has a primary It also has the footer menu. So you could create a little bottom of your website, a It would come So I'm going to go to edit this menu because I have the action button of contact us. I'm going to remove But because I also just I want to add that. So I'm going to click on the and I'm going to left click take it next to the homepage. And you can restructure Doing the same thing, just You'd even make them a sub menu. So meaning when you have her until you hover over projects. You'll see services. That's a little indentation. We want everything on the main So now save it. We can go back to our site, We'll refresh everything. So now we have great home blog the called action contact us. Perfect. Great. Now that we added the blog site, we need to set it up will actually go to that. And let me show you If you go under This is where you can see go and how your homepage You can choose how You can either choose to So if it's a blog that might work for you, this is a specific static homepage. I am saying certain things But. When I click on the And I know that there's at So how do I do that? So if we go to our reading need to select that and The other thing you can set feed, we want to do a summary. Otherwise it would just show and then they would have next one on the next one. This will give it a summary. And then if they want they can click on that. So let's click save changes. And then when we go back to blog and this is the only blog page only blog posts that I have. But now all of my blog Great. The next thing you want to up this whole contact us page, This is our contact us page. And we have the contact info. We can change that. We have some items down here and to set up a contact us form. So let's go ahead and do that. We're going to go back to was already installed when we WPFoms here, which is perfect. If you don't see WPFoms , then Add new. And you can search for WPForms We already have it installed. And so it will show that it's So we need to go to WPForms From here. We want to set up a simple what it says right here. There are also a few you can choose from. And then if you choose to, and you want to automate your quotes and surveys and things to look at upgrading to their an amazing job for small to do these simple contact us. I'm gonna go ahead and give to pick this template, you That's really all I need. You can move things around left click and drag things. Or if you want to make For instance, I always So I'm going to click on and I'm a choose simple. So that's just one text line. You can also click on the change that to something like. That then you can do that. So really robust way of to this that you want to The other thing you want to and you just want to make or that the emails are going By default the emails And if you want to change actual email in here who little shows, smart tags. And these are pulling in from If you want to say, change you can say contact us. But if you get a lot of to say that in your email. So you can do show smart tags. And I would say to make it a ahead and bring in the name. So we'll do contact us name, field from the form. So it'll look a little And then scrolling down and the message, which is perfect. The next thing we want to the confirmation and the person who submits the email they see might've fault. It just comes up with this this to whatever you want. You can also choose to can show a specific page. Maybe thank you, page Or, you can also even redirect whether it's your URL or address that you can do for the message and work it to go. So I'm going to save this, so let's go ahead So let's click embed and do you want to put this? We know we want to put it So I'm going to click If you didn't have that, page and it'll take you to already have the contact page. So I'm going to choose So now it's going to Now I can scroll down and For instance, maybe I just want You didn't click on the little up here and click on the ad Widget brings this in and one that we just worked on. And once we do that, we'll Maybe the contact us, Alex, really good. Need to update this address, And then what's cool. Is these little social And so you can make more. So we click on the button here. There are all these others For instance, if I have a add that and you can just all the ones that you want. What would you want to do is social icons and you see, it's and you want to add the URL Perfect. Now I'm happy with that. And so my contact us Now up here, you notice You can click on this. And if you want to keep And from here, you You can fix it, you You can do a focal point so to an area of the image. If we prefer, if you think actually also bring this down. So it's not so large, You can either use your can type it in if you know That looks a little bit better. It's not as large. And you could do that Or you could just If you don't want this cover, just click on this area. Come up to the little three If you feel like that little undoing up here, And that's perfect. You could also So this is coming in from and we can come up here and up media library, or you can If you already have If you do open from media click on the media library. And since these are all downloaded from the template, If you already have your your own file here. And then you can also choose to So these are royalty-free so you Since I have some in the media in there and choose this one. You also want to, whenever images, make sure you This just lets anybody site and they can't see. And they're relying on readers. The reader will tell them what won't be able to see the actual So now that will change. You can do the same thing and choose where you But now we've updated we can click update and We can see this in action. When I go back to the website make some changes to this. If we want to make it change the focal point. But by and large, this So you just want to do pages that you have, make Okay. So let's head back over to our that we've been having this. Please set up web analytics for your audience. This is a really crucial step. When you're setting up connect Google analytics and this lets you track. The data. And unless you see just to your website, how many they're looking at, what type of devices do they use? So many things that you analytics,MonsterInsights want to use to connect. Who analytics easily If you haven't yet already you can watch this video here. Or there's a step-by-step the folks at MonsterInsights And that is our sister So I'm going to show you and I already have Google I'm going to show you the to MonsterInsights, to If you don't already see it, if you set it up how I did, you can go to plugins, add you'll want to search for 2200 reviews and almost that So we have this mustard So we'll click on this. I'm gonna go to We want to just click on the just let it take us through We ask you just a few it easier to set it up. So if you're an e-commerce who be a blog or a publisher sites, and continue that we need to we'll go out and authenticate with Google analytics. From here, just choose the analytics is connected to. And now you want to pick If you don't have a dropdown, that'll be the one that you'll So it will finalize So now they'll give you We'll keep all of the And then let's go ahead These are a few more If you're doing anything like want to do more page insights If you're connecting there's a few more add We're going to And you notice that it's saying, Just know that if, if this is just set up, Google analytics to start, start seeing the data. So we're going to say And now, because I've already go to reports and I can show So right out of the box, you Sessions. That's how many people Page views is how many pages throughout their sessions. Then you have the So how long have they You all can see the, you can This means how quickly did just, they looked at one page clicking through to others. And then you can also see So, you know, with this of the people on desktop. So I want to make sure that desktop use, but most people And so you'd want to focus returning visitors countries. Top refers. So are people talking about sending traffic to you, you pages and most popular posts. So that's really helpful handy write more content about that? And then if you upgrade to other things like their top so much more, but knowing what site is doing is really key for So now we have that set up. We can move on. Now as we're going through our website, we kind of want to We want to share it with people up, but it's not quite ready. So the best way to handle that like a coming soon page, and called see prod, see part isn't it is perfect to get started. They also do amazing things like You can also do other things If you're doing a webinars, it but we're going to quickly You can use the free you just go to plugins. Add new answered for SeedProd. Like we've been doing, I'm to show you all the features And if it's something that can go to C pro.com and WPBVIP, and you'll get the So once you create an account, going to download the landing Also want to copy my let's head back over. And instead of searching, plugin and you can either If you have it down here, then it up, and now let's install it. And we'll activate I'm going to paste in my copied and we can verify it. And we say, we have Now we can create our first Two pages, but we're up a coming soon page. And now I want to filter These are all the pages, you can choose from, you favorite your templates. So you can come back to I want to use this one. You can either preview go ahead and pick it. So click on the checkmark, and we can go in and make absolutely For instance, we can So I'm going to change this out in here and do our white one. Perfect. We need to say, get ready. Anything that you want to do and make any adjustments and Let's actually remove that to add a certain block. So scrolling down, you So maybe we want to start So I'm going to put that can make adjustments, want to And now let's just say we don't We just want to see the email We want to change the cool is you can make this And then that's cool. And then you can also change the Yellow seems to stand out. If you wanted to, you can, colors that you want to use, If you want to just use what and then they will take on the You did also come up It will give you different You can do that as well. So we've added an opt-in. You can also scroll down, we get, get ready, click on this. And we can say basically, So we're. Saying, it's going to come soon. When you click on that, it how, what the countdown will be. So that's a nice and can set up for right now. Can you see down here, if can either undo or redo. You also have the mobile see what this looks So maybe this is a We can actually come down here So that looks better on mobile You also have some fonts and the color scheme that change the color palette. And from here you can under also change the background remove it all together. And then again, if you don't So this is just a great coming while you're setting everything So once we're done with And we can come under here and out and we'll, we can exit this you also need to make sure you mode and toggle this to active. Once that goes active. Then you see a banner up here. It says coming soon is active. And what that means is anybody address, who's not logged in. We'll see that coming soon get everything ready while changes to the backend. The next thing you want This is the logo that they've you can create your own. So let's do that next. We can come up here in they'll tell you the. Suggested dimensions So when I click on that and icon and I click on the it says, suggested image So we're going to create to create a new logo. One of the easiest is to simply go to canva.com and We want to do a custom size, And the dimensions were Yours will be different, by 60 and let's create This is the area that the left are elements. And these are all the we can choose from. So say, I want to These are all the ones Some of them might be pros. So you might want to make over it, it says free. You can also come up here and free ones, apply the filter I want a really simple And the previous logo I want this to be simpler to put the mountains. So I want to make this as big So I'm just going to To make it as large as possible. You can center it. And then when it centered, you and that looks pretty good, So I want to click on this area and change the color. So now you can't see it, So now we can download this, background so that the background won't show. And now we can download it. Save it to your desktop. And then we can go back to appearance, customize, on the little pencil and And then we can go to file alt text, choose the image. And now that looks pretty good. So simplified it. I like that. That's how I want it. We want to also want to make make that go live on our site. One of the files I want to add your blog posts. So if you go back to your all posts, this is where This is the default When you install WordPress, add new, and then you can go Now you are using a This is called the If you want to learn a little sure you watch this video next, Step-by-step on how to use to really speed up your And thanks for watching.