Today, we're going to learn how to make a I am in Microsoft Excel. If you'd like to follow below in the description. Before we can make a You'll need to make sure that your data is in a you need columns with a header up on top and I also recommend turning your data into a but if you plan on adding additional easier to refresh your pivot table. To insert and here we see the option for table. Click on your data. Here my table has headers, then let's we're now all ready to insert a pivot table. all the way over on the left-hand side, we see and here it's now identified the table we can insert as a new worksheet or an existing. on okay. This now drops us into a brand-new see that we have a new pane that appears called we have this area that's called pivot table. We thing to note, if you click outside of the pivot it to reappear, simply click into the pivot table we have all the different pivot table fields, the the sales amount, and the quantity sold. with the column headers on the previous worksheet. they align exactly with all these different pivot here at the Kevin Cookie Company generated the really easy to answer. Right here, I have a field that and I could drag it down to this area down on the left-hand side, you'll see that all the people from the sales team. Next, I want to know field called sales amount, or this is basically I want to know the total amount of revenue you take a field and you bring it down to this the left-hand side, we can now see who generated $14,000 generated. This shows me the sum of sales also summarize the data in different ways. Here to summarize values by. By default, its sets to average, a max, a min, or product. So, let's try order size for Alice. It looks like her largest click on that again. Let's go to summarize values the total or the aggregate of all of her revenue the highest sales to the lowest sales, but I can and right here we have the option to sort. So, I like Diana only had about 11,000, although to be I can right click again, go to sort and we can Alice on top. Along with knowing how much revenue what region those sales originated from. Over on have another field for region. Now I can view this let's first try bringing it over to columns. Here you'll notice that it's now added columns with I could see how much revenue she generated in each I may like this view, but maybe I want to try a and I could place it in rows under salesperson. on the left-hand side adjusted. Now I have all look over here, we have the salesperson as the top just like we see it over here, this view on the like to see the region on top of the salesperson. above the salesperson and now we see the region thought, I don't know if I need the region and easy to remove a field. I'll press on region and I that removes it and that brings us back to the data in all sorts of different ways, whatever way was generated just for chocolate chip cookies. there's a field for product. I'll take this and over on the left-hand side, there's now a filter here I can see all the different products we on chocolate chip. Down at the bottom, you can so I'll select this and then click on okay. And chip cookies. And it looks like actually Eve I'll click here and I can return it to all and total revenue. To remove the filter, over here, and release and that removes that filter. Over see how much revenue they generated, but what revenue that each salesperson generated. To pull here I have sales amount and I'll press on this second column with the sum. And right now, I this data differently. I'll click into this column down here, there's the option to show values to show my data. Now I want to know the percent option for percent of column total. I'll click it looks like Alice drove about a quarter of our I have these column headers and it doesn't really 2. Luckily, it's really easy to rename these. type in percent of total revenue and there that adjust the look and feel of the pivot table. Up here we could adjust the coloring. You could also below you'll notice that we have a grand total totals and I could turn that off or I could also sometimes it's easier to visualize the data as a over here you could insert any type of chart. So one right here and this is now tied to my pivot these fields. Say I remove this and remove that. Let me pull the sales amount back in and there it neat things that you can do, you can also add pivot chart analyze, there's the option to insert select what I want to slice my data on. Let's say then click on okay. This now adds a slicer for total revenue for Los Angeles. Here, I'll click updates based on that region. Over here, I could for all the different regions. One thing to call your pivot table, it won't automatically update. when you click in, up on top, let's click into you have the option to refresh. So, as you add and that'll update the view that you see here. All to analyze your data. If this video helped