This is how a small airplane works taking as an example, of all time, the Cessna 172. Welcome to JOYPLANES. A standard airplane is composed of the fuselage the wings, the empennage, the landing gear and the power plant. But there are a lot more components Let's start with the internal structure The skeleton that underpins The fuselage structure is made out longerons and stringers. The main landing gear requires to withstand the forces If we look inside, which provide spars running through the entire length and stringers to support The key point here is very specific to preserve the flight and to produce lift efficiently and The entire structure is covered with aluminum sheets This outer skin will further increase This is called the airframe, the entire structure, The green color (sometimes yellow) comes from a primer layer It is applied to prevent corrosion older models might not have the original aluminum and metallic look. This particular aircraft has wing struts to reinforce the joint It attaches from the main spar because this aircraft has a high wing and headroom space in the cockpit the full main spars and instead there are a couple of spar that join the two wings together. Of course, these channels that's when the wing struts come into play on the exterior of the airframe we'll see the static wicks attached to the sharpest points of the aircraft, They discharge accumulated static while in flight. Without them, they static other sharp extremities like the antennas, causing radio interference. Power Plant. The power plant includes the engine, propeller and other components. Different Cessna 172 models all of them very similar in this model a four cylinder that produces up to 225 horsepower. The engine not only rotates the propeller it also move a vacuum pump to And we can also use the heat produced to keep a comfortable temperature This is also a four stroke engine, which means that each piston completes combustion and exhaust every two revolutions. At any given time each of the cylinders meaning that there is always one cylinder providing continuous power. The propeller is attached so that the power is directly transmitted without any gear reduction. This is also known as direct drive. The propeller in It doesn't require as much maintenance, Like in many aviation engines, this engine is cooled by air taking air from the openings and redirecting it through the heat-dissipating or fins. Of course, the engine needs fuel to work and there are two different systems carburetor and fuel injection systems. The Lycoming io-360 uses fuel injection, which is a more modern system The carburettor in the other hand, can but it's an older system and relies The goal of both systems is to provide during the intake stroke. The carburettor mixes the fuel and air The amount of fuel that enters that is passing through it. Thanks to the Venturi Effect, a lower pressure that sucks the fuel The fuel injection system It uses more components and relies It also needs to maintain fuel It constantly monitors setting to calculate that has to be injected The injectors are located at the cylinder until it is injected into the cylinder, each cylinder has two spark plugs, it uses two for efficient combustion The spark plugs generate a quick electric There are two magnetos thanks to the engine. These magnetos are independent This is so that in case of an electric The engine is mounted on a metal frame with some elastomeric mounts This assembly fuel system. The Cessna 172 has a fuel tank on each wing. Each tank can store up to 28 gallons But only 53 gallons or 200 liters The fuel used in grade aviation, which is blue in color. 100 grade can also be used, in which case it's to refuel the aircraft First, the operator must connect The connection can be made at the exhaust and then the available steps of the wings for refueling. The fuel is distributed from the tanks that lead to a fuel selector With this which we can choose the left tank or the right tank. This can be used to balance the aircraft if there is one tank there is a small fuel reservoir to catch the fuel from a return line An electric auxiliary fuel pump is used Then the fuel goes through a filter And finally, during normal operation. The fuel tanks have a small a pathway for the outside with the pressure inside the tanks. During flight, the incoming air will create a passive pressure Excess fuel can also drip from this vent. Control surfaces. The control surfaces are used to maneuver The primary control surfaces are the ailerons, the elevator and the rudder. The secondary control Some aircraft will have more than one type But in most smaller planes, Let's go over the control One by one, the ailerons are on the wings. They control the role of the airplane. When an aileron moves in one direction, This generates more lift on one wing and a down Rolling the aircraft The ailerons are controlled by wires where they yokes are also connected, which, similar ailerons and in turn the airplane This control The elevator is attached to the horizontal stabilizer Like the ailerons, The elevator uses to be controlled from the yokes. The wires run all the way linked to the elevator. This is what controls the pitch attitude of the plane to go up or down. To control it, you push up all the yoke. If you push on it, that will lower And if you pull on it, This control moves the aircraft around its lateral axis. The elevator has an extra control fine tune the elevator and it counteracts the force push or pull to maintain During takeoff it must be centered or as the It is controlled with a vertical wheel The rudder is controlled with the pedals This motion is called &quot;Yaw&quot; the yaw rotation happens It is very important to maintain especially during turns during flight the airplane uses all three control if needed and to do any of the maneuvers, For example, to turn left, the ailerons At the same time, the pilot has to apply to compensate for adverse yaw, On top of that, the pilot must begin to make the airplane turn, The flaps are used to slow down and generate more lift at lower speeds. They effectively increase These devices are mostly used during They can be controlled from the cockpit with a lever switch Flaps can only go down as opposed to the ailerons They can lower in steps of 10, 20 Flaps can only be used Exceeding the recommended speed for safe the structural integrity of the flap The safe speed at which the flaps configurations or in the airspeed indicator It's important to note more efficiently about certain speed. At lower speeds, Furthermore, at very low speeds, the airplane can enter a stall. Landing gear. This aircraft has a tricycle type and it is fixed, meaning that the pilot won't have to worry about it This simplifies the construction The downside to this is the added parasite which cumulatively will make the airplane to minimize the parasite drag. The wheels can have aerodynamic pants also have a streamlined shape. But some owners will remove the wheel pants The drag difference but the use of wheel pants The front wheel is controlled The pedals mechanism is connected The wheel also has a shock absorber and another dampener on the side to avoid oscillations on its vertical axis The back wheels have brakes that can be actuated This can help control the direction slow down after landing. Notice and braking is different before I just wanted to mention how challenging This video took a lot of research, I even learned some math and python code for the creation Something that help me with these challenges was learning some math The sponsor of this video, Brilliant is a learning platform Their first principles approach helps you Each lesson is filled with hands on problem solving that lets to be six times more effective Plus, all content are brilliant. That is crafted by an award and professionals from MIT, Caltech, Duke, I love how you can interact to really understand You have thousands of lessons your learning path and develop You can take a lesson of a few minutes If you want. My favorite courses are about programing learning anything related to math Brilliant helps you build your critical not memorizing. To try everything brilliant has to offer Brilliant.org/Joyplanes You'll also get a 20% off Now let's continue with the cockpit. The cockpit area is where you as a pilot The pilot seats on the left front seat. There is also an area This plane allows to carry up on the fuel and additional baggage loaded The maximum takeoff or 1157 kilograms. You can only take any useful load of 878 lb or 398 kilograms. The cockpit is also where you'll find all the instruments In the instrument panel and the multifunction display. This plane is equipped Garmin G 1000 older aircraft will have gauges but they all accomplish the same task. Here's where the pilot finds airspeed, altitude and engine gauges, This information is the primary reference One of the advantages is that it can be configured you need in a convenient manner. The PFD shows their airspeed, heading radio frequencies, vertical speed While the MFD will display the engine's cylinders temperature and of course, available fuel and other On the big area you can display the current at the bottom there are three analog gauges Should both of the screens fail in mid-flight These are the airspeed indicator, With these, the pilots should have enough and make an emergency landing safely. The airspeed is gathered called the &quot;Pitot Tube&quot;, the pitot tube and is redirected and the analog gauge If the plane is flying in icy conditions, is activated to keep the pitot Reading The altimeter and vertical speed from the static pressure port If this fails, for some reason, a switch can open the valve Since the cockpit is not pressurized, to the outside. The attitude indicator will show the bank in real time. The digital version an IMU internal measuring unit. But we still have the analog gyroscope which is rotated that will keep the instrument working, the instrument displays a red mark Side slip is also indicated in the PFD with a little trapezoidal shape It indicates when the airplane If it's not intentional by the pilot, It can be more pronounced The old analog version of their side slip At the top, it is common to find On the bottom left, auxiliary fuel pump, At the bottom, Next to them is the ignition The airplane always operates in In the center we have the main throttle and next to This makes the fuel mixture depending on the altitude or air pressure. The pilot will adjust the mixture control The flap switch has the advised safe When the flaps are deployed at hundred and ten knots or slower and at 85 knots or less to extend them To the right, we can see two knobs airflow inside the cabin. Down below, we see a fuel shut of valve in case of any fire, And again, we see the fuel selector switch which we have shown already. Lights and electric system. As we saw in the panel the lights can be switched on and off Other electric systems When the engine is not running, An external power unit To get the engine running This device will start rotating it draws a massive amount of current Such power is required Once the engine starts to produce its own then the starter will retract while the engine is running the alternator will provide the power to the aircraft The aircraft's visibility is paramount, especially during the night. That's why this aircraft is equipped The beacon lights can be found It's a red flashing light and it's turned on to alert the ground and it can be switched off The strobe lights, also known as lights that improve the visibility It warn another pilot in the area they can be located at the wingtips The navigation lights, also known that show the position and direction on the left wingtip there is a red light on the right wingtip there is a green light. And at the back there is a white light this setup can be achieved But the law requires The landing and taxi lights in this model are located in the They're used to illuminate and landing and during taxi on the ground. Although I tried to cover about the Cessna 172 in this video, I haven't mentioned much of what airplane is thanks to Pilot Institute With their free you can start learning aviation right Pilot Institute has collaborated They have provided in-depth knowledge I've also personally helped Pilot experience called Pre Flight Simulator, with these machines You can check and see all the main components In there you will see the Cessna 172, It is available for free As I said, they have collaborated So they are not technically sponsoring these guys are the go to choice And if you plan to start your pilot all of the relevant links to Pilot I hope you have enjoyed this video. Feel free to leave any of your comments suggestions for future videos