(audience cheering) - I was talking to a friend and she said, &quot;Oh my God, you're going to South by Southwest, are you going to hang out And I was like, &quot;Better.&quot; Better! I'm going to hang out the teachers, for sure. So I'm happy to be here, I am going to just tell you this, I spoke at South by Southwest I'm like coming over here, So on the way here, I got pulled over and I I had no proof of insurance and the guy goes, &quot;Geez, I I said, &quot;I'm going to give a And he said &quot;About what?&quot; I said, &quot;Failure.&quot; (audience laughing) So this morning I rode here and we're going back 'cause we lived down the road, and I was like, &quot;Oh my God.&quot; And she said, &quot;What?&quot; And I said, &quot;I'm going to There's a chance we're going because this conference may I am going to talk about daring classrooms and what I believe So we're going to start here. So I am sitting on about that I've collected over the last 15 years and one of the questions I've had from the beginning of my is courage the willing even when we can't control the outcome? Is courage something that's inherent in us or is it something that we can teach and develop in people and ourselves? And so as both a social this is my 21st year in the classroom. Yeah, I am very quick to call bullshit when someone says you I always, my first question was, oh, we can't really teach empathy, you have it or you don't, you can't teach courage, you I'm like, let me talk to a because to me it's questionable. So what I've learned in is you can absolutely teach courage. You can develop it in yourself and you can develop it in others. And it basically boils vulnerability, clarity of values, trust, and what I call rising skills. The ability to get back up when we fall, when we experience setbacks and failures. It's interesting because I or resilience was going but as it turns out, the most courageous men over the past 15 years talk about their courage because they know how to get back up when they inevitably fall. And one of the things that's true is that if you're brave enough It's not a question if you might fall, you will, by definition, if you're brave, in your classrooms, in your life, with your partners, with your kids, with the people you care about, if you're brave, you're going to get hurt. I mean, the brokenhearted because they had the courage to love. Right? And so we have to learn So here's what I want to I'm going to talk to you a I told him I was like, I need seven hours. I just need to be with my What I'm actually to is the number one thing of developing courage and We're going to start with vulnerability and then I'm going to And I'm going to tell you why I decided to talk about shame today. Because I feel really comfortable with you and I think you're a and I don't think we can pretend that this is not getting in the way. I don't think we can say this this is not happening in the environment we live in right now. This is part of the landscape and it's become worse and so I want to talk about it. But let's start with vulnerability and let's start with the the willingness to really How many of you were raised to believe that vulnerability is weakness? Most of us. Here's what I can tell you, and I'll challenge you, yell up if you can think of something. I can not find in 200,000 pieces of data a single example of courage that was not completely Let me challenge you. Can you think of one courageous thing that you have seen someone do in your life that did not require vulnerability, that did not require uncertainty, risk, and emotional exposure? One thing. I cannot, I find zero evidence. And let me tell you, I've stood in front of a group like this of special force military people, they can't think of a single example of courage that did not But we hate vulnerability because it opens us up to being hurt. And we think I don't want to be vulnerable because vulnerability, here's is the center of shame and scarcity and fear and anxiety and So I am going to armor I'm not going to let people hurt me, see me, take advantage of me. The problem is that when not only is vulnerability certainly the center of these experiences, it's also the center of these, love and belonging and joy, no vulnerability, no love, What do you think is the we experience? What's the hardest emotion Joy. How many of you are parents? How many of you have ever while they're sleeping and thought, &quot;Oh my God, I love you like And then in that split second, pictured something horrific How many have you done that? It should be 95% of you. And just, I mean, this is Many years ago, when I first was studying this this fear we have about being joyful, I was on date night with and I see the lights still I'm like circle the block circle the block. So we go, we get some like we come back, everyone's tucked in, I'm like, okay, this is awesome, let's go. And I remember we parked our and we're walking in and the song on the radio it was like one of my favorite songs, Little River Band, (indistinct). Friday night, it was late, We got down to the gate and And I remember like, &quot;Oh my And we were holding And he's like, &quot;What's wrong?&quot; And I was like, &quot;Do you ever think, like, someone's going to jump and shoot us down?&quot; And he's like, &quot;No, did you see somebody?&quot; And I said, &quot;No, I'm like when things are going really well, you're waiting for like that to happen.&quot; Yes or no? - [Audience] Yes. - And he's like, &quot;No.&quot; And I was like, &quot;Yeah, because I would hope the babysitter so the kids didn't find us.&quot; And he's like, &quot;Oh my God, Brene.&quot; No. And I'm serious. And I don't even think I should put like a whole, if we get killed in the front yard, like something so they know to call my mom and keep the kids in the house. And he's like, he goes, &quot;I'm I'm like, &quot;Oh, hell I'm like, &quot;We gotta come But am I alone in this? - [Audience] No. - Right. 'Cause joy is so, and I'll What was the one variable men and women who had the capacity to What was the one variable This should be a pedagogy of itself. What is the one variable that people who can really It is part of vulnerability, but it's actually a practice: gratitude. The only variable that really who can not lean into joy, who start dress rehearsing tragedy, and the reason we dress rehearse tragedy is so we can beat So what we do is like, &quot;Oh, I'm going to start picturing so that when I get hurt and it happens, I'm all prepared for it.&quot; Right? But how many of you think we You can not. 50% of the people in this room have probably experienced the and they could come up here you can practice that all you want, that will do nothing to help The only thing you're doing is squandering the joy that you need that builds a reservoir for So as it turns out, our bodies really as vulnerability and And so some of us use the to start thinking about terrible things. And others use that quiver to stop on the sidewalk &quot;I'm really grateful for this date night. I'm grateful for you. I'm But that's harder, right, than to go, have you So love, belonging and joy, But also these things, courage, empathy, trust, no vulnerability, no My favorite call that I get, &quot;Hey Brene, would you like to come speak to our brand new startup It's amazing and we loved your TED Talk and we're bringing in thought leaders and we want to shape our culture.&quot; And &quot;Okay, great, that sounds fun, what do you want me to talk about?&quot; &quot;Anything but vulnerability and shame.&quot; (audience laughing) I got nothing. No vulnerability, no Accountability, adaptability I mean, this is an easy question, how many of you think where you work, your school, your how many of you think where if people had a stronger skillset about having real honest, Yes or no? (audience applauding) Yeah, everybody. We dodge those and they Feedback, problem solving, all require vulnerability. They all require one I'm in Canary Wharf in London talking to 150 hedge fund They're required to attend. It was like Brooks Brothers and I'm uncomfortable because I'm like, &quot;Wow, these people look hostile.&quot; All men, all white and And so I only get like five minutes in before someone's like, &quot;Excuse me, we don't know why you're here. We're bankers, we're we don't do vulnerability.&quot; And I'm thinking to myself, &quot;I don't know why I'm here either, I haven't even ridden the London Eye, there's so many things I want to do. I'm not sure either.&quot; I said, &quot;Why am I here actually? What are you up against right now?&quot; And they're like, &quot;We're a high Our biggest problem right now (audience laughing) Hmm. How many of you in this room right now have ever tried to make in the face of a group You will piss off some people. Yes or no? There's probably nothing more vulnerable than standing up in front that you respect, that you that you feel a sense of &quot;This is not the right thing to do.&quot; So vulnerability is the birthplace of everything we want The problem is that we end up here. Instead of having an open-heart, we end up with a closed heart, we end up with a protected heart for a lot of different reasons. Some of them are environmental. Let me tell you this, for sure, the greatest casualty of The worst thing we lose in And let's be very clear about Racism is trauma. Poverty is trauma. Classism, trauma, homophobia, And so the biggest casualty of that is I can't be vulnerable. Well, when vulnerability, the ability to really be who we are, becomes a realm of only the privileged, we have lost our capacity a home, and a country that we love. (audience applauding) So there are those of us who will fight the big but in no way can we give You can make your classroom and to some degree, if you have a collective a whole school, but you can and I have seen you can create a culture of that can be the only space a child has, or an adult, even in a college classroom, I only teach graduate You can create a space in that classroom if you're willing to be and vulnerable that may be the only to take the armor off his or her heart. But the one thing that will kill it faster than anything else, the one betrayal of That can not happen in that classroom. And here's what you need to know before we start talking about shame, 85% of the men and women I've interviewed over the last 15 years can remember a shaming incident at school that was so devastating it forever changed how they thought of So let's do this, raise your hand if you're in here and you can think about something that happened to you in school that changed how you thought of yourself? Right, because here's the other statistic. Over 90% of the men and can remember a specific who made them believe in their self-worth when no one else did. How many of you remember or that administrator? So what does that mean? So the question teachers always say, &quot;Well, does that mean like they or what's happening?&quot; What it means, and let me tell you, you can be the same person. What it means is do not ever with the people you teach. Learning is inherently vulnerable. And it's like you've got a classroom full of turtles without shells. And the minute they put the shell back on, they're protected from their peers or from the teacher or from whomever, but no learning can come in because no vulnerability, no learning. So we have to really find a way to develop shame-resilient Like, here's what we the only people who don't experience shame are people who have no capacity We all know shame, That warm thing that washes over you, that makes you feel small And as long as we have a shame will always be a because shame is the that there's something about us that makes us unworthy For children, especially in lower school, probably through about fifth grade, shame is literally the Shame is actually experienced as trauma because when you are not on safety and nurturing and you're not lovable, then that's a threat to So if teachers, and let me let me tell you exactly how it goes. Parents, teachers, clergy, peers. Because one of the things is a power differential. So that's why we can and we can heal the most wounds. So I want to make sure we all So we're going to go through these. Let me put them all up. We're going to go through these four because they're radically We use these words interchangeably and they are completely different, and one of the four that the most resilient men is they know the difference and they use the right word So shame, shame is a focus on self, shame is I am bad. There's something The one we confuse it Guilt is I did something bad. Shame is a focus on self, guilt is a focus on behavior. I hand out papers and John gets his paper back and says, &quot;Oh my God, I'm so stupid. I'm such an idiot, I'm so stupid. I'm so stupid for not studying.&quot; Shame or guilt? Shame. The focus is on him. So what about if John gets the paper back and he reads it and he says, &quot;God, not studying was Guilt. One's a focus on self, You look at a kid and you That was a stupid choice.&quot; Guilt or shame? Guilt. So let me ask you, let me give you a visceral understanding of why this is different. How many of you in here, how many of you could &quot;I'm sorry, I made a mistake.&quot; How many of you could do that? I could do that with y'all. Shame, I'm sorry, I am a mistake. That's the difference Is it semantics, no, it's not semantics. Let me tell you why. Shame is highly correlated bullying, violence, eating And here's the big piece Guilt is inversely correlated meaning the higher the the less likely it is for a child to experience those outcomes. As it turns out, many researchers argue that guilt is actually a protective factor against things like addiction. That's shocking, right? And it's not just semantics. How many of you have just the way someone looks at you? So you can't feel shame towards someone, but use the right vocabulary But it's a focus on behavior. First longitudinal study they took a cohort of kids in fifth grade, measured whether they were meaning do they use shame Followed them up as shame-prone kids more likely and engage in high risk Guilt-prone kids more likely apply for college, complete community and engage in lower-risk sex and alcohol behaviors and drugs. It is a huge difference Does it make sense to y'all so far? Okay. Then you have humiliation. So this happened in a a teacher hands back papers. Everyone has a paper, right? Who didn't get a paper back? Who didn't get a paper back? Sally, you didn't get a paper back, how many of you are surprised that Sally did not get her paper back? Wait, keeps going. Sally, how many times have I asked you to put your name on your paper? Let me write it for you, S-T-U-P-I-D. I'm observing in the classroom But wait. So let me tell you Sally's experience is this, if Sally self-talk is that most rotten teacher ever, awesome. Okay, because that is humiliation. Let me tell you the difference between shame and humiliation. Shame is I deserve what just happened, humiliation is I did not The only thing that really is the variable of deserving. So if Sally is saying, &quot;Oh my God, you're the and I did not deserve that,&quot; awesome. If Sally's self-talk is, &quot;I'm Why did I do that?&quot; Here's the danger and here's why humiliation Because as a primary as someone Sally trusts, she will not tell me if she because there's no news. What is she going to convey? I got called stupid, I'm stupid. But if she experiences it as humiliation, she's a little pissed off. I'll never forget, oh my God, my daughter was a kindergartner and her teacher called me and she said, &quot;I always was kind of now I'm clear.&quot; And I was like, &quot;Oh God, why?&quot; And she said, &quot;Because Ellen was in the And I said, &quot;Woo, Ellen, you're messy.&quot; And she sat straight up and she said, &quot;I may be making a mess, (audience laughing) I was like, &quot;Oh my God, I've would that spread like yes or no? Yeah, they're like, Make sure you add a lot of stuff in there when you're like, yeah. But that's what we told our kids. Like, look, if you burn down the school, there are going to be some consequences. But no matter what happens, not at school, not in this Steve and I try not, you And between siblings, let me tell you the biggest probably in my research life adult siblings who have a who were cruel to each other because you know how siblings work, right? I can shame you because I know all this I know about the acne and and I know everything. Parents who do not intervene &quot;That will not happen in this house. You will not talk to each other that way.&quot; If Charlie, my son's doing &quot;God, I'm so dumb.&quot; No, no name calling. I didn't call Ellen a name, you called yourself a How else does shame show up in classrooms and in schools and in organizations? I mean, I do most of my work How does it show up there? Same way in classrooms, And these are adults. But that's how it shows up. The last of what we call is embarrassment. Fleeting, often funny after it happens, but the hallmark of embarrassment is when we do something embarrassing we know that we're not the Does that make sense? When you're in shame, let me tell you how shame works. Shame cannot survive being spoken. If something shaming happens to me and I can call my sister &quot;Oh my God, this was I'm going to shame shit storm right now, let me tell you what just happened.&quot; It can't hold on. Shame cannot survive being spoken because shame requires you in order for it to maintain its power. Does that make sense? It's about speaking truth to shame. It's about saying, this is what happened, I feel completely alone and like this makes me a bad person. There are three ways we and I want you to think about yourself, but I also want you to because this is something the first day of school. I draw these shields and I say, here are the shame shields. You feel shame. You feel not enough. You feel unworthy. You're going to pick up one of these. You're going to move away, What is moving away? Some of us, when we feel we hide, we get quiet. We just want to disappear. How many of you move away Like I just want to disappear. Some of us move toward. Some of us people please our way out of that emotional corner. Oh, you're so awesome, I'm really sorry. I know I suck, I'm really, you know, we people please our way out. How many of you do that? I do all of them, sadly. And then there's moving against, which is my favorite shield And that is using shame and You want to dance? We'll dance. You want to do this? We'll do this. We'll totally do this. And I will emotionally annihilate you. And in the process, my self-worth and my authenticity because I will walk away thinking, &quot;Oh my God, who was unleashed in there?&quot; But let me ask you this, you hand a project back. How many of you thinking can literally see kids How many of them pull their My daughter wore a hoodie we live in Houston, it's And finally, at some point I She's like, &quot;No, ma'am, this is my invisibility I was like, &quot;What do you mean?&quot; And she goes, &quot;If I put my hands in here, you can't even see me.&quot; It's like, &quot;Oh, I get it.&quot; I would have totally worn Move toward, the people pleasers, and then the people who rail against. Screw this class, which is an asshole, I hate this whole thing. Yes or no? This is not mystical information, share this with your students. Take a picture of this and put it up on your class and just say, &quot;Hey, when we feel bad about ourselves, when we go into shame, these The problem is when you're holding this, you can't learn and I can't see you. So let's talk about putting these down.&quot; This is the conversation. What is the antidote to shame? Is empathy. If you put shame in a Petri dish and you douse it with three things, it will grow exponentially into every corner and crevice Shame only needs three secrecy, silence and judgment. You put that on top of But if you put the same amount and you douse it with empathy, you have created an Shame cannot survive, because empathy is what? Empathy is me too. And if you don't think you're alone, you can't stay in shame. This is my favorite work on empathy, it's Theresa Wiseman's work is perspective taking, it's staying out of judgment, recognizing emotion and communicating it and staying mindful. And I'm going to end with the whiter, straighter, middle-class you are, the I mean, that's me too, but you know why? 'Cause we weren't raised We weren't raised with &quot;Hey, where are the Because all the folks Like my parents did not point that out. And so when we talk that is about taking the and that's where we have to what did this mean for you? What was this like for you? And our answer, you know the number one exacerbator of shame in conversation? Empathic failure. When a child says to you or I'm in shame about this &quot;No, it's good, it's not That's empathic failure. Tell me why this was so painful. Tell me why this was so painful. Well it was painful because in my family, when you say this, people believe this. This is where we have Let me look at my time, it says zero. What if I just assumed that (audience cheering) I just love, you know why, I'm going to tell you and I'll say this, I know this is going to be recorded and I'll get emails about People ask me all the time, like what's your goal in your life? I was like to make the If you had one opportunity, what would be the most effective I said, if I could get in the world and we could about shame, about because I think the revolution it will be in your classrooms. That is where this will happen. 100%. You are working on the And my invitation to you is there's a lot of hate Yes or no? - [Audience] Yes. - My invitation to myself as well 'cause I'm not good at this right now is every time you hear something hateful or someone's talking about hate, try to switch out the word for pain. Try to think about pain. This is only going to change with you. I wouldn't pull parents in to do this, I would pull teachers because And I'll just stop now and and thank you from the bottom of my heart for waking up every day and making the choice to It makes a bigger difference So thank y'all. (audience applauding)