At the end of the 15th century, 2 navigators Lost at the crossroads of the equator the archipelago of Sao Tome and Principe, appears This territory bathes in the hollow of For centuries, this piece of of the slave trade, On immense plantations, the empire sugar cane, then Portuguese settlers left Sao Tome The elegant farm buildings They bend under the weight of the past, When we dive between their walls Their bucolic names contrast with their New destiny, Saudade. Hundreds of families We went to meet them between this cumbersome inheritance and a During the colonial era, the Portuguese The Santomean slaves over time and have made it into an art - I offer you all my respect, my friend. - And I present to you - I came to invite you hunting. - NOW. This piece begins with a The murderer is rich, It symbolizes the master The victim, Behind these carnival tunes, a long plea for justice This show tells us the story of a people who exceed Today emancipated from the Portuguese yoke, to heal the wounds of colonization &quot;The pain of a slave mother sold to a Fazenda the father's pain was so strong apart from kneeling and asking - My name is Highlander. I am 27 years old and I live in Boa Entrada. It is here, in this Roca, I have lived there for 5 years now, See children who want to learn When one of them comes I can't refuse him, I learned everything with my that to be a good coach, you must This was the house where they lived long time ago. Over time, people here started so as not to leave them abandoned. - We must put education above all else, respect your father and mother at home, it's all part of Capoeira serves to educate. It is unimaginable that a student would come It is not possible. For the whole future. Only God knows him. Everything I want to do, I do it for Whatever happens, I leave it to God. - My name is Ray Lopez, My father is a mototaxi I like to listen to My capoeira name is Selvagem. My teacher gave me this nickname, than another Brazilian student who bears this name. My favorite move is the Rastaradupla. You have to close your feet before I would like to travel The Rocas are large plantations and houses built They aimed for self-sufficiency real communities. The elegant houses of unoccupied since independence in 1975, these narrow and aligned buildings This is where Ray lives with his family. - You have to go to school. Sao Tome and Principe is learning to build itself, The country is a Young State, near the These children of peasants or leave their Roca, at midday, The island's school enrollment rate reached - I am better - You, are you better than me at what? In capoeira, it's true, - What do you know about Slavery, is Is this a word whose meaning you understand? - It was very hard work and in return, They were always hungry, they were whippings. - Let's continue, let's go again You know that there were different Rosa Boaentrada, Rosa Bellavista. But what is a Rosa? - La Rosa was what the Portuguese, used to rotate and coffee plantations. - The Rosas were the places where But what were these plantations like? Due to its geographical location, made Sao Tome a The black man exploited in the sugar cane, The model will be reproduced Until the 19th century, during on the global slave trade, relies on the trade in captives. These decades will mark Once slavery was abolished in 1876, the Empire needs new arms Contracted workers come to now cultivate These servants, as they are called, in conditions of extreme labor. The system is so effective that at the beginning becomes the first exporter This is the bitterness that hides But the international community and Portugal must be held accountable. To restore its image, churches and especially hospitals. Unimaginable structures which will work until Since then, they have suffered and nature seems to take - The path of the train passed This is the private road of Rosa Boaentrada. - The wealth of the poor of Sao When people want to eat cocoa, Or, when it is people come, they cut It is our wealth like a rough diamond. - I am Luiz Mario-Meden, I was born in 1961. My childhood, Before, it was the time of the Portuguese And I was still quite young. So my childhood was of a certain I say sad, because at that time, we were children of immigrants We lived in a Roca, There was a contrast with the boss who We were a large family. My parents slept in a big bed, My parents arrived in And he never knew how to tell me He never knew who his mother was. He could never say what brought him here. Many Cape Verdeans who fled the replaced the slaves Most never returned. - La Roca was structured. large companies and more At one point there was Local labor. So for many Rocas, we brought some from Cape Verde, The Rocas were The seat where and the entire management system There were outbuildings, which were the smallest with around 300 workers, And a different foreman These Rocas produced cocoa and coffee, which was then transferred to dried and finally exported. I am the executive director of a Everyone in the universe Little, I came, to be in contact and I asked lots of questions. These little wagons bring the cocoa I played here, I knew People worked a lot To take care of the oven, They were just working. they were close to the farm. I knew a lady who lived She worked in the boss's house, she was so sad to see everything And she decided not to It is normal that we Somehow, but they gave their blood for And we let it deteriorate. The Santomeans left behind and today try But they need time, remain in the rehash, &quot;All the workers, without work, there is no production. Without production, there is no food. How could we survive? Go pioneer... Forward... Education can also help produce. - How many kilos do you plan to pick up? I think I can weigh up to 500 kilos. - Yes, minimum 500. - It's even possible that I exceed 500 The first day I picked up very little, on the second day I and today I still have - That means that today Right now, we're one of the biggest I coordinate the team The technician must learn to For example, we must pick You should not pick green coffee because - The conditions of people who work As my friends at the time began and are mostly I had the chance to be I wanted to become a master or foreman. It really struck me, because the I mean, we wore the Uniforms given by the Portuguese. There's a lot of green coffee there, a lot. - This one is good. - There is too much green coffee, Some producers are young and do not have There are varieties that Sometimes they confuse It happens that they make this mistake. - We grow coffee It is an organic culture without We treat it with water from here, Our coffee is grown All these factors are decisive for "Hobo Hobo", here it comes Because you know that here, there It is here, this hobo park, that we Because it is the source of water, rain, food. There are also medicines there. It's in this same park, People were afraid of hobos, The fugitives were those who were and others who had been But they did not accept So they opposed the They lived in the forest, an inaccessible, remote forest. And they were chased At the time, my generation was one of the We thought they were bad, that they wanted to kill us, we v****. And because of all this, there were places &quot;Be careful there, Suddenly, people passed We didn't know their story, They wanted us to believe But in reality, they were brave. Because to live entrenched in it needs courage. On July 12, 1975, colonization took place The new power in place and nationalizes the plantations and A wind of freedom is blowing throughout the country. But the euphoria is short-lived. Economic planning and widen inequalities In 10 years, export Santomean communism does not work The state therefore decides to Since then, the smallest country in Africa, does the hard learning This economically fragile situation, does not always favor The singer Augusto and his group, the - I'm from here, singer of the group Les Descendants. In addition to music, or become a representative of that country. We, the descendants, to help society as young people, to act in education, in We tried to attract so that he can concentrate more We wanted to help. That's what music is for, helping the government We are like deputies, cultural representatives, We are here to send a message. The musicians here don't have there is no big scene, So we tightened our belts We gathered all our savings and we are This disc had the misfortune of because here it is not There is no freedom of speech "In Sao Tome, our land is our wealth. All those who sow chaos, Those who come to steal, Those who neglect their children, After this song, we It was misinterpreted. We no longer had the same Before we were a group events at parties. From there, we no longer have People ask us in the street: You don't play anymore?" but we no longer have the chance to perform. I want to have fun, I want to enjoy it Today, I am on my plot. - We learned this from our ancestors. I learned with my grandfather I learned how to make brandy They already had a field of their own and They encouraged me to look for it, In addition to my work on television, That's where it all comes from At the time, we didn't have the means We collected the money that everyone We had to cut cane to be able to release our first and We raised the money thanks to to be able to record the instrumentals. - My grandparents to work at Roca Rio This is where my father and fell in love, got married. That's why I'm here, better known as Augusto Dagostinho This is my father and my mother. She's the one who gave me everything, in cocoa, in plantations to pay the bills, Not only to me, but to all my brothers. My mother is truly the pillar, Here there are all the archives of from my group, These stories not only but also those of La Roca, the history The story of everyday life. All this contributed to developing All of this is what pushed me to write. We made songs that speak This is the old Roca Agostinho Look how beautiful she was back then. But I dream one day, before I die, We're on the way to the hospital, where But it was also one of the most The famous and sad hospital where I was born, where all my colleagues or in the 80s or 90s, we are The Portuguese left suddenly There was no period of did not stay to operate Even though he was a symbol of was considered a monument Now it is a huge - It's very sad. When I come back here, I see this hospital where where I saw so many things. I remember when I was 12-13-14 years old, I was hospitalized here It's not a bad memory, with good treatment and fortunately, And that's why it makes me In the past there were and who took care of maintaining There was work, people were in the sugar cane fields. Today, look in which That's why people Today we have advantages but for me there are good Music comes from the soul. I was listening to My father, at the time, had a record player, I already had it in my soul, Then I started catechism All the children, me This is where we learned This is where we gained confidence. We realized we had talent, We have been friends since childhood, with guitars with This is where our The group is made up of 5 elements. We call ourselves descendants because we of Angolan parents and We're trying to get back to that The people, my own people... How long will my people suffer? My people who struggle to survive, because the profiteers want It's sad my God When will my people stop In the south of the island is located They would be the descendants These people have always refused servitude He stayed away from the Rocas system, which earned him a reputation, a sort of village of diehards Today, this fishing community lives - My name is Aladim dos I am 36 years old. Here we are in Porto Alegre. Because it is a locality that's why it's called Porto Alegre. I started fishing when I was 12 years old. when I turned 16, My grandparents told me this At first I felt sad. But right after, The 2 feelings did not It really hurt me who worked at that time. People worked Personally, I think that the inhabitants They must have a job. But they must be free, In this new act of Chilori, comes to demand justice and Its members dance, but It's not about here but a settling of scores. This family represents helpless and poor, face In this re-appropriated theater, The Chilori is an outlet. We discover between the notes, the violence The assassin arrives, he parades, He must face the charges The court is in place, The Angolares were chased and pushed back by the Portuguese in the south It was out of necessity that they became Some still sail on in mulberry or cheese trunks. In Porto Alegre, the entire economy - My father is a fisherman. He also put me on a boat, I Because at first, I didn't like it at all. I had to hold on because it was We went fishing and Since the three of us went out to sea, we have to divide everything into 4 Me, my boyfriend, we share For now, I still don't have enough because it's too expensive. I plan to one day buy my own But for now, The little I earn is not Because I have children who go to school. I have not yet prepared for their future, Basically, when you have only one job, you If you are a fisherman, try to buy yourself a field or find yourself Because fishing, frankly, is sporty that you will succeed in earning enough At my age, I am a fisherman and To sum up, even if I don't earn much, I manage to put a very small One day, in the street, there was a stuff that didn't make much sense. I took the liberty of interrupting them We had to find an idea to Something had to be done Today, this association exists and I am president and I'm picking up I know it pollutes, it's It can be very harmful to We do all this voluntarily, you know, seeing us work, others because we all have children. Some Rocas were The childhood of many Santomeans was Conditions were harsh, but when return to the Rocas, sometimes also nostalgia. - We are here in a Roca, This is the Roca of my childhood. My name is Filipa Cuaresma, I am 47 years old, I would rather live here than in La Roca is a much calmer place to give them a better education. Because we are far from society This was the bosses' house. White people lived here. My father selected the cocoa and I came running quietly I feel proud and happy. I feel like a master, it's I feel like I'm in paradise. Sao Tome is one of the territories The half of the population and the country sometimes seems left to its own devices. This economic situation a place restricted to the Santomean woman who should manage education In the conditions Yet women are everything than men, but then they are, much more affected by - Here, most women stay I started to help to ensure that they to provide for their family The Protection Directorate to examine their living conditions, and set the amount of This allocation is not sufficient can actually get out of it. I can enter ? How old are you ? - You are the mother of 4 children? - No, I have 6, including 2 - Here in Sao Tome, these are always The fathers pay them no attention. Fathers, when they live sometimes give money but they go to work and get ready and go out to live their lives. It is really the mothers who devote - The father of my children, for example, He didn't even come once it's very hard, it's difficult here. I have no fields to cultivate, To go to work I have to go up So on weekends, I take In reality, the food and as the salaries are very low, the population cannot - It is difficult to convince everyone to limit births. Some husbands don't even accept family planning. I chat with them. I really want them to understand That we should have fewer children. Having a smaller family means They will do better in life. In other places on the island, Rocas are used by - My name is Francisco Ramos, I am 53 years old, The people who lived in La Roca, that those who worked Despite time, this mentality Those who live in the Roca are But one day or another, The people who live in the Roca will be to show those who live Pepper is a crop And that gives motivation We started at 5, and today, We have the State which brings we have the producers who and we have the private sector Therefore, this partnership and this shows that pepper can - I can finally dream of tomorrow. I see the future before me. I who had nothing, And I think there's a meeting And after that we will tell you more. - We are in the old thanks to the production of pepper, There they are The pepper was soaked in water we removed it from this water and Once washed, it will go straight to the dryer. Almost 93 kilos. Did you do all that? We are going to immerse the pepper in water We use walnut shells This allows us to limit and reduce our impact So we put it in boiling water we put it in the dark room These are the 4 fundamental steps There you can start putting At the time, this is where the Master lived. We are trying to negotiate so that This Roca, has certainly been abandoned, but there is a cooperative which This is an opportunity for It is a Roca which was and we want to bring it all back to life. Francisco manages all of He is leaving today for the island of Principe Principe is the little sister With its garden of Eden air, The Rocas here are called Bellavista, This volcanic confetti is one of the It has been classified as a World Reserve since 2012. Here, time seems to have stopped. Nature is omnipresent grows a multitude Pepper is grown on the island A spice that requires a lot - This branch is You don't have to cut it. Afterwards, it is necessary that If you don't do this work, Come on, let's see another plan. This farmer asked for help. He has difficulties in his plantation, and I came to see what were The advantage in a pepper plantation, we also have banana trees to be able to attach the You need to tell the plant: Are you fine ? You slept well ? You have to talk to the plants. You have to converse with the plants, the "I love you, you are my darling." You have to tell them all this, When you don't tell all that to the plants, - This one, I can cut it, - That's it. - I enjoy this lovely musical interlude living on this island of Don't forget tomorrow, no matter what color your party is, your duty and to vote. And now the voice of In the wake of the success of have taken the turn of production in recent years in Principe. He is a strong figure on the island who does not let - My name is Helena Montero Almeida Costa, I am 46 years old and I am a farmer. I started working there in 2008, because everything had to be put back From 2010 I started lemon, bananas, Then, from 2012, we started and I became more independent. In 2014, I became I devoted myself more to pepper, and I push others to do like me It is a plant that has a good yield. Just one foot is enough for a person to buy salt, soap, oil. To have a pepper pot the farmer must imperatively A farmer like me is independent. I have cuttings to replant. - Colonizers, Structures, dryers. When the state took over everything, Activity plummeted. They only hoped for one It was a shame. The goal today, for it's about being independent. And to bet everything on export. We would return to the previous system. And that would be really, really sad. - I brought you the fish. - It's fish from this morning. - No, it's from yesterday. who is it - I smoke the fish, I prepare it for Tomatoes, onions, peppers You must cultivate everything To eat it, to sell it, - You take it to the market and you'll see. - Yes, we won't have to ask anyone anything. I always work more. I pay other people, because - Bananas to put you have lemon to put on the fish, - The land belongs to us, Let us tell the government that all it is necessary to cultivate more cocoa, more coffee. This is the message I want to send. And tomorrow we will have our boats The outcome of Chilori is near. The evidence was presented. The sentence finally falls. - The audience is open for the Prince. - Your Royal Highness, Sir I ask your permission to read pronounced against the prince The verdict is final, He can now celebrate his victory, - This coffee is well roasted, it has - Here it is: black, pink, black... With wire hair, with a roasted coffee face. - Today it is very important because Sao Tome is On our plots, there are many By practicing sustainable agriculture, - It's a male turtle. She was underwater. I saw it. I have As it is a fairly young turtle, underwater action It only took me 10-15 seconds to Before, it could happen to me like this one, if I sold its shell, seeing as she is of Sada breed, a breed this shell has value. - At the time, I could have I stopped hunting turtles And I became a turtle conservationist. So that people stop killing them, they no longer catch them to sell them. What I did to the turtles, I was able to catch some because I knew all the good places, where they slept, Sometimes I left my house There's a little alcohol in there. I put a small piece of flesh there. All this data will be analyzed This turtle will be studied where she was born and At the beginning, when I killed the turtles, I didn't know what that was I didn't know that by chasing them, the entire species It's been 4 years since I last saw one here in Porto Alegre. When I hunted turtles I didn't have much I had never caught But since I stopped killing them. We became like friends. Today, it is very rare that they Today when a turtle crosses paths with me She knows now that I don't Like a hundred other Santomeans, a program that protects sea turtles But it is only since 2014 that the are prohibited by law. Environmental protection and the government is banking on 4 species of turtles lay eggs on the white sand of the archipelago. They are all threatened with extinction. - My name is Egas Dalmeida. I am 38 years old. Usually I surrender because I see the traces of There, there is the date February 15, 2018. That means this nest has been there since Even if the babies are not all out, In most nests, But sometimes we find a baby There are some who are sick, with paw problems, so he then we can put them in the water. because there are no hawks. I'm going to take advantage of this to free these 2 babies The babies are alive and when you dig, you have to be careful because There are no stones here, so if And if we notice that things are moving, you pass your hand underneath and pull it up. I've been doing this work for 3 years now. Today, the turtle is hunted less, I like it when I find a baby and I release him so that he can live. - Women must also It's not just a man's job, And here, in Principe in there are many women who A son or daughter who But there is also manual labor. Who goes to university, she learns to work with the spade, She learns it's worth it Our mothers, in the past, They worked for companies, Today, some are selling their land, instead of working for My advice is to take an example from me. The question is above all I have lots of things that are Everything I do allows me to obtain I'm never lazy, I am strong. - My team is that of Monte Cafe, Today they are playing a match Other teams training here because they have a better But our team is bigger. The players are stronger in nature. So our adversaries must do In the past, people would say: &quot;You You don't have a say." But I remain convinced we can become a strong nation. Firstly because we have and that the youth of this Have a different view of the world. There was a time when the world was But the world is changing, inequalities We feel the weight of the past, but we must also take advantage of to create a better future. The Portuguese Empire made one of the most important He leaves behind his commercial exploits, who has been learning for 40 years The destiny of the archipelago in the hands of its younger generation. The country is today The Santomeans can now By protecting its environment, by reappropriating its systems of How will the country manage and face challenges It must be remembered that Chilori is a specific to the Santomean. It's a tragedy, but,