Hey, Vsauce. Michael here. The title of this video is misspelled in honour of mistakes. Mistakes are everywhere, they surround us like air To err is human. Faults, flaws, faux pas, fumbles and fallacies are as much a part of who we are today as the stuff we've gotten right. For instance, if a knight knocked your knuckle or knifed your knee, why would there be so many &quot;k&quot;s? Well, the &quot;k&quot;s are silent by mistake. The original old English forms of these sounds. K-nife, k-night, k-nee. But that's a bit of a mouthful to say and common hundreds of years ago, people just pronounced words the way Spelling is fun. Warren G knows what verse of his &quot;What's Next&quot;, he asks what's next. What's next, what's N-X-E-T Spelling isn't the only thing we get wrong. The history of science is a graveyard of dead an abandoned ideas. &quot;Half-life of knowledge&quot;. The amount of time within a field to be superseded by new, better ideas untrue. Donald Hebb famously estimated that the half-life of knowledge in psychology is just five years. Humans are awesome, don't get me wrong, think we know about the universe is reasonably correct, even though statistics aren't on our side. Previous generations incorrectly thought the exact same thing My favourite examples of the ubiquity errors in popular songs. They're like humbling Easter eggs, just waiting Buffalo Springfield's &quot;For What It's Worth&quot;. 26 second in the &quot;be&quot; in the lyric &quot;beware&quot; is clipped, as is the &quot;p&quot; in &quot;people&quot; at 1:24 minute. Once you hear the mistake, it's tough to unhear it. In &quot;Hey Jude&quot; Paul McCartney misses a cord. And if you say &quot;F***ing h*ll&quot;. Seriously, it's in the actual song. Go listen to it. In fact, there's an entire mistakes in Beatles' songs. Take a look at this 700-year-old prayer book. A monk wrote it on fresh, clean paper. I'm kidding, of course. He scraped the ink rotated them before writing all over them. A mistake? Well, kind of. Recent multispectral images of the prayer book have revealed that erased was a previously unknown copy of a work by Archimedes. It was called &quot;The Method&quot; and laid out the heart of calculus thousands of years before Newton and Leibniz. If that one monk hadn't erased that one book, would we be hundreds, thousands of years advanced today than we currently are? It's hard to say. All that is certain is that we would like the Mars Climate Orbiter. burned up in the red planet's atmosphere because when calculating flight manoeuvres NASA while Lockheed Martin used the imperial system. This is Neil Armstrong taking humankind's first steps on the Moon. It's about the best footage we have. The original tapes containing of that moment have been lost. They were probably recorded over by later test missions. Ten years ago Sergio Martinez became lost in the woods while hunting outside of San Diego. rescuers, he lit a small fire. But that fire quickly got out of control It destroyed 300,000 acres of land, 2,322 homes and killed 15 people. The man carrying a wounded soldier in taken during World War I, is Henry Tandey, an English recipient Four years after the event in this image German soldier in his gun sights. Tandey took pity on his wounded state The German he allowed to live was this man. Later the man whose life he shorter but still had the same name, Adolf Hitler. In 1918 did Henry Tandey miss a chance to kill the exact days their units were in the same The story is apocryphal but what is known is that Hitler owned a copy of the painting of Tandey, and in 1938, when meeting with Neville Chamberlain, and told Chamberlain: &quot;That man came in 1918 that I thought I again.&quot; So, who's wrong? Maybe Hitler confirmed the story merely because he hoped to make up extra alive to pursue his goals. Either way, someone is mistaken. Missed opportunities are a bummer. is a powerful emotion. How do you deal with regret, with guilt? Can you? In the early morning hours on a summer Ze Frank told me something I love this metaphor. Stuff in your past is like a carving on the bark of sapling. Over time, the scar, the carving won't go away. Because of the way trees grow it won't stay right where it began. It might even get darker. But it won't get bigger. You, however, can. You can keep growing, being more things. The wound won't get part of who you are. Maybe regrets are like that. They stick around forever like arborglyphs. Or maybe they make like a tree and leaf. A red or purple leaf in the autumn. and chlorophyll production decreases, the yellow and orange carotenoids, which are always in leaves, appear as the green fades. are the interesting ones. time for trees to conserve energy but some trees do the opposite. Instead of giving up, they spend extra energy producing anthocyanins to turn their leaves red and purple hues. These colours protect their leaves from all be used and may also be a defence a parasitic home. I am in part dying but not without a fight. I am still very much vital.&quot; Drought and even turn a kit applied by man can bring about these colors prematurely. autumn colours, you are looking at stress. But the bigger the fight the trees they put into their defences at the their colours will be. Winter will eventually come. But scientifically, the brightest, deepest, most remarkable colours come from not giving up too easily or quickly. And as always, thanks for watching.