If we had a studio A camera At 11am You paid the advance? Will they come? Actually, today is the inauguration Its our studio tour Slightly here and there You have done a great job We are out of the lift Dont worry. Its a new lift Did anyone think, she would become this big? Even I am surprised Years back when I drew and drew to make her She was a small girl Now she has grown up and now stands outside our office I am very happy that when you enter our office, you will be seeing the logo first Cute girl So with your permission, we are entering the office. We have 2 doors You can choose the correct answer as per your mood This is the front door and that is the back door If you are coming without anyone knowing, take this door I am getting in with pride It doesnt have any keys. All at our finger tips Its leather. I mean plastic leather Not the original one. We are going to start Why isnt it recognizing me? How dare it insults my finger at my office? Use your left hand Oh! I have to use my left hand. Sorry.. I got scared for some time I first want to show them this wall How is this wall? Awesome! This is the wall on the right side we planned to have some favourirte photos I grew up watching Dexter's Laboratory His sister DD was my favourite. I have invested a lot in Dexter So he stays here. Then I tell myself to stay epic That means we have to always keep a pic Always keep smiling There is nobody who doesnt know Boss Baby That is what I see the most now after Nilu baby has come Nilu baby is here. I shall show you. She is in one of the rooms A cat says Hello I am not saying any jokes in this photo. Just a serious mood I used to sit and watch her Oprah Winfrey Show when I was in the 8th, 9th, 10th... She was so inspiring. Please zoom to see what I wrote below. What next? To be frank, I dont know how to tour this This is an awesome table You have a black and white carpet below the table You have 2 chairs here 2 can sit and the 3rd person can sit on the lap A pink sofa. As you know, girls love pink When I was asked which colour sofa, I said pink! You might think I kept this stick here for a support. You are mistake. Our interiorist said its the latest lamp I shall show them too When they kept this, I asked whats to come above this? They said no. This is it This is the light I said OK Srini is shooting this video cool and calm. Srini and myself believe that you subscribers have supported us the most, The videos that we shot easily, effortlessly, calm and happy. We would have shot them with no plans This is to remind us There are videos that we worked a lot on and got just 1500 views Just joking.. But views would be less But videos that we did from our heart and some creativity were whole heartedly accepted by you So we thought, whatever we do easy effortless, you are our magic Thank you so much. It is your magic that made this office It is written visualize, believe and manifest below here It is not enough to just visualize what is in your mind. You have to believe in that. That is what we will manifest. What is manifest? This is manifest Make it happen. Visualize is to see it in your mind. Believe is to believe Manifest means it will come or happen. 2 more chairs here We customized these chairs You dont fall to the sides from this chair It is like you are fit in there. If any of our clients or customers come, they shouldnt go anywhere You can sit here only A small table in the middle and a flower over it A curtain here for.. Curtain is needed, right? To cover the sun We have some plants there They are down now. We have used a curtain to hide the faded plants Now lets go to our office This is our new Pearle Maaney Studio We planned to take an intro video This is our office. Sir, please sit. I have to speak to you You sit there We are one. We shouldnt have kept one chair but 2 We will take turns and sit One day Srini sat and I sat on his lap Nice and comfortable A very good office. Awesome light effect. I need proper lighting. Show them your items. Lots to show. If I think about a content and dont get one, a tissue helps me while crying I have kept a tissue box to clean my nose. Lot of small books I have bought books like LKG students buy After all I am a child I have a pen and little water too Do you want water? This is a globe. Its to remind me that we have to go around the world Keypad, mouse.. Thats not a mouse. Its a monitor Sorry.. I can phone from here We didnt pay the bill We have both our play buttons here This was a recognition by You Tube when we got 1 lakh subscribers We got this from You Tube when we got 10 lakh subscribers. Now we are standing at 24 lakhs Our aim is to reach world wide If all you think about it, we can do it Thank you so much for bringing us till here We have some books here Its not to read but just for deco How is it? Next is my special zone As you know, Srini and myself are from different religions But let it be during our marriage or now, we believe that we have 2. It is them. We wanted their photos here They should be with us at our office To give us good ideas for our videos Are we working right? To take us on the right path How many people can we reach to All the videos should have a good message They are the ones who inspire us the most God should always be with us This is our chair I have kept a nice fur on the chair I wanted it like this. These are our photos We took this for Christmas. I love it. Look at Nilu sit. Srini and myself with our mouths open We noticed that after framing it. We cannot do anything now. We have few more books. We have a pineapple that reminds us of a song. A favourite photo of me and Srini. It was some beautiful pics taken after we got out of Big Boss Sreenu took them for us that day. We gave the same pic on the pallu for my Hindu wedding saree We have such small special things here Lets go to the next room Whats this? Is this Aladdin's carpet? Please stick it I liked it Only when going in speed, you may slip This is a nice carpet. How is my shoes? Isnt it boring? All by my stylist. This tv will play videos we did We kept some things here These are Nilu Baby's coco melon characters What is this? It is a clock that doesnt work This is not the correct time. So we have some things here A frame without photo. Which room do we enter next? Say right or left I heard many say right Are there anyone who doesnt do makeup? There are many We have kept a special room for makeup. Look at this chair. We kept the director's chair here I liked it You can fold and keep it We have put a fur over it and set it here I shall sit and show you. How is it? Look at the lights. Srini said he will take care of the electricity bill I didnt look at anything. I put all kinds of bulbs here Isnt it awesome? This is a special light. If you switch it on, the light comes. We apply make up like this. I have kept all my old expired products here A nice pink slab in this room You have just one door for this I If you push it this side, the other side is seen and same vice versa By the time we reached this part, our budget was almost over. So I said one door would do. Now lets see the bathroom I am not asking which room do you want now. Just one left. Its our pantry room. Our kitchen. You know that we become tired when we work. You feel like drinking varieties of tea/coffee You can have the tea you want and editors, please go edit after that. We have kept biscuits too You may come in. Nothing to worry. Srini said he prefers a white pantry I asked if I could use little pink here and there Srini said ok. Like that we made this pantry You have white here and there now. We chose an ice-cream wallpaper this side. You have cupboards here. A fridge is to come in this space Hopefully it will come, right? We dont have plans to show you the next room just like that. We have to set some things in this room. After that I shall call you. Come then I know you are seeing darkness. I cannot see anything here Finally we have made the set. The reason for this studio is Pearle Maaney Show. Whenever we get a call, either a studio wouldnt be available. Or the team putting up our set would be busy. Or the lights team may be busy. Or the camera team would be busy I then thought lets just make our own permanent set We came up with this concept just because of Pearle Maaney Show. I wanted to recreate our old set itself That was my wish and we have done that We have maximum bulbs lit up here It is like these bulbs that I lit and reached here I have hung bulbs here as my life This is to remind me that I am a bulb I have to thank many people The team that always puts this set for us at Pearle Maaney Shows, Dreams Florists Sneha and Anumodh. I shall post their link in our description box. Please do check out their page. Thank you so much Sneha and Anumodh. We didnt have any idea on how to go about this project My friend Raziya has been doing lot of deco works I liked a reel she did during Covid. She had done a transformation reel I had shared it then That is how I became her friend. Raziya did the first 3d of this. She gave us a 3d on how can we make this place look beautiful I had put some inputs saying it shoul be colourful and crazy She was pregnant and abroad at that time She did these work from there Raziya said about her friend Parviz. Parviz is the owner of make.inc, interior decoration company owner She is one of the partners Parviz executed the whole thing for us. They have been involved in this project for the last 3-3.5months. They have completed it in a very beautiful manner for us Though it went a bit beyond our budget, its fine. We are really happy They have done it in a very good quality They did it the way we wanted it to be I shall post their link in our description box. You can see a lot of their works in their page. They have a big team with them. Many have worked for this. We were able to manifest it because of them I shall show you another side of this room. You can see the light we have put in this room We put grills on top. If ever I want to do pushups, I can hang there Lights are fixed up there. Oh! Its so sunny here Now lets go to the next room. The star of the show is watching tv there We have reached the discussion lounge I can only see one eye. Nilu has coverd the other eye with my hair She might be finishing her anger with me for leaving her alone all this long She pulled my eyes and hair. This is our lounge. It is for discussion. We first thought we shall have a meeting room Then we thought that would be very formal But if it happens here, it would be jovial like us We would be showing You Tube reference on the tv So we have an awesome tv for that We can come up with ideas or make transitions sitting here Look at this wall guys I would say it is my favourite wall It is full of neon. Has a heart, hello, a flamingo and a bulb. A kiss. How do you kiss? To say about this wall, this small one isnt the way you think she is The first day itself, she walked around here First took that breakable pot. This is how she is I kept the pot aside. Then she began shaking these grills The whole thing just fell down. If you can see it, the nail is a bit loose. We are yet to tighten it That is what she does. But its fine. Its her studio too I will hit you She is bashing and growing me up She is hitting me as I grow I have one more thing to show. Srini, say something This is her area. He toys, elephant, Pingu.. All are sitting here. God knows why Next comes our work station. Will you finish now? We have to get inside. Open it. Say welcome to all. We are getting into our work station Dont worry. Nothing happened. This is our work station Editing, content writing, all happens in here Why do you want me to open this? You will pour water on the carpets Nilu baby is a very good girl and is mummy's favourite baby Nothing much to say about this room. It is our work studio You have the computers here. I liked this wall a lot Calendar and some flowers to keep it pleasant. We have a board here. Srinis parents and my parents who are special to us have signed on it. What is this girl doing? I think she liked the shoes. Nilu has agreed to clean the floor. We have one more room to see. I dont have the stamina to show you, but we shall see it. This is the 2md door I had said. We have a main entry and then this one. This is the back entry. Those coming to edit, can come this way We made it like that The next room is our broadcast room We open the door like this. Lets make her sit here for sometime now. This is where we plan to broadcast. Pearle talks is its name. We havent done a single episode yet. Srini expects me to do it seeing this. So now we shall do it. I shall post the link to that channel in the description box You would think, Pearle, you begun a tech channel and didnt post any video yet. Just got the time now. I have posted a shorts in tech. Check it out. That would be our first video. I have spoke and shown you the place. Our editors have done a cinematic style of the studio Check it out. They would have shown the whole studio in a beautiful way there Check it out and come back I will be waiting for you watching tv till then Watch that video and come back. Srini, I have told you not to show her fights. She is attacking me seeing the fights in RRR You saw the video How was it? Wasnt it awesome? She is smashing me to hell Sit there Hope you enjoyed that small video of the this studio tour. This is what we have. Srini, please come to the stage An awesome tour. We are winding up the studio tour here' You are the inspiration for us to have this studio Srini and I always talk saying all have their own dreams More than an own house, we havent owned a house yet. But we dreamt more on a You Tube studio. I think we work together for everything We wanted to work in a house like space that was colourful Something like Pearle I wanted to create more quality videos It is the best opportunity we get to entertain you, our subscribers We came into this set up thinking of better quality. I hope all of you liked it. We are yet to start Give us 2 months Why 2 more months? I should get used to seeing all this now. Go prepare the next content Our next content would be.. I will have to do one more tour. Do subscribe and enjoy our videos. Do comment. Your comments are very valuable. We understand where to improve from your comments. My child is near my leg to seek my blessings. Lifting the star of our channel, Nilu! Bye. Say bye. She said no My mic has gone.