Hello, dear friends, I am Brother Hu San. Today we came to the suburbs of Beijing, China. Here is a huge market. The stall owners are processing hand-rolled noodles. This kind of noodles is very popular in northern China and is made by hand. The noodles are very chewy and can be made into various flavors of delicacies when you take them home. The noodles only cost 4 yuan per kilogram, which is very affordable. The stall owner has strict requirements on the making process of the noodles. The seemingly ordinary noodles immediately make people feel excited. If you have an appetite , this gourmet restaurant is called &quot;Kucha Box&quot;. The fillings of the five-spice &quot;Kucha Box&quot; from Tangshan, Hebei are mainly composed of fresh meat, radish, and eggs. The texture is crispy and extremely salty. This is how to make fried meatballs . The equipment has increased the speed and what is being produced is the store's main product &quot;Kecha Box&quot;. Because the sales are so fast, the stall owner has no time to make the &quot;Kecha Box&quot; that is freshly out of the pot, hot, fragrant and crispy. 12 yuan stall owner: Your 6 yuan and 10 yuan store makes a variety of delicacies at the same time. This is sauce-flavored pancake. Customer: Bring me a pound of meatballs. These are vegetarian meatballs for 12 yuan. The main ingredient is radish. A pound of 10 yuan. Customer: Can I try it? Can you get me 20 yuan? There are so many delicacies in good markets that it's overwhelming. This one makes millet cakes, which are traditional folk delicacies. This is glutinous rice popcorn, added with osmanthus honey, cooking oil, and purified water . Peanut kernels, sunflower seed kernels, and &quot;glutinous rice flowers&quot; are added to the millet cakes in a variety of flavors, which can be purchased in combination for 25 yuan per catty (500 grams). The stall owner: Eat with confidence, there are no additives or preservatives. WeChat payment is 15 yuan and 21.2 yuan at the store ahead. They're selling grilled fish. Business is booming. Do you want chili? Don't sell them according to the size of the fish. Each one is sold for 25 yuan or 30 yuan. I got a 30 yuan one. The 30 yuan one has to wait for a while. The freshly baked grilled fish is sold very quickly. WeChat payment is 25 yuan. Baked sweet potatoes are absolutely sweet. You can rest assured that this is a very unique stove. This is the most traditional method of roasting sweet potatoes in China. The stall owner: This piece of sweet potato is sweeter, which one do you want? Just pick this old man who has been selling roasted sweet potatoes for many years. He has been roasting sweet potatoes using the oldest method . His stove was invented by himself and uses wood as fuel. But the amazing thing is that the firewood he lights does not emit smoke. Such a stove He has used four of them and constantly improved this one. The most successful roasted sweet potato is 8 yuan per pound. It is very sweet. Let you see, how big is this? There is no roasted sweet potato like this in Beijing. Only my sesame sesame cakes are made every time . Each sesame seed cake is of equal weight and there are three flavors to choose from, original, five-spice, sesame sauce, and salt and pepper . How many do you want? 10 yuan, 6 mornings at 9:30, the flow of people has increased. Lamb kebabs are 2 yuan, or by weight, 55 yuan per pound. The process of making pumpkin cake, honey hemp flower sweet potato bread is also very tempting. This restaurant is The old Beijing braised braised braised pork is made of pig intestines, pig lungs, pork belly, tofu, fried pancakes, etc. This bowl costs 30 yuan. &quot; braised braised braised pork&quot; is a traditional snack in Beijing. Old Beijingers like to freely add various toppings to the roast. Cold noodles WeChat payment is 5 yuan. A serving is 10 yuan. This grilled cold noodles tastes very good. The stall owner will come here every time to sell grilled cold noodles . It is delicious and affordable. You can make a portion in three minutes. It is very fast and popcorn is on site. The traditional method has been practiced among Chinese people for more than 50 years. Stall owner: My popcorn is very good and there are no defective products. It costs 25 yuan per pot and a pot can be made in 5 minutes. Many customers want the popcorn made in the onion pot . Customer : How long does it take to make a pot? In five minutes, this shop makes plum and vegetable sesame cakes. Customer: It's a bit expensive. Stall owner: 5 yuan is not expensive. In the city, this one sells at least 10 yuan. A bowl of ramen costs 10 yuan. Xin pays 10 yuan. Xin pays 20 yuan. Sugar-fried chestnuts are sold in China. It is very popular in the north to sell it with cash. Can it be easily peeled for 17 yuan , 20 yuan or 20 yuan per pound? You can roast chicken and duck. Crispy pork belly is 35 yuan a piece and sprinkle with cumin. Roast chicken without chili is 22 yuan each. WeChat payment is 22 yuan. The stall owner is selling a box of market tempeh for 10 yuan. Give me a box that is not salty. You can try the Sichuan peppercorns here. It's very fragrant. This box costs 10 yuan. Help us spread the word that the rice cakes are almost sold out. There are still four or five bowls left. This restaurant sells all kinds of barbecue , including grilled chicken steaks, grilled rice cakes, and kebabs. They are made on site. How much does corn cake and multigrain cake cost? A pack of five yuan for this kind of snack is called &quot;Maodan&quot;. The &quot;stinky tofu&quot; from Changsha has different tastes. The white and black ones have different flavors. There is a saying among Chinese people that &quot;stinky tofu&quot; smells bad, but tastes delicious. Customer: Can you add some &quot; &quot;Stinky&quot;? Stall owner: I can't add it. Black tofu is smelly. There are many "braised" ones. I plan to try it today. Each store's cooking method is similar, but the taste is definitely different . Braised tofu looks "heavy", but it smells very fragrant and tastes good. The various porcelain bowls and disks are also very delicious , and there are many styles. A handmade sausage is very popular for 15 yuan. The stall owner will give a free piece to every customer who purchases it. Then the WeChat payment is 20 yuan and 42 yuan. Give you a piece. Thank you, Old Beijing. Black noodle sausage, pork ribs and sausage . This is garlic-flavored. You can try crispy multi-grain pancakes. They are also very common in the markets in Beijing. There are also books sold here for 5 yuan a book. Fried cakes and sugar pancakes with green onions are 10 yuan a bundle.