In today's video, I'm going to walk you through a complete, full, comprehensive tutorial This is going to be a combination and also screen recording on the computer. So if you're following along at home, you'll be able to follow For those of you returning Thank you guys so much for all the support you've been showing me. For those of you who are new to me, my name is Greg and I like to and sharing the resources that I wish I had along my journey. So if you're interested feel free to look around the channel because you'll find a lot of that typically you would have With that being said, today's video is going to be a starting from step one. Just the idea that you want to get started with print on demand, all where all you have to to grow your business. Now, in this tutorial, it is going to be straight to the point and it's going to be exactly and how I personally would if I were starting from scratch. Now, with that being said, there are going to be a couple paid tools throughout this video. They are optional. I highly recommend them because they will make as you're getting into print on demand. However, if you don't you don't have to use these tools. They are only my personal recommendation. Now, with that being said, as I may mention certain videos that are linked to down in the description for more detail on a So keep in mind all the are down in the description. There's going to be a table of So if you do need to jump that'll be easy for you. And now without further ado, let's go ahead and jump So the first thing with print on demand is to cover a couple of core concepts that we really need to understand before going into how The first thing is that in we're going to create designs and upload them to print where it creates a virtual listing, all completely for free. And then people can come find your design on a specific Now, the cool thing of print on demand is we just create the designs and Now the actual websites, when they will print the design that the customer ordered. They will ship it out to the customer and they even handle all This is great for us on the because it makes a very and the way that we grow our business, we don't have to bring on other employees, simply we just have to create For the most part and I'll talk about this a but when you create a design and upload it to one of these websites, it's up there forever. So you don't have to updating your stores or your offerings. Once you upload that design, once it stays up there forever and people can continue to Now there's only two before we get into this tutorial. First being that there's that I highly recommend. I have tried a ton of different and I've boiled it down that gives me the biggest return Now these three sites and Merch by Amazon. Now, the reason that I is that one, they're completely free. You don't have to pay for any listing fees and two, they do marketing for you. Now, when some of these once you upload your design, they're not going to do It just operates as a website and you have to bring your own traffic. However, on these three but they do marketing for you. They bring in traffic to their marketplace to see your designs on products and essentially get you where you do not have to Just to put it in perspective, if you're curious how much traffic these websites get to Teespring gets about 17 Redbubble gets about 19 And Amazon, which is Merch by Amazon, gets about two billion These are all people going and looking at their products where your product will Now, also something as we go through here is Teespring, Redbubble, Merch by So when we create one design, we can upload that design individually to all three of these websites, creating three separate listings. Someone may go on to Teespring, but not know about Redbubble. What that means is they'll but they wouldn't have As you can see, this is just a great to see your designs and So with all that being said, the last thing we need to cover before getting into this tutorial is the difference between Teespring compared to Redbubble and Merch by Amazon. Now, Redbubble and Merch by Amazon, they actually do marketing When you upload your design, you create your listing on their website. They add it to the This can take anywhere from a couple hours to up to 72 hours, but your item will be And essentially the marketing starts right away. However, over on Teespring, they have a system called a trust score. So when you create a new seller account, which for those of you who you'll be creating a new account on all three of these sites. However, on Teespring, when you essentially have to on your account before they your listings in their marketplace. Now to make a long story short, essentially all you have to is make sure that you're not So you're not using company's logos or company's names in your designs. And the second part of that is you need to get two on your designs, and then they will recognize And they will start doing and add your listings to the marketplace for their 17 million people So, as we go through this tutorial, I'm going to come back to of getting your first two to 10 sales that you have to get yourself, that they won't be doing for you. And I'll show you how to again, with no paid advertising, a trend you will find on all talking about print on demand is that I do not recommend using paid ads for print on demand. Okay, so now we should Now we can start the tutorial. And as I mentioned before, this tutorial is going to And the first one we're is for niche research. And these paid tools are I've used a ton of each and the ones that I recommend this video are the ones I personally use. Now, you don't have to use these. I just highly recommend them. And you'll see why as we get started. So step one, in this tutorial, if you're new to print on demand, and you're thinking about getting started is we need to come up with a niche. Now, essentially, what a niche is, is a topic or a very specific thing that you're going to be Now, by doing niche we can find out what topics and what niches out do not have a lot of competition. When you're starting it's not going to make sense for you to go into those very competitive topics because your new listings, are just going to get of other listings in that topic. So what I recommend to you in order to get your first for that Teespring trust and find niches that do not Now, the goal here is to find a niche that has a lot of search volume. So people are looking for it. However, there are not a So there aren't many options What this means for us is as a new seller, we can come in and we can in this topic. And then as those same and they're looking for they will see more options and the majority of them This increases your chance of getting them to buy one of your listings, because as they're scrolling of what they can buy, a ton of those options are made by you. So with that said, let's for the first time here that's going to help us research niches. So this is the first tool that It's called Merch Informer. And essentially what we need to do is either register for free, or if you already have Now before we get into this tool quickly, I wanna show you the pricing of it. If you don't have an account already. To use this tool, it's And I do have a discount code from them down in the description. So if you wanna use that, it comes down to about $8 per month and they do offer a free trial. So if you were just they have a three-day free trial. It gives you full function. However, this is a tool that you're going to wanna keep around longterm because as you're thinking about creating new designs in the future, it's really good to are worth your time. So again, the link to to about $8 per month is So if you wanna click that feel free to do that. You can even create a And now once you're logged in, there are a bunch of tools But what we are going to be using is the competition checker So once you're here, essentially, all you have to do is type in the niches that you were considering going into. And it'll tell you if that So before this video, I did a little bit of just so I wouldn't waste your time here. And I found a good niche to go into, and a bad one as an example, and then also a pointer So in this search, I And as you can see on the Now, once you start you will see that the and there are grades in between. It's just going to show this is to go into. Now, something else that's is that the data being the data that we see on and a little bit more that is being pulled from Merch by Amazon. Now, as I said before, there's three platforms we're using Teespring, Redbubble and Merch by Amazon. Merch by Amazon is the biggest one. They get roughly two So the data that is being pulled here is from Merch by Amazon specifically. Now it is safe to assume that the data is the same for Teespring and Redbubble. That's what I personally do. And I recommend it to you. The reason I say that, and the reason that I is because one, it's going of whether this is a good just looking at this letter grade, and two, the other research take data from the entire internet. They're going to take search data rather than print on demand data. With the data in Merch Informer, we're getting it specifically The other niche research are taking into account everything that is searched on Google and throughout the internet. It's not specific to print on demand. So getting back to this, the one that we're going is highschool graduate. It gives us a good grade, shows you how many people How many of those have bestseller ranks, meaning that they're selling well. And then something else that's is when you scroll down, you can see the top 10 in this niche currently This will give you some ideas. So if you wanna create or just use it to get some This is a good place to do that. So a couple of pointers when you start using Merch Informer or that when you're searching for a phrase that is more than one word, as you can see this as put quotation marks around it. Now, if you don't and you're going to get an improper rating because it's pulling So be sure you don't make this mistake. And if you're searching a phrase put quotations around it. The other tip I can pass on to you is make sure that you're that is specific enough. This is highschool graduate This is also more specific than searching something like dogs. Now, since this is a single word, we don't need quotation marks around it. However, it's just way too general. And there are way too many products that we're competing against our listings are just going to get lost. So with that in mind, we have officially used Merch Informer We know what niche we are And this way our designs in the beginning have a because there are people looking for it and not a lot of options to be bought. All right, so now we have where we are going to start. Now we need to start creating We'll start out by creating just one. So I can show you how this has done, and then just know that once you know how to do you will be creating as just make sure that they are good designs. Given the design tool makes it easy to create these designs. I don't personally have I haven't had graphic design experience over the last few years but using a good design With that said, let's go so we can start creating designs around this high school graduate niche. So this is the design tool There's a link to it It's called placeit.net. This one goes about $15 per month, but again, they gave me a discount code I can share with you. That's done in the description as well. They don't have a free but by using the link in the description, it brings it from about $15 This tool placeit.net and are the only two tools that you need. It's just finding your niches The rest of it is You're just going to keep Throughout this tutorial, So essentially all we have to do is type into the search bar, So I know we're looking but you have to keep in mind, high school graduate is very specific. So if we start typing that specifically for high school graduates, it's going to give us only the results that are specifically for that. However, if we type in or we type in something we are going to get a lot that we could potentially Most of the time, you'll find something that's over on place. It could perfectly be of high school graduate. So with that said, I'm going to start by typing in graduation and we'll see where that goes from here. So once you've typed it in, you can go through kind I'm just going to go with graduation. And this is going to mixed in with social media post We will be coming back a little bit later on this tutorial, but stick around, I'll get So on the left side, and we're going to go to t-shirt design. Now, as you can see, graduation is a little bit specific here. So they do have just 17 You'll find with some I think Placeit has over 40,000 But as we are getting a niche specific, in some cases, it limits So just be creative with I'm going to switch and see how many more we can get. And when you do a search up top after you've already done a search, just make sure that you turn and that I'll give you even more. We'll just click enter here and we'll come back over to the left side and we'll switch this to t-shirt designs. We have 43 to choose from. So as you can see, as you have more designs to choose from. So these are all designs that we can customize for t-shirts. And I'll show you how to do that. First, we just need to so I'm going to start Happy graduation day. I think this will be and keep in mind who we're In this specific niche of it's not likely going to buying the shirt for themselves. This is going to be a parent somebody purchasing a and it would be given to them as a gift. So with that said, here's a template that We can move things around. If we wanna go back, we We can change all of this You can put an extra text if you like, and then you can even So if we click the down arrow, we can switch it to anything that we like. So I kind of like that new font So I'm going to switch And then should we need to we can change that with And then if we wanna add more texts, we just hit add another And then this one is just so we know we come into over here, switch to text background, turn it to the checkerboard Go back to text color, and you can switch it Again, we can switch the So I really don't need this one. So I'm just going to uncheck it. And then if you need to upload you can do that right It'll go to your computer documents and you can select what you wanna add in. You have a lot of creativity So since we just moved this to the side, it's offering us to just to put it right back in I like to use that whenever I start moving So with that said, that's the basic rundown That is the left side over here. Now on the right side is the reason that I love place so much is that they give you a ton of graphics with full commercial usage rights. So you don't have to make sure you have the rights to use them. All of these, you just click right here and it essentially just works So I'll show you another but these illustrations that are worked into your design for you, save you a ton of time. And a lot of other design tools, you click to add an illustration and it just adds it to the front And then you have to start On here, you just click any of these and they will be worked directly The name of the game in print on demand, especially in creating You have to make sure and you can create a rather than spending You're simply not going to to make a lot of money from that's going through these marketplaces. So going on with this design, I really liked the one Now, if you want to find other designs that are in college graduation, you can just switch this to graduation, see what comes up and that you can use. So just know that you can scroll and you can keep switching these searches to find a ton of So now that we have this all we have to do now is and switch it to transparent. And then as you can see, you have the white text If we wanna change the so it's all white, all we have to do is select the graphic, go to main graphic and switch it to white or any other color that we want. Now, if I were to save it would have a transparent background. It would be all white texts and we would put it on So you can see it. However, for the sake of this example, I think this might be So I'm just going to switch so that we can see what Okay, hopefully that that it has a transparent background. Everything we've created So once this design is ready to go, all we have to click is Again, it's going to confirm that this is commercially usable so we can profit from it by selling it on print on demand websites. It's also going to tell This file here is 4,000 Now, for most cases for you can save it just like this. So all you would click is download now, and then it'll save it to your computer and it'll be ready to upload However, something that that'll save you a lot is that Merch by Amazon has for your designs to be Now, since Merch by Amazon in the print on demand space, you wanna make sure that Now what Merch by Amazon requires for most of their items that are 4,500 pixels by 5,400 pixels. Now, as you can see here, it's only 4,000 pixels by 4,800 pixels. So what do you do and for Merch by Amazon? Now, luckily Placeit makes So all we have to do just as it is straight then once it says, click here to download. All you do is click view all below it. And here it's going to bring that you have created recently. This is where you can re-download any designs if you need to. But what we are going to do is That's just below it And here, we're just going to what Merch by Amazon wants. What this is is 4,500 Now, all we have to do is It's going to show us again Just wait a couple and then click the download button and it'll go straight onto your computer. So this is now ready to It'll download it right you can open up this file and now we have the design formatted for Merch by This is perfect for print on demand because it has a transparent background. And as you can see, it's perfectly clear. So this will look good on a t-shirt. Now, a couple of things is that when we size by doing this extra step, it will work perfectly Teespring and Redbubble, they don't actually So we can take that same size that we did for Merch by Amazon and upload it to those other two as well. By doing it this way and sizing it for Merch by Amazon first, it just saves us time down the road. So now we have officially that is sized and ready to go. And it is in the niche Now before we leave Placeit, I wanna show you the other way that I really like, that not a lot of people And I highly recommend Now with your place at subscription, you can go into not only their designs, but you can go into logos as well. Now these are specifically However, you can use them and items as well. So once you're in their logos, I want you to type in the text here, just click the little see all of our templates. And from here, these are that we can actually going off the same niche we want to, we can create them for anything and get much more complex designs. This is where the graphic comes back into play that So again, the same as the t-shirt designs, except you can come through here and you can customize So you can click any of As you can see, once you're in here, the text, the font, the colors is all the same as the just more designs and more options that you can use apart from Once you do this again, we're just going to change the background to the transparent color. And then we click the download button and we do everything the for Merch by Amazon and you're good to go. So I just wanted to share with you to make sure that you knew as well as the t-shirt design templates when you're creating All right, moving right along, we've got the first two big steps done. We figured out what niche We created our first design. Now we need to actually upload and Merch by Amazon. So let's go over to teespring.com. This is where we are going to begin. Now, if you don't have an you're going to want to create Again, this is completely free to do. You can do this from practically And I'll explain that a little bit more once we get into the account. Now, once you have your account, let's just go over to the overview. This is an example account that I've used for a couple of tutorial videos. And as you can see, it's pretty funny, that actually sold an item. I was just using this to did nothing else with it. And one of the items purchased So once you have your account just go up to start designing. And then we were just going to scroll down through all of these products. And we're just going to start t-shirts are going to be across basically all of print on demand. So that's what I recommend you create most of your listings with. Now, as you'll find out you can add multiple items but I'll explain that as we get into it. So let's just go over to the So men and women can both buy it. We'll start with this. And then it still goes of different items we can create on. Typically, I just go with a It will show you how much Now, remember when you are you are not paying this cost. Now to give you an example, let's say that this item If we set our price, as we're going through when a customer buys it, The $10 and change will go to Teespring as the product costs. And that $5 will go to us. So as a seller, you never have to be paying Teespring to print any of the products, all of the costs and the fees So let's just go with a classic tee here, and here, it's going to which are typically confusing, so you understand. This says buy or sell. If you were creating designs for yourself, you wanna buy samples, or if you just wanna create cool t-shirts and buy them at cost, This is not going to list It's just going to make However, what we wanna do is So we go over to the sell one, and that is where we're going to click. So now we are brought And from here, it's very easy. Now on Teespring, you can actually create so we could add texts, but I do not recommend doing this because you can not save that design file. This is the reason that we use Placeit. It is because we can use their templates, we can create great designs and we can save them to our computer so that we can just take that file and upload it to all three of these print on demand websites. When you create it directly on Teespring, you can not save that design file. So you cannot upload it So with that said, all we add image, go through and select that file that we So now just by clicking it uploads it right onto the Should we need to move anything around, we can still move it around, but we just want it right in Now that's about it, as far as putting your you can see the front side, Typically just printing on That's where I sell most of my designs. You don't have to do dual sided printing. I recommend just printing on the front. Now coming down to the is we have the product colors. So as you open this up, you will see a bunch of What I can tell you from experience is try to pick no more than five colors. If you give buyers too many and too many styles, they get what's called where they're basically because they have so many options. Do they like the pink? Do they like the lighter pink? Do they like the purple? If they have too many options, they don't end up buying any of them. So what I personally recommend no more than five styles per listing. So we'll just add in And the big thing to make sure is that you can still see your So if we put it on navy, it's going to be a little bit hidden there and you can't really read that dark text. So I'm going to turn that off and just put it on a lighter color shirt. We'll put in a red, a green and an orange. Since this is a male on the shirt, it's a man, not a woman. I'm not going to put in women's colors. Now, if your design could be then you're going to wanna make sure that you have men's and Again, don't go over five. So take out the orange and put in a pink if this were made for women as well. So the colors are all good here. We are good to go. I'm going to click done. And now we go onto our pricing. So Teespring is going to However, what I have found is just slightly too high. What I can personally recommend to you and what I've had the best success with is pricing your items a few dollars below the suggested price. So remember, before we were the price to make that shirt was $10.57. Now, what you will see I wanna sell it for $10.57. It's going to say, you Teespring profit comes So that $10.57 includes their split as well as what it's going and actually make that shirt. So what you wanna do is four t-shirts, they recommend 24.99, what I recommend is 19.99. It's still going to every time you sell this shirt, but it's going to be which are 24.99. Now, what you don't wanna do is come in and price This is just way too low. A lot of people think that by doing this, they're going to undercut the competitors and get more sales. Yes, in theory, this may work. However, in the print on demand space, I do not recommend it. Now, once you've done one currency, you can move into the other currency. And again, we're just going Now, as you can see, if we since it's in a different currency, there's going to be a slight However, this is what I recommend. It makes it simple. And as the currency fluctuates, it'll stay about the same price. Now, just to explain the difference between the two currencies and why we have to enter Because as a seller in print on demand, we can upload from anywhere in the world, but buyers can also buy from basically anywhere in the world. So there's different currencies that they can purchase from. Now if the item is fulfilled that is not in the US you're going to be using So all in all, no matter you will be paid in your currency, but just know that buyers So that's why we have to set So with that said, we're basically ready to go I'm just going to switch just to make it nice and consistent. Let's go ahead and hit continue. And now we can choose which styles are offered in this listing. So remember before I is what I recommend, but is what I recommend. So it will show you what styles you have added to the listing along this left side right here. Right now we have a unisex classic tee, which you can see in select styles, that is check marked right here. Now I don't recommend if you already have a t-shirt. When I say up to five styles, hoodie, tank top, mug. These are other styles. You don't wanna be adding of the same item. So let's go ahead and click out of that. We have a classic tee. Now let's go over to This is always a good item because they have a really So again, you're going to have a bunch of different that you can choose. I'm going to go with the I'm just going to select it to turn it on, but I'm also going to edit it. And then again, we can and we can choose what is offered. If you wanna offer the just go through here and see And you can turn it on. Again, I recommend no more So this looks good. I'm going to leave it on the white one. And then I'm just going to is shown first. A lot of people ask, how do you change the They accidentally put the This is the section where you do that. Just click edit and switch Now the white one will show as the first. Then we need to change our profit here. As you can see, the which I think is a little bit steep considering it has a For here, I'm going to do $35, that will be our sale That's how much it will sell for. And as you can see, we have about a 12 to $15 So every time someone buys So that looks good. I'm just going to go ahead and hit save, and we are all good. This is checked off and as you can see, we have a classic tee They are both added and they're And basically, you just repeat this until you've added all So typically in my listings, and what I recommend for do a t-shirt, a hoodie, a tank top, a long sleeve shirt and a mug. Now, depending on what that design is, sometimes I'll swap out the mug or some of the other styles with something that seems more fitting for that specific design. So I'm just going to go through and add the other items Remember, always go through and edit and make sure that you that you want in here. And you have the color that which is white and then If you don't change any of this, the pricing stays on the suggested price, which is just going to be too high. So again, for this, we're just a couple of dollars That looks good, long sleeve. Again, just making the below the suggested price. As you can see, we're still on every sale. Now, as you can see, we have four items added to this listing. Now I just need to come into accessories and go to a mug so we can And make sure that you that you want added here. Just going to add in make sure that you have showing on the front and And as you can see, it's just a few dollars and save changes. So now we have the five items that I typically add to the listing. So this listing is ready to And this is the last part of the listing. This is where we add in I've made videos on this channel, going over different templates that you can use for the However, as a good rule of thumb, you wanna include the name of the shirt of what's on that text or And additionally, put that in the description because they're going to in the title and the description for what they should be ranking you for. So as far as the description goes, I don't like to overcomplicate this and I don't like to fill it with spam. So I have a very simple Feel free to use it yourself, or use a variation of it if you like, add some fun to your wardrobe with this, or give it as a perfect gift. Now you have to come in. You can't just post it as is. You have to come in and So there's a couple of places and I'll show you where they are to add your keywords of So add some fun to your, This is where you put in what is about, add some fun to your and then describe what the shirt is. So it's kind of a funny graduation design, and that's what we're going to put in. So if it's a funny design, you put in funny before you so funny graduation design, So that's all you have to And you can use that template and just swap out what the So that's it for the Just be sure to put in your keyword so they know where to show you. And then as you scroll down you have a URL that they're It's going to set it so happy graduation day is probably taken. So I'm just going to do This again is going to So as people are searching or happy graduation day, we will show up based on our keywords in the title description and the URL. Make sure that you set this on public. That way other people can see it once it's added to the marketplace. And then if you have you will add it to it here. We are going to be doing I'll show you that in a minute. So just like this, we are ready to go. We click publish listing, just give it a second to load here. If for any reason this crashes and doesn't go all the way through, try it on a different browser. And that will be the browser that you'll wanna use for future listings. So now we have our And if you followed along this far, you are officially a This listing is now for sale. So someone can buy your on a hoodie, on a mug, they can even pick their Then when someone does they will pay for everything. And just that profit margin will be added to our account Now, speaking of cashing out on Teespring, something that's important to do once you've created your first design, is go to your dropdown, go to settings and then make sure that you add how you're going to be paid out. This is a variable in the trust score. So we have to get a few sales, but also they need to So all you do is scroll down and all you have to do for your PayPal account Now, the reason they have is PayPal is more US-based and So you can do it from So if your region does not support PayPal, you can create a Payoneer account instead and connect it right here. Now a common question is, do you need to have a No, for PayPal and Payoneer, you can do a completely and that'll be plenty for this. You don't have to register a Now, once you've done this it's going to send a confirmation link. So make sure that you check your email and verify that email, and then it will be confirmed on here. So if you stuck around you're doing extremely There's just a home stretch here. First thing is that our So now all we have to do and then also Merch by Amazon. And we're just going to do the same thing. So we go through the same process here, nothing special with either of these. You can use the same title and description for all three of these sites. And again, you use that same design file. That's on our computer to Now with Redbubble and Merch by Amazon, you don't have to do where your own marketing, So essentially for those two, you're already at the end of the process, for Redbubble and Merch by You create as many great designs you upload them to the site. And then you go back to the beginning. You don't have to create any storefronts. You don't have to do Now, the only thing is that when we start talking when you create your account, So you have to request an invitation. It takes about five minutes And it just because they have so many people interested in joining that they can't accept everyone. So I'm going to link a video just for you to bookmark and watch later, once you finish this one. That gives you pointers on what you should put in your application to increase your chances So once you are accepted the really important thing to know is you're only going to in the beginning. So as you start creating pick the 10 designs that you think are the absolute best in the best niches, and put those up on your You don't have to do anything. You don't have to send They will just organically get sales. And once you get 10 sales, you will be moved into the next tier, which allows you 25 Again, once you get 25 sales, you're moved into the next tier and it just keeps going up more and more. The goal with Merch by and adding as many designs as you can. Now, this goal stays true for Redbubble and Teespring as well. The ultimate goal is to get and good niches as we can. So that takes care of and Merch by Amazon. Again, we're just adding and making sure we're finding good niches and creating as many Now coming back to Teespring, this is the last part of the process here, and it's specific to Teespring because they have the trust score. All right, you guys are doing really well. We are on the last section here. This is the last part And this is specifically Now, in theory, we could just like Redbubble and Merch by Amazon, where we're just finding good niches and creating a ton of However, we really need that so we have to get two Once we do that, they start adding our and they start doing all of So it's very advantageous to us to try to get those first few sales as quickly as we possibly can so that we can get added and take advantage of their coming to their site every month browsing through the marketplace. So with that said, what we have to do is go And from here, let's go to storefronts. And as you can see, there's another example of a storefront that I was creating in However, what we are going to be doing is click create new storefront. And this one is going to be that we found on Merch Informer. So in this example, it So what we are going to that is not us, it's not ambiguous, but it is about the niche. So what I would do is Now I know we're going and long sleeve shirts and tank tops, but by putting tees in here, kind of gives people People associate tees with graphic tees or designs on a t-shirt. So I think it works and I can recommend using it. So this is good Highschool That's the name of our storefront. And if someone else has that name in their storefront already, So find one that is not already used. Now from here, we have to It's not a long process, but you're going to go through your header and you can change the in this dropdown over here, I'm going to leave it as it is. Click save, if you did change it, we're going to go to the banner. And this is where you can So on some of my other storefronts that you've probably you can add in a very slim banner and it'll go right along the top. It's 1,600 by 200 pixels to be exact, but I'll show you how to in a second here, we're gonna come back and This is the most important part. We're going to add products. And we're going to add in the So as you can see, they We can check all of but what I recommend doing So as you know, we put that design onto in the same listing, and we don't wanna add all five of them to the same storefront because it's just going So typically what I would do is just add it on the classic t-shirt. So as you can see, it says We're just going to hit the and then we'll hit done. And then again, we're going And as you can see, it just added that item Now, something that's good to know is that since we only picked the t-shirt, it's actually fine for us because when someone it brings them to the full listing where they can see all five of the styles and all of the different Okay, so basically we have Granted, we haven't added a better photo. We haven't really spiced but this is a functioning storefront. The way we see that as down at the bottom and it brings us into So we're going to leave this page open. We're going to come back I hope you guys are but this is going to be the storefront that we're going to be to get traffic over here and get us our trust score. So now that we have this storefront, we've clicked go to storefront. This is the actual link I'm going to leave it up because we're going to come back and reference it in a second here. So now that this is ready to go, now we need to talk about how do you get that initial traffic over to your Teespring storefront so that you can get those first few sales and get your trust score. Once you have your trust score, you don't need to do storefronts. You don't need to do any of that anymore. All you have to do is find great niches and create a ton of great designs in them. However, we need to get so they can see all of our listings in this really good niche and So how do you do that? Well, over time, I have found out that Instagram using a completely free page on Instagram and free niche hashtags, you can target people really well. You can put in a link to the storefront, and as you start posting people find your posts, they find your profile and and they come over here. And all of a sudden they've looking at the products So I'll walk you through We're going to switch over to my phone so I can go into Instagram Okay, so once you are on Instagram, this is a pretty important part. We need to create a new account. This is not the account that you personally use on Instagram. We're not just gonna start posting photos of t-shirts there. What we need to do is So log in or create a new And this is where we're Now we want the username to be as close to the storefront name as possible. Now with Instagram, you can get creative by using underscores or periods. So as you're going through here, it's going to tell you what has taken. So obviously highschool is taken. Someone has that as a username. So I'm just going to do highschool and underscore is a and another underscore and Tees, highschool graduation This is ready to go, as you So this literally works and Then it'll ask you how I just do add a password instead And then they'd like you So I'm just going to set Let's be 26 years old right now. And then just adding a So if you have an email it's not going to allow you to use it. So you may need to create a new email, which is very easy, you or any other email provider and just create basically an account that is for print on demand. And then once you've done that, it's basically just walking Now, once you get to add a profile photo, I'll show you how to make but we're going to skip it for now. And now we have a brand which is specifically for about highschool graduation tees. So the first few steps we need to edit our profile. So click the edit profile button up top for the name we're going to type in our storefront name again, Highschool Graduation Tees. And what's nice is when on Instagram, it shows the So they will be able to see or what your page is about. And the website link, this is one of the most is you need to make sure is the storefront link that So I'm just going to reference And then once we have that typed in, we basically have enough However, we do have bio and customize and make telling people what they are here for. So in here, I'm just putting the best highschool because it is kind of a play Every high school has its own town, and it's very competitive So that's just a simple way to do it. There's other videos on this channel, going over different styles that you can put in your bio. But essentially this is up to you. Just make sure that you're telling someone when they come to your profile, what they will find on your profile. So then once we've done this, we are good to go so we can just hit done. So what's cool about this is now, since we put that link up there, when someone comes to our profile, they can click that link and it goes right to our where they can see all of our Then once they click on them, they can see that entire They can see the different And this is everything that we have just created on the computer. Okay, so now we're done on we're on the last couple of steps here. We need to come up with our profile photo. We also need to come up with the content that's going to be posted on this page. And then I'll show you how to get your traffic to So they go to your storefront Okay, so now that we have ready for us and waiting for us, now let's create the profile photo. We can also create the banner and we can create the content that's going to be posted So the content you're going to be posting on the Instagram page is you wanna be showing which are your shirts. And also you want to be showing, engaging posts that people If you're only posting which are screenshots from the listings, it's going to get old to people and it's not really as engaging. So what is engaging content? Well, this is what I like to do. Let's go back over to Placeit. And this is where we left off before. I'm just going to go with the subscription to Placeit that we were talking Again, that's like $12 per month. You can create your t-shirt designs, but also you can create mockup photos. Again, they have thousands of mockups just to give you the number, right now they have that you can choose from and So there's 810 that are recently added. Now, what that means for us is we can go to mockups hover over that, click on t-shirts. And now we have a ton of mockups where simply all we do that we want to have a And you do this a ton of time. So this is basically endless content. And essentially what you do is you find the ones that you like. And then you can put the designs that we created on Placeit And it Photoshops it onto that model. So there are endless possibilities here, but you wanna find people who find the people who are in that niche that you created this page for. For this example, that is going to be So we wanna find people who and that's who we wanna use. But also don't forget you up top, graduation. We'll search within results this time, because we wanna search within mockups, that way it's not going to show us the graduation t-shirt designs, but rather just the mockups this time. So then just like that, we have mockups of graduates which is a perfect fit for what we are trying to advertise here. And then all we have to and select the design file that is on item in our storefront. Now it's going to allow you to crop it. First, let's go with what is recommended. And if we need to make that design bigger or smaller on the shirt, So as you can see this as a little bit low for where I would prefer, it's kind of on the stomach So I'm just going to go back to crop, just going to bring it up to the top and we'll try it right there. That looks a lot better. So happy graduation day. there is a young male, wearing a young male on a in his cap and gown. All we have to do here is hit download. Again, commercial usage This is why I love Placeit so much. Wait just a second here. And it's going to process the mockup and then we can download it All right, it's ready, We'll open this up. And just like that, we have an image that looks like it was As you can see, the quality of all their and our design is Now what we are going is send it to our phone and then we will post it So if you have an Apple you can airdrop it to yourself. If not, you can email it to yourself. And then you can open email on your phone and download it that way. But one way or another, you wanna get this from This is so that we can All right, coming back to the phone. I just airdropped it to myself. So I have it on my phone here. Now we're going to switch and now we are ready to So all we do is the add button. We'll select the mockup and we'll hit the little to make it full size. We'll hit next. Since it's coming from place that you don't have to edit If you wanna put a specific I do not recommend doing it because I think their photos So it has the look that you taking these photos for you. Then we'll just hit next. Now, the only thing we have to We're not going to use hashtags just yet, and then make sure that our for Highschool Graduation Now in the caption, you You don't want to be trying Although a lot of people and end up purchasing from Instagram, they are buying from impulse purchases. They're not going to really They're more so just going to see it, know someone who they could buy that for, and it will be a perfect fit. You're in the right This is going to happen which I'll show you in a minute here. So essentially what we're is just telling people what we offer. So I'm just going to do you know someone who's graduating? Do you wanna get them an Well, check out our store And once that's good, all we And this will be the first Now, once you've made this post, we need to bring in the power of hashtags. So on this post, it's really not going because we have no followers However, if we go down and we come up to the search at the top, we go over to tags and we highschool graduation. We are going to see a ton and be putting on our post. So essentially you wanna go through here and find the ones that are relevant. The ones that are from 2018 or 2019, obviously are not going to be relevant, but the ones that are 2020, or just generally high school graduation, these are all going to be targeting people who are graduating high school, and this is relevant for them. So what we are going to do on our phone of a lot of these hashtags that we really like that So I'm just going to and we'll start there. So I'm going to go through here and put together a list who we are targeting, which And for each post you can And you can keep going along here until you find up to 30 of them and have your 30 best ones in this list. Now don't think that you have to stay on high school graduation. We can come back in here and and just do graduation and see if there are some better hashtags for us to use here. Just make sure that, especially in a niche like this, where we're targeting specifically make sure that we don't get and get into college graduation or things that may be off topic, but still seemingly in the same niche. So make sure that you're and targeting the people that are relevant in your specific niche. Okay, so this is my I don't want to spend but you can go up to 30. Then after you make a post, you're going to select all We'll go back over to our Instagram posts that we just posted. And we're going to go into our profile. We'll go to that post. And we're going to leave a comment. In the comment we are going We'll post it. And now those hashtags are They're still going to be relevant, but they are not going to show up. When someone is looking at this post, as you can see, it says view one comment rather than having all of our hashtags, just kind of out here in the front, which is not very easy on the eyes. So that's why we put it in a comment. So after you post your post come back and leave a comment, and that's where you'll And once you have that in your notes, you can into your comments on on your Instagram page. Now don't forget, you have So I'm just going to that we posted down here. But what you can do is and you can create a whole new one of a different model or a different mockup of a t-shirt and you can put that All right, that'll be our And now, as you can see, our So what's cool about these hashtags is since we put these in people interested in these topics, Instagram is going to to those people. It will show up in their search when they go through and they're browsing just looking at Instagram posts and they don't have to So this is how we get organic traffic just coming from Instagram they see our posts and they're like, &quot;Oh wow, that's actually good.&quot; They read the caption, know someone who's graduating, wanna get them an awesome shirt. check out our store They click on your profile. They go over and they click your link. This is how you get people completely for free, just So essentially bringing this full circle. When you have your Instagram page, you are just going to repeat this process. As you're creating new designs on Placeit you'll upload them to Teespring, Redbubble and Merch by Amazon. For the ones on Teespring, you'll add them to your storefront and then you'll go back With those mockups, you'll and use niche specific hashtags in the comments on those posts. As you start doing that more and more, people will keep finding and go to your storefront. And they're clearly because the hashtags The only way they're going is if they're interested then it's just a matter of time of getting in front of the who are ready to buy, and they're ready to get You only have to do this in the beginning for Teespring. And until you get a few of your own sales and then you have your trust score and Teespring does it all for you, they will start adding and you get in front of literally billions of people per month. Redbubble and Merch by Amazon, they do that for you from the start. So you don't have to where any of the Instagram marketing. Now I know we were on the Teespring storefront. I would just wanted you to know that I didn't forget about that. You can use Placeit for that as well. So you can find a mockup that looks good when it's kind of squished because you only have It's just a strip of a photo. If you wanna add in the banner photo, I recommend using Place it to use a mockup and create some type of with that being said guys, I know this has been a lengthy video. There are going to be and a table of contents, If you stuck around this far in this video might heart is off to you and this was a lot of information. This is everything you need to know to succeed in print on demand. The rest is up to you. It's just finding more good niches, making as many great Once you get your trust then you don't have to worry or the Instagram at all. Then it's just a matter of and making as many great Guys I hope this video has been helpful. If you have any questions feel free to let me know the comments. I'll keep an eye on the comments and I'll help you out with some answers. Additionally, the channel is filled with a ton of detailed videos on certain parts of this process. So feel free to look around there. And as always, if you enjoyed this video, feel free to give it a thumbs up and subscribe if you haven't already, and I'll be seeing you