During the Second World War, Hitler made an increasing number of errors I'd say that Hitler In 1940, Hitler allowed the British Army The decision to bomb civilians and industrial targets was a huge mistake. A mistake he will pay a high price for In 1942, in yet another bad decision Hitler sends his troops The German armies aren't equipped and the poor men are freezing. Hitler loses almost a million soldiers in what would be the real turning point Hitler lost the war in the East. In 1944, he launches His generals don't believe It was an attack The only one responsible Hitler used up the last of his troops and opened up Germany's doors At the beginning of 1942, The Fuhrer had made an increasing number After the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, This decision, which was taken from his military leaders, In Russia, Hitler's Operation Barbarossa failed to bring victory for the Reich On the contrary, Stalin's counter-attack and forced them to face For Hitler, it's time to choose between the strategic withdrawal and the headlong rush The oil supplied by Germany or Romania was no longer enough so Hitler started to envisage notably in the south of Russia. Taking oil from the Caucasus, Baku, Maikop It would prevent the Red Army and secondly, that would help ease the huge problem The Anglo-Saxon blockade was solid, and so Hitler thought with Fall Blau or Case Blue, which was launched On paper, but in practice, the state of the roads after the thaw that had to be covered Bakou, the capital, Hitler also overlooks their equipment and supply difficulties. Still falling prey the Fuhrer continues The first weeks go in his favor, and he conquers but on 23rd July 1942, He decides to divide his armies into two. One army will go towards the Caucasus, and Von Paulus' 6th Army is charged Hitler sends his troops which results in the very harmful The military leaders but nobody has even the slightest It's left to an exhausted to take Stalingrad, commanded by General Friedrich Paulus. Taking Stalingrad One reason is fairly obvious. Taking the city that is named Stalingrad is a symbol for Hitler It's a large industrial city and Hitler understands would represent Taking Stalingrad means and that's important because it's 1942, and American help It's coming through Iran, the Caspian Seas so if Stalingrad falls the American supplies On the 23rd of August, under General Paulus arrives A bombing... that would turn Stalingrad into ruins. The order to destroy everything possible was a completely They thought: these people are inferior so we're going to destroy them completely. That was a great idea. What Paulus perhaps were the difficulties of urban combat. It's well known When you're in a city in ruins, weapons are used differently. While a tank was very useful it's not the same in the city. It can be blown up whether it's with a bazooka, The battle changes. It would have been better and keep the German Army out of it. The German soldiers weren't used so they had a lot of tactical difficulties and so the Soviets faced them They had many losses, but they desperately wanted to hold on, so it was dreadful. For almost two months, against an enemy every building, They won't reach the Volga. There's an area so the Soviet troops go over the river and there are reinforcements When a Soviet regiment is crushed, Sometimes it's terrible because so they are told to take the guns The Red Army will leave The commissioners of the NKVD, Any soldier or any company Thirteen thousand soldiers were killed a considerable amount. When the snow arrives in October 1941, the Germans, again don't have With no significant reinforcements, untrained for urban warfare the morale Starting October, Paulus learns that there are strong concentrations on the northern and south eastern fronts. He is worried for both, by the Romanian army, for the war in general, He asks for permission to draw back, he'll end up in what the Germans call Hitler says no. We will not retreat. The strategy was to retreat It's a military strategy and if you retreat, you get destroyed. If you retreat, you can gather up That's something you teach to corporals. On October 14th, 1942, Hitler gives the strict order His troops must stay in Stalingrad A month later, the Red Army on two fronts around the city. Stalin launches his counter-attack. He doesn't attack Stalingrad itself, He instead analyzes the Germans' plan and Romanian troops The Russians swoop Italian and Romanian troops, who yield faster, and this will allow When, on 23rd November 1942, Paulus's 6th Army is caught in the trap. A German Army so Hitler gave the order to launch an operation Von Manstein warns Hitler to create a corridor and enable him to escape. To do this, Von Manstein's troops but anticipating this move, Von Manstein is forced to withdraw Paulus's army has to survive alone with limited supplies, To feed the 6th Army, which is made up they need a minimum of 500 tons per day. Goering is there again, replying: 500 tons, not 600? Okay, 500. No problem, my Junker, 52 will go, but with the snow and the cold, The motors won't start, They manage to take 100 tons, After eight days, they are short of 3,200. The result of this is that the 6th Army will literally die of hunger since they have to give On the 10th of January 1943, designed to reduce once and for all Fifteen days later, when the Russians cut Hitler once again repeats that his troops At the last minute, at the end of January, thinking that Not surrender because a German but Von Paulus will surrender. Paulus surrenders, to his men to surrender, but it's over. Finally, on the morning the red flag flies over Stalingrad. It's the first major defeat and its supreme ruler, Adolf Hitler. The problem with Von Paulus which is why he kept his post, but on the other hand, he allowed the Soviets to take hundreds Perhaps he should have thought I think that a distinctive feature is all war is barbaric, The Germans were atrocious which means less than 5,000 made it home. They were either simply killed or died of hunger During Operation Barbarossa, either killed, injured, or disappeared. The Red Army lost twice as many, but it had seven times Since '39, '40, this was an army It was an important turning point. This change of fortune While Hitler suffered his first loss in response to his declaration of war, Allied with the British, they had been making advances The President of the United States welcomed the Prime Minister The gravity of the moment During the spring of 1942, when German domination the Allies agree on the need as called for by Stalin, This operation, known as Torch, must allow landings This would give the British and Americans To do this, they need to vanquish which occupy Libya. The Afrika Korps is an elite army. It's not at all negligible. It's under the command of Rommel, a very popular general Field Marshall Rommel's Afrika Korps to deal with in addition to the British. They were in the process of retreating and now have the force of the Allies Operation Torch in November 1942 On November 8th, 1942, Operation Torch, involving 100,000 soldiers, Three groups are in charge along a 1500 kilometer coastline. They are soon battling who are allied with the Italians. Rommel was defeated. It was a battle that the British The first was that they were at least two, Secondly, they were close to their bases, whereas Rommel's were far away in Tripoli, Benghazi, or even further in Tunisia, so he lost. From then on, the Italian and German Axis, fight on the east against the British Army and in the west against the British, They were increasingly surrounded, Rommel informs Hitler of the need to bring or in any case, to stop the battle. In North Africa, Hitler makes the same mistake Once again, he persists and demands down to the last man. It would have been better to leave rather than try to resist at all like Hitler did in Tunisia. Thousands of young German soldiers would be sacrificed in vain. The only thing is that Rommel because Rommel one of the best German generals, so it would have been catastrophic Little by little, the noose is tightening. The superiority and their blockades of artillery but the Afrika Korps continues The Tunisian mountains for the majority of the German soldiers. Those who received the order to fight, When Tunisia surrendered there had been 130,000 Germans It was a major error and a huge number of prisoners, I tend to think that the Tunisian disaster and military force It's symbolically less important but it was probably a disaster for the Axis forces than Stalingrad. They lost as many troops, if not more, In May 1943, on the Russian front, The Germans Hitler wants to take the initiative after his failures In Koursk, the opportunity for a counter-attack A 150-kilometer pocket during the Russian attack The Russians formed a large bulge in the German defense. The salient has several Hitler's idea is to penetrate and to surround the Russian troops, Hitler's real objective because, after Stalingrad, are saying that: we can't hold on any longer. Hitler's political objective to his European allies. He wants to show the power particularly with the new panzers and above all, the all-powerful Tiger and the Elefant, the heavy tank destroyer. The Tiger and the Panther but getting these great tanks That's the problem. It's not enough to say that The German industrial centers are very far away, People forget this. They need to go on trains. These trains need to get there That is beginning to be very efficient so it takes time. General von Manstein He wants to surprise which is worn out Hitler disagrees. He wants to stall for time until the new He stalls, saying they are on the way, but losing a month or two when you are in the middle of the tundra They lost several weeks by waiting. The Soviet generals who were there was preparing an attack. Informed by the British, they are aware as soon as they're planned The English have decrypted Enigma and are sending this information so the Russians know exactly where they are going to attack, They had time to prepare an in-depth defense with mines, anti-tank systems, artillery, et cetera. They had time and when Hitler launched his attack it was once again too late. On the 5th of July 1943, There were sizable forces involved. Two million Russian soldiers Even more impressive, 2,700 German tanks mostly composed of T-34 models. These were tanks and not at all sophisticated, and very well used They had lots of T-34s, The poor big Panthers well, they are dead The battle of Kursk was the biggest and it'll end up a cemetery of tanks. The northern attack quickly fails They hit a brick wall In the south, but very soon the German troops They don't have enough men, and the Soviets The German tanks are fighting so despite the standard the battle very quickly There's not much room for maneuvering, It's all in one direction, The loss at Kursk is another demonstration In 50 days of fighting, Whether or not the German Army it wouldn't have changed the war. From the German side, and set up a defensive line and do something focused instead of carrying out these battles losing thousands of trucks and tanks They had terrible losses It's a major event because after Kursk, the Germans don't have any possibilities They've lost so many men that they're no longer able on the Eastern front. In Stalingrad, but the Wehrmacht was still there, whereas at Kursk, In 1944, Hitler also believes so he is on the defensive. Hitler thinks that the landings so he has selected a possible landing zone The Channel is the shortest at around 30 kilometers, whereas at Cherbourg or Caen, The Allies aren't crazy, so if they leave from England, Hitler thinks the Allied armies so he puts very well-armed and in the North, This blind certainty in the place because for a long time, that lets them To mislead Hitler, the Allies increase There were sizeable bombings just before the Normandy landings There were double agents in England saying that the landing or on the Belgian coast Hitler falls into the trap, convinced that an Allied landing he sends a maximum number of troops there. When Operation Overlord the first wave of the Allied attack Instead, they are 300 kilometers away precisely where the German position Given the seriousness of the situation, the German military leaders must urgently to face the Allied troops. They must call Hitler, On the 6th of June 1944, and was not to be woken. The morning of 6th June, Von Rundstedt, the commander, not for any reason. But yes, we need to move the divisions! No, no, no. The hours go by, and the waves of Allied attacks He only wakes up at 10:00 AM, Decisions need to be made, and Hitler is the only one There are ten Panzer divisions in France, they could make all the difference The ten Panzer divisions If there were to be on the Normandy front, the landings would become When informed of the Allied landings, and still thinks that the Allies He said: It's not true, so I'm keeping my Panzer divisions. He thought it was a diversion, that the landing would soon take place that it was a secondary operation. By midday, During this time, Rundstedt gives the order to begin: The chancellery calls them back, saying, During this time, When Hitler finally realizes the trains have to go to Montargis because there are no more bridges Hitler will keep seven Panzer divisions and they only send three to Normandy. 70% of his tanks were ready and waiting while the combat This allowed the Allies and to ensure the liberation If Hitler hadn't been asleep that morning and if he'd listened to his generals then he would have given The Panzer divisions and maybe the Allies would have left, This is political fiction but still... The military climate Some dignitaries think to make Hitler pay for his errors that have been so costly In Nazi Germany, there was a resistance, including in the army. People who in '39, That's why on 20th July 1944, launched Operation Valkyrie. Those who take part in the attack are senior officers who have a very clear vision who know that in the short term and they have to stop by killing the head of the armies For this, who regularly is in close contact He's an impressive character who has serious injuries That day, when he arrives in East Prussia his bag is stuffed with explosives. The attack cannot fail. The attack in the Wolf's Lair in July 1944 When the meeting begins, around 20 of the Wehrmacht's dignitaries Stauffenberg is late. It's just bad luck was placed in the wrong spot. Stauffenberg joins the group because he is deaf, and at his request, The ideal place for him The attack failed purely because the briefcase Under the pretext of a phone call, The briefcase was bothering He put it next to a wooden pillar where the meeting was being held. The explosion but the conspirators The attack only claimed three victims The dictator escaped and minor burns on his body. Someone said it was the hand of the devil and it's true, The same day Mussolini He is welcomed by Hitler, Miraculously spared, Straight away, it was followed and most of the German Army, who are implicated closely and even sometimes very distantly Rommel will be forced to kill himself. Von Kluck, another great leader killed himself. Some of the conspirators and films of it distributed by Hitler His revenge is immense. In total, 5,000 people are killed Hitler no longer trusts his army. This is the time when the SS Himmler is now number two, because Hitler effectively entrusts the SS This will have dramatic consequences Now, more than ever, orders become ideological. We must hold on. Holding on is a question of honor, If we don't manage to hold our position as Hitler keeps promising, Thanks to the miraculous weapons that we are waiting for The miraculous weapons which Hitler is so desperately From then on, Hitler develops a pathos in private or on the contrary, fits of terrible rage. Hitler is physically In his head, He is very tired, He's barely 55 years old, but in images Hitler's mental and physical state as his defeats mount. At the start of the war, through the carcasses At the end of the war, his last appearance A man who is stooped with a lined face with his left hand behind his back because he had a convulsive tremor. In fact, Hitler was afflicted He was an insomniac. With all those tonics, antidotes, he was practically a drug addict. He was incapable of having the necessary to lead this war He receives regular injections. He's medicated, nobody dares to contradict him, and around him are only generals Nobody dares to contradict On the Western front in December 1944, Luxembourg, Saarbrucken, All officers have their eyes and the most optimistic ones They are forgetting the rage who is more and more cut off from reality. Hitler says, I can make one more gamble and launches a counter-attack, the Ardennes counter-attack, He puts Field Marshall Von Rundstedt even though Von Rundstedt to the extent that he doesn't attend called by Hitler for the operation. His generals don't believe They are convinced They can see the superiority of the Allies but Hitler says they to cut the Allied forces in two. The idea of a counter-attack to reach the port of Anvers which is very important Having succeeded He wanted to weaken and make a compromise peace to be able to then go up the communists and the Bolsheviks. It was a gamble, it was, above all, It was an attack Even if the element of surprise the military leaders consider are disproportionate In 1944, he still has The Panzer division had 120 or 150 tanks but according to him That division, that division, To attack in the Ardenne, The maneuver is suicidal, but once again, The only way the German attack and the German tanks breaking through is if the Allied troops and for that to happen, On the 16th of December 1944, to beginning Operation Wacht am Rhein. When the Battle of the Ardennes starts, is knocked out by the scale of the attack. At the beginning, it was quite successful. They succeeded in knocking back notably those on this front. They're at rest thought that the Ardennes were impregnable The same error made in 1940. Overwhelmed in many areas, the American GIs surrender However, the lightning attack Their aims were overreached. In no way was the German Army of penetrating the front as far as Anvers. Choosing to attack and being so dependent When we think about how bad it was the same for the Germans The two armies face each other often reaching -20 degrees. The ground was either snowy or muddy. The remaining tanks, so the offensive was held up that the German Army showed in 1940, no longer existed. On 22nd December 1944, only six days the German Army began to run out The Wehrmacht leadership underestimated There won't be enough fuel. The fuel is already lacking, they only have half of the fuel needed to achieve the objective The other half which is an incredible gamble. From the 23rd of December, The Allied airplanes can finally take off. From the very first rays of sunlight, all the Allied airplanes take off As soon as the sun comes back, the P47s, the Mustangs swoop down It's a massacre. The Anglo-American planes, specifically target the trucks and there are just plumes of smoke The Germans are forced faced both with Patton's counter-attack and a British counter-attack The troops were either units but more often Volksgrenadier, terrified, badly equipped and not knowing how to advance like their elders in 1940. The Battle of the Ardennes and finishes on 31st January 1945. At that time, the Germans had gone back but in this madness, they had lost They had lost they'd lost tanks, fuel, and their morale These things are all lacking when who at the moment, During the Battle of the Ardennes, They would have been better because for the German people because after the German atrocities they called the Untermensch, The villages were burned, It was logical. The Russian's hate was terrible, so, in consequence, if he'd reasoned a bit above all he needed to defend the East. Instead of surrendering, the Fuhrer takes his people hostage and brings them with him Attacked on all fronts, is living its final moments. The man who previously dominated Europe now only has imaginary armies During this time, the Anglo-Americans with one ultimate objective, Berlin. The Soviets are racing them to it. Stalin wants to arrive in Berlin and he manages to do so. Berlin is effectively taken At the end of April 1945, The Reich, which should have lasted In military terms, today we depend on what the Nazis and what they say about Hitler. In military terms, someone who had invented who had invented mechanization, et cetera. We realize that in reality, This wasn't a man of 1940, We can clearly see that what was said I'd say that Hitler and that at the start, the fact that he neglects the type of ground, logistical problems, all of these oversights don't catch up Then one day, which should allow a war leader to grow From then on, In the end, his final strategy is suicide. The suicide of the German people, the suicide of those close to him crushed by the Russians. Therefore, who has used up all his tricks, who shoots himself in the temple