Physicists have been hunting for one particle longer than perhaps any other. It's not the tachyon or some supersymmetric particle. It's the magnetic monopole - and of all this is perhaps the most likely to actually exist. So where are they all? Let's try an experiment. Take a metal bar and force all the electrons The electric field of the bar now looks like Now cut the bar in half and you get a pair positive, both of which have electric fields Now take a metal bar and intsead magnetize it. You get a dipole magnetic field that's very So if we cut this bar in half surely we get electric charges, right? Wrong. The ends of the split magnet still have north field. And according to classical electromagnetism, it doesn't matter how many times you slice it - you'll never get isolated magnetic This magnet-slicing experiment was first performed by French scholar and Beauxbatons Academy Professor Petrus Peregrinus de Marincourt That was before we knew what caused the magnetism in magnets. These days we know where magnetism comes from we're not so surprised that a halved magnet just makes two smaller magnets. In a ferromagnet, the field is the sum of electrons in the magnet's atoms. The other popular way to make a dipole magnetic field is the electromagnet - where were push electrons around in a circle In both cases - electron spin or or a circular electric current there's a sense of electric charge in motion. And according to classical electrodynamics, moving electric charge is the source of the magnetic field. If that's true then, why should we even expect there to be isolated magnetic charges - magnetic monopoles? Well, according the classical theory we shouldn't. The non-existence of magnetic monopoles is codified in the mathematics of electrodynamics. In particular, Gauss's law for magnetism, It states that the divergence of a magnetic The divergence is just this mathy term for a sink or outward toward a source. Zero divergence means no source and no sink. Magnetic field lines can form loops or head According to this law there are no magnetic On the other hand, Gauss' law for electric electric field is not zero - it's equal That charge density is where the electric field lines can end - it forms their source or their sink. So there are such things as isolated electric charges. Let's take a quick gander at Maxwell's This is them without any charges - electric or magnetic. E is the electric field and B is the magnetic There's a near perfect symmetry between screwed up when you put in the electric charge - here in the form of charge density and current density. You could also have symmetry between these equations if there was such a thing as magnetic charge. If you add magnetic charges to these equations then you get a magnetic force that looks exactly like the electrostatic force. The physicist Murray Gell-Mann said that &quot;Everything not forbidden is compulsory.&quot; meaning that if the math of our physical theory allows it, then it exists in nature. There's nothing in Maxwell's equations exist except for the fact that James Clark he didn't believe it existed. But in principle it could exist, and so could magnetic monopoles. At least according to classical theory. But what about quantum mechanics? When quantum theory first appeared it quickly revolutionized our understanding of electromagnetism by explaining it in terms of quantum fields We talked previously how electromagnetism arose automatically from requiring that the equations of quantum mechanics had a particular symmetry - the measurements they predict are unaltered by changes in one simple property - the phase of the wavefunction. Electromagnetism pops into the equations as soon as we require this - but in that version of electromagnetism, the electric and magnetic fields are VERY different from each other, and not at all interchangeable as they are In particular, the magnetic field emerging - its field lines can never end - so it can't So perhaps here we have our reason for the Quantum mechanics, as the saying goes, forbids it. Well, not so fast. Don't underestimate the power of the obsessed physicist. The great Paul Dirac had a habit of discovering particles just by staring at the math. In 1928 he predicted the existence of antimatter this way, as we've discussed in a previous episode. But then in 1931, just before his antimatter thing was verified, Dirac made another prediction - of the existence of magnetic monopoles. His argument goes something like this. If you start with a dipole magnetic field, ends far enough apart and somehow vanishing the connecting field lines. And there is a way to do that. If you build a solenoid - just a coil carrying whose connecting field lines are constrained within the coil. So make the width of the coil much smaller magnetic charges. This construction is called the "Dirac string", and Dirac's argument is that if the string part of the Dirac string is fundamentally exist. The second part of the argument is under what conditions that string is undetectable. So magnetic fields affect charged particles. In quantum mechanics, this works by shifting the phase of the particle's wavefunction. Imagine a charged particle - say an electron To plot that trajectory you add up all possible paths of the electron, including paths to the left and to the right at the string. The presence of the string, with its magnetic depending on which side of the string the electron passes - and that would actually have a noticeable effect on the path of the electron. In other words, the string would be detectable. But there's one scenario where the string The amount of the phase shift is proportional to the electric charge. For the right value of that charge, the phase of the string is exactly one wave cycle - which means no observable difference. So for the Dirac string to be undetectable multiples of that basic charge This is a very loose form of the argument - and you can get to it in different ways. But the upshot is that the string connecting Dirac argued that this makes it a mathematical figment, kind of like virtual particles. Reality should only be assigned to the monopoles themselves. On the one hand this was taken as a prediction of the quantization of electric charge - electric charge has to be discrete if there's even And of course we know that electric charge multiples of the charge of the electron. Or maybe of quarks - a third the electron charge. But instead of taking this as a prediction it: magnetic monopoles are possible if electric charge is quantized. Charge turns out to be quantized, so quantum mechanics doesn't actually forbid monopoles. Let's fast forward 40 more years. In the early 70s physicists had managed to with electromagnetism. We talked about that before - about how the breaking of the symmetry of the Higgs field separated the weak and electromagnetic forces. With that squared away, physicists were working to bring the strong nuclear force into the fold with the so-called Grand Unified Theories. These involved slightly more complicated symmetry breakings. Well it turns out that magnetic monopoles Let me try to give you a sense of why - and this. We've done a couple of Higgs episodes before if you want to get all the nitty gritty. But in electroweak theory, the Higgs field is a scalar field - it takes on a numerical value everywhere in the universe, but with no direction - it's not a vector. In fact it really takes on two complex values "degrees of freedom" gives the Higgs its In the simplest grand unified theory, the of two. That means the field can sort of act like It can have a little internal arrow that points physical space, but in the space of those Now the laws of physics shouldn't care about the relative internal values of the Higgs field - what matters is the absolute length it's pointing. There should be no noticeable effect even smoothly across space. Except in one very special case. If the direction of the Higgs field varies still have these sorts of knots - places where the field arrows all point away from that point - in what was called a hedgehog configuration. These are topological discontinuities - points that can't be removed by a smooth defomation of space. And it turns out these knots in the Higgs with magnetic charge - magnetic monopoles. The hedgehog solution was figured out in 1974, simultaneously by Gerard t'Hooft and Alexander Polyakov. It turns out that GUT theories generically they should be A) very massive, and B) should form spontaneously in extremely high-energy environments like in the very early universe. The fact that magnetic monopoles should exist in these theories was both exciting and problematic. GUTs predict that monopoles should be produced in enormous numbers in the very early universe - as abundantly as protons and electrons. So where are they all? They should also be very massive - quadrillions of times the mass of the proton - and so should have quickly recollapsed the universe. This conflict with reality might have ruled out both monopoles and the grand unified theories that predict them. Except that both of these ideas are saved by yet another speculative idea - cosmic inflation. Many physicists think that a period of prodigious exponential growth kicked off the expansion of our universe. This should have happened after the production of magnetic monopoles, and so should have thrown these things far apart that there may be very few remaining in our entire observable universe. That would be a bummer for our hopes of detecting these things. But that hasn't stopped physicists from There are various approaches. If you have one of these magnetic monopoles in your lab it wouldn't be too hard to spot - for example a monopole would excite an electric current if passed through a conducting coil. Back in 1982, physicist Blas Cabrera Navarro set up a superconducting coil in his Stanford lab and managed to detect what looked like by Paul Dirac. But no one ever saw such a thing ever again. That includes at the Large Hadron Collider, failed to spot monopoles created in the collider. That's not so surprising given that the lower than is needed to produce the monopoles predicted by grand unified theories. People also look for magnetic monopoles coming from space - typically using cosmic ray observatories - or contributing to the Earth's magnetic But again, no convincing evidence as of We have been hunting for magnetic monopoles for longer than just about any particle. Their discovery would mean cracking open the grand unified theories and revealing mysteries far beyond. And so many of us remain obsessed with this elusive beast, and convinced of its inevitability according to the symmetries of space time. If you've joined us on Patreon, I can't emphasize enough how helpful your support is in keeping this show going. You don't have to do it - you could keep watching for free anyway - but that makes it all the more awesome of you. Today I want to give a huge shoutout to our Big Bang supporter Kyle Bulloch. Kyle, we are taught by Paul Dirac that if the entire universe then electric charge must be quantized. We don't know where that single magnetic monopole would be, but it's rare and special and so we decided to name it after you. So now Kyle, the magnetic monopole Kyle - is doubly important - sure, it ensures the quantization of all charge, but it also serves as a testament to the generosity of Kyle. Of Kyle the human. Kyle, you have our thanks and now you also have a monopole. Last week we talked about how quantum spin leads to the universe as we know it - for example all the structure of solids, via the 4fmagnet points out a potentially misleading point in that episdoe. We represented very distinctly separated electron energy levels in our explanation of how fermion's can't occupy identical quantum states. 4fmagnet notes that energy levels in atoms it's possible to have two electrons at the allowing for opposite spin orientations. That's a fair call - if I was being more careful I would have said that we were trying to represent separate quantum states, not energy levels David points out that we don't need to keep quantum property that has no intuitive analogy - reminding us that Hans Ohanian, in his book "what is spin?" showed that spin can be described as a circular charge current in the Dirac field. We actually did mention this result in our episode on what is spin. And it may be that people should talk about this result more - Ohanian's calculation is not generally accepted as "true", so I'm although as far as I know no-one has actually disputed the math. Still, it would be nice to have a physical taking off my belt. Flosi Lyons asks what happens when the degeneracy pressure - the structural support against collapse produced by the Pauli exclusion principle - is overcome. For example, if a collapsing stellar core pressure that supports white dwarf stars and instead produces a black hole or neutron star. So the answer is that the Pauli exclusion Fermions never occupy the same quantum states. When degeneracy pressure is broken it's up. In the case of the collapsing star, densities to be captured by protons, converting them So the loss of electrons reduces the degeneracy to continue. Tom Rostrom asks whether any of this spin to be turned 540deg to return to the correct Fantastic question, Tim. The answer is no. USB plugs have spin 2/3s - a 360 degree rotation They're neither fermions nor bosons, so Also, remember that you can undo fermion rotations by translation of the ends - for USB cables its the opposite- twists approach infinity the presence of other USB cables. Physicists hope to understand these things Or maybe you could just use USBC - they're spin-2 bosons like gravitons, so easily understood with a basic theory of quantum gravity.