Each of these cars is controlled by an Artificial And this AI is designed to improve over time the better it gets. With enough training, to drift perfectly, it might even become I've already tried to build such an AI, several game for years and it wasn't enough to beat So about six months ago, I decided to give this an opportunity for revenge. This video is the AI that could beat me in Trackmania. And this But first let's start with this very simple The AI uses something called an artificial neural tool which roughly models how a brain works. Every few numbers which describe what's happening in specifying the action to perform. Hopefully, the finishes this track as quickly as possible. But correctly, that's the tricky part. For this, I'm Here's how it works. The AI starts from scratch first its decisions are quite random. But for on how good that action was. The faster the AI So with each new attempt, the AI explores idea of reinforcement learning is tweak the neural network, in a way that Actually, all the cars I'm showing are controlled network, and they represent successive states of is trying actions based on some of its current not. but whatever happens, the AI can use this And it's through this trial and error loop that until it has mastered it. At least, that's nightmare to get this thing working properly... This where the AI's first decent attempts on this my first time with reinforcement learning, and the do. But it would often get stuck in a sub-optimal In particular, the AI loved to hit the walls. decides to smash into a wall at full speed, and it's only later that it turns out to be and long-term reward is one of the many things get right. And when you observe the AI doing where the problem lies. Maybe there is a bug is the reward signal clear enough ? I could don't know.. It could be that the AI doesn't see the learning algorithm properly ? Should I try a Let's check out the comments on my last Oh maybe it's because the AI can't break ? No. well it's hard to know. So like my AI, I entered re-running the training, and waiting to see if it process. Especially because the training part any results. It's hard to learn on your own from a lot of data to even begin to understand what's I need to let these training sessions run during feedback. That's why I went back to this project brake. Every simplification of the decision making to solve, and I found it easier to progress all these efforts started to pay off. After many stopped hitting the walls and it was getting finally, it happened. And this [Music] Three years after starting this project, I had never be able to beat. And I have to admit: it was a strange feeling to be outmatched But this track: it's quite simplistic. It was Last year, I spent a few hours trying I then trained an AI on the same it's time to try again and see if [Music] Overall, the training method remains the same as the observation input the AI gets when it drives. car metrics, such as its current speed. It also But on this track, the road layout is no the upcoming turns. So I added new inputs to To make the video easier to follow, the starting line. But in reality, the AI its training. This prevents it from Here's an overview of the first 5 hours of my personal best in the first few turns. year. But the AI is not sufficiently robust, At least for now. One thing that surprised me appears that the game's physics are slightly more I had to include a few more inputs to make going on. Adding these two inputs gives the indicate which wheels are in contact with [Music] After nearly 9 hours of training, with a pretty good pace. It completely crushed behind my personal best. And it continued it was becoming very consistent. But [Music] [Music] That's it. After playing this game for 35 hours, But I wasn't ready to give up yet. Now it was brake. Braking doesn't add a huge advantage on which can save a few tenths of a second here map in 4min36. Of course, this gives me an allow it to break yet. But I was still curious Well, not only did the AI beat this new time, but Now, it seemed it was time to admit the But only on this track, right ? Well, I tested before. And it was quite good ! I also tried and it adapted pretty well to this new the AI is less precise, it makes more mistakes, Especially when it's approaching a long stuff relates to the question of generalization. I've tested a whole bunch of other things like changing the car's physics. But let's forget all map. Because even there, there is something Of course I agree, the AI completely crushed me me ? I mean, my personal best run contains quite through these 230 corners at a good pace without consistent. And I think that's what makes it However, if I focus on just one part of the I'm fully satisfied with, will the AI still final map where I will face the AI. And if it [Music] This time, the AI didn't beat me once. the AI is badly disadvantaged. So far, I've makes the game much more complicated to understand too complex. Maybe I was wrong. Anyway, I Here's the plan: I'm going to retrain the AI I will compare this new AI with my best run on and it will determine, once and for [Music] Thanks to the brake, the AI is But for some reason, it doesn't drift. That's I also tried to train it with the brake on it's faster, but it doesn't drift. Though I'm I'm pretty confident it saves time on the other I found a few rare cases where the AI does some the road corners to unbalance the car, and straightforward approach ! It's not so surprising and the many curves prevent high speeds. And out in such cases: by using a trick known as the actions correctly, it's possible to trigger a kind of trick that's pretty hard to discover across it at least once during its many hours enough driving experience to explore further advantage if it's not properly mastered. So, can but maybe we could also help it a little. from now it's drifting. To detect if the car is drifting, it basically means that the car is pointing actually going, which usually means that it's [Music] Well, I guess the AI outsmarted me ! Apparently, bonus, just by spamming these weird action reward bonus only applies when the car speed is [Music] Now this looks good. The AI has So well in fact, that it even chains multiple Obviously, in terms of speed alone, its current training without the bonus. Now that it discovered [Music] [Music] Over the next hours, the AI only where it saves time. Its and it destroyed its previous record on the I think it's time to answer our question: aside on a shorter map ? To answer that, I made the selected its best run. This one. This run is the AI that can beat me in Trackmania. But I also did into practice my years of experience in this [Music] [Music] [Music] After showing that it was more precise, me in this final test. And it seems time But is this AI truly unbeatable ? On this last quite far from optimal, and I'm certain that a faster time. But on the first two levels, I'd If you want to try it for yourself, the game is Of course, all these maps are quite simple, this complex and beautiful game. Now it deserves to be challenged a little more. But way too long to make. If you'd like to see more, I just opened a Patreon page to which you spending time on this project in the future, make it another year and a half before the next [Music]