1960. Tanbin, Luoding, China. One in twenty states that "several children" have been February 25. 1960. Hongtai commune. Yaohejia arrested for a recent crime. The victim is "Relationship with culprit: Younger Brother. livelihood issues." cannibalism in the same city. 12 were killed eaten after. 48 bodies were exhumed and eaten. in the great scheme of things relating to is arguably nothing sadder and more shocking their own family. The desperation felt all most people will never understand, but today The man who was responsible for this wickedness, than any other man, was Mao Zedong. to become what some people have said is the Mao came into this world on December 26, 1893, in the province of Hunan, China. His family this area, with Mao himself leaving school It seems he didn't take to farming as his and poetry. He was especially fond of science his head in the sometimes-difficult works Mao got his wish when at the age of 17 he the Revolutionary Army and the Nationalist the Xinhai Revolution, the event that put At this point, Mao was still a nobody, and the jobs never came and he ended up working time for Mao, who was intently watching Russia in 1917. Communism was the way forward, Mao the first head of Soviet Russia, Vladimir No sooner than the Chinese Communist Party a country whose peasants had known much suffering Mao believed that had to change. Communism, the people, the simple farming folks, was as he drifted off to sleep. Chinese Nationalist Party fell out with the persecuted by the former, there was an uprising for our brevity here, but there's so much Basically, Mao led a Red Army against the Republic of China putting ten Chinese provinces guerillas were hunted down. "The Long March" of Communist armies in retreat from the Kuomintang The distance covered was some 8,000 miles as many as 30,000, but many more endured that was mentioned in the capacity of heroism, that would cement his popularity. There were that many years later helped Mao secure a There was still a split in the country in next further helped Mao to construct a mythology Allied Forces against the Japanese invaders, position to rule over all of China. and military leader, Chiang Kai-shek, made But in the end, there wasn't much peace. weapons sent to them by Joseph Stalin, the The fight raged on. upon millions of them. Hundreds of thousands that won in the end, helped a lot by the Nationalists the war. promised to redistribute the land, to make it. He may have had good intentions, but little take a turn for the worse - the understatement Still, Mao did battle against warlords who'd He did manage to reduce the number of opium policies that made it more possible for the even improved life expectancy for the poor, Times were better, though, at this point, hell. Chairman Mao was indeed a champion of executions of landowners, at times burying As Mao often alluded, you need to break a words, "Political power grows out of the All over China things were changing fast. those wicked landowners that had oppressed country they were executed one by one, with one landlord, and usually several, in virtually Sometimes their wives were spared but were Mao's omelet was bloody, there's no doubt were 200,000 to 800,000 executions, and other million. Those are some big differences, but disagree over numbers when it comes to Mao's You might be thinking, surely a lot of people land reforms. You'd be right to think that. Flowers Campaign", which was supposed to party and its policies. the folks who Mao distrusted the most: the rightists. After speaking their minds, these or sent to work in the labor camps, which seem to embrace a critique at the start, but Hundreds of thousands were persecuted this party, but also regular folks he suspected in Gansu province, two men named Sun Diancai idea for a project to conserve water wouldn't by Mao and punished. graft of about 160,000 million people. They were worked half to death, having to survive This was just one of many of Mao's ideas It's estimated that 2,400 of the workers clean water came out of it in the end? None. many people wanted to talk about. That was if anyone criticized them, they were denounced But many in the party really believed they making China a country that would be more USA. One of those officials once said, "We there are people who are brighter than we but if we are brighter than they are, we are To be as powerful as Britain, Mao said that increased. In 1958, all over China, the people refineries in their backyards. A nation was the case with the Communist Party, this was the cadres. Daily targets had to be met, and This was all part of Mao's Great Leap Forward, "Mao thought that he could catapult his across the country into giant people's communes. was collectivized. People had their work, from them. In collective canteens, food, distributed a weapon used to force people to follow the Mao wasn't going around China to every village. responsible for making those targets, and brutality. These local cadres would often the party officials happy. But when that happened, seeing success where there wasn't any. and there was often the punishment of going so some slowly starved to death. Others simply By April 1958, hunger was widespread all over had no food. In Shandong, 670,000 people were it was 1.3 million. Mai had hoped to Make but if China was leaping anywhere, it was This was the result of forced labor for steel It meant those people weren't doing what the cadres also lied about food production. wrote back to Beijing to say every farmer the real figure was half of that. This was the grain production was 82,000 tonnes in boss told the party officials it was 130,000 The outcome of this so-called "target fever" never thinking too deeply, once had the people sparrows ate the crops. What happened? There the crops. to Mao and talking about such widespread devastation, slow down production, people kept on dying Then to build all this marvelous industry, The best place to buy these things of course sending massive amounts of grain over to the needed to survive on, but no problem, because as though the villages still had enough grain In time, some party members did talk about and sometimes stated that the steel projects They did say that too much grain was being abroad, but often they ended up either losing or killed. Chairman of Communist Party, Lin Biao, did, folks and the enemy of the one and true great Mao is a great hero, a role to which no one far behind him, so don't even think about This is why when we talk about the many millions blame Mao but much of the machinery of the was the one that could have reversed things. from 1959 to 1961 out of a population of 8 million. four of the 600,000 people had died from starvation. were everywhere. 67,000 of them had died from stole the little food there was and didn't had none. Some officials did see this happening, with power, causing beatings, deaths, grain shortages, But get this, the report said it was not the of rightists that had "stirred up trouble" All these deaths, the report said, were down Sure, there were counter-revolutionaries around, They were watching their families grow thin their grain was being sent elsewhere. What In short, this was an agricultural nightmare, that. There were some other matters, such deaths, but the party could take most of the were afraid to report anything negative lest In the villages, the houses of people were quotas of supplies. That left people not just heads. If they complained, they were usually In Hunan alone, 40 percent of houses were had to make do with whatever they could find about this. He'd been told in a letter written It didn't matter. Mao just saw this as another The journalist Yang Jisheng wrote a book based through this horrible experience. In one story, an official and pleaded for some food. The mountainous area, and all of them died from Jisheng wrote, "I was 18 at the time and me. Everyone was fooled." He said every bark because the bark was the only thing to weeds and wildflowers and baked them in mud very sick. to which he responded with the words, it is People walked away from their destroyed villages sold their clothes on these long walks, just this was deadly. But bodies were also useful. that says the local cadres used the dead as In another village of 45 people, 44 died from having gone completely insane. In another brother and ate him. Sometimes the dead were the taste of rotten meat. One time a cadre to which he received the reply, "That's the problem in an overly simplistic matter." archives and used in books on Mao, some of in the chapter called "Survival", it talks like pigs and ate to their heart's content Others turned to crime. In one province alone were robbed. On top of that, the trains carrying taken by desperate thieves. Sometimes when quota, at a time when people were starving, were cut to pieces by meat cleavers or beaten But what could people do? Some just left the tried to make it to the cities, many of them There is a story of one family that was on a man who had food. The father, Wu Jingxi, of rice and some peanuts. In another case, a couple of pennies and four steamed buns. father may well have done this not just for of their children might help them to survive. a mother and her young child tried to escape to death on the spot. In another case, the stuffed in a house that was then blown up Many people were just turned back when they peasants were turned away from Sichuan, and already risked life and limb to get there. were horrific places to work, but they were your mother, or your brother. They went months without washing in many cases, woman one day didn't turn up to work, presumably at the factory, she was told to take all her the cold. For men and women, being stripped humiliating punishment. And this was supposed You'd think in Asian culture the elderly they were often left to die. They died much as strong as the young. Just as the young to sundown, in the eyes of the party, the Often, they weren't strong enough to join had left a once bustling place. When someone out of the six people left behind were the grass and leaves. We could go on, and we must admit, due to out some of the more disturbing details. We've or the many industrial accidents, such as despicable cadres. or for that matter, the thousands executed from malnutrition in the gulags. And what The cadres had a saying they liked to use, That basically meant show people you will think twice about getting out of line. The people suffering from starvation-related edema used, "Beating the water out of them." beaten out. a party member, you must know how to beat once arrived at a village and called what project in Huangcai, 4,000 from 16,000 villagers were indeed killing fields everywhere. tiny bit of wheat. In Huan, 300 people were hard enough and they were all told to strip those accused of slacking were branded with family was forced to sit in a vat of excrement potato for them. He died three weeks later force-fed that poop. being bricked up in a house and left to die. The head of the province, Zhou Xiaozhou, at found out. many thousands had died. 10 percent of them a man in Hunan village was forced by boss because the son had tried to steal a morsel died from "grief" three weeks later. province 260 of them lost their jobs for not cadres died from their beatings. say that during the Great Famine 45 million in China. Around two to three million were put the total number at 55 million deaths, one of the most horrific disasters in the the numbers, but no one denies millions died Mao knew what was happening. In the minutes 25, 1959, it was revealed that he said, "When to death. It is better to let half of the their fill." long way. named Liu Shaoqi stood in front of cadres Conference". could have been prevented. The disaster had given the pervasive fear that had throttled and stepped down from his leadership, and Again, we must cut a long story short, so back on Shaoqi, but that was after he took Revolution." to silence his critics and monopolize control. up the anger of young people all over China So, you won't be surprised to hear that a traitor, and he was beaten on a few occasions He died soon after, but many years later, have the "renegade, traitor and scab" But how did Mao manage to turn things around that ruining a country? the public who for the most part were not "To read too many books is harmful." Mao wanted people to read his own philosophy, The working-class folks and the poor farmers poverty, so when a seemingly strong leader they grabbed hold of those words out of desperation. needed to learn from a deceased soldier named This is called mythology making, a dictator's of 21, but he'd left behind a diary. Inside about the proletarian struggle and the rise inspired him the most? Mao, of course. I dreamt of seeing Chairman Mao. Like a compassionate he spoke to me. 'Do a good job in your studies. people." needed to listen to heroes like this man, Yep, you want to throw up right now, but it The only thing is, Lei Feng was a work of this name wrote that stuff in a diary and all. That's why it pays to read books about Plays and movies were made about this fictional about him moved an entire nation. "Don't forget what to love and what to willing to make a revolution...The collective guidance in your hearts...The revolution will Meanwhile, Mao lived in luxury as his so-called the struggle and wore expensive robes. He fiction-Feng had, and he ate like a king. the Chairman in his bedroom. As one writer decreased, and several left his room with transmitted by Mao, was a badge of honor, Chairman." a campaign that you could compare to something He started a poster campaign, so everywhere this great leader, or his devoted people putting ideal man. Yep, this was the same man that had led his the people he said were to blame for the country's of them were intellectuals, teachers, folks his propaganda. universities for Mao. People learned in those world. Mao didn't much like that. He partly decided it was time to change its name and of Gifted Scholars and Beautiful Ladies." reading about other cultures. So, he came Dead People." About one month later, he from history were dangerous to the cause. watched the horrors of world wars and authoritarianism endless conflicts and even the widespread In his book 1984, he wrote of an authoritarian the thoughts of a nation. A famous phrase future: who controls the present controls cultural revolution, but Mao's education police''. Mao wanted to control truth, and rid of anyone who had what he perceived as Like Stalin had done, he took control of the He vilified intellectualism. And then he spread That was his Little Red Book, which included should live by. "War is a continuation of politics, and and unjust wars, which only serve bourgeois remain ready to wage just wars against imperialist "An army that is cherished and respected invincible force. The army and the people Young people carried it everywhere. They had schools, and dragged out their former teachers, "imperialist running dogs and spies." These students formed their own Red Guard, teachers by their hair who they accused of and humiliated them and tortured them. Mao's red blood, and their mission in life was to They did that at the Third Middle School for principal and beat him to death. They left Terror." took a female teacher and kicked her down where the kids doing the bullying were no and forced them to swallow excrement. were deemed dangerous intellectuals. The students went to her father's house. This guy, named beat his son, too, and locked him in the house, these stories are taken from the Chinese archives. down stairs, throughout Beijing, and on its back again. The Old World had to die, they a new world. Persecution spread all over the being told they had to leave the cities where It was a reign of terror. Their social media or writing their names on walls and calling Little Red Books in the air and shouted slogans More years passed and more people were accused "spies", nothing more than agents of the idea of the carnage, in just the province of 17,000 people and according to one book, Many towns fell under suspicion of not allying minority lived there. Thousands of Mongols homeless. The Red Guards filled up trucks their worst. They barely had food to eat and for the great cause. Hundreds of thousands of people from the cities had no idea how they'd survive. Many of What did clerks and teachers and accountants More purges followed. In Hubei alone, 173,000 said to be "counter-revolutionary activities." was investigated. Even party members were themselves doing hard labor or slowly dying power as a dictator, just as paranoid Stalin Who knows how many people were murdered during differ widely, with the lowest number being As for those city-dwellers that were beaten estimates put the number at 10 million. beaten badly, publicly humiliated, harassed number is huge alone), or lost every material a significant amount of a very large population- of one man. the people of the Soviet Union would turn dissed Mao when they met, but Mao still looked Khrushchev denounce Stalin and his deathly be denounced. hold on to power. Just as the French revolutionary have to strike terror into the hearts of the called doublespeak, both Robespierre and Mao Mao saw himself as being the pinnacle of communism idea of virtue, saying, "Our objective is in authority who are taking the capitalist and development of the socialist system." and whose ideas led to people in the countryside idealism led to 20th-century witch hunts that by an angry mob of young folks who had no And guess who one of his victims was, whose to move to the countryside? His name is Xi His sister died as a result of the disgusting was forced to denounce his father. The father was sent to the countryside where he and the in a cave. of criticism in more recent times? He died, died with him - even though it had petered It seems some powerful elements in China don't History Are Doomed to Repeat It." In 2017, others losing their jobs for criticizing Mao, criticism of the past being needed, too much reigns. Certain words in some places can get had warned with these immortal words: a revolutionary act." you don't become a weapon for someone with Now you need to watch "Terrifying Story a look at...