Soldier: Pull out, Graham! Pull! Pull! [splashes] Remi Adeleke: Yeah, it's What's up? My name is Remi Adeleke. I spent 13 years in the military with the majority of that time spent in special And today I'm gonna be breaking down some iconic Navy SEAL movies and TV shows. [helicopter roaring] Soldier: Everyone good to go? All: Good to go. Remi: Yeah, I've never seen any devices like that. [laughs] We're called SEALs. SEAL is actually a A lot of people don't know that. So it's typical for us I've jumped out of a plane I've jumped out of a helicopter In the scene, they're jumping, not only are they jumping out, but they're pushing vehicles, underwater vehicles into the water. Now, those type of vehicles, I've never seen in my life. [laughs] There are vehicles that It stands for SEAL delivery vehicles. Goodspeed: Move in! Good to go. Remi: There are times when, if somebody has a unique specialization but they're not a SEAL, they will go on a mission, and they will be embedded However, they're not gonna be at the front of the train. They're not gonna be the first That's for sure. And they're gonna be somewhere protected and hurt the other guys within the platoon. &quot;The Rock&quot; inspired me. That was the first time I I had never heard of Navy SEALs before, and I went to go watch the film. And when I saw these guys, that really intrigued me. And then when we got to the scene where they actually sacrifice that's what really kind this idea that these they're skilled, they're great at what they do, and they're willing to put their lives on the line for other people. I've worked with Michael so gotta be careful. I would say I would give it [yelling] It's supposed to be boats they're holding it with their hands, and we've never done that. There's an instructor in the boat. Nah, that's not gonna happen. The boat is heavy as it is. Instructor: Move it! Move it! Remi: The bell, yep. The bell. That's definitely real. I know a lot of guys Now, these things, I'm We never did that at all. We never pushed buoys through a, looks like a berm obstacle course, so I don't know what that is. And here we have the That's not happening. I mean, that's more of a liability. Now, this type of surf torture, I have never seen it. I don't know what kind of push-up that is. [wave crashes] It's a mental exercise. At least for me it was. You're laying in this freezing cold water, you don't know how long and that's where they get That's where you do get a lot of quitters. Me, there were multiple and various evolutions I was either near As a matter of fact, during my core temperature dropped So. [laughs] And what happened after that was the instructors took went through a rewarming drill. I think it took about a And then as soon as I was back I went right back into hell week, and when the instructors &quot;Hey, you wanna quit in that cold water?&quot; And I said, &quot;I'll go back [yelling] The instructors are trying where you have to work together as a team and push through the discomfort. There's cases where, if the boat will bob and and that just causes more pain. There's actually been guys who have had serious neck injuries and fractured their necks or because somebody within which means they had their head down while other people were So it's a pretty serious evolution. And the instructor in the boat, eh, I would have to give it about a four. Instructor: Six times three. Hurry up, hurry up, hurry up. Remi: What we're seeing here is a swim, it's called wetsuit appreciation swim. And essentially they make you for a long period of And it's miserable. It's horrible. Instructor: Andrew! Come back! Remi: Yeah, this guy, shallow water blackout. You know, he blacked out The majority of it is footage from a Discovery Channel And, interestingly, I in order to prepare for coming from the Bronx, and I to Navy SEALs or how to As a matter of fact, I couldn't swim. Instructor: Two minutes! You don't make it, you do it again! Instructor: Have you been tested this hard ever in your life? Trainee: Never. Remi: BUD/S is six months First phase, which is where they really weed out the majority of the class. Then there's second phase, That's when they're different elements of being a SEAL. And then third phase is, weapons, tactics, land warfare, and demolitions. If a person makes it then next step is SQT, SEAL That's where you really get into the weeds of what it means to be a Navy SEAL and to do the job that we do. And then from there you For an attrition rate, for SEAL training, fluctuates The class that I graduated and we only graduated 29 guys. I have to give it a 10. I have to give it 'cause You don't get no realer [helicopter roaring] So, they're fast-roping. Fast rope, it's a easy way Pilot: Continue, you're clear. Remi: This guy right here, He's a SEAL, but he's We call it HUMINT, which and that's what I did in the SEAL teams. Not only are they covering down on doors as one guy's, as the point but they're covering down on windows. So, everything is a threat especially, you know, on a ship like this, or a house, you know, closets, open doors, windows, hidden spaces. Soldier: Clear. Bridge secure. Remi: When one guy says clear, clear is just, that's something we say when the room is clear. That doesn't mean that That means that the room is clear. [boat engine roaring] The SOC boats that you saw in the clip, they're really high speed. They're operated by a special SWCC stands for special On the rivers and any they help insert SEALs and They used real Navy SEALs and real SWCC operators as the main actors, so I would give it a 9.5. The 0.5 that's missing is in Hollywood, you gotta [laughs] you gotta to have a storyline. I Soldier: Jesus, Dane, It doesn't look good. Remi: We always check each other's gear. My platoon chief had a saying: Yeah, this is a HALO. Soldier: Oh, shit! Remi: So, what's going on here, this guy has a malfunction. Yeah, he's, this reserve opens pretty late, probably 'cause he cut away late. Yeah, it's not that easy. [laughs] If you have a malfunction and it didn't work, you gotta cut away. And essentially what it is, you look down, and you and you pull that cutaway first, and then you look down at your reserve, and you pull that away There have been people who've died, not just in the military because they had a malfunction and they made it worse by opening their reserve parachute and their reserve in their main parachute, and, I mean, it's nothing you can do after that. I have to give it a, I'd have to give it a five, man. [laughs] I have to give it a five. [gunshots] Soldier: Echo 02, moving to deck three. [gunshot] Remi: First and foremost, Every, this is a DA. It's a direct action. They're going after a specific target. I've done a lot of these, and 99% of them have been at night. I think I heard three shots initially, and then he shot him again People say, well, that's excessive. We do that for a reason. 'Cause, you know, it's not like in the movies. In the movies, you shoot In reality, you know, you can shoot a guy six, seven, eight times, See, they're really silent. and there's no verbal communication. I mean, it was a mirror image of a lot of operations I've been on, as far as, like, the movements and the tactics and sneaking through. Those lasers that you because of the type of But we use IR lasers on our weapons. Typically, in some movies, you'll see the red lasers That's super unrealistic. We use hand signals or, you know, or we use our weapons as a way to communicate with each other so that we can stay stealth and not tip off the enemy. Soldier: Clear. [woman grunts] No vests. All clear. Remi: When they came across the women, the first thing that they did was they searched them, and they were searching The enemy will put suicide I remember when there was for a long period of time, and I won't mention where he would recruit, you know, kids 9, 8, 7, 11, 12, 13, and put suicide vests on them. Rating for this one, this because of the way they moved tactically, I would give it a 9.5. Waters: I'd just like to hear what you guys have to say about it. That's all. Speak freely. Lake: My opinion, sir, we cut our losses. This isn't our war. Remi: That is one of my I'll say that. I'll say that first and foremost. It was directed by a phenomenal director by the name of Antoine Fuqua. It really shows the but not just, not just the leadership of a SEAL platoon and the other guys, the We have a saying, again, And so we all are able to give our input. I've been in situations with my OIC, OIC's officer in charge of the platoon, and where he wants everybody's input, he wants to hear, &quot;Hey, how should we take down this And it's not like other military units where you just had, you and, you know, he says, and everybody just mindlessly Interestingly, a lot of but the requirements academically to get in SEAL training And a lot of guys who do show up to the SEAL training, BUD/S, they have bachelor's degrees. A lot of them have master's degrees. There were guys who were established. I mean, there were guys and lawyers or big businessmen, and one day they woke up and said, &quot;You know what? This is boring. I wanna be a Navy SEAL.&quot; [laughs] Yeah. You know, that scene, It's hard for me to give anything a 10, but, yeah, for that [gunshots] [screams] [explosion] Not only these guys covering and moving, but they had proper 360 security, which allowed that one SEAL As soon as they took contact, they immediately started firing back. And that's something that we always do. We, you know, suppress the threat. And then, yeah, again, So, the contact was in the front, and, you know, again, SEALs So everybody didn't just start shooting at the contact in the front. If somebody gets injured first and foremost, if they they take care of themselves And then once somebody can get to them, then that person, you know, goes and gets them and tends to them. In the Navy, we don't call medics, medics. We call them corpsmen. And once that corpsman can get to them after the threat has been then they'll go tend to them. Eric: Bravo 6, say again your last. Ray: 6 to base, I say again. Fallen eagle. Remi: When somebody gets you know, you win the fight, and then after you win you help, you know, transport, transport them back to base and give them a proper ceremony. Soldier: We lost Bravo 1. Eric: How long till we Remi: I would give that Commander: I need sights on targets. I need three targets green. Remi: Passing comms to the snipers who are gonna take the target so they're aware of what's going on. Again, going back to communication. Communication's key. Commander: Stop the tow. Execute. [gunshots] Phillips: What was that? Remi: He could have been a commander. Commander's actually a rank, but for the sake of just you know, we had a commander who was definitely a Navy SEAL, and he's giving commands, but he's also giving the guys, you know, giving the guys He's not micromanaging them. And so throughout that scene, there was a lot of great communication. And that's 9.5. 9.5 is like a 10. I have to say 9.5 because, you know, Hollywood has to spice things up and dramatize things, so, I get that, so. But, you know, for me, I