JEFF: If you've got back pain that you can to show you how to get rid of that today, making sure it does not come back ever again. What's up, guys? Jeff Cavaliere, ATHLEANX.com. Here with Jessie and Raymond. If you're looking for a way to get rid of type that you can literally put your finger even by putting your finger there, it shoots There's something you could do about it. You need to, first of all, start by identifying low back pain. We're not talking about the muscles here, some of that pain up there. Really, what we're talking about is a glute This is a rampant problem, and one that is that we're possibly even doing wrong in the First of all we want to make sure we're all Right here, if you look on Raymond, the glute here. It's actually underneath the glute max, and area here that we're going to call the PSIS. Now, why does that matter? Because big, bony areas make it really easy you're on the same spot. So if you look here on Jessie, if you lean low back, and you should instantly be able out. That is exactly that same are that I just If you run your fingers just to the outside and tension - then we are talking about to be able to take care of right now. So what's the muscle supposed to do for you Two things. The first is: you should be able to use it Meaning, to lift your hip up, and out to the The other thing that's even more important is to make sure that your pelvis stays level. We know when we lift one leg the body wants Meaning, the hip on this side wants to fall So it wants to, instead, if the muscles were not doing this. There's something called a Trendelenburg Gait to look like - show them, Jessie. Yeah. Sort of like that. It starts to drop on every step. You don't want that to happen. But here's what's even bigger. If you lift weights and you squat, the problem start to get this pain, at some point, it's of weight through both of your legs. We can test that very, very easily. You're probably going to be very shocked by Just stand with your feet shoulder width apart. Like here. Now, when you go, all you'll want to do is If I lift the left leg I can do that. Not a problem. If I have to lift my right leg I have to shift A lot more significantly than I did on the If you have to shift your weight, or if you side in order to get your weight off that What's going to happen there is, it's going their ugly head in the form of this more frequent When you squat you want to have equal distribution. So now, the most important thing is fixing So if you come down on the ground, I'm going get rid of it right now. More importantly, some exercises you can do So the fix for this is actually pretty easy If you find this and you do it right you're So you take your finger and your thumb, you JESSIE: You going to draw me like one of your JEFF: I can't draw, dude. Let's go. So you put your - what an idiot. You put your thumb right on that spot. From here, now all you're going to do is use move your leg in a certain direction. What you don't want to do is, you don't and putting it underneath you because when putting too much pressure on this area that's and not help to fix it. In this case you want to use the top down So once your finger is on that spot you're right here. You're going to come down until your knee Once it touches the ground it's going to kick It's key that you get past the midline of going to lift up. You toes should be pointing a little bit down So when we make sure that we're getting a So then the thumb pushes in and holds this Now, I don't have to do any of this. This is going to be done all by you and Jessie. You're pushing as hard as you can to that down nice, and slow, back into extension, you feel that. Right, Jessie? You can feel it flossing through there. You do this about 10 times. Once you're done with those you rest for about Now we want to try and fatigue out this muscle Try to see if you can burn it out. You hold that spot one more time, you get So the leg is getting back into extension, and squeeze it as hard as you can. In other words, lift this up, squeeze it as Now, one of the interesting things - he's things that you're going to notice is, when low back pain, this muscle is probably really, This alone feels like agony. You can't even hold it up, even though - I of pounds that really can't do this exercise That shows how much pain and weakness there So once we've done that, now when you stand Go ahead and stand up, Jessie. You should notice an immediate relief in the spot. We've actually gotten rid of that pain for More importantly now, how do we keep it away? That's what I want to show you next. Okay, so here's what you're going to want all. One exercise here is, you're just going to You put one arm up, just like that - that's It's just meant for support, and balance. You take the leg that's on the inside and Now, what they did is, it should let this way. But the glute medias, remember, it wants to So it's going to drive it back in until that Then you let it drop out again, and then it So we're actually working this outside hip you want to do this for about 10, or 12, or But most importantly, make sure you get really it to get stronger. How many times? You want to do this at least 3, 4, 5 times Maybe even just once a day if you have the You want to get into the routine of doing a lot. We have another exercise here that you can you, it's going to work. Okay, so this one's a little bit elaborate, We actually call it what it looks like. It's a sac swinger. You'll see in a second. You just basically take a dog leash and you here. Of course, this could be a dip belt, too. but if you don't have a dip belt, you put going to do is, you're going to step in. so Jessie's going to step into it, and then Just from there. Now, it's hanging in between him. Now you know the name - why it got the name. Now he's going to turn around this way and start walking and try to maintain a nice, And you can see every time he lifts one foot Not just to try and hold up the weight of to control the weight that's hanging beneath So this is a more advanced version of what start to free up those hips, teach those muscles importantly, you do this as a little bit of back pain should start to be a thing - he's Just from one, little walk down, and back. Just do it - again, you want to do this That's fine, but I can promise you that this the past. Finally, the other exercise is the treatment. Remember when we had you lay on the ground Well, just the movement itself - bringing toe down, coming forward, touch the ground, do as many of those as you can until you build and you make sure you do it on both sides. That exercise, from the treatment standpoint, do to make sure it stays away long term. Guys, low back pain is one of the most common any of your workouts. As anybody who knows, when your low back is yourself in the gym, let alone to lift anything We want to make sure we have that fixed. Guys, if you're looking for a program that physical therapist everything I do has both Not just getting you to look better, but to All of our programs are available at ATHLEANX.com. If you're looking for our latest video we're If you haven't subscribed already, make sure And click on the notifications. Turn them on so you never miss a video from All right, guys. I hope you get rid of this pain once, and I'll see you guys back here soon.