"An army marches on its stomach"; Napoleon's of properly supplying an army, as Soldiers and have food in their stomachs. But it could deteriorate just as quickly as one very well and were credited with developing a very we will cover their military payment system, and debts that occurred between real the most fascinating and relatable aspects of the Since around 400 BC, Roman legionaries could service in defending the state. But what you first considered to be a salary. Fighting republic was considered a moral obligation stipendium or salary they received was meant as their labour income. And in the beginning it paid in goods. But as time progressed, what was into a good source of monetary income upon which a living for themselves after military service. transitioned into an official and professional formal yearly salary, and a very good one at yearly salaries they earned as a synonym for their Titus Ancharenus, soldier of the VIIth legion, Depending on whether you were a regular legionary, set salary was established for you by the reign for the auxiliaries as well... However, as time or decreased, depending on the economic situation for example, raised the salaries of soldiers by rising cost of living. This way, soldiers could But of course, this must not be confused with sole loyalty of the troops during a much needed time. and Septimius Severus and his son for the large amounts they gave the army Interestingly, army salaries are one of the best as Caesar's legionaries in the 40s BC compared to the whopping 1.800 they would enjoy by 8 times larger; an economic foreshadowing Before we go on, a quick word about this video's service for family history research and DNA website offers a simple and enjoyable way to build site for this just because of how user friendly MyHeritage is the "Instant Discoveries" option, members, sourced from its over 19 billion at how easily it was able to offer expansions ancestors I really didn't know about. Once you're lot of great options, like the option to save and happen to have any digital copies of old photos, even animate them. As our viewers, you already with your own is no different. So click the link start building your family tree. If you choose to Apart from their regular salaries, soldiers Roman emperors had a tradition of to the entire army upon their ascension to small during the glorious days of the early as time progressed. Augustus was said to 125 to every member of the urban cohorts and 75 successor Tiberius in turn doubled the amount each the donativum had grown out of control, asking for more than 4.000 denarii, the In regards to actually receiving these salaries, Empire, these military stipendia were paid to day of January, May and September. But as the Every salary payment was accompanied by a thorough to make sure the troops looked great when their payment was accompanied by a ceremony if soldiers were expected to to depart the camp for months, Even though Roman soldiers were provided with all they were still required to pay for them out subject to constant deductions for their weapons, and more. Soldiers could have anything they could wanted double ratios for example they could have payments. The document shown here is a personal and we can see that almost half of his salary hay for the mule or boots would be a constantly and repairs would vary from salary to salary, Extraordinary expenses would also be included, standards, or even donations for the celebration After receiving their net income, soldiers had or to deposit them into their personal These accounts would be kept to date by the century of 80 men... On the battlefield, they were into battle. But in times of peace, these officers responsible for carefully calculating and and deposits made by each soldier in their Considering legionaries served for 25 years in the transactions, this was a colossal administrative this task by a few hand-picked soldiers from and good with numbers. For their extra service in be elevated to the rank of "immunes", and would physical labours of their fellow comrades. If they "sesquiplicarii" and "Duplicarii" positions, would receive 1.5 and double pay, respectively, in That's how the Roman military rewarded its The whole idea behind the military bank account of mind knowing that their money was kept safe. of Vindolanda, which we have thoroughly covered safely stored in the centre of the fort, in strong room underground, which was continually who didn't even allow other officers approach... so the safest area within the entire fort, but also there was always the issue of corruption and fascinating topic of another video, which we are soldier was concerned, depositing their money in However, they did not always do it, and with each soldier. Let's not forget that these society, with less education and financial wisdom getting paid hefty salaries worthy of respectable lost their minds. It's actually very similar to first hard earned salaries on trivial things, legionaries got a bad reputation, and historians on them, claiming their entire salaries were spent use their money to buy themselves perfumes and considered unmanly. Julius Caesar was once accused but it fell on deaf ears. Perhaps even the great and their beloved perfume. But their expenses were yet more favourites of the common soldiers, civilian settlements, which always put a great An inscription on a Roman soldier's gravestone "Titus Cissonius, son of Quintus, of the tribe While I was alive I drank enthusiastically. We can imagine Titus was a real thorn in his soldiers were known for selling their rations and baked bread, stews and meat. But centurions down on such practices with varying degrees of women. Paying for their services was not cheap themselves into bankruptcy. The epitome of after living a life of luxury in Asia and quickly squandered away all Thus, if we take a look at a real bank statement in Egypt (years 120-150 AD), we can see their extreme were those who got completely carried as one soldier owed the Roman state equivalent to more than half a year's pay, for spectrum were those who sternly resisted and stuck to a strict retirement plan a member of another cavalry unit, was recorded once! And another named Argotius had over 2.000 mind that this was all hard cash, and an auxiliary Once retired, these veterans had a wider and here are some examples of what from the I Minervia legion set up a pottery shop Gemellus bought several small olive orchards in would use their money to become patrons of their stay close to their fellow comrades. But overall, especially those in the 1.5 and double pay they invested into their funeral monuments and which were very expensive commodities A similarly fascinating topic are the relations extremes, as they seemed to have loaned money Caecilius Secundus, a horseman of the Ala Paulini fellow soldier, who surprisingly had all that cash half a year's pay. In return, Secundus would a little bit of interest. Now, this interest was loaning from a friend, but this document goes a bit of a side income by being a creditor to they could be cheated, as each soldier they receive with which they could pay off the loan, as that would fall under the pretext of military to pay off the rest of his debt, Secundus pledged a scabbard adorned with ivory and silver to his he was forced to do so, or did it as a gesture which cost far more than the loan he took, that he looking great in battle. Though he was probably off his debt, or else he would ironically be If you enjoyed this video, let us know on expanding the topic of the income of the roman army and the spoils