Hello, my loves. Welcome back to Lavendaire. It's Aileen. Today is the second video in So if you're just joining in, this is a series where the in all areas, and just get a really powerful start to 2025. Each video in the series will and guided exercises to help and transform your life in the new year. So we're posting videos every until the end of January for this series. So make sure you're subscribed and you click that bell to be notified of all the new videos. Here's a preview of the Last week, we covered so how to become your ideal self. That one was really fun, really actionable, with six steps, and with all these videos, I'm including free Notion template worksheets that you can do along with the series. So the series has been inspired by our Artist of Life Workbook, which is our bestselling workbook to help you plan your best year yet. There's so many guided self-love, goal-setting, and so much more, but I'm a person that loves and actionables, and so that's why I wanted to put this series together for those of you who want to do this as well for the new year. So if you're into this and you want a system to keep you accountable then check out the Artist of Life Workbook at shop.lavendaire.com. Alright, so today's topic is life design, how to design a life you absolutely love. This is one of my favorite topics to talk about. It's one of the cornerstone It's about life design or lifestyle design, whatever you wanna call it. But the whole point is just envisioning and clarifying what you want with this one precious life that you have. So there are six steps that I'll share today, and the first step is simply clarify your dream life vision. I've done this exercise so many times with you guys on this channel, but to reiterate, this is a really important exercise that I think everyone, literally every single person needs to do. You need to start clarifying what you want. So envision, okay, what is What would make me happy? What would make me fulfilled? What would feel meaningful? Like, what kind of life would I live if I could have all the best things in the world, everything I wanted? Don't limit yourself, right? Like, what life would I live and die happy, die completely, like, oh my God, that was just the best thing ever. So I love dreaming big, and I encourage everyone to do it because the sky's the limit. Literally aim high, because even if you don't get there all the way, at least you get pretty high. Like, if you aim low, that's all you're gonna get. So don't limit yourself, and dream big, and be as broad or specific as you want. Maybe some of you don't so start with whatever comes to mind. I wanna be happy. I wanna have a family, right? I want to have loyal friends. Or you could be really specific, like I wanna have this career. I wanna achieve these things. I wanna wake up at this time You know, you could think about, okay, what is the ideal day? What is the ideal week? What hobbies do I do? How do I spend my weekends? How do I spend my vacation time? Who is around me in my life? What are the people and What kind of work do I do? How do I show up in the world? How do I give back in the world, if any? Literally, there are so to this with, but everyone's life, everyone's so go at it. Moving on to step two, So this is where you reflect and ask yourself, what truly matters to me and what matters the most? So in step one, you probably and a lot of them, like, there might be a lot there, right, and some things might be There's definitely a priority scale. So the following questions what really matters and So we're starting with values because values are the internal principles that drive us as human beings. They drive our lives and the way we live our lives, the things that we prioritize, and I love this question, like, what matters to you, what are your values, because it's different Some people might value Other people might value And there are so many things that are worth valuing in the world, but everyone has different priority scale. Some people might value family over work, some people vice versa. Some people value social connection. Some people value their solo time more. There's just so many ways but it begins with self-reflection. What matters to you? After you've brainstormed your list of values, now do your best to try to prioritize them, or at the very least, star Like, maybe you star like or five most important values. Like, really, this is where what matters most? And the beauty of this exercise is it can change throughout When you're young, you and when you're older, and so this is a list that and ask yourself, does this feel aligned? Right, if things change, maybe your values have to shift and realign. So if you finished picking your top values, I'd love for you to share down below what are your top three values that you chose for yourself? Step three, it's time to Too often, most of us go through life, and we grow up with notions of success that other people have kind and this is something that but it just naturally and operate in society, right? You might take in the notions from your peers, from what the media tells you, and there's so much out there that it can feel like you are driven by what others want, and it's not something that So this is so important, is to take the time to ask yourself, what does success mean to me, and what do I do? Like, what kind of things So often, what we are is not really the external achievement itself, but it's the feeling we get for achieving those external successes. So for example, people might think that making a lot of money is what's gonna make you feel successful, but the feeling that people to make a lot of money is They want to feel abundant. They want to feel like they or they want to feel like they and their family. So it's more about the feeling, like, that you get from achieving that success, and that is why there are they might be super wealthy, and they don't even feel like it's enough. They don't feel like it's satisfied that feeling that they're craving, the feeling of I have enough, and so they keep chasing money, and they keep doing these even though they already have so much. That's why you see people they seem to have everything, but they're really depressed, and they're a mess in their life. So it's not about just the external. Of course, the external has to do with it, but so much of it has to do with the internal and the feeling. So this is where you want to define what does success mean to me, and what is the feeling that I'm truly going for? By the way, I have a video that goes even deeper into this exercise if you'd like to try that. It is redefining happiness and success. So I'll link it here and down Step four, identify your priorities. So this is the step where you ask yourself, what do I truly desire, and what do I truly need? So in step one, we kind of let and then we start to like narrow things down by, okay, what do I really care about? What does success mean to me? So this step is where you look at what you wrote in the and then you start to prioritize, okay, given what I shared and reflected on so far, what does that mean for me now? Like, what do I care about? What do I truly need, right? Like, maybe you have this like crazy dream, but do I really need that right now? Like, what is the important Maybe it is, okay, there's this one goal that is very important, or maybe it's I need to shift my mindset, or I need to shift my identity somehow in order to be the person So this step is so open-ended because it's different for everyone, but this is your time to reflect and prioritize, okay, what is What do I really need? Step five is to reflect and realign. So this is another reflection exercise. This is actually the self-reflection wheel that's taken from our Artist of Life Workbook. It's one of my favorite to reflect on how you're So this is just another way, another framework to help you reflect on all the different areas of your life. You're rating, from one to 10, in my personal life, in my relationships, in my finances, in my hobbies. Like, there are so many areas of life, and of course, they all like Like, again, some may value Some might value relationships over careers. So anyway, the point of this exercise is to kind of gauge how you're doing in all these different areas, and from there, you can reflect on, okay, if I say I value family, I rated myself like a three out of 10. It means that is an area that maybe I should work to improve. And so this gives you so much to work on or maybe choose not to work on. Maybe you rate yourself low in an area, but you're like I choose to sacrifice that area because I care more about these other areas. Number six, the final step, is to set your next important goal and break it down into the next smaller steps that you can take towards that goal. So this step is similar to video one, the one about reinventing yourself. Of course, after doing all to break it down into the very next actionable And so it's helpful to kind of prioritize, okay, one goal that is important on this journey of designing my ideal life, and whatever that goal is, whether it's like a career goal or a personal goal, whatever it is, break that down into and then choose one to take next, right? This is the next action step that I will take. I think the easiest way to approach our goals, no matter how big they are, is to break them down into because the smaller they are, the more approachable they seem. When you just set a big goal and you leave it at that, you just look at the goal and you're like I don't know Like, I have no idea how to get there. And so even though you might to get there, you can at least brainstorm, okay, what would be some, like, Like, what would be some next steps that could take me in the right direction? All that matters in this journey is that you are taking steps in the right direction. Because the more you take steps forward, the more the next steps That's how life works. It unfolds as you take action. Things start to make sense So you don't have to feel like you need to figure it all out at once now. Like, you don't have to understand the path, but you just need to take Congratulations. That's it for today's exercise. If you'd like to use our Notion templates, they're completely free. I'll include the link down below for this entire series. And don't forget, we are posting new videos in this series every single Wednesday until the end of January. So next week, we have a video so we're getting even more If you wanna watch more in the series, you can check out the Don't forget to check out our new 2025 Artist of Life Workbook. If you want more exercises and create your dream life, you can find it at shop.lavendaire.com. You can open below for all of All right, sending you lots of love, and I'll see you in the next one. Bye. (upbeat music)