Start your day off right with the Free In-Touch Devotional. Subscribe today. male announcer: In Touch, Dr. Charles Stanley. Next on &quot;In Touch,&quot; Dr. Charles Stanley: There are needs to be able to The first one is this. Who is the one true God? Secondly, what is He like? And thirdly, is it possible to with Him and if so, how? That is the question. Those three questions are many people around the world. Who is the one true God? What is He like? And can you have a And if so, how can The more I travel to the more I realize that those questions in the While they have their different their different deep down inside there is still the real God, what and is it possible to have with this God? I've seen that over and I've talked with people. Deep down inside those to be answered. And not only that, the internet, the it's the same story. If you analyze those letters it's the same story. Now tell me, how can I--well, the real God? Why I've been taught this, worshipping and I've heard after all, these gods are all distant and so far away. Who is the one true God? What is He really like? And can I have a But you see, the tragedy is who live in other There are people who go to Sunday, Sunday after Sunday, and go through their ritual however they worship. And when they come away, the one true God? What is He really like? How can you have a with Him? Many of those people could They would say, &quot;Well, And I believe in the Well, what is He like? &quot;Well, I don't know I just know I believe in Him.&quot; Well, can you have a &quot;Well, I'm not sure, Some people say they can. If you took a little personal you know, not necessarily people some who do. If you said to them, &quot;Could simple questions?&quot; And they're not All right, how would Who is the one true God? What is He like? And can you have a And if so, how, You may be shocked at the people those three questions. And if somebody walked up to &quot;I want you to answer Who is the one true God?&quot; How would you answer that? And then they'd say to What is He like?&quot; How would you answer that? Well, these are the same faced when he arrived in Athens. He'd been in Philippi, and you know the story of the And then he was in Thessalonica then he came to Athens. And when he was in he did what he normally did. The scripture says that he was with them about the scriptures the Resurrection. So, I want you to turn if you of the book of Acts, and I want making Him known. The Apostle Paul in Athens. He arrives in Athens and Timothy and so coming on the scene he normally do when they What does he do? He takes a tour of Athens. And if you'll notice beginning in verse sixteen: &quot;Now at Athens, his spirit was being he was agitated and &quot;he was observing So he was reasoning in the with the Jews and the and in the market place every to be present. And also some of the Epicurean conversing with him. Some were saying, 'What would Others, 'He seems to be deities,'--because he was the resurrection.&quot; Now you say, &quot;What Well, he wouldn't be preaching been describing the cross. So, he was His resurrection. &quot;They took him and saying, 'May we know what this are proclaiming? 'For you are bringing some so we want to know what (Now all the Athenians and the to spend their time in nothing hearing something new.)&quot; That is, they weren't a commitment about something, and this is what's going on. And so, Paul was delighted to audience because he knew Now when you look at this preached, and you ask well now, how did he approach a what they believed? Well, the Apostle Paul was And you see, one of the reasons Road experience had so And he had already begun to see how God had worked in And he knew that He knew they were walking He knew they had no answers reasoning and talking about talking about the other, and highest good in life? And you know what They were searching for Who is the one true God? What is He like? And is it possible to have a And they were so of course, when they the scripture says one Number one, they &quot;Well, this is Secondly, part of we're going to--this We're gonna hear And the third were that is, those who And so for, when Paul the Bible says he walked away God called him to do. Not to convert To answer those three he knew haunted these people. Now, let's think It is the will of God a correct answer to It is the will of God have the correct answer And if you'll think for a moment that first epistle, He had just finished talking to pray for their leaders and acceptable in the who desires all me,&quot; and women, knowledge of the truth.&quot; Not some, not most, but all. Now, when He gave what did He say? As you go, make not most, all nations. He said, for example, go into gospel to the whole creation. He said repentance and faith in all nations. So that it is the will of God have known a long time, that world desperately needs to hear does not know. You think about all the millions of people that They live in fear, they live in darkness, They worship their gods. They bow down before wooden, things created by man. And I want you to think Suppose you walked in here on a of worship. You came in and that it's a brass or silver Maybe it looked like somebody. And so we sang a few songs and brought it and laid it at of this statue. And then we sang a couple Let me ask you a question. What would you have What assurance would you have? What real blessing What would you have Could you have any contentment, assurance in No, you could not. Because you would have lifeless that cannot hear no eyes, cannot see; no compassion, no love, no no gentleness, no I want you to What you enjoy every single most of the world has absolutely Some of their gods are Some of their gods are stationed and worship. Some of their gods are things to even touch. They're looking for They want to know what He's like a personal If we tell the world our God That He will love you, that He's kind and That He's merciful, that He cares about you, interested in every No matter what's going on He in your life. It'd be hard for them to believe many erroneous things about this They may put a name on he cannot hear, he He has no love, He's absolutely useless. It's the same thing Paul faced. Things haven't If you had to walk in on a I wonder how There'd be no reason to come. It'd be an absolute Paul said, &quot;This unknown what can he do for you?&quot; And I'm sure he stirred them up. Now think about What do we mean when we say everyone know Him? Now watch this. The word &quot;know&quot;, Greek word in the One of them is just to know this fact. But then there's the word, and The word that means to know in And what Paul is saying here, have a personal and it comes through the and faith in the You can ask a lot of people, &quot;Oh yes.&quot; And here's how you can tell Well, describe Him for me. And you know what? They say, &quot;Now look, That's their way of Now you don't go I want to tell you Don't--Paul could do that but But they're ignorant. If you ask somebody to describe can't describe him? Let me ask you something. How can you love someone How can you genuinely, you see, His Son, well the primary reason the cross, but He wanted Him He is. And in the New Testament, we Old Testament, they didn't And so Jesus sent His only lost, blinded, helpless, from their sins. And He wants us to know That's why He created us. And He wants us to How can you love When somebody says, Describe Him for me. If you can't describe Him, somebody you know nothing about. You may love some You may love an idea, but to love God, to love you must know Him. There must be--listen, it's not but to know Him personally, an that comes through the your personal Savior. That's when the Holy Spirit That's when you The Spirit of God will--listen, unbeliever walking in darkness Their eyes will be open to the want to know the truth. The issue is, have And I don't believe the issue in that all of these people Jesus Christ. They've never had the There's a world of people out but they've never heard. So let me ask you a question. How content can you and And this is not to put this is just a hard cold fact. How content can you and I be all of this truth? From Genesis to Revelation, When we know who We know what He's like and a personal relationship How can you and I be content millions and millions, even who have never heard the truth. Not one time has anybody is Jehovah. The God of the Bible, He of the earth. He is the God who created all over all things. He is the God who darkened, lost mankind that Jesus Christ, born of a virgin. Came into this world And ultimately for the purpose laying down His And when He did so, all of your darkness, placed it upon Himself. And He died as your substitute to die in your sin. And the moment you a personal commitment to Him you say to Him, &quot;I'm confessing as my personal Savior.&quot; In that moment your You will understand what it of your sin. Your name will be written in the and ever you're eternally a who has prepared a And until He comes to get inside of you and enabling you to become the person Friend, that, I just gave you needs to hear. And, they're not hearing it. They're hearing it but not the way And I simply want You know these things. You hear them week You can go to Bible and you can go to Sunday Schools service and you can have God's Word to you. You know the truth and you know heard it and heard it. And there are hundreds of who've never heard it who desire to hear it, who hunger to hear it. Listen, I'm gonna show you in a just to hear it one time. How satisfied can we be? How happy can we be about the with what our life is, how we're are absolutely several not because they but because they've never So let me ask you this question. As you look at your life What are you living for? Is your primary your present pleasure, your life without even asking God? Is your primary marriage, acceptance, or some Or could you say today, &quot;My do the will of God, I think about all the young the teaching of God's Word. And all of you who are single a living and sometimes it's hard your life and some of you, that's your primary objective in right one to come along. Let me ask you this. Are you willing to tell God of your dreams because what you will of God to come along? You want what God You want your life and trust Him to give you the want you to serve Him with. But you see if you you may miss the most awesome You say, &quot;Well, I'm I'm sixty years of age.&quot; You know what? There's nothing in the Bible a certain age. The question is this. You're gonna live You're gonna leave something material, or a You're gonna leave behind, a message that'll keep on being and again in the hearts of ripples of your life will How can we be happy and willing to lay down their And you and I've heard it I just want to Is Jesus Christ worth, is what He's done for you saying, &quot;Father, Lord Jesus, I have I owe it to You. I give You myself without hesitation. I don't even want any promises. I just give myself to You anywhere, anyhow, Do you have the Do you have the Think about your life. It's not yours. Your life belongs to the living and opportunities and abilities And sometimes it's For example, in the Philippines, of &quot;In Touch&quot; in the the television and when people get the what happens often times a copies of the magazines if they, from those people. Did you know that as a result of His wonderful way in all these who've been listening and they they've started over Who is the true God? What is He like? And how can I have a Think for a moment. What are you willing to do those three questions? Because their eternal destiny the answer the world