Have you seen a salary range That could be because pay becoming more common in the New York City employers are new salary transparency A new pay transparency law an inside look at what some the world are paying their The rising tide of pay job seekers more leverage It's okay to ask, and it's information before you a job you really want to go Pay secrecy can allow gender various sorts of unfair pay But some researchers think downside. What we found is that people It's slowed wage growth by It's still hard to make sure equitably and fairly. Why are so many people much they make? And is news? A growing portion of the United companies to disclose how job. Pay transparency is punishing people for how much they make. But more and more, we're that employers information to job about pay ranges for New York State, California, State are all requiring These states have the most transparency. Everyone, apply to the job, knows Other jurisdictions only upon request from an So we're seeing that in Maryland, Nevada and Rhode Of course, there has been transparency in the states For example, virtually all pay ranges. The U.S.' Is largest all government salaries professional sports -- we makes. So I just kind of that that does have a lot Workers have technically had pay rates since 1935. This modern movement is far It traces back to the Lilly 2009. I went to work for Goodyear Gadsden, Alabama, as a That being in the factory I go into work on my shift note. It's a fourth of a name and three men. The note said Ledbetter made Including folks that she had She was basically being In his first month in signed this law, which made who pay their workers This has been a very long People like Lilly Ledbetter that there will be equal make sure now that there's transparency across the Other factors, like conversation, too. The Internet has allowed sharing to be sort of more It's easier. Sites like share their salaries more think, started to shift the expectations. Gartner put out a research whether employees believe only 32% believe that their That said, these laws could There are these hidden pay transparency through very much affect wages. And the effect is... It's typically not positive. A growing group of wage transparency may erode individual workers. There is a stronger force at least in some ways firm can now say to you, if you know, I'd love to pay making because you're a pay you anymore. And the is as soon as I pay you, than what other people are see that and they're going door asking for a raise. Bobby Pakzad-Hurson is an University. He and his that found an unintended pay transparency. What we found is that people A very back of the envelope slowed wage growth by So this means that pay unfortunate side effect of educated workers. That said, wages don't with less individual members and those with less Nevertheless, knowing the disadvantaged workers on The issue that some have perhaps overall wages percentage points. Once there is a pay that pales in comparison to differences in pay. When you're looking at Blacks and whites, Latinos groups that were getting others for reasons that had qualifications or very experience they had going This is not only about my family back when I was retirement. It was my 401K. It was my Social Security, got paid. And because I got shortchanged my Is extremely low, and I'm other women across the But it is so critical that Also, in recent years, some posting jobs in places that Colorado was the first state job postings. And when the immediate aftermath, that tried to get a little said, &quot;You can do this except Colorado.&quot; You can't industry leaders like New requiring this. So I think it could actually if they list a certain has pay transparency laws necessarily looking for red flag. Salary transparency does information to negotiate. This could cause problems the country. A lot of these companies They're not ready because of fallout of their current 31% of employers don't feel comply. Employers are very, existing employees being rules. Finding out the pay of other the short run, people's But there are some nuances. So a recent study finds your boss is paid more, increase your morale great. Five years from now, And so let me work harder These new laws are coming market. When we're looking at an it is right now, this is a workers to seek another In 2023. Transparency is giving job Experts believe that anyone should move fast. Quits are falling from Federal Reserve tightens Our model predicts that we effects whenever there is a That said, there could be consequence. Transparency companies to seek out publicly. All the same, transparency is a win win alike. It helps get a better match employer -- it saves Time to know that at the Also, keep in mind that this Pay transparency laws you to ask for more than Things like mentorship, getting professional it's important to to start know what the pay is or How do you determine that What are the skills that are required? This puts a lot of control seeker. If you've got all this fingertips, just research You really need to talk to the job? How are these how will we be treated? We do see that pay a number of labor markets inequality and forms of the I view that as a good number of studies that pay I view that as a bad thing, squeeze? In some sense, I tradeoffs, and I think voters to decide. It's just a mindset shift leadership and people need Come up with a structured raises based on measurable KPIs, and kind Take the take the time now compression issues and set success. Information is power. I think that we'll continue country.