[Sean] All right. So, I noticed that there's something missing So, I thought, because this has been a very not enough sexual energy in the room, that So, can we...can I get a little help back - Looking for some music here. [music] - Okay. Anyway, that was totally uncalled for. Yes, yes. - All right. So I want to do some things with you to really get the family back together here. So, let's do this. I want everybody to stand up, and I want to to you. I don't want open seats. That creates an energy gap for me, and then I'd rather have this be an entire tightknit So let's fill in the front chairs. Let's make sure all the chairs are filled, All right. So, you notice how that actually changes the - Yes. - Because, human beings are not separate. We're connected. And when we spend the time connecting, as magical things take place. So, we did a lot of sharing activities to But this portion of the program, my talk, important person in your life? And that's the person sitting in your chair. It's the person that oftentimes you put last. So you might have this huge heart, and you may be doing massive things, but are you giving Are you connected to yourself? You get a lot of epiphanies in life at 3:00 In the emergency room of the hospital, on looking up at the ceiling watching the fluorescent It felt like a football-size object had been Now with my condition, it's called osteogenesis brittle. And I had fractured, by the time I turned Something as simple as sneezing could fracture But on October 10th, 2007, I felt a pain that It felt as if something had exploded inside in the morning. I was on the road. I wasn't at home. I mean, why is it that some of the most disastrous our schedules? You know, why can't we die when we're ready? Why can't we suffer when we're prepared and Why do this have to come when we least expect Raise your hand if you can feel me on that. So, thank you. So, Awesomeness Fest, you've learned a lot connecting and dancing and moving, and it's But I'm not so impressed about you feeling I'm impressed when you can take this home. I'm impressed when you get that phone call this space. I'm impressed when something happens in your showed up at your door and you can remember I am impressed with individuals who can take I believe that reality doesn't create mentality. It's not like things happen, and then we get I believe that mentality creates reality. That as we create the inner world, the outer Now, what you're going to learn in today's be okay with whatever the outer world looks There's things you can do to influence, but What's in control is the inner world, the 3:00 in the morning, racing through the hospital, I can feel myself dying. I'm in my 20s at the time, and I'm thinking, This is how I'm going out. I'm lying in a cold, sterile hospital, I don't None of these nurses or doctors are mine. And I gotta tell you, oxygen in that space, You taste the oxygen when you think it could It felt as something burst. And, I remember as if my life had been totally And I waited, as I went through the MRI, to and the pain just kept growing. And it felt like somebody had strapped on inside out, harder and harder and harder. Until finally, I thought, you know what? It might be better dying. It might be better just letting all this suffering Who here hasn't had that flirtation of, you Maybe it would be better just to let all this What if I just relax and just let death take I don't have to have somebody pick me up out anymore. I don't have to have somebody else dress me I'll be able to, in the next life, maybe get and maybe now is the time. Just let go, Sean. And I went inside and I began shutting down My eyes closed, my ears closed off. I stopped feeling the external world and a And that movie projector started showing pictures, 1979 when the doctors told my parents, &quot;Sean's And I saw my mom's tears and my dad's tears. And I thought, oh, God, am I going to leave a cold hospital room, scared? I sure hope not. And then another picture came on. I was older. I was in grade school and I saw this girl wheelchair to give me my first kiss in kindergarten. I felt like, oh, I like this thing called I really do. And then the picture started to change faster. I could see grade school, my friends Dave, They all started showing up. And then I saw fracture after fracture of was, always being there. Telling me, &quot;Sean, you're not going to be you can do and do the best.&quot; The pictures started coming quicker and quicker. And then, I saw these thousands and then millions to and then I realized, they were the faces for all the 15 years that I traveled. I'd squeeze myself into little jets and cargo to go on to get to audiences to share my message. I started seeing waiting in terminals, and and faster. And then I saw my heart being broken in my crying, I started seeing the laughing, and they curled off the screen and went around started coming closer and closer. And I started breathing faster and faster. And I thought, is this how your life ends? You just see everything. And then everything stopped. And I thought, that's it. You get a picture of your life, it's a quick Then something else happened. The movie projector came back on. Except this time, there was a different film. This time, the film was a horror film, but It wasn't about government conspiracies. What was this horror film? It was pictures of everything I always wanted It was that orphanage called Adopt An Angel in third-world countries where they're normally children outside of civilized countries, they're they're a disgrace. So we must drown them because we don't want And I saw that my orphanage that I always And I saw this kids in my confidence camp teach children the best valuable lessons that health, wealth, and relationships and those Never being able to attend those confidence And I see the wife that I never got to walk And the baby that I never got to hold that And my chest started to implode. I said, &quot;Just let me out. Let me out.I want another chance. I know I took so much time.So much time I about myself. And will they like me?Or, should I try this? Or, what if I fail? No, I want another chance.Just give me another And then the movie shut off. And the world shook again and pain came searing pain told me I was still alive. Do you get that? You get that every single one of you, if you're So I don't feel sorry for you that you're guess what, there's still time on the clock. If you think that you're too old or too young, There's still time on the clock. And I when I woke up, the doctor came in and some bad news. The good news is, you're not going to die. The bad news is, the next 24 hours of your pain known to humanity.&quot; And I looked at the doctor and I said, &quot;Bring I know pain.&quot; I know pain. Pain and I are like cousins that don't always You see him at the family reunion, and you're They should have used a condom with you.&quot; In that hospital, what I did is I turned to See, it wasn't 24 hours of excruciating pain, I had a kidney stone lodged between the bladder And they couldn't get to it, and so the pressure And they said, &quot;Eventually, the pressure will bladder.And so you will go from the most massive a second.&quot; And it'll be caused by something so tiny. I started to think about you. I started to think about each and every one How sometimes it's this tiniest thing that life, can bring us to our knees and make us But when it passes, you will feel a glorious You know what relief is? Relief is the finality of pain. And I think relief is better than pleasure. Because pleasure is a stimulation. Pleasure is about, like, this conscious decision. Relief is that final ending of pain, boom, No obstruction. That's what I want for you. I want you to feel relief. I asked the nurse, I said, &quot;Please, give me She gets a napkin and a pen, I start jotting I said, &quot;I need to do these things.I'm given I started writing down places I want to visit, I start writing down, meet the Dalai Lama. That's when I made that decision to meet the So then, I wrote down, meet Richard Branson. Get a teleVishen show. Come out with a major best-selling book. All of these things, as you know, have transpired. Why? Because I loved that I had more time on the In a sick, twisted way, I wish I could lodge plead and beg and say, &quot;I want more time.&quot; But the good news is, I can't do that to you. The good news is, you don't even need to go The good news is Awesomeness Fest can be that And as I made that list, I visualized, I saw. You've had plenty of content about goal setting, you of something. You're going to rot. Your tissue is going to disintegrate off of as if you never were here. And it's debated what happens next for us, Yes, it totally is. But what's not debated is that there's still How do I know? You're breathing, you're hearing me and seeing So what I want to do, right now, is I want or your laptops, and I want you to write your And if you say, &quot;Oh, Sean, I've already done Do it again. And we're going to put on some music, and I'm going to give you some awesome stuff coming You're going to get one minute, and here's want to meet, places I want to go, and things There's still time on the clock. [music] Who's that one person that you think, in a room&quot;?Maybe you looked up to them your can I bring to them?&quot; Let that fear go. What's that one place? Is it outer space? Is it underwater? Is it in a foreign land? Or is it your childhood home that you're scared What's that one experience? You think, &quot;Oh, man, I would never see myself they do that. I just wish I had the courage to just jump and say, 'Hey, can I buy you drink? Would you like to go out?'&quot; Or that family that you would like to start Maybe you've been divorced and you think, Could I really find love again?&quot; Yes. Yes, you can. As you come to a close on this activity, I Stop typing. And I want you to put your right hand above your heart chakra, and I want you to flow just want you to say to yourself, and I do word, &quot;So let that fear go, thy will be done. This is mine.&quot; Take a deep breath in, let it out. Turn to your neighbor and say, &quot;Thank you.&quot; All right. So, let's get the microphone people out. Microphone runners. Can we do that? I want to get three shares. One person, one place, and one thing, or experience. I want to hear some bucket list items. And bucket list, in case you haven't seen you kick the bucket. Okay? So, let's get one person, one place, one thing. Raise your hand if you have a person. Raise your hand if you have a person. So run back there. Let's get one person to share. - [Brett] Hi. My name is Brett. Just obviously there's plenty of people I'd to my mind, I love music, would be the band, I saw them last year and they really inspire, &quot;Thank you for the effort,&quot; and their music long that it would be a shame not just look - It would be a shame. But give him a round of applause. All right. So, let's get a place. Who has a place they want to visit? Let's get them up here. Stand up, please. - [Man 2] I want to survive long enough to and meet an alien race on their turf. That's what I want to do. - Nice. Give it up. All right. And let's get a experience or a thing you'd Experience or a thing, right up here. Let's get a mic runner up here. You want to go to life put [SP], right? No, just kidding. - [Woman 1] I...- Stand up, stand up. - I would like to help work with you in opening was actually part of my reason for wanting speakers that were here. So... - Thank you. - You'll have to talk to my agent. No, I'm just kidding. I'd love to talk to you. Okay, so, now what I want to do is I want as, you're going to die to it's time to live. All right. When people meet me, they think...they make me and after they meet me. So, before they meet me and before they know this, they'll see me and they'll go, &quot;That I wonder if he can do it.&quot; No, it's not tough and yes, I can do. Anyway, so...- Sorry, mom and dad, you had Okay. So I want to talk about living. So then, the people meet me. Then they get to meet me and spend time with never have a bad day. Do you? Like, how do you deal with your bad days?&quot; How many of you would like to know how Sean Would you like that? - Yeah. - Okay. I don't have bad days. No, I'm just kidding. One of the things that I do... And can we queue up that video? Alex in the room still? All right. Can we...okay. So here's the thing. Not yet, not yet. So, one of the things I do... You can put it up there, just don't hit play So it's got almost 700,000 views. Raise your hand if you've seen this video. Well, hello. Okay, So what we're going to do right now like, some marketing valuable idea that I Okay. And I love, Joe. So what this is is this is what I do in my Okay. I go through moments where I get stressed. Sometimes I'm like, &quot;Oh, that speech canceled that I was going to do this project? And now, that's not going to happen. How are we going to...&quot; Or, I deal with my therapy clients, and they're goes on in a product shipping challenge. There's a lot of things that go on in my business And you know how I live? I do what I call a dance party. Okay. And this video sat for eight months with only It was a video I did for Mindvalley blog, And then, one day, something happened. Where is Tellman [SP] in the room? Tellman called me and he goes, &quot;Dude, are I'm like, &quot;Yes, I am, Tellman.&quot; I said, &quot;What's going on?&quot; He's like, &quot;Have you checked your YouTube I'm like, &quot;No, why?&quot; He's like, your blowing up. You just went up 150,000 views on one of your I'm like, &quot;What?&quot; And so I raced to the computer, I check this thing jumped almost 700,000. Why? Because it got caught up on a couple blogs, It has... How many comments do we have on it now? Can you scroll down a little bit? I think it's like, over 3,000. Scroll down a little bit on the window. What is it? Three thousand five twenty-seven, all right. So people are talking. So what we're going to do, is we're going in your chairs because you're going to model All right. In your chairs, you are going to do a Sean Are you guys committed to this experience? Yes, all right. Make sure we got plenty of sound. I want to hear it loud and clear. So, start it off. Hi, I'm Sean Stephenson and I have to warn be intense. And, well, just say you've been warned. I have a question. What do you do to get pumped up? All right. Well, I'm going to show you what I do. And in fact, I'm going to take to the next Because I want you to do it with me. I call it a dance party. Yeah. So, it's going to start off really simple. Just shoulders right now. And you might think, &quot;What is he doing?Why Because it gets your body moving and it makes So we're moving the shoulders. And then were going to start to get the arms Good. It's called a dance party. And we're going to take it up a notch in the Are you guys ready to take it up? Oh, that's hot. All right. I know what you're thinking. You're thinking, &quot;He's gone crazy.&quot; And I have because life is meant to be enjoyed. I want to see some chest pumps. Come on. All right. So now, you're going to lose it now in a moment. When the chorus really gets going, you're alone when you do this. All right. Now clap with me. It's called a dance party and you do it about Three times a day. You just get your favorite song on, and you Because, life is supposed to be silly, not I know this is probably going to be, like, anytime you want. Shake it out. Shake it out. Are you dancing? Are you laughing at me? You're laughing at me. I know you're laughing at me. I would laugh at me. But you're going to watch this anytime you So you're going to remember, lead yourself Life is too short to get all serious and not I'm Sean Stephenson, thanks for watching. So you're here...- [Woman 2] Because of you. - Thank you. You're here and you're feeling good and you're space to be vulnerable. But I want to fast forward. I want to fast forward to when you're back place, or wherever your next location happens And I want you to sit down in whatever space And I want you to realize that the only way quality of life is by living this message, no one's watching. And I love Steven Covy [SP], he says, &quot;It's But I know that you're going through some some hardships, I know you are. And something has to happen in order for you In order to really create a space so you can again. Back in time to the third grade. I'm in the third grade and I go to school And I want to tell you something really personal. Can I share something extremely personal and you not? Can I share something really personal? - Yes. - Okay. So, when I was a kid, in order to go to the get me from school, and bring me home, because at home, that I couldn't use at the school. And this is days before cellphones, and my And, I went to school, I remember the day I remember the day as if it was yesterday. I go into class and I'm wearing sweatpants And I feel gurgling in my stomach. And then all of a sudden, I realized that to have diarrhea. And I realized that I had to call home right And I call home, and my dad's at work. And my mom was not at work at that day actually. She was running errands, but this was before And I start calling people, calling people, And I'm holding this pain and I'm thinking, Hold it in. You can do this.Hold on. Hold on.&quot; And the pain just kept building and building, And then I got a brilliant idea. I got this idea that, &quot;You know what, Sean? Maybe if you just go in your pants, no one Maybe it's just how you act. If you act like nothing's wrong, then no one And then maybe, finally, you'll reach somebody Just go, Sean.You can do it.&quot; And I remember just going in my pants. And I thought... And then I just played along, like, &quot;Hey, How's it going?Nothing's wrong here. Nothing to see here. Everything's good.&quot; And let me ask you, we have how many senses? How many senses do we have? Five that are measurable, kind of. What's a sense of that the human body has - Smell. - Smell. Everybody reach out, touch your nose. We can smell things, can't we? Hopefully. So, people around me, I'm in third grade, Kids start to tease me. Teachers, you could see the sympathy in the They didn't know what to say, what to do. And I just kept acting like, &quot;No, no, nothing I'm fine. Nothing's wrong. I'm good.&quot; Let me fast forward to today. I look back at little Sean, little, littler I look back at little Sean and I think, &quot;You Sean. You were just shitting yourself and acting could tell.&quot; You may not realize this, but there's something being really honest with yourself on, isn't Something going on in your finances, right going on in your relationship you're not wanting health, your physical body. &quot;No, I'm just the perfect weight I need to Or, &quot;I don't have low blood pressure.I mean, I'm just going to be fine.&quot; There's something going on, isn't there? And you're over there, no different than little tell. You're full of shit and you know it. And that's okay because I'm here to tell you, They were finally able to reach someone. They came over and they did the best they They cleaned me up and just kept saying, &quot;Look Everything is fine.&quot; And I'm here to do that for you. I'm here to clean you up. It's okay. Whatever you've been going through, your financial your wealth challenges, challenges you have I know there's a mess there, okay. We both know that. But there's nothing to feel ashamed about. You did the best you could. You held on as long as you could. And now, you just need to get cleaned up. Now you need somebody to swoop in and tell on, and discussing it, and declaring it that Mindvalley and I have worked on a program Your part of it right here with Awesomeness But I need to make sure that you go home living Because I'm not impressed with people having You know, you've got all kinds of music and you're learning valuable information and that's...it's But now the work begins. Now the seminar comes to a close, the real So I had an idea last night when I was watching &quot;This line is too long,&quot; blah, blah, blah. Right? And I was thinking, &quot;All right, can you live And how can I help you? And how can I clean you up and give you dignity So Mindvalley and I created a program called Raise your hand if you've heard of it, &quot;Living So there's a lot of you that are in for a Living At Cause program is my life's work workbook. And guess what? Last night, I met with Vishen and I said, They all need it.They all need it. Let's give it to them.&quot; So, what we're going to do is we're going At Cause&quot; program. Would that be something you'd be interested - Yes. - So let's talking about Living At Cause, program. You're going to get an email from Alex. Where's Alex in the room? Everybody say, &quot;Hi, Alex.&quot; - Hi, Alex. - Alex and I...I got... Can I celebrate Alex for a moment? - Yes. - Okay. So, Vishen and I met a year and a half ago Then he flew up to Chicago, he said, &quot;I cannot Okay, I cannot do a product unless I party So, he came to Chicago and we partied, all And, I'm glad I took his camera away from So, then he said, &quot;I want you to come to Malaysia.&quot; And I said, &quot;When?&quot; And he's like, &quot;In Malaysia.&quot; I'm like, &quot;Malaysia in two weeks, no way. Like, I need people to travel with me.&quot; He's like, &quot;Whatever you need. Whatever you need.&quot; Vishen, you truly lived up to that. You brought everything I needed to get there. But then, when I got there, I was so excited Sean, I really want to make sure that when you love the experience because you're going do you want to work with?&quot; And I don't even know if you fully know this I looked at all the Mindvalley employees, to work with Alex and here's why.Because he's She's the only one that I am really concerned done and send it to her on time. She's a pitbull and I need a pitbull on Sean program done. So, Alex and I, for the past year now, have Would you say hundreds of times now? And, our time zones, anywhere depending on changes, are getting up or going to be and and market and get out into the world this At Cause. And what I love about you, Alex, is that you You look at me as a human and you have told the middle of the night. You say, &quot;Sean, your hair is a mess.That's Clean up.&quot; And you've called me and you said, &quot;Sean, What's wrong with you?&quot; I mean, she's had that kind of conviction So, Alex, I honor you. Thank you. So let's talk about Living At Cause. In the time that I have remaining, I want you're going to get the full experience. Now, when I give you something, I need to what? You're not going to go through it. Because, you're just going to see it as, &quot;Oh, care because I didn't spend any money on it.&quot; I can't have you do that to me. That would be an unfair exchange of value. Wouldn't it? - Yes. - Okay. So what I need from you is I need you to go on the program. And I know I'm asking for a lot, but I'm asking in this room has gone through this program Can you commit, in the next 12 months, so Living At Cause. Will you do that? - Yes. - So let's talking about Living At Cause. It's a concept that I live by. It's a formula, so pull out your pens and I want you to draw the big letter C as in And then the greater than sign, so it's the C is over here, and then on the other side and if I were to ever get a tattoo, I'm going And I say that with truth because I've had parlor and get this tattooed onto their hand, Because, when they're writing checks, they're they see it. Cause is greater than effect. When people live at cause, what do I mean Well, you know someone is living at cause the word you want to write down, the results When they have the results that they want. And circle and underline and star the word Because, I'm not impressed with words. I'm impressed with actions. I'm impressed with results. You know how I know when you're living at in the categories of your life. I told you you need to go life book, because But I boil them down to three: health, wealth You need to have the results you want in your those subcategories. There's probably about four of them in your Your wealth, not just your financial wealth the wealth in your life. And then the relationships, both the friendship, I meet people and they'll be like, &quot;Oh, I they're not in communication at all with their Let me tell you something about family. Family challenge us more than anyone, don't Because we can't really get rid of them, can We can disown them, we can leave them, we but at the end of the day, you know we share And that doesn't mean that if you have an lots of times with them. I'm not saying that. But I'm telling you, if you hate your family to show up in your life when you start yours, Whatever you despise owns you. Write that down. Whatever you despise or hate, owns you. When you live at cause, you have the results And the way that you get the results that going to write under that, is that you have You have to own it. Don't tell me why you're not in great shape. Don't tell me why you don't have the money Don't tell me why you're unhappily in relationships. You know what? Because, honestly, that's your thing. You have to own that right now you are where to be. And when you own something, then you have So now, let's move over to the E side of the That stands for effect. When you live at effect, you don't have the You have a new word and you want to star, You have the reasons for why you don't have You have reasons why you don't have what you I wrote a book. How many people have read the &quot;Get Off Your Anybody seen or read it? Okay, if you haven't write that, this is the But.&quot; It's spelled B-U-T. When you live at effect, you have all your You know, &quot;I would exercise but I don't have Help me fill that in. &quot;But I don't have the time, the energy, the have the body that I want to show off at the Okay. Those are all effect-living. That's all the reasons for why you don't have That's about blaming. The opposite of ownership is blame. So what do we have to do? We have to get to cause. And that's going to take some energy. Because I'm going to tell you, you can see cause or not, whether they're living at cause So let me give you some quick global examples. People living at cause have the bank account I'm not going to tell you, &quot;You need to be Honestly, some people don't. Some people love $100,000 lifestyle. Vishen and I disagree on this one and I respectfully Because for them, money's not important. Them, they would rather be doing other things Mother Theresa. And I have to celebrate that. But for some of you, you may want to be wealthy. It's really, what do you want? Because, when you tell me what you want, then So when you have what you want, then you have So you have to take ownership. So when we see effect, though, we see people see bankruptcy issues, we see divorce. These aren't bad. These aren't like, &quot;Oh, I need to feel guilt It's a matter of just saying, &quot;Look, you know I've been living at effect. I've been creating lots of reasons for why You know why you live at effect, and I have to live at effect? Because it's easier. It's easier initially. It gets us off the hook. We can pull that card of, &quot;I don't know what Help me. Save me.&quot; Or, it's cushier over here to have people I want you to write this down, pity is a drug. - [Man 3] Is a drum? - Is a drug. - Oh, a drug. - Pity is a drug. And when I see people that are feeling pity, it does? It's like you're just getting your smack, then you're like, &quot;Oh, man, I'm lonely. I'm scared. I'm unhealthy.&quot; And you just keep slapping that vein, and And you go to somebody and you tell them, left me.&quot; Or, &quot;Oh, you know, I've always been overweight.&quot; Or, &quot;Oh, I'm unhealthy and this isn't my fault. It's my doctor's fault.&quot; And we just keep shooting up this drug and to love you right now.&quot; And you get this love hit that you think is It's pity. It's a drug. Because, then you go, &quot;Well, you know what? I don't have to do anything about this because I'm getting money, I'm getting something out So I'm just going to keep doing this.&quot; And I'm not trying to be up on the stage and I've done this with you. But if you're going to be honest, you're going And when you live at effect, you keep going And you cannot live in that space if you want for. Because the clock is ticking, is not? I love the fact that we don't know when we're It's so awesome. And I love that we're going to die. You know why I love it? Because it makes...sweet. You got to live forever...you've seen those The vampire is miserable. He's like, &quot;Oh, I have to do this another Be happy you're going to die, because it makes It makes this awesome. I want everybody to give death a round of I'm telling you, nothing in our universe is I just recently spoke at the [foreign language] ideas, the City of Ideas And I debated some of the best scientists a purpose. Basically, it boiled down to, is there a God And I don't have all the answers, and I don't But what I do know is that there's a magical And what I do know is that mentality creates I know that a three-foot-tall man in a wheelchair a booming business, a six-pack set of abs, I know that because I've created that. And I created it not from the outside in, What you need to do to live at cause is you Own the mess that maybe you've got yourself Guilt, shame, you saw it on that vibrational I love that because it literally is such a I need you to hear me so clearly when I say You are all so smart. You are all so talented. You are all so loved. You are all so important. You are all so a necessary piece for humanity. You are all so ready for the next level. I want you to take three conscious breaths One, let it out with gratitude. Two, let it out. Three. It's time. Awesomeness Fest is coming to a close. You're planning your life as you go home, Who do you need to call? What person do you need to say goodbye to? What person do you need to introduce yourself What project has been overlooked? What exercise regime needs to be started? What nutritional program are you ready to And what life are you ready to lead? It has been my pleasure leading up here with Thank you.