male announcer: &quot;In Touch,&quot; the Stanley, reaching the world with Next on &quot;In Touch,&quot; Dr. Charles Stanley: All of us life, fatigue and weariness and But, when that fatigue or that of being discouraged because you can't ever seem to get over it, being--having the feelings of somehow drained emotionally spiritually, and somehow you forget it all, and it doesn't go continuing no matter what, maybe just simply fatigue but maybe that sense of being absolutely It can happen to saints and to those who love God with all don't love Him at all. And it can happen in your job. It can happen in relationships. It can happen in your schooling. It can happen in your relationship to God. And that's what I want to talk &quot;The Source of Our Strength And I want you to Isaiah chapter 40, Isaiah chapter 40, He says, &quot;Why do and assert, O Israel, 'My and the justice due me Do you not know? The Everlasting God, the LORD, earth, He does not grow His understanding He gives strength to the might, He increases power. Though young men shall and vigorous young Yet those who wait for the they will mount up they will run and not get and not become weary.&quot; The people of God &quot;Now Lord, why it is--You We don't seem to be You're not And so, His answer to them He does give what is needed. And here He's speaking of which was their desire, their When you and I think in terms that can happen, as we It can happen to a four, or five children and she during the day of keeping preparing for her husband and the rest and no break, oftentimes, for a Or it can happen to corporation or a pastor. In fact, there are but thousands and thousands of away from the ministry Doing the work of God, There are thousands of people engaged in some type of be--get burned out in their There are always people and always people going. Many of those who leave, leave so fatigued, so weary, so many challenges And so, they just walk away. Now, at first you may say, &quot;Well, they ought to be Well, that's true but, you know, about some things, very, very, very And I can look back at when I suffered the Back in the seventies when I was like I do now, but during other thirty-minute programs. It takes a lot more energy, a a lot more of everything to look nobody there but the man room somewhere and speak. It was extremely draining to me. Plus, all the responsibilities And so, I kept this I went to the Each time I went, I said I'm just tired.&quot; So, they give me all these tests check this and check that and conclude that what They said, &quot;Well, why I said, &quot;Well, I am.&quot; I came back, tried to Everything was important, everything was essential, and So, what did I do? I convinced myself So, I just kept on Go back to the Told the doctor the same story. Same conclusion, same Third time this happened, it One of my dearest was visiting us and we and so, he and his wife, my restaurant we'd gone to And three years before, he he said, &quot;Let me tell you He'd been through a Couldn't preach for over a year he'd gone through And I remember saying I'm not going to let Three years later, I'm and he said to me, said, I said, &quot;I've been doing fine.&quot; My wife said, So I told him how I felt. He said, &quot;Well, you need to I said, &quot;There's no way.&quot; I said, &quot;You know, you're and I said, &quot;No, He says, &quot;Tonight.&quot; They take me to the The next morning he preaches, tells them if they want me or six months or I'd be dead. He'd already been where I was. And he was observing me from a at some point, I But I thought I could keep going living on the inside The only problem is, it doesn't love God and how much you want out doing what God doesn't want in the wrong way or whatever It isn't going to work. It didn't work for me and it Even after that, I noticed that And I'm saying all that to say in so many wonderful ways and that God has taught me something able to share because I have did then, more going on more responsibility here and yet I don't feel I don't feel pressure. And I have enough things on and to have destroyed many. God has taught me something and something, how to to walk above it, and to draw my my own self but from Him. And what I want to do is, I want the process of teaching me it is one of the most exciting all of my almost fifty I wouldn't take anything in the heartaches, the burdens. And I want to say this: if 8, he says that we are through Christ within us. Now, to be more than a conqueror battle with more When he says we are that means you come more than you carried into it. And I can tell you that I have months than I've ever that I'm learning more about You think, &quot;Well, you've been years and you're just Correct, absolutely correct, Twenty-five years from now, and you'll be asking You'll think, &quot;Well, I that a long time before.&quot; Should have. Some things we learn It's amazing what You and I learn some But then there are those whereas, we may learn He gives us a deeper and then He puts us and circumstances to be And that's when what we immovable, unchangeable, reality in our life that be shaken by anything. And so, what I'd like to do confine this to if I might, but it relates but about our And ask the question here from he said here that He will men shall grow weary and The question is, why Now, why do we get burnt out? Well now, I want you to And if you'll listen carefully, lot of grief, a a whole lot of mistakes, and Listen very carefully. One of the primary reasons we we have a wrong Now, the gospel is the coming into our life. And we would say that the gospel Christ as our personal Savior And so, a person trusts the Lord Savior, and they believe in Him. They believe that His death at So, they're saved. But, their idea of the gospel Lord Jesus Christ but then you join which is New and you get baptized and then And here's what happens. Before long, in that church, church or that denomination has and there are certain things things you are not to do. And before long, you realize, church, that everybody in that you should always do And they don't always can do and what you can't do. So, before long, you realize is permissible and And so, what happens and they discover that the and this formula has The problem is they they already had enough things they Now they've got these rules and and don'ts and musts &quot;Well, you must do this, to that, and you should witness and you You should pray. You should, ought, Shouldn't do this. Shouldn't participate in that.&quot; And so, what happens is the is a formula of things Now, that is absolutely What happened when you that we received God's life. The new birth is to receive a our experience of Christ as our personal Savior. Because--so now every single and abiding on the inside life--listen carefully, the whereby we follow this and the--we follow these rules and regulations. The Christian life a relationship whereby God, who forgiveness, reaches gets us and reconciles us back our sin, makes us holy what relates to us. He says like a He says, &quot;I have placed you, as that the sap that runs in And the sap that runs in the produces delicious, So, what is it It is the vine that has life and A branch disconnected Lay it on a table and He says we are branches. We've been placed We have the life of God Every single child of God is God that indwelt the very Now, remember He says He says, now, even the finest athletes, they grow and they stumble and they fall. But, He says, there is a don't have to get exhausted. We don't have to be drained. We don't have to come to the mentally, physically, or any of being burned out. And if you'll notice, he says in run but they won't be weary. They can still walk but they won't It doesn't mean It doesn't mean that It means that now we are living live out of before. And so, he says in for example, a Now, first of all, we said, wrong view of the gospel. A second problem is a wrong If I should ask you, More than likely, if we we'd say, &quot;Well, spiritual where you read the Bible every you tithe and give more than And there--the things that used no longer bother you. The things that used to The things that used to get you your temper, that And what it sounds like is this: maturity is coming to the the flesh under control. You've got your You say it's been crucified. All these things you're able to juggle All these things you've got them all in order. Everything is in order and life, and you've been able Nothing could be And here's the reason why. If you and I had suppress, keep get the old flesh crucified--and listen to this now, the flesh absolutely insists on acting independently of And all of us have one the capacity to sin, times in our life for by-- And so, we all have to Now--so if a person could get spiritually mature, where none any more, you know That means I wouldn't need God! If I can get them all under Listen, I hate to but did you realize that you're the day you were saved and &quot;Aw, now wait a &quot;but you don't know what I Doesn't make any difference because all I have of your life and you You'll act just Now, don't you have to admit, every once in a while, we Amen? So--which says that you Because if you'd you wouldn't act that way. And so, you see, what I this: there's not a single that you and I can You can't change yourself. The Christian life The Christian life The Christian life isn't Here are the regulations. This is the way I'm This I'm going to That's not the Christian--that's Maturity is this. Maturity is coming to the place am a natural human being. I have God living I can't change my flesh. I can't change this old--this wants to act It's been there It's acting just like Age has nothing to do And so, I can't change that. Can't change the flesh, down and suppressed. Maturity says that I've come to I can't change myself but that upon Him and depend upon realizing it is not within be better or to become better change my conduct, to live up to regulations, be a better person. My responsibility is to trust He knows I cannot do. That's what You know what that means? That means every single solitary the capacity, if to be spiritually mature. And you see, a spiritually is eighty years of age and lives watches TV, never never watches television, and therefore, That's not what Because He never intended ourselves and improve ourselves. He came, He says, to give us would elevate us and make and through and above not in our own Because He knew it How do I know that? He wouldn't have put that it were not true. He says, &quot;Listen, I'm telling men, they're going to get He says the finest going to stumble and fall, God never made these minds, these spirits of life as God knows it's going to He knew our strength was going and fall badly Now, how do we avoid this Well, if you'll he says, &quot;Yet those they'll gain new strength; run and not get tired, and they will walk and not become weary.&quot; Well, listen to this promise. He says He will do these things. &quot;They'll gain new strength.&quot; They'll be able to but they won't get even faster, and Now, what is the what he's saying here? Well, one thing I love about passage just being in &quot;God knows I'm weak.&quot; He knows we are weak. He knows we are frail and He listen, listen to this, We'll never get old enough. We'll never get strong enough, that our energy and all that He didn't make us to be He made us to be And so, he says in this passage, strongest of young men, He But He says, He said, &quot;You will Now, I want you to If you'll notice, &quot;Will gain new strength.&quot; That word gain, look at that. Gain, the word here is exchange. And you can write in the exchange our That's what that means. He says they will exchange their &quot;They will mount up run and not get tired. They will walk,&quot; He says, &quot;and Now, another thing I When He says they that word wait means to but here's what it--the word Here's what it means. Because you see, braiding means or four things become one. When you and I are when He--when we received personal Savior, we We have the life He says those who wait, those who pause for those who are one they are the ones who will They're the ones who'll and the energy that is tireless. Now, listen to what he said. He said, concerning God up here in verse 28: &quot;Do you not know? And have you not heard? The Everlasting God, the LORD, earth doesn't Now, watch this. If I have the life of God within out doing the work of God or carrying on, whatever it may be. Then, if the source then if He ever gives out, And what he's saying is this: inexhaustible resource of we're not going to ever He's not going to give out. This is an inexhaustible source wisdom and knowledge It's inexhaustible And as we said in it is a quality of life that is And therefore, if we are walking in His will and that strength and that resource, It is flowing in us And so, when we why we get weary it can be--because it can be can be relationships, But something causes it, and it, what we have what are You saying to me?&quot; And let me just say this: be the doorway into And I can tell you I've exciting things that's And I just came back from a few days to see my and her husband in Portland, And while I was on the cruise, And the Lord must have known I this for quite some time, and feelings this sense of freedom God's divine power and strength which I've known for years. But somehow, it's just real to me personally. Well, one of my friends and fellowship, one of our And so, we slipped up to to watch these eagles. And there was one area real close to them. So, we observed them looking through a long lens, And so, I watched this And sitting up there, place for me to And so, I kept all of a sudden, I watched Him and sort of step Just pull his feet up behind And I thought now, &quot;He just And I watched him and For you folks who I mean with a camera. And I noticed he just opened, he his wings, and he just sail. Now, I--here's He wasn't flopping and beating And you know what happened? He just sailed, up, up, up, up, up, up, And I thought and I thought, &quot;Oh dear He's not batting his wings.&quot; You know what he did? He just launched out into an air took him up, up, up. And he just moved from one up, up, up, up, up. And he was soaring over that was going on. Almost like it was energy-less. All he did was just and he was just soaring. And he'd swoop down and I thought, &quot;Lord, God doesn't want us What does He want us to do? He, He says He is our energy. He's like the wind and He wants us to soar on what? On His strength, on His Without the wind, he'd just And he's just up there soaring He says, young men but those who linked in with Him, those who they're absolutely, everything, those &quot;Lord, I can't handle this. This is Yours.&quot; He is delighted to provide moment to take care of it.