Inside this smartphone are 62 microchips These microchips are incredibly powerful and billions of nanoscopic transistors manufactured Well, all these microchips were manufactured in Inside it is a clean room which spans the area of machines ranging in size from that of a van to a few million and 170 million dollars. Within from machine to machine and undergo around a by the end of production, each silicon wafer each containing 26 billion transistors. transistors at the bottom and over integrated circuit is then cut out from it can be installed into your desktop computer. microchip manufacturing process and show and an impossibly complex 3D maze of wires technologically advanced microchip factories. so stick around and let's jump right in! A portion There are two sides to understanding how microchip steps and processes needed to build the nanoscopic the second is how the semiconductor fab and floor work, and we'll be flipping between Let's start by opening up this desktop computer, inside. Here we have an integrated circuit, or has 24 cores, a memory controller, a graphics of the cores, we can see its block diagram this multiply block, we find a layout of 44 32-bit multiplication and constitute just overall 26 billion transistors in the CPU. metal wires, or interconnects, and at the very logic gates. Note that these layers of metal the empty space that you see is filled with and preventing the metal wire layers from the transistors at the bottom and five layers of between the layers. In actuality there are a and each successive set of levels uses larger local interconnects that move data around this intermediate interconnects that move data around that move data around the entire CPU. these transistors? Zooming in again and past which are transistors whose channel dimensions to transistor pitch of 57 nanometers. Clearly a mitochondria, a dust particle, and Now that you have a sense of what the transistors let's explore how they're manufactured. a cake that's 80 layers tall, with each layer cut 940 steps in the recipe, which takes 3 months ingredients. And, if any measurement, baking then the cake is entirely ruined. That's but microchips are even more complicated. circuit and run through a simplified a layer of insulating silicon dioxide is deposited sensitive photoresist is spread across the top. applied to the photoresist. Solvents then are thus creating a patterned mask layer. Using the down to the previous layer. Next the mask layer is the wafer and fill in the areas that were just and leveled off to reveal the copper and insulator In order to build the next layer, which is same set of steps, but use a different pattern built using the same set of steps it's more like a clock. To build all the 80 layers of the resulting in 940 steps. One important note is even more complicated than the metal wires, and them. Furthermore, cleaning the wafer to wash away as well as inspecting the wafer to make happens frequently and these steps need to used to complete each of these process steps. . let's take a look at this semiconductor on a 300-millimeter silicon wafer which can considerably smaller and thus 952 of them can fit stacks of 25 using a container called a front plastic wafer carrier is transported around the which lowers the foup onto the tool's landing pad. through vacuum load locks and to different removed, or processed in ways that we'll explore resealed inside, lifted up to the overhead onto the next tool, where the next step in the composed of 80 different layers it takes 3 months stop one of the 940 process steps is completed. capabilities of a semiconductor fabrication same semiconductor tools organized in rows that there are a total of 435 semiconductor tools 50,000 wafers or 11.5 million CPUs a month. so we'll start by categorizing them according making the mask layer, adding material, cleaning the wafer, and finally inspecting functional groups to the various tools and Let's next look at each of these semiconductor various ways. We'll start with the ones that are stencil on the wafer. These tools include the developer and photoresist stripper. First the layer to the surface of the wafer and sends heated in order to evaporate the solvent from lithography tool which shines UV light through a The light passes through the stencil and is then pattern on the wafer. Wherever the light from weakened. The wafer then goes to the developer leaving only the patterned nanoscopic stencil on bake to harden the remaining photoresist. undergo processing, and once these processes stripper which uses solvents to dissolve and how a mask layer is formed and then removed. important, so let's take a look at it. Inside focus the light, a photomask which contains the and a wafer carrier. The photomask is 6 by 6 can fit 2 copies of a single layer of a photomask with these crazy optics is because for billions of nanoscopic transistors and wires few minutes. After the light passes through the order to shrink down the pattern by a factor of photoresist. The wafer carrier steps from position stop, until all 230 chips are patterned. examples, we talked a lot about this CPU having 80 the number of photomasks and mask layers used to the wafer. Therefore, one complete CPU chip 300,000 dollars. With only one mask layer being separate visits to the lithography tool. We could but let's move onto the next category of tools. material onto the wafer. A lot of times we step to add materials to the areas uncovered through a stencil. Due to the wide range of deposition tools have a wide range of variations variant. But essentially there are 3 key groups the wafer: metals such as copper or tantalum, and crystalline layers of silicon. Each group of chemistry principles to deposit the material technical name for the tool that deposits the central wafer handling chamber, with the various to adding just a single element or compound. which is to remove material. There are 2 use either corrosive chemicals or high energy the surface of the wafer. They are typically used material exposed by the mask, thus creating a hole The second method to remove material is CMP, applies slurry and uses abrasive pads to grind making it perfectly flat. CMP levels off the top last step in a cycle of processes in order to The fourth category are tools that modify the use the photomask stencil to bombard the unmasked in order to make the P and the N regions required implanters are only used in the front end of line. However, ion implanters only add around one atom silicon. Additionally, while other machines spray hurl atoms deep into the silicon lattice, kind a concrete wall. This process typically damages step is to repair the silicon by heating the The fifth category of tools are used to clean wafer. These wafer washers use ultra-pure water to hot isopropyl alcohol. Cleaning the wafer happens particles that may have fallen onto the wafer. transistors and metal layers for defects and tool uses a scanning electron microscope with top surface of the wafer and determine if there or particles on the surface. When fabricating complete, it's important to repeatedly monitor the is being executed with nanometer-level precision. here are the color coded process steps semiconductor fabrication plant. Let's run manufacture a single metal interconnect layer. deposited onto the wafer. Next photoresist is through a soft bake to remove the solvent. The where the design from the photomask is transferred the areas of photoresist hit by the light. The the sections that were hit by the light from the harden the remaining photoresist. With the mask where a plasma etcher removes a vertical column reaches the previous layer's metal vias. Next the mask layer is removed. The wafer then travels sequence of metals fills in the exposed pattern is sent to a chemical mechanical planarization that remains is a flat layer of insulating silicon match the pattern from the photomask. A single ready for the next cycle to begin where insulating that cleaning and wafer metrology or inspection steps. Furthermore, the process steps to make the the ion implanter, and thus we'll cover them in a These steps are for building the there are additional steps in manufacturing a But before we get there, one important thing is incredibly secretive regarding the exact tool make the transistors. We wanted to make the best 180 hours of scouring the internet and textbooks what we found, we spent 205 hours modeling each circuit, and the semiconductor fab. Furthermore, animating all these visuals took more than 825 hours to make, and it's entirely free to watch. explore computer architecture and how transistors best way you can help is by taking a few seconds video, subscribe if you haven't already and then friend or colleague. Truly, just a few seconds Additionally, we have a Patreon page where of our work and updates for upcoming we would appreciate any support. Thank you. manufacturing a microchip? Before we first have to manufacture the silicon and then growing a monocrystalline ingot these 300-millimeter wafers are around they have a barcode on the side and a small crystal lattice. Furthermore, these wafers are of shards when broken. A single wafer costs populated with CPUs it's worth closer to a hundred times more valuable than its weight in gold. The completed wafer is sent to a separate building to figure out if it works as intended. If a CPU or photomask defect has damaged a section of defective. These semi-functional circuits are then These Intel Thirteenth Gen processors are sold as are functional with different product lines of are defective. These wafers are transported out using a laser, flipped over, and placed on an to a printed circuit board while a protective side. The printed circuit board holds the landing as well as various electrical components. Next and the entire assembly is tested one last time is now ready to be mounted onto the motherboard It's important to understand that chip amount of science and engineering and there's a inside each of these complex tools and that's with reimagines how courses are taught. Instead that put you to sleep, Brilliant uses fun and from basics to advanced topics - and new lessons Brilliant customizes its content to fit your We use Brilliant daily. We're working on so each of our animators is progressing through Because you're watching this video, you probably and fortunately for you, Brilliant just added lessons such as How GPS Works, How Computer such as those used by YouTube work. If Brilliant is the go-to resource for leveling up concepts behind world-changing technology. is offering a free 30-day trial with access to Brilliant is offering 20% off an brilliant.org/brancheducation. The Microchip Fabrication is a massive topic, and that we're working on. The first will be an second will explore transistor physics, FinFets, also working on a series of videos on GPUs and a subscribe so you don't miss any of our videos. Membership Sponsors for supporting our work. you can find the links in the description below. animations that dive deeply into the technology video by clicking one of these cards or click