The Earth is pretty cool and all, but many of for us to get around. When the topography is too sometimes the only way forward is up: our free from the surface using bridges. A lot of necessarily picturesque. It's not that we can't or stunning sanitary sewers. It's just that we different. To an enthusiast of constructed works, ways to cross a gap, all kindred in function engineers classify and name them is in how each Like everything in engineering, terminology said, "The map is not the territory." But, to learn some new words and see some cool of anything more worthwhile than that. I'm One of the simplest structural crossings is the just a horizontal member across two supports. That member can take a variety of forms, a stringer) or a larger steel member fabricated modern bridges built as overpasses for grade that use concrete girders. And instead of a group which are essentially closed structural tubes more complicated to construct). Beam bridges the girders required would be too large. At a they can hardly support their own weight, One way around the challenge of the structural of a girder. A truss is an assembly of smaller structure. Unlike a beam, the members of a truss connections usually aren't actual hinges that So, all the load is axial (along their length) design process because it's easier to predict weight reduction allows trusses to span greater variety of arrangements, many with their own the deck on the bottom level, and a deck truss below the road. A particularly photogenic named because they resemble lenses, which lentils! A Bailey bridge is a kind of temporary and easy to assemble. They were designed during today as temporary crossings when a bridge fails bridges are timber truss bridges. Since wood is elements, the roof and siding are placed to keep A trestle bridge is superficially similar to a truss: a don't have long spans, but rather a continuous are individually called trestles, but sometimes so like so many other instances of structural This next bridge type uses a structural feature the arch. Instead of beams loaded perpendicularly tensile forces, arch bridges use a curved element compression forces alone. Many of the oldest way to span a gap with materials available with the convenience of modern steel and bridges. They make efficient use of materials the arch can't provide its support until it is during construction until the arch is connected the topmost stone is key to keeping the whole the keystone. When the arch is below the roadway, transfer the load of the deck onto the arch. The the spandrel. Open-spandrel bridges use columns use continuous walls. If part of the arch extends it's called a through arch bridge. A moon bridge reserved for pedestrians over narrow canals where They're steep, so sometimes you have to use steps One result of compressing an arch is that it bridges usually need strong abutments at either horizontal loads. Alternatively, a tied arch the arch like a bowstring, so it can resist structurally more of a truss than an arch, creativity. For just one example, a network plus criss-crossed suspension cables, to support it's usually enough to look at the supports. If or some other structure that seems you can probably bet that they are tied together a rigid-frame bridge integrates the superstructure supports, and everything else) into a single Another way to increase the span of a beam bridge deck balance on their center instead of being uses beams or trusses that project horizontally, the supports rather than in the center of the the Forth Bridge crossing the Firth of Forth in world away from the Brooklyn Bridge in 1890 photograph demonstrates the principle of that the compression loads from the bridge. And, the balancing force for each arm. This way, The longest bridges take advantage of steel's using cable supports. Cable-stayed bridges attached to tall towers or spars. The cables giving this type of bridge its unique cable-stayed bridges can have one central a wide variety of configurations, giving rise For shorter spans, you can combine the benefits an extradosed bridge. Imagine a concrete girder concrete in compression, then just pull those a short tower. Rather than holding the deck up acting more horizontally to hold the girders in to support the deck. It's a relatively new idea but there are quite a few cool examples Where a cable-stayed bridge attaches the bridge uses cables or chains to dangle the the cables follow the curve of the deck. not very stiff or strong, so simple suspension stressed ribbon bridge takes the concept into the deck. The cables pull the deck stability so it doesn't sway and bounce. smaller pedestrian bridges because it can't span Then you have the suspended deck bridge, the with the longest spans in the world. Massive main vertical hangers. Suspension bridges are iconic slender, graceful appearance. Towers on either a blanket fort. Most of the bridge's weight these towers. The rest is transferred into the keeping the cables from pulling out of the ground. connect the main cables to the deck on either Because they are so slender and lightweight, girders or trusses along the deck to reduce bridges are expensive to build and maintain, so will suffice. But you can hardly look at a Bridges have to support the vehicles and people accommodate boats and ships passing underneath as its approaches high enough, another option is needs to pass. Moveable bridges come in all shapes after their medieval brethren over castle moats. A swing bridge rotates horizontally A vertical lift bridge raises the entire deck upward, keeping just has a small length of deck that is shuttled and in fact, every moveable bridge is unique so there are some truly interesting On the other hand, sometimes there's no need for case, you can just float the bridge right on the eliminating the need for a foundation. but there are permanent examples too. Many use pumps inside to make sure they don't fill up with take advantage of buoyancy in their design, A design like this presents a lot of interesting of them. Similarly, the pedestrian bridge at pronounced that wrong) has its deck below the If space or funding is really tight, a low-water crossing. Unlike bridges low-water crossings are designed to be submerged in areas prone to flash floods, where runoff a crossing would be inaccessible only a few low-water crossings have some disadvantages. For a dam. And then there's safety. A significant someone tries to drive a car or truck through It takes only a small but swift flow to push a least some of the resources saved by avoiding the barricades during storms, install automatic campaigns encouraging motorists never to You may have heard the term viaduct before. but really about the length. Bridges that span a So, a viaduct is really just a long bridge land. There's really not a lot of agreement on and impressive structures. But many modern cities from an engineering standpoint, a little less called elevated expressways. And that gets to the bridge, there's no true way to list every type and mixing and matching designs. The Phyllis J. and stressed ribbons. The Third Millennium Bridge cables holding up the deck which is stiffened in Turkey combines a cable-stayed and suspension living tree roots are used as simple suspension pipelines, bridges for water, bridges for animals, paying attention to bridges. Once you understand interesting details. Eventually, you'll see your accountant's office, and let him know stiffened truss girder suspension bridge with Or maybe that's just me. We care a lot about bridges. My previous video collision design for bridges, focusing on the in Baltimore that was a huge story in the news globe. Over 400 sources reported the even from was so widely reported, there's a pretty even mix outlets, but if you look at the headlines, you'll political and ideological biases from both sides the story - the victims' nationalities, the DEI prominent politicians - the framing can subtly, or Seeing all this in one place is possible thanks news stories and add context to make reading the with a quick visual breakdowns and tags for the sources backed by ratings from independent you can see that nearly half of the reporting half of those outlets have been rated "High the Blind Spot that shows you stories mainly stuff you might totally miss if you only I don't necessarily agree with how every but it's important to me to get a broad not just because I was trying to find but because stories like this are how we shape journalism has a lot of power over us, and you. If you'd like a more transparent media right now at the link in the description: 40 includes unlimited access to all their features. or just click the link in the description. Thank