So this is definitely the biggest man I have ever Eddie Hall is the first person in the World to deadlift and is considered one of the strongest men lot of grip strength in strongman and on top switching his Focus to bodybuilding. This guy be able to climb them? Well, we're about to Hall the World's Strongest Man and probably the a very nice compliment thank you. We met think 2012, 2013 yeah a German TV show. Yeah and Man. Yes. But now you're retired now you're doing and climbing. Bodybuilding climbing? Yeah we'll part of being a World's Strongest Man you have to we used to wear climbing shoes. Oh really? I've got Oh huge! Yeah massive yeah. I don't professional like me mate. The goal today is for you to you down to... oh I want to be like that guy over He's climbing yellow, that's pretty hard. That's literally going to be me in about an hours time. There's a gray in the corner here. Hang on, but you're saying grey is the easiest but that's an inclined wall. Well, you see it's like a dihedral the weight off. If you look at these holds. That's what you like right? Yeah, yeah, yeah. So you see this has a metal ring and this has a metal ring? you can start. And here you try to use both sides, don't have to use your hands at all. I do think bit more than you do. As in that you get two sizes too small. Yeah. Why'd you do that? Just Yeah my big toe is like in this angle, so it's so I've got a little bit of wriggle room. But Yeah in the beginning it doesn't on your shoes? No the rubber should be without I was just testing you. I was also going to a tattoo. Yeah I don't wear rings, because of lifting. Yeah. This is the first climb ever? First climb ever. Ever since you climbed trees as a kid? Yeah probably about 10, 12 when I start climbing trees. Yeah. Last time So let's just touch wood. You're definitely hopefully you won't rip any holds off the hip as close to the wall as Good. Awesome. Yep? Yep. Uh how do I get down? Climb down, or you jump down, whatever you prefer. I was gonna say I can catch you, but I can't catch you. You know for a I mean it looked good. Yeah. I could feel things creaking and cracking in my the typical beginner tips is uh, hips close your legs are stronger than your arms. For beginners that's true, but for more advanced climbers that's not I want my legs to be as light as possible. You can climb that with just hands? Yeah, yeah. Oh my God. I mean this is very extreme but if you're probably best chopping your legs off? the story is true, but he sat in a wheelchair That's how dedicated some people are. Wow to win a gold medal. Yeah. Wow! All right, next grade. So you see the chart over there? Next grade is green, right? Jamie there's a chart! So you reckon the Orange is like my target for today? maybe it should be blue. We should aim high. Okay. Again that's even more steeper than that one. Yeah, if you want I can Spider pig, spider pig.. That's a rule yeah. That's not valid no. I don't think to, because of how heavy I am. You need to try. Come on. Use the lower foot. I'm waiting The lower foot hold, here. Okay. Come on, yes nice! Come on Eddie next one is good! Next one Come on! Come on Eddie, yeah there you go! Good job. It was good, yeah! Oh that's keen. Yeah. able to start that position, but you did. Yes. You're stronger than you think. That's only what, 30 seconds of climbing? It gets fit guy and it gets your lungs wow. Yeah so for you we want to find something that is not think this orange straight ahead is perfect this is in essence easier rocks to easier gradient. Yeah. But this So you've got nothing to grip. But the thing is here you don't have to use strength at all, so you see you're always let go of hands and then just doing one foot Often beginners will put their feet up really high and then I push myself out from the wall so stand close to the wall. No smelling salts? No, not today it's a bit much. Here you have to start here and here. So I have to start on this? Yes and be try to be as accurate as possible. Okay. Now it's Get your right hand up. You see you So I come up and then come up to this one? Yeah yourself into the wall. Now you.. now a right foot here. But you can also use your want. Smearing means you're not using any hold, but Yeah awesome! Change it with a left. Come Next hold is good. Come on Eddie come on. Here left hand. Ah yeah. And then you.. come on! I'm pssing in the wind here. Just go for something, otherwise you're gonna get too tired. Come on next hold, I can't just go for that one? No, that's a down Nice, I mean that was pretty close. This was your try. So I would say uh you're way better Yeah, uh so we're gonna think how to do this. but then go to this and as soon as you get this, So I'm expected to jump feet? Easy as that? Yeah. Does matching make sense Obviously you just switching.. hands. Take a rest, shake the arms. And I think you're going to feel it tomorrow, you know it's muscles that you're not you normally using. I'm training legs when I get back home today. Oh you are? Wow that's dedication. It's hard man like your fingers and it's all working overtime isn't it? Get the hips close to the wall. Come on, nice, this side of the hand. Come on yeah next one is There you go! Is that it? Match the last hold. Like that? I could feel it about rip off it. It almost ripped off? Awesome. /&amp;$/!#.. when I was hanging on that one it was like.. Okay so I've passed my expectations. yeah we set your expectations way too low, that's... I mean everyone does that. Yeah so now A little bit? Jesus. Let's pick the good strategy. So I would say it's better than That's recording. What are these tools here for? on the holds you want to brush off some of blue. You have a good brushing technique. You should brush for the thumb as well, that's goes? Yeah exactly. I can show you the beta on this Beta? Beta yeah. It's not, uh Alpha and Yeah, but then instead of grabbing this because And then coming into this. Jamie is there like can change the colors? You know when turn that to Black. I can try my best to yeah. Yeah we'll do that in a minute It's hard work, like I'm amazed. I'm actually And this is bouldering so this is more strength rope it would be a lot more endurance. You would no no you're attached to a rope so then the routes you have the rope. Ah so you go higher up? You go and a half meters, but if you climb with a rope tired. Okay. But strength wise this is harder a rope. Oh it's down here. It starts here. Oh no, no chance! So butt off the pads. I literally of shagg%!&quot;# King Charles.. in the ass. Okay so from here so now you just have to get the lift off. Yeah easy! come on yeah yeah yeah nice next is also good yes nice and now I will go left on come on yes nice yeah get the it was so close that was so good though I can feel like me lots and everything I real climber there I mean this is a pretty big just make your foot placement better you just go there's a lot of chocolate so if you think you wow there's not much to grab right no so there's like all limbs have to be on the wall you know that 1969 yeah you put a man some people died you can't climb is that on okay you can try it too though the I mean you know they put a man on the moon right allegedly allegedly I mean what's on there then you go left hand here left hand yes you it's better to match yeah okay and go like why I went wrong I didn't use my phone come come on come on next one is good you slide it's like a cat clinging at my grip's going so fast yeah yeah well it's cool that you're using the right terminology black pumps like my skin stretched right baby growing on my forearm see the difference surely everyone's seen that uh trains where's the GoPro is on his head so that's any like that gets that excited over the down right and they're excited so this is nice foot up right foot up let's come on come on yeah nice come on Eddie what right foot up there you go this one is good nice and then you cross the right hand go ahead and left hand my grip's oh that's good oh man how's your skin though has bad I mean you're used to lifting heavy stuff more technical Maybe I think my hands need a bit it even says here smear I'm going here and here so kind of over what do you think I mean they put ridiculous you try to shake the we're just starting here cheers man I think your shoes are pretty good men competitions where you have to rely on heel so you get as much surface as possible on don't want to be like this okay like this so as yeah that's not too much don't use that hole to go straight up today here yeah and then just go for it the last looks come on it's just a little bit committing awesome okay oh so you you dabbed a few times few times the ground yeah but it's okay yeah yeah okay so I did a blue one yeah we'll see next level up so he definitely dabbed a few him he's intimidating green Dawn orange Dawn climb purple today that's uh so surprising one how does it look horrible horrible this is probably going to you make it look so fluent and effortless yeah that's what a hundred kilo weight difference here left hand here and right hand here that's stick to that and then to there yeah so it's yeah like that okay come on here's from zero okay where am I going now all right you have to move your foot up right foot up first no I think that's where I've reached my limit I body weight I need something to hook into yeah American I'm 370 pounds wow was it fun though you know and you said I want you to get was is that something you were good at cool well I to have one of the strongest cause in the then it's two feet up yeah and then it's one foot see where you are I'm pretty sure you can you can or maybe there's a little bit of flexibility uh involved I'll use this I mean don't you think this would a lot of finger strength you're 100 I think but if I were to go back in time if I had some the day climbing yeah much more interesting than isn't it it's good fun as well so just legs of them yeah nice easy yeah that's good sure watching some footage of you doing one finger a while not so much anymore but yeah that's could you do I think uh my record is nine nine hanging for time on a ball I don't know I'm not like it's not compared to you but compared to can hang if my grip was fresh I could hang for I could hang with one hand I think that's going to be pretty even seconds or something so that's okay I that let's go and things off with a little no you can't have chalk oh I already put some on been lucky for last 30 seconds like honestly a little bit of moist on the it's gonna get really painful just oh my God I'm going already ah you're not even good that I tired you out before yeah literally wait let's do something with weights so I want you try I I've been retired six years mate well you're so it doesn't matter what about Turkish get-ups I've done it for ages I'll just start with stand up yeah and then you've that's a Turkish guy seems like oh wow there's so much heavier oh so easy how about now hmm good good shout I can't do much more than that you're more just grip like actual yeah and strengths like uh locking the grip that's what not actively squeezing things okay so you know I I've never been good at that no I think yeah yeah what's your hand size like quite I've got big hands there's 16 there is this good so this is a lot of core strength it's also good for strength when you take the nice okay good so I'm sure the world record for this it's ridiculous yeah um top of my head I think it's like 80 kilo come on good come on keep it keep it back down good job that's awesome oh yeah so that's it's hard it's harder than it looks yeah for hard to get up right yeah I mean it's hard for yeah the baby's oh my God they're so uh they're embryo on my forearm there oh that's so pumped when you wake up yeah yeah I'm sure most days up sore then you're not training on enough a pleasure uh climbing with you uh make sure that everything uh I mean you're huge there so they I'd mention it anyways and also make sure to awesome thank you thank you