- This is a video about yet least understood It governs everything to humongous storms. From the beginning of the universe through its entire evolution, It may, in fact, determine and even be the reason that life exists. To see the confusion around this topic, you need to ask only one simple question. What does the Earth get from the sun? - What does the earth get from sun? - Well, it's light rays? - What do we get from the sun? - Warmth. - Warmth, light. - Vitamin D, we get vitamin D from- - We do get vitamin D - Well, a lot of energy. - What does the earth - Yeah, energy. - Energy. - Nailed it. Every day, the earth gets from the sun. And then how much energy into space relative to that amount that it gets from the sun? - Probably not as much, I, you know, I don't believe it's just - I'd say less. - Less. - Less. - I guess about 70%? - It is a fraction. - I'd say 20%. - Because... - We use some of the energy. - We consume a lot, right? - But the thing about energy You can't really use it up. - It would have to Same amount, yeah. - You know, cause and effect. It'd be equal in some ways, right? - For most of the earth's history, it should be exactly the in from the sun as earth - Wow. - Because if we didn't do that, then the earth would get a lot - That'd be a big problem. - So, if that is the case... - Yeah. - Then what are we really - That's a good question. - Hmm. - It gives us a nice tan. - It gives us a nice tan, I love it. We're getting something - I don't know, what do - But nobody talks about it. To answer that, we have made two centuries ago. In the winter of 1813, by the armies of Austria, The son of one of Napoleon's generals was Sadi Carnot, a 17-year-old student. On December 29th, he to request to join in the fight. Napoleon preoccupied in but Carnot gets his when Paris is attacked. The students defend a chateau but there're no match and Paris falls after Forced to retreat, Carnot is devastated. Seven years later, he who's fled to Prussia His father was not only a He wrote an essay on how energy is most efficiently transferred When his son comes to about the big breakthrough Steam engines were already mine ore, and excavate ports. And it was clear that and military might of nations depended on having the best steam engines. But French designs were falling behind those of other countries like Britain. So, Sadi Carnot took it upon At the time, even the best steam engines only converted around 3% of thermal energy into useful mechanical work. If he could improve on a huge advantage and restore So he spends the next three and one of his key insights involves how an ideal one with no friction and no It looks something like this. Take two really big metal The engine consists of a where heat can only flow in Inside the chamber is a piston, which is connected to a flywheel. The air starts at a of the hot bar. So first, the hot bar with the chamber. The air inside expands to maintain its temperature. This pushes the piston Next, the hot bar is removed, but the air in the chamber except now without heat entering, In the ideal case, until it is the temperature The cold bar is brought into and the flywheel pushes the piston down. And as the air is compressed, heat is transferred into the cold bar. The cold bar is removed. The flywheel compresses the gas further increasing its temperature of the hot bar. Then the hot bar is connected Through this process, heat into the energy of the flywheel. And what's interesting to note is that it is completely reversible. If you ran the engine in reverse, first the air expands then the chamber is brought the air expands more, drawing Next, the air is compressed, The chamber is placed and the energy of the flywheel back into the hot bar. However many cycles were run you could run the same number everything would return with no additional input So by running an ideal engine, You can always undo what you did. So what is the efficiency of this engine? Since it's fully reversible, you might expect the but that is not the case. Each cycle, the energy by the amount of heat flowing into the chamber from the hot bar, minus the heat flowing out of So to calculate the efficiency, by the heat input from the hot bar. Now the heat in on the hot by the gas on the piston, and this will always be by the piston on the gas on the cold side, which equals the heat out. And this is because on the hot side, the hot gas exerts a greater pressure on the piston than that To increase the efficiency of the engine, you could increase the or decrease the temperature Lord Kelvin learns of and realizes it could form the basis for an absolute temperature scale. Imagine that the gas is allowed so much that it cools to the point where all the gas particles Then they would exert no and it would take no work to compress it on the cold side, so This is the idea of absolute zero, and it would make for a Using this absolute temperature we can replace the with the temperature of the because they are directly proportional. So we can express efficiency like this, which we can rewrite like this. What we have learned of an ideal heat engine or the design of the engine, but fundamentally on the temperatures of the hot and cold sides. To reach 100% efficiency, on the hot side or absolute both of which are impossible in practice. So even with no friction or it's impossible to make a And that's because to return the piston to its original position, you need to dump heat into the cold bar. So not all the energy Now, in Carnot's time, could only reach temperatures So their theoretical but their real efficiency That's because real engines dissipate heat to the environment, and they don't transfer heat So for just as much heat going in, less energy ends up in the flywheel. The rest is spread out over the axle of the flywheel, and is radiated out into the environment. When energy spreads out like this, it is impossible to get it back. So this process is irreversible. The total amount of energy didn't change, but it became less usable. Energy is most usable and less usable when it's spread out. Decades later, German studies Carnot's engine, to measure how spread out the energy is. He calls this quantity, entropy. When all the energy is that is low entropy, but as the energy spreads the walls of the chamber and the axle will entropy increases. This means the same amount but in this more dispersed form, it is less available to do work. In 1865, Clausius summarizes of thermodynamics like this. First, the energy of the And second, the entropy of the In other words, energy The second law is core to so It's why hot things cool why gas expands to fill a container, why you can't have a because the amount of usable is always decreasing. The most common way to describe which makes sense because becoming more mixed, But I think the best way is as the tendency of So why does energy spread out over time? I mean, most of the laws of physics work exactly the same way So how does this clear Well, let's consider two small metal bars, one hot and one cold. For this simple model, we'll consider only eight atoms per bar. Each atom vibrates according to the number of energy packets it has. The more packets, the more it vibrates. So let's start with in the left bar and three in the right. The number of energy packets in each bar is what we'll call a state. First, let's consider just the left bar. It has seven energy packets, which are free to move around the lattice. This happens nonstop. The energy packets hop giving different configurations of energy, but the total energy stays Now, let's bring the cold bar back in with only three packets The energy packets can now hop around between both bars creating Each unique configuration So what happens if we take a and see where all the energy packets are? So stop, look at this. Now there are nine energy and only one in the right bar. So heat has flowed from cold to hot. Shouldn't that be impossible Well, this is where Ludwig Boltzmann made an important insight. Heat flowing from cold it's just improbable. There are 91,520 configurations with nine energy packets in the left bar, but 627,264 with five That is the energy is more than six times as likely to be evenly But if you add up all the possibilities, you find there's still a ends up with more energy So, why don't we observe Well, watch what happens as we to 80 per bar and the with 70 in the left bar There is now only a 0.05% ends up hotter than it started. And this trend continues as In everyday solids, there trillion atoms and even So heat flowing from cold that it never happens. Think of it like this Rubik's cube. Right now, it is completely solved, but I'm gonna close my eyes If I keep doing this, it from being solved. But how can I be confident this cube up? Well, because there's only a few ways for it to be almost solved, and quintillions of ways for it to be almost entirely random. Without thought and effort, every turn moves the Rubik's cube from a highly unlikely state to a more likely state, a total mess. So if the natural tendency and for things to get messier, then how is it possible to have something like air conditioning where gets cooler and the hot Energy is going from cold to hot, decreasing the entropy of the house. Well, this decrease in by increasing the entropy a In this case, at a power plant, the concentrated chemical energy heating up the power spreading to the turbine heating the wires all and producing waste heat Whatever decrease in entropy is more than paid for by an to make that happen. But if total entropy is and anything we do only then how is there any How are there hot parts How does life exist? Well, if the earth were a closed system, the energy would spread out completely, meaning, all life would cease, everything would decay and mix, and eventually, reach But luckily, earth is not a closed system, because we have the sun. What the sun really gives of low entropy that is The energy that we get than the energy we give back. It's more compact, it's Plants capture this and create sugars. Then animals eat plants to maintain their bodies and move around. Bigger animals get their energy by eating smaller animals and so on. And each step of the way, the energy becomes more spread out. - Okay, interesting. - Yeah. - Oh wow, I did not know that. - There you go. Ultimately, all the energy is converted into thermal energy, and then it's radiated back into space. But in fact, it's the same amount. I know this is a- - I'm a PhD physicist. - Oh, okay, but anyway, so... The increase in entropy can be seen in the relative number and leaving the earth. For each photon received from the sun, 20 photons are emitted, and everything that happens on earth, plants growing, trees hurricanes and tornadoes, people eating, sleeping, and breathing. All of it happens in the higher energy photons into 20 times as many Without a source of concentrated energy and a way to discard life on earth would not be possible. It has even been may be a consequence of the If the universe tends then life offers a way to because life is spectacularly good at converting low entropy For example, the surface between 30 to 680% more and other organic matter is Jeremy England takes He's proposed that if of clumped up energy, this that dissipate that energy. And over time, this results in better and better energy dissipators, eventually resulting in life. Or in his own words, &quot;You start with a random clump of atoms, and if you shine light it should not be so surprising So life on earth survives on but then where did the The answer is the universe. If we know that the total is increasing with time, then and even lower entropy and so on, all the way So right after the Big Bang, that is when the entropy was lowest. This is known as the past hypothesis. It doesn't explain why just that it must have been to unfold as it has. But the early universe was hot, dense, and almost completely uniform. I mean, everything was was basically the same everywhere, varying by at most 0.001%. So how is this low entropy? Well, the thing we've left out is gravity. Gravity tends to clump matter together. So taking gravity into account, having matter all spread out like this, would be an extremely unlikely state, and that is why it's low entropy. Over time, as the universe matter started to clump And in doing so, enormous were turned into kinetic energy. And this energy could also be used like how water flowing But as bits of matter some of their kinetic energy So the amount of useful energy decreased. Thereby, increasing entropy. Over time, the useful energy was used. In doing so, stars, planets, increasing entropy all along. The universe started with around 10 to the 88 Boltzmann Nowadays, all the stars have about 9.5 times 10 to the 80. The interstellar and have almost 10 times more, but still only a fraction A lot more is contained in neutrinos and in photons of the In 1972, Jacob Bekenstein proposed another source of entropy, black holes. He suggested that the should be proportional So as a black hole grows, Famous physicists thought and for good reason. According to classical thermodynamics, if black holes have entropy, then they should also have a temperature. But if they have temperatures, and not be black after all. The person who set out was Stephen Hawking. But to his surprise, his do emit radiation, now and they do have a temperature. The black hole at the has a temperature of about a emitting radiation that So still pretty black. But Hawking confirmed that and Bekenstein was right. Hawking was able to refine and determine just how The super massive black hole has about 10 to the 91 That is 1,000 times as much as the early observable universe, and 10 times more than all And that is just one black hole. All black holes together to the 104 Boltzmann So almost all the entropy of the universe is tied up in black holes. That means, the early universe only had about 0.000000000000003% So the entropy was low, in the universe like galaxies merging, asteroids crashing, stars dying, to life itself flourishing, all of that can happen because the entropy of the universe was low and it all happens only in one direction. We never see an asteroid uncrash or a planetary system unmix into the cloud of dust There is a clear difference and the future, and that The fact that we are going from unlikely to more likely states is why This is expected to the energy gets spread out so completely that nothing interesting This is the heat death of the universe. In the distant future, more than 10 to the 100 years from now, after the last black hole has evaporated, the universe will be in Now, even on large scales, the difference between time and the arrow of time So it sounds like entropy that leads us inevitably towards the dullest outcome imaginable. But just because maximum does not mean that low entropy It's actually more like this tea and milk. I mean, holding it like this But as I pour the milk and these beautiful patterns emerge. They arise in an instant they're gone back to being featureless. Both low and high entropy It's in the middle appear and thrive. And since that's where we find ourselves, let's make use of the low With the right tools, we can from a cup of tea cooling down to the evolution of the entire universe. And if you're looking to add powerful tools to your arsenal, then you should check out this video sponsor, brilliant.org. With Brilliant, you can master from math and data science All you need to do is set your goal, and Brilliant will design the equipping you with all the Want to learn how to Then Brilliant's latest is a fast and easy way to get there. Using an intuitive drag and drop editor, it teaches you what you including essential concepts You can start by jumping and then learn how to apply your new tools to your everyday life, like automating reminders on your phone or building a bot that filters What I love about Brilliant what you learn to real world examples. And because each lesson is hands-on, you'll build real intuition, so you can put what you've To try everything for a full 30 days, visit I will put that link And through that link, the will get 20% off Brilliant's So I wanna thank Brilliant and I wanna thank you for watching.