NEIL DEGRASSE TYSON: When we think of places the Goldilocks Zone around the star where And if you get a little too close to the star, have it anymore. It's gone. Too far away it would freeze and neither of we know it. We need liquid water. So you can establish this Green Zone, this if you find a planet orbiting there hey, good Let's look there first for life as we know Now it turns out that this source of heat, go farther out everything water should be But Europa, a moon of Jupiter sitting well not from energy sources traceable to the Sun, Jupiter itself. So, Jupiter and surrounding moons are actually And how does it do that? As Europa orbits Jupiter its shape changes. It's not fundamentally different from tides The shape of the water system of the Earth And when you do that to a solid object, the And because of this, a consequence of this It is no different from when you say to anyone racquet sports. It could be racquetball or squash. You say let's arm up the ball before we start You want to hit it around a few times. You are literally warming up the ball. It's not just simply let's get loose. You are literally warming up the ball. How? You are distorting it every time you smack it back into shape and every time you do that, ball. It's not fundamentally different from what's So, you have this frozen world, Europa, completely surface and there are cracks in the ice. There are ridges in the ice where there's So this ridge has a discontinuity in the crack So what this tells you is that Europe cannot would be moving. You look at the surface of Europa, the frozen shifted and refrozen and shifted again. It looks just like if you fly over the Arctic Fly over the Arctic Ocean in the winter these all the time. It's the same signature as that. So all of us are convinced that beneath this And there's no reason to think it wouldn't On Earth where we find liquid water we find So what this means not only do we have a source have conditions under which life could be And knowing that this is possible has completely for life in the universe. No longer is it the limit, let's find a 72 No, life is pretty hardy. And by the way Europa is not the only one kept warm by these sort of tidal stress forces. There are other moons that feel the same influx So, for example, Io, that's the innermost That suffers from this phenomenon even more. And that moon is so hot there are volcanoes It is rendered molten, whatever solid parts And so, in fact, the most volcanically active moons of Jupiter. And we don't know how to sustain life under that if you're looking for sources of energy star in our search for life in the universe. The question isn't about whether dark matter What's going on is when we measure gravity the stars, the planets, the moons, the gas When we do this 85 percent has no known origin. So it's not a matter of whether dark matter It's a measurement, period. Now, dark matter is not even what we should matter. It implies we know something about it that So a more precise labeling for it would be Now, if I called it dark gravity are you going I'd say yeah because 85 percent of the gravity There it is. Let's figure out what's causing it. The fact that the word matter got into that idea. I bet it's not matter. It could be something else. We're overreacting to a label that overstates it is we're describing. Then I just joke we should just call it Fred. Fred or Wilma, something where there is no in fact, we have no idea. So here's how you actually measure the stuff. In a galaxy which is the smallest aggregation you look how fast it's rotating and we know Kepler and then enhanced and given further You write down these equations and say oh, You invoke that rotation rate in the equation How much mass should be there attracting you. And the more mass that's there the faster That kind of makes sense. So when you do this calculation on a galactic than we actually can detect. I'm adding up stars, gas clouds, moons, planets, Add it all up. It's a fraction of what we know is attracting And we cannot detect the rest. And so we hand it this title dark matter. Understandably I suppose but it implies that We know we can't detect it in any known way So it really should be called dark gravity. I think the over/under on what dark matter towards a family of particles, subatomic particles the particles we have come to know and love, And that would make it matter. Dark matter as we've all been describing it. And it's not a weird thing that you could our particles. Within our own family of particles there are or nonexistent. You might have heard of neutrinos. This is a ghost-like particle that permeates matter at all. Yet it is part of our family of particles and interact with. So if we can have an illusive particle that's it's not much of a stretch to think of a whole them give a rat's ass about the rest of us we're not even there. Now here's what's interesting about dark matter. We know it doesn't interact with us except By the way what do I mean by interact? Does it bind and make atoms and molecules No, it does not interact with us in any important But it also doesn't interact with itself. That's what's interesting. So, if it interacted with itself you can imagine because to interact with yourself is what of matter in one place versus another. These are the atomic bonds and the molecular do not interact with one another they just not really doing anything interesting. So, dark matter not only doesn't interact And that's why when we find dark matter across It's like over here. It's not in this one spot and look at this No, that's not how that works. Just as a quick example, I was channel surfing, ended in a tie. They went into overtime. I had 15 minutes to kill before my movie came I said I'll sit there and watch this overtime And I'm watching it and there's the requisite sudden death overtime. So, they get it to within 50 yards of the goal for the win. And so I'm watching this and it's exciting, So then the ball gets hiked, they kick, the upright, careens off the left post and in And I said wait a minute. Oh, we have a round ball and a cylindrical way this will bounce off of a post. So I said let me check this out. So I check the orientation of the stadium, and then I tweeted and I said, &quot;&quot;The winning was likely enabled by a third of an inch drift And people say oh, my god. Blow my mind. And the local news got it and everybody got Of course you want to know that the rotation Because a kick going due north or due south hemisphere. And that's exactly what happened to that kick. And I use that as an excuse to send out a this the Coriolis force and that's what creates Hurricanes, tornadoes.&quot;&quot; What do they call them in the Pacific? Cyclones.