Just let me do it Digging ginger is not a physical job, okay You go back You go back What the doctor said Need to pay attention to rest Or you dig I'll play second fiddle. Dig with the side This year's ginger is not bad Yeah, home. Dudu went home It's over 40 kilos Have you finished? Have you finished? You carry it to wash It takes a lot of washing The effect of washing 6-7 times Sun drying moisture ah You need to listen to the doctor Don't do the heavy work I got it You're so long-winded Like these light jobs You do what you want You must ask me to do the heavy work I got it You're like a woman A lot of wordy salt Red pepper Put some wine on You can add some wine Just hold it in one hand You should put on a glove peppery I'm not afraid of spicy. Even the chili doesn't hurt me Can ginger be hot enough for me? done Marinate for 4-5 days water The way to make ginger candy water Soak overnight Wash it again Sun drying moisture sugar Ginger candy is simple It just takes time. Leave for more than 3 hours Often also introduce everyone's message to her Wish Grandma long life 100 years old 120? haha He wished you 120 haha This aunt has responded to you again I understand the Chinese He said he was from Taiwan Where is she In what country? This one's from Brazil Which country is this netizen from This one's from the Middle East And this one? This one is American And this one? This is a Vietnamese netizen And this one? This one is from Thailand yonder Malaysia Indonesia Filipino Many, many This delicacy is very simple Except it takes a long time Bring to a boil over high heat Evaporate the water from the ginger Let the water evaporate and turn to low heat How much longer soon This level requires constant stirring Ginger slices are 15 RMB a catty outside to Let me give you something to eat well to These are delicious. Grab some cookies I don't want cookies. All right I don't want that much Have a lot of Lots of tea Have many things Are these ready to eat? Hee Hee Hee... Don't open it. Just one day I want to open it.. I want to open it. I want to open it. If it breaks, you pay for it Walk away Give me a jar when the time comes Ho ho 100 RMB per jar You can take it if you want ha hahaha Then I don't want it It might not taste good It could be smelly Hee Hee Hee... Take it once and you'll be addicted haha I'm not addicted. Maybe it stinks. haha Not many chances Everyone's eating together Eat with open stomach Do you want to take some home for the kids bye haha awesome Take some back to your grandkids My kids don't want spicy food He does not love awesome hahaha awesome Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha Come home and second to none Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha Go home Mom Why bring a duck back here Sister said you dug up a lot of ginger Bring it back for you to fry ginger She didn't even And brought it back to me Fried duck with ginger is not delicious? tasty But neither did she Does it taste right? suitable You and 12 brother went digging? Yes. You really shouldn't do the heavy work I got it You guys are such a nag You're always busy People are sure to say Ah ah ah What do you know: The most boring job? This is I'm going crazy It took about two hours Shredded ginger Peanut oil Done. Don't put so much oil in it wine Oyster sauce salt Shredded ginger Add some water. good Essence of chicken Soy sauce Stew for 10 minutes Peanut oil Shredded ginger These also need to be watered well Fermented black beans Essence of chicken Oyster sauce Stew for 5 minutes Is ginger salty? Not salty Buy a tool You shredded ginger Did you cut it with a knife or wipe it incisal The cuts are delicious It doesn't taste as good with a tool Oh, really? Yes. The rub has a poor taste It tastes better when you cut it with a knife It takes too long to cut with a knife Give a shout Do you want? Dudu: Sure Dudu: Let him feed it to me You want it? He won't give it to you? Don't you eat his I have give What tastes good? Fried duck with ginger is delicious Fried duck with ginger Ginger and duck. I only love ginger Hey hey Any kind of meat I'm full, Mom well shit