- [Andrew] So Aaron, this is the wasabula? - This is our wasabula. It's a type of wild over multiple generations - Should I just eat one leaf? - [Aaron] Have some - Okay, (chuckles). - [Both] Wow! - It's wasabi. - It's hitting my nose now. - Starting to hit it, right? - It does have like this sweetness though. (gentle music) - Hello, I'm Andrew. - Hi, I'm Rhien. - Welcome to my kitchen. Today we're talking about a recent visit we took to Girl &amp; Dug. They're down by San Diego. Girl &amp; Dug grows a variety of that service restaurants for the dishes that they're making. Never heard of a lot of so we thought it would be super cool to cook with them for the first time. We met with Aaron who runs the farm to learn about what they do, and then we brought a and we cooked this big spread and now we're gonna - Ice plant, I was so blown away, 'cause I've never seen - Yeah, it's crazy. It looks like it's been frosted over. - This is a field of ice plant. It is a delicious edible succulent. - [Rhien] Is this nectar? - [Aaron] It is the crazy its moisture outside of its body. So the little clusters - [Andrew] Oh, I see. - Wow, it's so pretty. I wanna see your reaction. - Oh! - Crunch. - I mean the texture is, it's like bursting all these little balls of juicy plant liquid. It's surprisingly salty in taste. - Yeah, it's got a little You can find them growing wild on beaches. - [Rhien] Oh, I can see that. - [Aaron] If you hit the right one, like something like that you're gonna get a tartness out of it too. - Oh, wow. - [Rhien] It's very tart. - Yeah, it tastes like a seasoned plant. - [Aaron] Yeah. - If I have this flower, wasabi leaf, wrapped with rice it's like like Acura sushi. - Yeah, I can see what you mean. - So I thought it would be (Rhien laughs) - Using this ice plant - Oh, sorry, it's just so salty. (Rhien laughing) It's like eating a pickle. - So I made a sushi rice and wrapped with seaweed around it. So it kind of looked like - Yeah, like the one that - [Rhien] Yes. Yeah. - [Andrew] Exactly. - Gunkan-maki, Gunkan is a battleship. - Hmm, Gunkan-maki, I love that. - 'Cause it kind of look like battleship. So I wanted to replicate, I put seaweed around it and also put wasabula on top. So it kind of has wasabi flavor as well. And we also got this sorrel flour. I thought it was pretty, Dip in the soy sauce and we ate it. But I saw it was a little bit Like it Akura is such a strong flavor. And this one doesn't have that much punch. - Yeah, the ice plant tastes but it's not quite as, you know, like a mouthful of seafood - Yeah, but it was good. - The main thing we thought is a green sauce to - [Rhien] Do you think that little flower? - [Andrew] The flowers - Okay. - Oh my God. (laughing) (indistinct) - [Andrew] Sean is about - [Sean] Oh, wow! (beep) - (Rhien laughing) So they breed together like wasabi leaf and like, arugula? - Not wasabi leaf, so that's it's just the name. It actually is a breeding and not cross mixed with - Wow. - It isn't even in here, that's crazy. - Yeah - 'Cause the flavor is like spot on. - If I told you this, we've got wasabi roots you would actually believe it. I would believe it. - Yeah. like a chimichurri for steak with this. - Done it and it's freaking awesome. - Yeah. Okay. - Steak and chimichurri, wasabi? - Yeah, this is like spicy 'cause then it's also like Like also the green. So chimichurri is usually I started with wasabula. I added maybe 30% as much the typical olive oil, some minced garlic, red wine vinegar, some red chili flakes, and some salt and water to just sort of experiment Because typically chimichurri doesn't have an herb that is spicy the way that this wasabula is. - Right. - I was worried that it Like when we were eating the wasabula, it was almost like a dare. Like, how many leaves are - Yes. - But even after chopping it wasn't as intense as So I kept adding and adding and adding until it was mostly wasabula. (Rhien laughing) When I thought the chimichurri we set it aside for it to Next, we moved onto the Oca. - Oca, yeah, this potato. - But not a potato. - Right? Chew bar. - This is Oca, O-C-A. They eat like a potato. They're starchy like a potato, but they're actually not a potato. They're a completely a tuber, native to Peru although a lot of South American countries actually have their own varieties too. - This is actually one of those things that a chef asked us to grow. So we took a crack at it. Speaking of flavor, they're with sour cream and a - Ooh! - Yeah. - That's when you cook of acidity in them depending - [Andrew] Can you eat them raw? - [Sean] I'd recommend cooking them. Just a nice, hard roast is great. Raw, they'll have a little bit - [Rhien] I posted on the Instagram, a lot of people from they have it there too. - So in New Zealand, it's commonly called the New Zealand yam, I think. - So we had this big meat board planned. So we wanted to keep It became very tender. Little crispy on one side. - The color though. But I think that's normal for most sort of root - [Rhien] Oh, like radish. When you roast the color it's gone. - So next there was the meat, because we're making this chimichurri, chimichurri is often served on a whole spread of different So we wanted to replicate - So we ended up with a flanks steak, this Berkshire pork rib chop, also a little hanger steak on the side and these Merguez sausages, First the was the sausage. We simply put that in a low oven to cook slowly and evenly through. And then we tag teamed So I took the beef, you started with the pork chop. And because we're cooking with we kept the meat pretty simple. Just salt and seared. - [Rhien] Yep, and are we - When the sausages were done in the oven, we gave those a quick sea in the same pan. So then it was time to I began by slicing the different steak. - I started making salad - After the steak, I sliced the pork chop which we ended up plating - Yeah, when we went to the farm when we did a taste Perilla leaf I really wanted to eat Korean barbecue. I was thinking like, &quot;Oh, I - This is another one of that they grow at the farm. Sesame leaf often also it tastes very unique but to me tastes like it's of other tastes that So it's like a little And then the top is very green and then the bottom is this- - Purple. Yeah, next was this sausage which I simply sliced on a - [Rhien] Get more excited. It looked like a feast. - Oh, in the little tomatoes. Little tomato, atomic tomato. at this stage. We thought, &quot;Oh my God, Maybe we should add - [Rhien] Yeah, so the atomic tomato, it almost looked like - [Andrew] It's almost - [Rhien] Yeah. (laughs) - Like it's mostly black and little splash of red. It felt like we were playing It's like all of a sudden we were like, &quot;Oh, this is looking pretty cool. &quot;What if we put some of &quot;What if we put some more &quot;Oh, maybe a little handsy on the side.&quot; So that was the board, - [Rhien] Yes, we were so hungry. Ready to eat. - This was great. You've been thinking about for a long time and finally you ate it, it's - Yeah, I think the is wrapped around a piece of meat, not the other way around. Usually it's like, oh, you So that was our feast. Now it was time for this dessert. - We made a dessert. - Which we actually started how dessert usually happens, but- - It takes time. - So this is Pichuberry Berry, native Peru and has this crazy mangoy, in contrast to the hus cherries that are more common in the states. This one is about two - So pretty. - It's like opening presents. - Yeah, it's also a little- - Yeah, my kids call them present berries. - Oh, that's so cute. Kinda reminds me of Harry Potter's- - Oh, the snitch. - Yeah, 'cause it's got like little wings around a little globe. - Wow. - Has a different taste - Hmm! and a tomato at the same time. - I definitely taste vanilla too. - Yeah. - I mean it's so fruity. Oh, and I was gonna ask, so Is that right? - There's a good one. - [Andrew] Oh wow, so that's the flower. That's gonna turn into one - Oh, wow! - Yeah, golden pick. I wanted to make pavlova. When you make pavlova you So it cut a sweetness from the meringue. So immediately I feel like, - In the Pichu berry it has a lot of what I associate with which is often on pavlova. - Right, I should have - I remember when we walked I was like, &quot;Aaron, these (both laugh) I don't know if these are ready, but I was mistaken because - Beautiful, so the first 'cause you have to bake it almost one hour in oven, lower temperature. - I also helped you make - [Rhien] (chuckles) Yes, you're holding stand mixer 'cause-. - I don't know why they make it that way. When you have the low the beater doesn't hit the bottom. So I have to raise it ever so slightly. And if you're careful, it it just gets as close Also, vanilla been in the meringue. - Yeah, so I added vanilla beans added all, see if you add vanilla beans, you can see the little I thought that it would be pretty, and while we are baking meringue, I started making the Pichuberry curd. - Yep, I helped you separate Got about a pint of them. - [Rhien] I cooked with make it break down easy. And then I strained it, extract the juice from the Pichuberry. - It smelled so good. Once it started cooking. That's when it really had like the passion fruit - It smelled so good. I wish you were here again. And also I wanted to utilize what we have. So I used egg whites but I didn't use any egg yolk from the meringue I made. So I wanted to use all the yolk, usually the lemon curd recipe I have, it's using whole egg and the yolk, but I asked my pastry like does it work if I only use yolk? And he said, &quot;Absolutely.&quot; So I- - Yeah. (chuckles) - So June confirmed. So I made the peach berry curd only using the leftover egg yolk. I also added lemon juice. Make it a little bit more tart. I am so happy, turned out. So meringue is so sweet. So I whip cream without any sugar and I also added cream fresh so it gives more tartness - [Andrew] And it was - Yeah, like I wasn't sure how to plate. So I decided to kind of do smear curd on the bottom of the plate. Cut meringue in half. So I can put filling inside, put the meringue stuff cream fresh mix, put the curd on top. I put the meringue top back and it kind of looked like - It was amazing looking. I thought it was like the fanciest plate. It was like the color of the curd with then like the soft And then that little pichuberry inside and just being like a - Yeah, it kinda reminds me of tin garden. - Is that garden - It was really good. But it didn't have a lot So Andrea suggested why of pichuberries and stuff it. And I was like, &quot;That's great idea.&quot; 'Cause when I used to make Pavlova, we used to put fresh berries in it. That made a lot better too. - Yeah, there's a lot And then also you have even more texture. What I love about pavlova is it's like, it's a soft meringue flavor, and then you have whipped cream, which is also a soft texture, but it's a little bit different than the meringue softness. And then you also have this than the way that the So it's like a lot of the same texture but subtly different. Well, this is how we cooked that we've never cooked before. It was super fun, I hope you had fun. If you wanna try some of these yourself, I'm sure you could find but thanks for watching. - Thank you for watching. I think this is something but maybe those people who it's watching this video right now, maybe this is not So I wanna know how you guys cook 'cause I know a lot of people have cooked with oca from New Zealand - [Andrew] Hmm!