Without further ado. I want us to And if you don't know what the first book of And if you don't know where to find the So please Genesis. And if you have my Bible it's to be a very simple reading because it's going verse of Genesis. So if you already there say, You can use your YouVersion Bible app. If you're watching us on livestream we you're watching us on Facebook it takes Tag a friend and I know that you will be blessed lives to Jesus through online yesterday and Genesis 1:1. It says the following: &quot;In the earth.&quot; Verse 2. &quot;The earth was without form, and And the Spirit of God was hovering over 'Let there be light'; and there was light. And God the light from darkness. And God called the light and the morning were the first day.&quot; This outlines didn't start as beautiful as we see it today. It with trees smelling roses. It didn't start with It didn't start with beautiful sea creatures, How the earth began, is how many people's lives, was void, the earth was dark And yet in the middle of all its darkness. In vastness of nothing. The Bible says the Spirit of He hovered. Another word in Hebrew for hover chicken sits on her eggs. Is the Spirit of God, He and the emptiness. And then God spoke. I want of the mind. I believe it's the missing component Jesus said, &quot;Whom the Son sets But He also said, &quot;You shall know the You don't get all freedom from the touch of Jesus. You don't get all freedom by coming to Jesus. See when the devil comes into your life, he also comes to build a mindset called a stronghold. and still in pain as though you're in bondage. they were still slaves. They were but the bondage of Pharaoh was still in them. Egyptians are not the only one that tormented them same thing to you. Depression does the same thing. does the same thing. It steps into the mind and exits you're still suffering and hurting. Not did not experience a breaking of the stronghold. My goal is not to hype you up with junk right now. I'm going to tell you Amen. And I'm not going to talk about things that Because on day zero the Bible says, there was And maybe that's where you are right now. Maybe There is darkness, there is emptiness and Yet the Spirit of God lives inside of you. And &quot;How could it be? How could I still be How could I still suffer if by His Why is my life falling apart and I am in suffering and I have the Holy Spirit?&quot; I want to If you are taking notes and I believe in Day zero. Day zero is when you're moving from having the Holy Spirit to allowing God did not create anything on day the darkness, the void and the emptiness. As a not what changes your life. What changes As a Christian Holy Spirit is present. The Holy to incubate you. Meaning Holy Spirit wants to have zero, in darkness, in void and in emptiness. Even when you're sick. Even when you're struggling. with Holy Spirit once I get delivered, when I says God did not start doing anything until Don't let your sickness. Don't let your away from developing an intimacy with Devil will lie to you and say, because because you fall into the same sin Holy Spirit But I want to slap the devil today right beginning in the Bible. God made it very clear. and the Spirit of God is still going to inhabit Devil you're afraid, because you know the your darkness, your void will expire. And God say amen. Whatever situation you are in right You may not see anything right away but will begin to unwrap. Day zero Holy Spirit, to the Holy Spirit having you. Everyone gets the Holy Spirit by salvation. You get the Holy Spirit when you get saved. for those who say, &quot;Well I have the Holy in power.&quot; Not really. You also have flesh, It's not who you have. It's who you yield to. because you refuse to yield to the flesh that in sin because you refuse to yield to the Holy &quot;I'm gonna cut away excuses that say, that and that. I cannot yield to the Holy Spirit.&quot; that and that. And say, &quot;Holy Spirit I'm a My God.&quot; Day zero is when you yield to the Holy warmth, His love, His presence begins to cover ministry is still the same. Your children are or your wife still needs help. Your finances but you're building intimacy with the Holy Spirit. Why? He doesn't like people like you. But you say Holy Spirit likes messy, crazy situations. He did He did not abandon the planet. He's not as long as I stay with Him. He's gonna Miracles will happen. After day zero was a day one. Day zero is yielding one God spoke to the darkness and said. What did God said, &quot;Let there be light.&quot; And when When God said let there be light, that the sun read the Bible very thoroughly. I would say this. one God created the light. On day one God said if you read the Bible carefully God made the Just repeat the same thing that you hear people Bible? All right. All right. So He created the the day four. So I am not a like a very high IQ, I don't have a PhD but I have a question. If you made the light on day one and the sun You got to read the Bible with your head because read the Bible. When I read the Bible and I Jesus. Hallelujah. Oh my God. Praise God. Before Why? Where did the light come from on day one, before you get to the gospels. Before you God reveals how He operates. And this is how God the sun to have the light. The world God operates, to get the sun. The world we operate, The world God operates. God calls Abraham a In the world we operate in. You get crowned as a and all the years later he gets the crown. The then you become righteous. The world God operates, And in the beginning God reveals how He He changes your mind. God does not He brings the light in your mind first. but I cannot have a light in I cannot have peace in here. I cannot have But God says I don't operate like you do. I from? It comes from &quot;God said.&quot; God wants that we give to the physical eyes and to what we to give such a priority to My revelation, to My produces something so equal, that as though you This is what faith is called. Hebrews 11:1 The word substance in Hebrew. In Greek because hypostasis, meaning title deed. Substance that is concrete. It's something real, a title it's yours. You are the owner of that and God says Faith is not hoping. Faith Faith is having before you get it. Day one light comes from His Word. God wants to bring God wants to release His Word into your life, your soul today. Maybe that word is that you look to symptoms leave before you receive, and It doesn't mean you stop taking medicine. It simply means you don't let the symptoms influence bigger, more real. Something that holds the heaven God's mouth and it holds the universe, it sure can is when you get the light, when you get God's When you get faith, you get excited. As a As a parent when God shows you a revelation about your battling with sickness. You get a revelation that you know, that you know, that you know working with Holy Spirit. Day one is God's Word that it actually brings me light. It separates I'm having it. See like with Hungry Generation. it right here for many years. It only manifested you don't see right now is there is a Toyota carrying that thing. Carrying that baby. And one You know we meet at that beautiful facility on the this. I don't want to say this, because we have for our Sunday morning services. We prophesy over day you will come to an average service in Hungry Look at that.&quot; You will come on our day four but nobody knows you got a child, but you already got out. You got a child when you conceived. And by His promise, by His dream, by a revelation, by catch it and you say, &quot;God I believe your Word. to me according to your promise. Let it be to in inside of you and you become a possessor of right now. If you got a Word from God get up on If you got a dream from God, get up on your If you're pregnant with something bigger than Hallelujah. Hallelujah. When you get a dream. When you get a promise. What it does is it gives you freedom for your Your life is in your reality, your Your life is in the reality but When you get a dream you are free. There is your mind is separated from the reality your the reality your family is in, the reality you are Hallelujah. Hallelujah. And you're walking, person is walking. You may take a seat if you want No condemnation to those who stand in Jesus name. When you're walking in the dream, in the faith. What happens is a separation. On day one God You know how that happens? So many people have adopted My arthritis. My. My. When did it Your body might have an arthritis. Your body might have cancer right now but That cancer, even if it doesn't get healed brand new life which means your mind should not be in the Word of God. It should have a light on day My God. Walk in your faith. I want to challenge from your reality. My Bible makes me to understand of our sickness? No. Under the mighty hand of our means I may not change my situation right now. fact that there is no sun, but I can receive situation, contrary to my symptoms, contrary &quot;God I received the light.&quot; I can't explain why my feet are planted on the Word of God. And I am not coming right now I have the light, because Touch your mind for a second. Father in the My God I pray right now, separate the mind in the name of Jesus bring day one. I pray for that sickness is already creeped in inside. I pray their world is coming inside of them. Lord as the our situation. You called us to renew our mind now in the name of Jesus. I break every spirit I break every intrusive thoughts right now. Every I command you right now in Jesus mighty name In Jesus mighty name. Day zero is is the Word of God brings light in On day two I want you to see what begins to happen beginning with day three He begins to separate the Somebody say, &quot;Formation.&quot; So the first day is is we get illumination from the Word of God. you to see on second day God did not bring the What He did is he started to form the earth.. Second day is the most painful day in your life instead what's coming is two things: trials and God is asking you to sacrifice something. something that He could eventually fill and God separates the water from the land. becoming an emotionally driven person. resilience. He builds your spine. He makes you a God builds that spirit in Joshua and &quot;He has a different spirit.&quot; Everyone is in he sees opportunities. Everybody looks at the &quot;That is a formed man.&quot; Day too. Day that kill people, destroy people There were three people on the cross. Not Some were there because they lived in sin. Some That cross didn't destroy Him. There and there was one more in jail. it was Joseph. out better. But when Samson went through jail the situation of other people. Your situation Your situation is not like the situation of other People will look at you and say, &quot;I am in sin and and say, &quot;Listen. I might be on the cross but I'm obey God and I will not die on this cross. Because I have in God.&quot; I believe in that in Jesus If you do give God some praise right If you feel like God is preparing you. If it's just a preparation for the new season Somebody shout, &quot;I'm being formed!&quot; The When you're being formed it's because you're and you're in the delay and you're being defeated. it's always in a battle. When you're being formed but you really need the sun. You really need the the stars. And when God doesn't bring those stars, God you're not doing anything in my life. because I am on day two with you and I am forming from the human perspective it looked From God's perspective he was getting closer. went to jail. It looks like he went down. But and God didn't care whether it's up and And see what you're looking at, is that I'm down. God I am already in jail. I'm a prisoner with a bad reputation. forming you but you're actually way closer Before you were in the house of the Potiphar. the palace, than when you were in prison. See God And when you are on day two, things don't Things like they're getting worse. The sickness is understand God is still working. He's separating He's making you stable. He's making you grow a And if everybody forsakes you, you will still He's forming you. He's forming you. I feel the You're on day two. You're saying, &quot;God But God is developing within you a spine. He's resilient spirit. He's developing within, that the compliments. That you are anchored. And if you gotta be only anchored with trials, tribulations &quot;I'm being formed.&quot; Day zero is surrender. Day Day two is God forming me. Somebody say, The Bible says on day three the oceans had fish. The skies. The land started to produce trees. filling of God, on what He formed. When He forms. He doesn't just want you to be a strong But this is the problem, is many times we I am not going to be filled.&quot; But the Lord before your life sees fulfillment of His promise. The Lord wants your heart to before your life sees fulfillment of His promise. When Samuel was disappointed in the king he came to Samuel and says this, &quot;Stop crying. I found a man after my heart.&quot; You're but what I have next is amazing. But you You can step into day four until you into something new. Jesus said, &quot;Shake off from, the situations you got mistreated.&quot; next city as though it never happened.&quot; Filled with Holy Ghost. Filled with fire of Somebody say, Lord fill me. Somebody say, Lord Ghost. Fill me with Your presence God. Fill Lord fill me. Lord fill me, Lord fill me before You fulfill your promise. That I don't rely on the fulfillment of Because the Spirit of God filled me on day day four. But I did not need to wait till Jesus said to the disciples, &quot;You will go into &quot;You will shake the world with the gospel. But you know what disciples did before they saw and when they got filled they became unstoppable. Sometimes when we talk to sick people. When we who are in poverty. You're seeing one thing, and the emptiness the sickness has brought. You see because your mouth speaks from what your heart is and they have a disease, and they have a sickness. You feel like you're talking, standing in the you feel like you're standing in the presence waiting till day four when God fulfills. You have to be filled with His presence. You have amen. Day zero is surrender to the bringing light. It separates me from reality. When I don't see nothing happening, and God develops a spirit of a conqueror. Before I fulfill my Word. What will carry you Some of you, you're running on empty. I believe Day four is God fulfilling His word. So Day four. There are some people in this room, you don't know, but God switched the days I want to make an announcement. Somebody, you four. Where you will see the things you believed Where God will create the sun. Where God will moon. And you will not only have light from your Your reality will line up to your revelation. What you're going through is going to line up miracles. Today is the day of salvation. Today If you want it to be your day, I would get up on to be my day, I will say, God give me this day my today is the day you have made and I will rejoice Today is the day of freedom and today is the day Lift your voice. 30 seconds. 30 seconds. Hallelujah. You may take a that one day we will see conferences as I'm standing in my day four. Some of you, you're gonna be prayed for and touched in the prayer line But can I give you just a little tip and Never compare your earth with someone's heaven. Watch this. When God said, &quot;It is good.&quot; God had every reason to look at This is so messed up. Man they don't even have They don't have angels. They're. Man I I love this about God. Is God doesn't compare come to your church on Sunday. Don't look at your it to what you saw at Raised to Deliver. Look at good.&quot; It's not all, but it's good. This is not One person got saved. That is good. Somebody's When you wake up in the morning and you &quot;Ah. You fat, ugly, bald thing.&quot; You look days you look great and some days you Somebody say, &quot;It is good.&quot; Don't compare, because compare your earth with someone's heaven it will the next day because there's still day five, there you complain you kill God's creative process. I sometimes go to conferences, other back home to Tri-Cities. And our city doesn't but at least we don't have traffic, rain and So I guess that's, that's a good thing about our Not this facility but the one you know, back This doesn't look good. The lights are bad. oh you guys are just so messed up. What demons your spouse and you begin to look at everything. is wrong. And then you begin to look down and you that even though He had the reason to, nor should We are all on a different journey with the your ministry and begin to despise the day even if it's a small thing and say, &quot;God I thank and I will celebrate your goodness.&quot; And when And day five God's gonna do greater things. And He will say, &quot;It is very good.&quot; And then there and then God will continue to create. continue to celebrate what God is doing, you continue to make Jesus the most important He will continue to bring more breakthrough. If when you get your breakthrough. God says I am your life ends on day four. You got a miracle but Many people got a miracle but because they well I'm not sick no more. I don't need to go pray no more. I don't need to fast no more. Why? But you still have a destiny to fulfill. when you're suffering. You're fasting. But after breakthrough. God still wants to fill you on day to fulfill He has for you. Come on somebody. Amen. Our time is left already. I How many believe that today this Word was for you. Let me just pray over you. Father in the name of person that right now feels like the verse two Holy Spirit. Lord I pray that this is not going God they will go deep inside of their heart God. word into the hearts of people Lord. And I pray that heart. Plant that word in their soul and in Come and fill us with Your Lord we are Your Temple. For You alone we wait. Holy Spirit. Welcome in this place. Every hand raised to the Lord. Close Holy Spirit we welcome You today. Fill us with Your presence Oh Lord we are temple. For You alone we wait. Holy Spirit welcome in this place. Come on. One more time. Tell that to the Holy Spirit. Oh Holy Spirit we welcome You today. Fill us with Your presence as we give You the place. Oh Lord we are your temple. For You alone we wait. Holy Spirit welcome in this place. Every eye closed, every head bowed. If you're in a friend. But perhaps you came for deliverance Maybe you came with a group of other people You can mingle, connect, hook up. The most you can experience in your life is the salvation You can be healthy and go to hell. The Bible gift of God is eternal life. I want to call you Someone who loved the wretched you so much that Jesus and He said, &quot;Nobody can come to the Father a car, without having a house or a degree, Being a Catholic doesn't save you. Going Doing good works doesn't save you. What saves Jesus Christ. Having a mama and a daddy bring you closer to God. You need to make your Today I invite you to turn your back your life to Jesus Christ and run from I'm gonna count to three. And when I do hand. I'm gonna ask you to quickly run One hell is hot. Two eternal is very long. Three Quickly. If you need to get right with God come Wherever you're in the back. Wherever you are. If Run from your seat and come to the front and we're Tomorrow will be too late. Today is the day of with God. Today is the day to surrender your life Gonna wait for 30 more seconds. Quickly. Quickly. brought a friend with you and you know they need but come. Friends don't let friends go to Jesus is the only way to heaven. Come. It's time to leave those drugs. It's time sleeping with your girlfriend. It's time to And run to Jesus. And run to Jesus. There's Quickly. Quickly. Just come. We're waiting for ask you that right there as you're watching us your room. Jesus is there in your workplace He doesn't want to be a cross on your neck. No matter what your situation, your position Jesus is the only Savior. Jesus is and He wants to rise you up from your sin. You of you. So that you can also be a part of the You can comment below if you Now that everybody's here. Everybody's here I want you to raise your hand. Those of you the Lord. I want you to raise your hand and I up. You're going to pray with me right now. I Say this loud. Say, &quot;Lord Jesus Christ. I am dead in sin but I come to Your please. Help me. Please save me. Forgive I surrender my life of sin, my life of rebellion Deliver me, heal me and fill me with your your gift of forgiveness and your forgiveness Amen. Amen.&quot; Church I want you to put