Closing of business today Today is the long-awaited second part of the Hokkaido Fair.It 's the day when I suddenly wanted to eat Genghis Khan.To go with Genghis Khan, I chose my beloved classic for the first drink.Today as well, the classic is the most delicious . Now that I've charged up my beer, I'd like to get ready right away.I found some crab sticks that seemed like they would be perfect as a snack.Just yesterday, I was really craving crab sticks, so I bought them at the supermarket.Since it's crab, I'm going to go to Hokkaido... Today's main dish is Genghis Khan, which I ordered from Rakuten.I immediately prepare the vegetables.Actually, I was once told that the way I cut the cabbage was so bold that it was a man's dish.I still can't get over the feeling of how it's prepared in an izakaya. lol I don't need all of the chives, so I'm just going to use a little bit.I was told in a comment before that I didn't need to cut off the ends of the chives , but I got curious and ended up cutting them off.The comment section is helpful because it tells me things I don't know. The preparations are now ready . All you have to do is bake it on the HP (hot plate). If it's this size, it will overflow when you fry it... It says that you can use Genghis Khan with sauce without oil, so I didn't add oil. Vegetables are important in Genghis Khan, so I put in plenty of them.The bean sprouts are easy because they don't need to be washed.Open the center and grill the meat.There is no place for meat at all, but Genghis Khan includes the sauce . 500g It's the perfect size for 1 to 2 people As expected, I didn't have the space to grill the meat lol I put some vegetables on the plate I was actually wondering if I should buy a dome-shaped griddle to use for Genghis Khan , but I 'll use it next time. I didn't have any plans, so I gave up... I would also like to serve the finished salmon roe that I made in a hurry at the last seafood izakaya I went to.Homemade salmon roe is extravagant... I'll also serve the scallops that I completely forgot about last time ...Wow...! It tastes really good. The way it goes when it's hot. I have to turn it over and cook it evenly. It's cooked nicely, so I put the vegetables back in. There are still some that aren't cooked yet... Once the meat is cooked, it's colored and the staff's chives and paprika just look like the real thing. To make it look like Genghis Khan, I put vegetables in a pile and decorate the meat on top ...! I feel like it! Genghis Khan and seafood are so great that I can even open the scallops that I bought the other day and forgot about ...! The Home Hokkaido Fair is opening. There were some troubles, but I can finally drink it. The beer right after opening is sure to be delicious. I'd like to start with Genghis Khan, but it's a bit veggie-first . I wonder how much of the texture has been condensed by being pickled from grated salmon roe. It's bubble wrap.The depth of seasoning is just right.It 's the best.I'll have the forgotten scallops.The sweetness of the scallops is strong, and the wasabi gives it a refreshing aftertaste.The wasabi is n't as spicy as I expected.The chopped wasabi makes it fresher than usual, and the wasabi has a tangy taste. I can feel it.Now , I would like to try my favorite, Genghis Khan! The meat is so big! picture...? This is so delicious! Is that grated apple? It's packed with the sweetness of the apple and the umami of the meat and garlic, making it a perfect match with the tasty vegetables.It also goes perfectly with the Sapporo beer that goes with it.It 's different from regular yakiniku, although it has a little bit of flavor. The lamb is irresistible. It's definitely delicious. You won't be able to go back to normal. That's Genghis Khan. I'm already feeling like Hokkaido! It's the best in Hokkaido while you're at home.Put some scallops in there.The scallops are really sweet and delicious, and the tangy taste of the wasabi brings out the best.It was expensive, but I'm glad I bought it.The fatty meat is sweet and delicious.It 's soft, but also has a chewy texture. The magical Genghis Khan... I think I'm going to be fooled by the beef yakiniku I'll have to test this next time I eat yakiniku haha The correct answer is to drink Genghis Khan, which has a slightly unique flavor, with beer.Scallops are a waste, so don't forget the expiration date. It's okay, so I'll leave it. Because today we're having Genghis Khan ^^ The vegetables soaked in the sauce are so delicious. Today, I can't stop eating seafood and meat. I did some research beforehand to make Genghis Khan, and there are quite a few vegetables. It seemed like everything was available, so I threw in some leftover paprika and chives. Personally, I preferred it with chives! I can't get enough of the salmon roe... I'll leave the salmon roe alone and go back to the meat.I can't really describe the sauce and lamb... I'm eating it even more enthusiastically than usual.Hokkaido beer and Genghis Khan go really well together.Honestly , in Hokkaido. I'm more impressed than the Genghis Khan I've eaten.I want to try the authentic Genghis Khan again in Hokkaido.It's still in good condition.I just finished drinking beer, so I'm going to finish it off with my favorite udon.It 's a little less than one meal, though. Today, I'm going to make one bowl.I have a lot of vegetables, so I'll adjust the waiting time with meat.I'll add a little sauce.While I'm making the udon, I'll also prepare for the sake that ran out.I'll leave it for later. There's a crab stick I forgot about... Next to it is a souvenir classic coaster.I'm really happy with it, so I'm putting it on display.Today made me want to go to Hokkaido even more.Today I'm having a Kakuyasu Whiskey Highball.Why does this always get stuck? It's amazing...the scent of Genghis Khan is almost enough to drink alcohol just by smelling it.Actually , I can go for the first drink, but after the second one, I want a proper snack.There 's also meat, so I have to keep my mind relaxed and wait for the finish. But your body needs carbohydrates. Make sure to inhale the sauce well. Even if it hits something like a muscle, it's still hard enough to bite into normally. It looks like it's about to be done, so weaken it. It 's like Genghis Khan, so much so that you ignore the amount of grated meat. The crazy sauce has just the right thickness due to the water content of the vegetables.It turned out great.This may be the first time I've had udon noodles to finish Genghis Khan.I prepared it with a highball.It was so delicious that I didn't know what to do with it.It was so delicious that you could only get it from lamb. At the same time, it has a gentle Japanese feel to it, but being strict (?) and being surrounded by kindness makes it feel truly amazing.This is the udon to finish off the meal! It has a perfect taste. It's not too salty, it's not too sweet, and it's so delicious that I don't think there's anyone out there who doesn't like it.I found a piece of meat.It 's perfectly okay to have Genghis Khan or yakiniku without meat, but when I found a piece of meat, I'm so excited! When I tried to order Genghis Khan online, I got confused because there were so many different types, but I'm glad I chose this one because it was cheaper and more delicious than the others. I already have one pack for each person, so I'll definitely try it next time. I'm looking forward to it.Next time too, there's a high probability that I'll finish off with udon.Actually, even though I said it was a Hokkaido fair, I happened to end up with a Hokkaido-related event.I was very satisfied today as well! Thank you for staying with us until the end today.