Dr. Mancini: You know, this is my first time And I've been fortunate that for the last But I gotta say that this by far beats anything Sorry, I'm a little bit out of breath. And let me tell you why. Because when I go to a program, I look for And as I met Vishen and Veena and the whole before I got here. And over the last couple of months, we've And one of the things that I must tell you your message. And that to me is one of the greatest things The second thing is that I want to thank you, with us to actually take time to nurture you. So let's give yourself a round of applause. All right, so let me tell you a story about Mr. Jones is one of my patients. I'm still practicing half a day a week. And he came in about two months ago, and he Mr. Jones is about 75 years old. He's been a widow for over 25 years. But when he came into the office this time It looked like he was wearing his pajamas. And I was really busy but I know I remember him. And then a week and a half later, two weeks Dallas with my wife and here comes Mr. Jones next to him. I thought maybe he went to Awesomeness Fest He looks at me and he said, &quot;Dr. Mancini, And I said, &quot;Mr. Jones, what happened to you?&quot; &quot;Well, Dr. Mancini, don't you realize what And I said, &quot;Mr. Jones, what did I say to He said, &quot;You told me have a hot mama and And I said, &quot;Mr. Jones, that's not what I I said you have a heart murmur so be careful.&quot; That story is really neat primarily because I may say some things that are going to inspire towards transformation, but the most important I've gotten to the point after 30 years of notes, I put down only the action steps that I just received. It's been a fantastic thing for me because becomes my action steps. &quot;What am I going to do?&quot; Instead of just a lot of note that you're going to put in a file, and that's not really But as I was talking to some of you, I realized if not all of you. And most people know me as Dr. Fab, and they week. But I want to share with you some of the lessons I think that will give you a foundation for The first one is I grew up in a household my parents taught us, five boys. The first one is this and you may want to These are really good. The first one is, if you want to be a great in life, first thing is you got to find a There's a lot of needs out there, but who The second one is you do what you love to Never compromise what you do for the sake of fame, because they will all be short lived. And the third one is, find someone to pay Most people forget that last one. So some of the lessons that I've learned through old, we live in South America, Colombia. If there are some people from Colombia, let It's my family. And my mom and dad decided to take all of And I can tell you that for some of you, having if you've had a major move like that in your Here we are facing at 13 years old a new language, But my parents told us this, they said that is called the world of possibilities, rather You see their lives were very structured in their businesses for their parents. One was in white flour and pastas and soaps estate. My mom and dad wanted us to have anything So I want you to live in the world of possibilities myself to do. When I hear people that says, &quot;Oh, that's sign. Because if you have the idea, that means you're Would you agree? Audience: Yes. Dr. Mancini: Okay. The second one was the fact that after we wanted to be a doctor. I thought that I was going to be a medical And then I went and got accepted at the highest of Dallas. Here I am doing well in school and working I've decided I want to be a neurosurgeon. And I had a car accident. Car accident sends me to the hospital. The orthopedic doctor in the hospital says, you some anti-inflammatories, but you should Now I never heard that chiropractic before I went into that office and my life was changed. Because for the first time I was introduced inside out. The fact that that that doctor was not necessarily allowing my body to be properly aligned so function the way it was meant to function. I interviewed 62 chiropractors in six months, instead of medical school. So the second lesson I want to share with way to go. It has the biggest payoff. If you're trying to follow your success based will never be great, you will never be extraordinary. But if you look for that unconventional path, if you feel very certain about what you're The next one is all of a sudden then now I'm My parents have always paid for our school, register at school. My mom says, &quot;Your dad made some oil investments Over $9 million of an investment, they lost So she says to me, &quot;While we refigure here and sell them or whatever, would you come Maybe you can go to the medical school here.&quot; So I said to my mom, &quot;Don't worry, mom, I Now imagine this, I'm the fourth kid in the I've never paid for education before. But I heard of something called financial How many of you are from the United States? We don't have that in South America. So that means that the government lends you pay back once you graduate. So my roommate was getting financial aid. I go to the financial aid office and they Your parents make too much money. It's going to be at least two trimesters before So I looked at all of my possessions, and Sometimes you're going to be tested financially. I looked at all my possessions and guess the It was a car that my parents gave me at graduation, So I went ahead and decided I'm going to sell I didn't tell my parents, but it's the only I got $7,800 after two weeks of driving around that. And I paid my first two trimesters with that Then I graduated. I'm in practice, right? I mean, I want to go into practice. I realized that I got $1,000 in the bank account, So I go into an executive suite. That means you pay month to month, and that's So it was less than $500 overhead. In my first month, we profited $3,800. Within the first year, we're almost a half So the third lesson is this, you are your I can't tell you how many times I've seen money in other things that have nothing to life. When you're tested, and right now you may make, &quot;Am I going to invest in me? Or am I going to give up my dream?&quot; I'm saying please invest in yourself. It's the greatest investment that you'll have. And then the last lesson was that once I went I have one of the biggest practices in the And then I get a phone call from the school the founder. He passed away. And the boss said, &quot;We want you to be the I said, &quot;I don't have any idea of anything In the United States, the average new president Here I am 31 years old. But they said, &quot;You're the one to do it.&quot; I said no for a year and a half. &quot;I'm not interested. I don't feel I'm ready. This is not for me.&quot; After a year and a half and they interviewed they tricked me into coming in to do an interview likely to succeed. After two-hour in the interview, they called find their candidate and the only person that I said, &quot;Great, who is it?&quot; They said, &quot;It's you. And we can't take no for an answer.&quot; So I told him if it was unanimous by the board And two days later, they called me and it Never discussed money, never discussed anything I figured to myself, you know, &quot;I have my not that much, but I'm going to help them mentor and I want to give back to him for Little that I was to know that at that time, come in and they think they want to interview of a college or university in the United States This was 1999, 33 years old. As I'm then building this institution, which in operational budget. It had millions of dollars in debt. It had buildings that needed to be remodeled. We had 1,200 students, and now we're down And when I get there, I find out that 350 to another university in a couple of months. That's a lot to handle at 33 years old. But I do what I always do, I make a commitment I went around and told every student, &quot;Just Trust in me. We're going build this thing and we're going I had to let go of 117 people my first month because they were still operating like if any financial sense. Within one year, we turned it around and we out of debt. Within the next 10 years, we put $42 million We broke all the accreditation records. We had two perfect accreditation, which hadn't all because you follow that purpose. And then as I'm doing this, I have a couple Mark Victor Hansen. How many of you have heard of them? They're the founders of Chicken Soup. So we're lecturing in Las Vegas and Mark invited And I say, &quot;Mark, how come you don't do a He said, &quot;Fab, we've had over 10,000 people And I said, &quot;Why haven't you done it?&quot; He said, &quot;Because we haven't found anyone And here I go again. &quot;What if I do it?&quot; So what I did is that I went ahead and agreed I went back home that next week, I emailed ones that I knew. And I asked them to introduce me to their them if they will make that introduction so for Chicken Soup. We did that book in three months. Out of 550 million books that book Chicken ever done out of 180 titles. Three months. We put it together in three months. And then what I did is that I said, &quot;Okay, And I realized that in many states in the of your patients. It's against the law. So I said, &quot;Here we have a great third party Why don't I go ahead and then use that and one of their patients, and then ask them which And that way they're going to think of someone it.&quot; Within two years and 10 programs, we never copies. So the lesson there is this. Sometimes in life, you're going to be confronted I have found that as an entrepreneur, I don't Would you agree? Audience: Yes. Dr. Mancini: And feel free to say, &quot;Yes, yes,&quot; So I want you to understand that it's okay ahead and put a plan together to go ahead If something comes to you, that means that to make that happen. And then the last thing that happened was this last book called &quot;The Power of Self-Healing.&quot; So one of my patients for 14 years has been It's the number one TV show in daytime in And he's a psychologist. So I write this book and I send it to him He called me two weeks later and said, &quot;I I want to have you on my show.&quot; Now, I have never done national television. And this is the number one show, 14 million So he puts me on the show. And I could have said no or I could have said I said yes. Because when offers like that come to you, You just get ready and you do it. So I went on that show and because of that, It's in eight languages right now. The paperback just came out and it's going So who would like this book? So the next lesson in entrepreneurship, whether first gets it, right? So who wants this one? Okay. So that leads me to the topic today. Was that helpful? Audience: Yes. Dr. Mancini: I mean, just some little information the path that you're in is the right path. Listen, I promise you this, you will not be were meant to be part of it. Would you agree with me? Audience: Yes. Dr. Mancini: I mean, I never expected to meet I wasn't expecting that because I have never The reason that I'm so enrolled in this vision the reason that all of us are here is because We all want to do better. Audience: Yes. Dr. Mancini: So if we want to do better, where that we're in the right path? Because most of us are surrounding ourselves Are you there? Audience: Yes, yes. Dr. Mancini: That happens to all of us, whether So, the topic of self-healing is my last 25 and what really helps us heal from the inside But this is what I've learned is that we have We have been sold a lie that says that our That unless I take this prescription, unless procedure my body cannot heal naturally. I have found that to be absolutely opposite The truth is that the only thing that heals The truth is that your body was designed to And every condition known to man has healed But why doesn't it do it all the time? That was my question. I wanted to know why. So I became a chiropractor by profession, Then I started studying all the healing arts, And I started understanding that there was in school. And that's what I want to share with you right I want to share with you that the reason that the health care system, is because we have We don't have a health care system. The only time you come into the health care symptoms of the alarm of the body, just letting not taking care me.&quot; So I want you to understand that once you of the opportunities where you could actually The truth is the fact that we are bankrupt. Did you know that in the United States, Harvard over 50% of personal bankruptcies, personal 50%, over 50%? Did you know that Starbucks spends more money that they sell you? That's happening to most companies out there, We're spending about $7,000 for every individual Now, I know some of you are coming from systems What I'm here to tell you is that no one can And if you continue to wait that way, then Over 80% of our health care problems are chronic That the cause of the chronic illnesses is So what I did is that I wanted to share with the way that medicine is going to be in the I'm going to share with you three models that And I want you to understand these words because in the writings and the articles and the interviews The first one is prevention. Everything is moving more towards prevention an illness than to try to fix it once it's And prevention is all about empowerment of It's our responsibility to say, &quot;You know I'm only given one body. I can change my house. I can tear down my car. I can...actually not even take care of my I cannot change my body. I cannot live in your body. I want to when I'm not feeling pretty good, It's my only body.&quot; And the interesting thing, this is a reminder I'm going to say to you is simple. I'm just going to bring it to you in such already have everything you need to be the Because your health impacts every area of It's the one thing that is the number one that I ask, &quot;What is the one thing you value For 25 years, I have interviewed patients. Twenty-five years. &quot;Tell me the three most valuable things in Health has only been around for 12% of them The top ones are faith, family, and purpose Now some people put sometimes golf, you know, But I want you to understand that that word The second one is a word called epigenetics. Have you heard of that word? Epigenetics is the new science that is actually spent hundreds of thousands of millions of do. And now the new science is saying that the that only has the ability to express itself If your father was bald and you feel you're of doing that. If your mother had breast cancer, you only Epigenetics is the science that is teaching changes the gene within the cell. That means that no longer are you susceptible See, as a doctor, they trained us that the history, we want to find out if there's heart whatever. Nowadays, you don't have to but guess what, you continue to think the way that your parents the way they did, chances are you're going you're going to end up like. So epigenetics, pay attention to that word. That just brings awareness to our environment. And the last one is a neurology word called How many of you have heard that word? Neuroplasticity is actually changing the way Because for many years, we have known like But now, we actually have science that says When you visualize something, when you get new pathways in your brain, new neurons, new them, see them on a scan. So I want everybody right now to please close And I want you to just breathe in and out. And I want you to envision being in a race. How many of you have ever done a race before Okay, perfect. So just pretend that if you've never been Now the largest race in the world is the New It has over 55,000 people racing. Over 55,000. But the race that we're going to go on a journey it, right? That race, you're one of those 300 million. And you're right now looking around just seeing that prize at the end. And you're going to be running and you're Everybody competing, pushing around and everything, So what I want you to understand is this, Your body was created in a perfect, perfect It's up to you to nurse that, it's up to you So here you are running, right? And you're rushing, and you get into the end. And guess what the price is? Life. Did you know that you have over 300 million one makes it, right? That sperm, that race, that person is you. Because that is the intelligence that actually And that same intelligence, actually that everything in your body. It's the one that reminds you to breathe. It's the one that reminds you to digest your It's the one to remind you to make sure that It's the one that sets your body for a state That innate intelligence, which is the scientific discovered. That's you. Right now, that's you. That's the spirit of entrepreneurship. That spirit that is not going to give up even pushing you around, trying to get to that Okay, open up your eyes. So now I'm going to give you some of the things a few things that are going to allow you to discovered over 25 years to help you heal. The first one is what you eat. You become what you eat. So pay attention to your nutrition. It's very important that you pay attention Laura: Yes, yes. Dr. Mancini: Thank you. The second one is exercise and movement. More research today has shown that exercise you can do. It lowers blood pressure. It increases circulation. It allows your body to function better, not And the next one is to make sure that you Try chiropractor, massage, acupuncture, homeopathy, All of the things that are out there that On an emotional level, the things that we is the way you think. You know, my first introduction to this world Laura: Yes, yes. Dr. Mancini: And I started at 19 years old. Thank you, Laura. But I want you to write this down. There are three emotions that actually help The first one is forgiveness. The second one is gratitude. And the third one is love, especially unconditional And the last one is your spiritual self-healing. This is the self-healing method system that And that is meditation. The next one is connection, connection with And the next one is actually having a purpose to serve that's greater than your compulsion So I'll wrap it up with this story. A patient came in, her name was Rosie, 350 She comes into my office just desperate. I could tell she was suffering. Her husband was trying to get her through My office manager puts her in the room and She's in a lot of pain.&quot; So I said, &quot;Rosie, how can we help you today?&quot; She started telling me her history. About 20 years of suffering, fibromyalgia, diagnosis. She's taking 27 pills a day. She's in pain. She had to give up her work three years ago. Her husband and her are not getting along be. Every time he gets close to her, she pushes She's sleeping an average of two hours a night. Rosie is having a difficult time. I accepted Rosie as a patient because I believe told you about can create miracles if we expect So I began to teach her how to love herself as a disease. I began to teach her how to begin to look she really is. She started doing some meditation, she started She started getting acupuncture, chiropractic. Within six months, her pain was gone by 50%. Within a year, she was completely pain-free. Now her husband got transferred. So I lost touch with her. She calls me about five years later and she And I said, &quot;Rosie, you've already thanked You refer so many patients, you're always pay on time.&quot; She said, &quot;Dr. Mancini, I want to thank you. You know that I have my life back because You know, right now I lost over 200 pounds I'm working in the job of my dreams. My husband and I are doing better than ever. My kids love me when before I couldn't be But Dr. Mancini, I'm calling to thank you And I said, &quot;What do you mean, Rosie?&quot; She said, &quot;What I didn't tell you is that had bought a gun and I had decided to kill If you weren't going to be able to help me, I had it, too many years of suffering. I'm calling you right now to tell you thank I'm sharing that story because I don't want out there. You may be a Rosie right now. You may be somebody that's struggling so much. And I'm here to tell you that all the science heal anything. Given the right conditions, accessing your can heal anything. And when you access that entrepreneurship you access that, every single day you have your dreams. To have everything you want, happiness. You know, to have a great physical body. To have a peaceful state of mind. To have energy, abundant energy. And that's my message today. So God bless you. Thank you for having me. I appreciate you.