I would never bet against the United If you're a woman, you live longer and You've got to invest differently than a We offer services for women from their of millions of dollars. have no maximum. Sallie Krawcheck has made a career on I made the decision earlier being really thought I might as well double down on I can't hide. It was by being a contrarian. research analyst that put her on the the last honest analyst on Wall Street. The picture was bigger than my actual It was it was the wildest thing. attention of Sandy Weill, who brought Smith Barney at age 38. individual who wasn't scared to take Sally climbed the ranks at Citi, serving management business. Merrill Lynch. called Sandy while the former CEO of Smith Barney, can she do it at Merrill? Sally led Merrill to $3.1 billion in She stepped down in 2011, unsure of her I had a big insight one day that women all think it's because they're risk But maybe it was because nobody built In 2016, she launched Ellevest, a clients. under management, with some powerful Pritzker and Melinda Gates. I think it's better as women have more So we're going to talk a few moments Wall Street. the most senior positions you can have Now, you started your own firm, which is I'd say all of the wealth of Merrill So what is it like having hundreds and now you have a smaller group, or is it compare the two? And some days, particularly in the early terrifying because we started, all of us In those early days, you can be one big away from being out of business. volatility, you know, in terms of making What's always been important to me is For all of us, it really is impact, you are we impacting individuals and Our mission and all of us is to get more investing. know, their lives just open up. accumulate wealth. for their families. And, you know, I determined working at hard, if not almost impossible, to were, to really focus on women. And do you have to be a woman to work No. We love men. as we talk about diversity, it's not The power of diversity is diversity, So I would say that whereas traditional sort of 85% men, we're about 85% women. financial planners are women as well. women are going to inherit enormous when their husbands passed away, which away, they're going to inherit money. something that you've just focused on But is it something that's happening to women when they pass away? women die single. in divorce and that's because women live And what we're staring at right now is, and accumulated the most wealth in And as the boomers begin to hit their gentlemen are beginning to pass away. transfer. go. the Gen Z, but first it goes to women. women will receive tens of trillions of of decades. that show that women will therefore have over the next few decades. longevity is about to do the work that Time's Up and the Women's March we're majority of economic power in this When women inherit money or they earn Manage their money or want to manage What's the difference between women and and use their money differently? money is differently. about this because there are so many Women tend to be more philanthropic than Women tend to believe in climate change Women tend to believe more in impact more interested in that. men do. are stronger. happens when women have more money. cascading effect. much as men do is invest and build And in fact, when I was running Merrill when he passes away or they get financial adviser at a very high rate. next year and often put the money in the And so the negative of women getting most women say, I don't really know what it. bank as opposed to productively So if a woman inherits a fair amount of entrepreneur and she made a fair amount what do you do for her? you should do this and that? trying to get for women or for any of So it depends on where she is in her in spectrum. their first investing dollar through to I love to say we have no minimum and we So if it's a young woman, we have a there that takes gender into account, doesn't matter as much if you're a live longer and you earn less, you've does. motivated by goals based investing, start a business, investing to retire, outperforming the market or buying this As women mature through their life, we her with a comprehensive divorce inheritance package. accredited investor, we can offer her a impact. Even with this whole ESG push back, a financial and an impact return. the most eclectic variety of impact investing in women tailored to what Now, some investors say we're facing a be different depending on who wins. difference who is the United States for your investments? shows that we think that you do worse the Democrats. impact on the economy and has an impact business environment. States of America and, you know, the And so I always have been bullish on office. on you saying that you're the last Yes. It changed my life. face. Let's talk about your own background, So you were born in New Orleans, but you Charleston. I'm a Charleston, okay. a scholarship to go to university in Very famous scholarship. Did you say, I want to be a woman on No, I wanted to be a journalist. eighties, both for newspapers as well as year and Solomon Brothers paid $31,000 a year. know that 31 is more than 12. She went to Wall Street right out of Right out of college. I went to business school a few years After you graduated from business Well, I tried to get back into I couldn't get a job and I had to go So where did you go? I went to DLJ. My first career move was I was fortunate I love to say, as so many young women do wanted to be a sell side equity research And you went to a firm ultimately that side research. Yeah. might have changed your life. on you saying that you're the last Yeah. came out, all of a sudden, you're on the one day, and now you're seen as the Street. The picture was bigger than my actual It was. Did you know that cover story was going No, I did not. research analyst, and you may remember contrarian. you know, with three siblings all close zagging, believe me, I was zagging. nineties, the Internet bubble was, you that all research analysts had to be part because they wanted to get the along with the research business. actually not going to say anything as an which means I'm going to be you know, be negative when others are positive. when I was promoted, I said, I'm going business so that we can be the true So we'll be contrarian, We'll make big will not be conflicted. the Internet bubble burst. conflicts and our business did this. somebody named Sandy Weill read that somebody run Smith Barney for me, Citicorp. to be the head of Smith Barney? We knew each other and we knew each was in. drove him nuts when I was a research bought Salomon Brothers, everybody was He was positive and I was negative. me. he was wrong. individual who wasn't scared to take And so when his research business to caught up in the research scandal, he So you get a job running Yeah. And did you like that? And then ultimately, you transition from Is that right? officer for the entire organization. are rising up on Wall Street? Street. I really thought they just need to work Look, I did it so everyone else just know, get the work done, not really nuanced challenges. of the biggest banks in the world at the And then you later got another job at management. So how many people are then reporting to 35,000 or something, right. Sandy Weill leaves Citi and ultimately And then I think if I understand it of the investment calls that Citi had so wonderful and the clients didn't do And you thought that you should be some Senior leadership didn't want to do Is that fair? You'll remember the subprime crisis and to individual investors that they That would do well in a tough market, out, and did very poorly. There were sort of sort of fundamental So I went to the board, the new boss, reimburse clients. I think we should do the right thing. Now, I don't know if you remember this, the course of that time. two days ago on my computer, popped up sending the email to senior city folks You know, here's his advice. And he gave me this advice. David says. I don't remember that. It was great advice, but I lost my job. Yeah, well, I was going to I was going contrite. But you then landed on your feet again organization called Merrill Lynch. That's exactly right. is a big organization. to be focused on the number of people? A lot of people. another turnaround. bought Merrill during the subprime And in those early days, financial And Ken, as happens, Ken Lewis, the CEO the former CEO of Citi and said Sally Smith Barney, can she do it at Merrill? you'll appreciate. You know, it will be like the University to coach the university North Carolina. won't be as if Duke came in and tried to And they brought me in to do it and we So when you were thinking about starting about what you wanted to do? Had you thought about it before, and was was a good idea? So when I gave myself a few minutes to Wall Street, what comes next? said, you should start an investing And I have to tell you, I said, That is You know, women don't need their own And that seems a little sexist and odd absolutely not. because all the women's initiatives of know, marketing at women, a little getting to the core of the issues. that women don't invest as much as men because they're risk averse, but maybe them. that took a while of starting from a curiosity about a problem and are there thinking about building something to to So when you're raising money for your States or you go throughout the world, Mostly the United States. differently. Valley has never looked at all of us and And quite frankly, if I'm honest with said, boy, that is the hot shot for. For a variety of reasons. very difficult to do was to go to people living, and convince them of the best being served for X, Y, z, reason that wealth transfer is coming. who believed in our view of the world comfort zone and invest. ever received? early, even if you don't think it's that The other one is invest in women. So in your Wall Street career, you've Sometimes you're willing to say to Where did you get this element of Was it from your parents, from your Where did you get the idea of being disagreeing with you sometimes? I just over the weekend heard a story brother, the day that her brother our training wheels in and rode the I did the same thing with my brother. I'm not nearly as talented as she is, of as she is. house with six people with one bathroom you learned that you had to sort of be helped to be sort of contrarian to Yeah. You need to be somebody who claws people tough. time. succeed in Wall Street? Of course, you have to work hard. and it's probably counterintuitive. which is interesting because I made the woman I already stuck out and I thought I can't hide. It was by being a contrarian, and I publish research reports that said Me earnings. They came in $0.02 a head. The other penny was lower. Big calls on big stocks. published was very negative at a time I stood the heck out. and and David, I've done that as a business as well. If everything's fine, just keep your But there will be points in your life Sanford Bernstein and said, we are in investment banking and research Or at Ellevest, where the whole industry it on serving men, Let's be the one that Every once in a while you have a big business, in fact, an entire industry Let me ask you about this. ever received? about money? First of all, invest it. early, even if you don't think it's that The other one is invest in women. diversify any way you can. And you don't have just investments in You have investments around the world. bonds, you don't have high yield. We diversifies investors in any way we One way we do not diversify is gender. investments that we make for in private is we try to have more women managers What's the biggest mistake that you investing? It's over trading. And we've been socialized as women. about boys are taught to be brave, girls And so men will get in there and invest. point? What's a private equity? which they never do. 30 years from now or 40 years from now? anymore, that you start to ask that you Street or you ran these big companies. What I'm doing right now is the most far. many people reported to me and you know, how big was my office. You're changing women's lives and You know, it changes everything for them And so, again, nothing bad happens when What we're looking forward to is what That is, women own the majority of The ripple effect of everything, the kinder, you know, more family oriented I think it's better as women have more