Our first guest tonight Grammy-winning musician in the world. Her album, -[ Cheers and applause ] She's also returning as musical guest along Please welcome back to the show the one, the only... [ Cheers and applause ] Welcome back to the show. -Thanks for having me back. -We love having you when it means we get to see you Your fifth time -Yes. What a dream. -And -- And a one-time host. An incredible host -Thank you! -And I'm wondering. You -- -That's crazy -Yeah, I was -- Yeah. -Because you're young now, -That is so -- Thank you. I can say it honestly -What a -- What a friend. -Thank you very much. -That's -- Those are lies. -Having been a one-time -- and a first-time host, do you have any advice your first-time host this week? -Well, I -- I met him, he seems like one of -Yeah. needs to watch and just like -- I mean, his work is and I'm a big fan, you just get such a good -- Very real, very, like -- abnormally talented -Yes. -Those people -Yes, it's so -- it's a very -- -Those are special, So, like, you know, You know, what's weird from anyone when I was hosting, which is actually weird, -Yeah. -So I should've -Yeah. Real ball drop -Right? -There should have been, like a number people call But, no, I think it's just I'm so happy to get to be there, You know, I -- I haven't played And we're all like -- not to, like, cry Like, we're all like, &quot;Did you guys make it through We're in rehearsals, just, So it's just a dream -Well, I think just to get back together, is you're singing songs from -- This is your second re-record. I feel like -- I know so I -- I do feel the need to, because it's not normal. -Yeah. -Basically, like, music -- I've always wanted since I started making music, You probably don't know this, artists do not own their work. The music industry is, uh -- Certain corners of it. But I think that there was -- There was something that I made it very clear that I wanted to be able That opportunity and it was sold And so I just figured, I was the I can just make it again. -Yeah. [ Cheers and applause ] -I have to say... -So that's what we're doing. So when something says &quot;(Taylor's Version)&quot; that means I own it, [ Cheers and applause ] -It's -- It's quite -- It's -Oh, thank you. -Oh, thank you. It's -- You know, it's go back and relive who are the reason and why I get to, like, sit here and, like, have Going back and -- and reliving And this time around, I get to do things I would have done -That's really good. -Because I'm always listening And I'm always listening to their opinions And what -- They will let me know which -Yeah. did not get videos And so I just like -- Like, I'm listening and I'm making the videos -[ Cheers and applause ] I want to ask -- I mean, I have I listen to for the first time I can only imagine having written them. Like, is it -- is it cathartic Or does it -- When they're do you, like, feel it -I mean, I think -- for -- One thing that I noticed just this week in general is that I think back to which is the album Just in case So this originally came out -- -This is it. It's this. -Yeah, it came out originally And I was 22, and that release because nobody's heard There are like 14 different It's a real patchwork quilt I was really experimenting. -A lot of 22-year-olds are going -Hopefully. Yeah, you know. -Absolutely. I was so focused on, like, And then I was also, like, at the time, like, 'Cause I had actually you know, the stuff But this time, I'm just like -- got sunglasses on and just like -- It's really nice to be able to and not be sad, not be, like, taking breaks in between It's very -- I'm telling you, -Yeah. -We -- I think we're all happy. -With that said... -You get some time passing, -Yeah. your experience from your 20s It's really the way to do it. I wonder if -- think that they were the one if it's easier or far, far worse -I haven't thought about their -I think that's the -- [ Laughter ] [ Cheers and applause ] I think there's nothing [ Laughs ] Hey. I have so many We'll be right back with more Welcome back to &quot;Late Night.&quot; And we were talking Some very exciting able to do because you're Chris Stapleton, Ed Sheeran, Is that -- [ Cheers and applause ] have a wish list, and then -It really, really was. on this album that I've called because in my mind, of songs that I love I write a lot of songs for But these were songs that because I wanted to save them And then, it turned out, a whole different thing, And you always think back on &quot;What would have happened? But it belongs So now that I get to go back I've dug up those songs and I have, like -- that I love and said, &quot;Do you You know, Phoebe Bridgers in the world. Like, if she sings it, [ Laughter ] I just love her voice, that she's a very funny person. when they get a phone call, I want you -Well, I try not -Right. That's a good instinct, yeah. -Sure. a very long text that And I'll send the song, to ever feel pressured creatively if it doesn't gel So, with Phoebe, I reached out, and I sent her this song which I wrote when I was 22. special to me I was not a shiny new artist. I was on my fourth album, Like, I think this happens where they have And then, the moment after that because they're just It's like the first time and everyone's like, When you have your breakthrough And then, the next time, you -Yeah. -And then, the third time &quot;Um, so what do you want and they're just talking. &quot;But I'm here, So I was dealing with and so that song's And I sent it to Phoebe the world to me 'Cause I really wanted who I loved to sing it with me, female-artist perspective, that And her response was, &quot;I've been waiting for this text [ Laughter ] It was like, &quot;Yes!&quot; I'm sure I think a lot of people for the fact There's a 10-minute version [ Cheers and applause ] I mean, -That was -I haven't heard a gasp -That was great. &quot;Now it's time -That was very powerful. -So, tell us about -- So you've always -Yes. This is the original So, there's a song called that was never a single. You guys are really -- This is very nice, [ Laughter ] This song was never a single, and somehow, the song from this album. And when I -- when I would sing it get through the song. the fans were just, like, so loudly that it made it to sing this song. It has been a joyful thing I play it all the time And it's just so fun So this song originally was -- It's a very long song, as it is, but it was originally And I just kept -- [ Laughter ] But I was like, &quot;Oh, you got to so that's unreasonable for it And so I had to cut out certain and lots of different things Left some of my favorite lines and I'm really happy I'm so proud of I think this version that was meant to be heard. -That is really thrilling. there's a short film -Yeah. [ Cheers and applause ] Two fantastic young actors -- who I believe -- also huge fans of yours. It must have been a big deal -It was really wonderful working with Sadie Sink They're just absolutely -- I'm just blown away by what I wrote this short film and the only two people the two characters -- If Sadie -- She was the first one I went to. And if Sadie had said no, I don't think I don't think I think I would've &quot;This is a sign,&quot; But she -- or people who I think would be I don't really want I'm not very interested If somebody -- I've never I've directed some music videos. to people who were like -- that I would be capable of it, Sadie got it immediately. And I watch everything he's in. And both of them, they just -- and they just left it all on the They really just -Well, it's terrific. what the next couple of days are You have done them -- I hope good -- -I feel very confidant It's so lovely to see you again. -Thanks for being here. [ Cheers and applause ] &quot;Red (Taylor's Version)&quot;