We'll discuss the basics of how variable also referred to as variable speed mechanical construction industry for pumps, and compressors. We'll discuss where industry. Identify the key components of a VFD So, where are VFD's used in the One is to use them for pumps. The use of is widely used in commercial construction and as this image shows, this one uses to control the speed of the pump, which As the heating hot water control valves open due the pressure drops in the piping, which is The transmitter sends a signal to the variable the GPM, causing the pump to push more water the heating hot water valves start to the valves start closing causing an increase in differential pressure transmitter. The transmitter drive to slow down the pump motor, reducing the control. The theory is the same for controlling monitoring of the supply air duct which will cause In the scenario here, we show that a static down the main supply air duct. The sensor will the variable air volume boxes begin to open their The pressure in the supply duct drops, decreases, the static pressure sensor sends to increase the speed, the RPM of the The opposite happens when the VAV box dampers as the dampers begin to close, the pressure in the sensor to send a signal to the VFD to slow down Now you have another method used for chillers. speed control. Check with the chiller manufacturer and the same theory applies. So, as the load in the speed of the motor that turns the compressor, the speed of the compressor. The output tonnage Variable speed drives come mounted in an enclosure use of Variable Air Volume systems is very common fluctuations during the year. The Air Handler the space. The same applies to chilled water, through the pipes as the load on the So, what is the purpose of a Variable Frequency drive is to vary the speed of a motor, by varying savings. By increasing the frequency, you can the frequency, you can decrease the speed of the existing motors that control mechanical equipment which isn't energy efficient. These older and use some sort of artificial So, selecting a variable frequency drive can current and the power rating. So, when bidding a will have sized and documented the required VFD a Design/Build project, or retrofit, where the variable frequency drive, then knowing If you're not comfortable with selecting VFD suppliers that will help you choose consider when selecting a variable frequency The values shown here are for this example motor in this case this nameplate shows, 40, Each one of those three numbers is represented and the horsepower being 15, the speed, the RPM your variable frequency drive, is what's going one was the static pressure sensor for airflow, transmitter for water flow. And then you'll have of enclosure. Is it inside, or outside exposed So, now you have NEMA enclosures. This is the drives are usually located in mechanical rooms or of environment that surrounds the VFD, there as indicated by the NEMA number. The most common NEMA 1 rated enclosures are made for indoors, with or outdoor use, and where rain snow or ice may lint, and other dirt circulating in the There is an enclosure for any environment. and they get more expensive as the environment So, since VFD's produce heat during this must be part of the consideration versus a cooled enclosure. So, avoid locating So, here are some of the VFD components. A bypass. the drive and providing power to the motor. So, still has some form of overload protection. cost to a VFD. If it's not needed, or you then avoid purchasing a bypass. Or, if you have just purchase an extra drive for emergency The drives come with VFD keypads ,and control location of the VFD is in an inaccessible you could mount the VFD's keypad remotely. You manufacturer. Navigating is easy using the control manufacturers drives have the capability of The control panel provides a touch screen and a half inch, up to 15 inch, depending on for optional remote monitoring that allows you to web access. The available menu items will vary but there are some basic common features. There if provided with a bypass. There'll be alarm indication that either the I/O terminal keypad or stop signals. So, the size of the drive. It to over 60 inches. The weight of a small drive can VFD cooling requirements. There are two methods You got air-cooled, or liquid-cool. liquid-cooled dealing with air-cooled, or it'll just have a heat the semiconductors and ancillary devices. around them for the proper flow of air through Be sure to check the mounting instructions to failure. Small VFD's require anywhere from 40 Check the drive manufacturer's requirement cooling the unit. The area around the air-cooled The following are the three main components that again using a simulated AC voltage. You have the the incoming three-phase alternating current, AC power, then the filter smooths it then you have the inverter, the last portion. DC voltage on and off to create a pulsating the rate of switching, the frequency can to control its speed. So, basically integration. So, the VFD's have the ability ethernet over IP, also LonWorks ModBus RS-485 So, what are the benefits of a VFD or variable it's going to save energy. The main reason is to to better match the varying load of the check with your local utility company for rebates, The investment for the installation of VFD's Maybe in a couple, under a couple years. After the provide an annual cost savings that increases net of a VFD will save energy and money, provide The payback should be short depending on run time profile. If you like that video please give it a