Coming up... Revelations from King Arthur's Hall, family connections through a rusty dog Welcome to Time Team News, your monthly look at and across the globe. Now if you enjoyed this catch every episode. Now, we've got lots coming up details of a very special festive live event. But the heart of Cornwall. Bodmin Moor is steeped through to associations with King Arthur. But as be more fascinating and ancient than the myth. A long been romanticized as King Arthur's Hall, no Arthurian Legend, from Tintagel Castle to Dozmary Pool. the 6th Century AD, new research has now confirmed years older, stemming from the Neolithic, around researchers, an old Time Team friend, James Gossip Hi James, thanks for joining us. Hi Dani, good to few weeks with some big news. Yeah, we have yeah. back from King Arthur's Hall has been, yep, very results, that's really good. So tell us a bit more effectively a rectangular bank of earth, although a stony core as well. It's about 50m long to 11 meters wide and the inside of that bank is granite and today there's 56 surviving, many floor but some recording done by John Nordon have been a continuous line of stones around the 150 of them. And how did the project come about? group on Bodmin Moor called Time Seekers and they at Cornwall National Landscape because they were Improvements looking at schedule monuments across Heritage Fund. They always had a sense that it you know let's see whether we can put a scientific how old it is and whether it is does belong to were carried out in 2022. The team included Time has produced a range of photogrametry models of technique, optically stimulated luminesence, to date an early date? It did to an ex... well, I mean any date, it was just really our objective this team from St Andrews University and Newcastle for these buried soils buried under the been built around about 3,000 BC, yeah, that was it an even more enigmatic monument because we an interesting point, because we don't tend to we often think of stone circles in the Neolithic. origins of the monument including a medieval original function not really except that we suspect the prehistoric tor enclosures of in use in a landscape where there's extensive Moor on a north-south alignment, looking at the time perhaps, you know, lend one to think or place of the coming together of communities for similar sorts of activities maybe for exchange times of the year, perhaps for the meeting of really be completely sure and but, yeah, maybe which will help guide us towards a use do keep us informed of any developments. It's a A fascinating new chapter for an ancient monument, was? Let us know in the comments. And we'll be To find out more about Bodmin Moor's prehistoric Shadow of the Tor&quot; from Series 14, and you can also archaeologist Dr Ben Gearey - links below. News just in, a knife handle near Hadrian's Wall depicting and shield. The knife handle found in a river at in copper alloy and represents a type of gladiator Hadrian's Wall marked the northernmost border of Ancient Rome, this is just one of a few Dr Francis McIntosh of English Heritage says &quot;it's in Britain and to find such a well preserved and Francis notes, gladiators were the celebrities of handle is testament to how pervasive this celebrity at the very edge of the Roman Empire.&quot; The knife 2025. And some modern archaeology for you now, across generations. Operation Nightingale's of Brothers 2024 culminated in the discovery of to an American paratrooper from World War II. was found folded up and possibly discarded between Kiraly of Operation Nightingale did some further grandchildren, Bryan and Greg May, and it turned own. You know, Bryan and I are we're certainly not in school or anything but from a very young age grandfather questions and then you know have read researched every part of Fox Company of all the cool match, because just so happens you know we've every article we could dig up and every picture book, that Christmas when my grandparents came book and I said &quot;I hear it's, I hear it's he's like like &quot;Oh, Colonel Sink!&quot; and then a couple the time and I said to him, I said, &quot;I hear it's a &quot;Yep,&quot; I was he's like &quot;it's going to be a good book from Camp Toccoa. He jumped on D-Day and was injured during the siege of Bastogne. Amazingly Greg and Bryan I've got a pair of skivvies, I've got a t-shirt that goes with this but this is the uh you see it dress shirt that they wore around um like when and this this Pat so you've got the Screaming there yeah here's like the Overcoat which you know the bars, the Screaming Eagle. It's can have such an immediate resonance for the frustrated because I kind of hit my research wall there's nothing else I can do I'm kind of they are are moving on you know so so getting like this is It's opening up a new like now we learn more and piece together more you know so... Richard has vowed to return to the site for about where we're going to dig because there we now have to because there could be another tag each object has a narrative and a story about it is just something else it's amazing we shared that overwhelming response we've now unlocked that for free so head over to patreon right now also find a whole host of additional content coverage. So, this month's Book of the Month is 'A by author Sally Coulthard and I'm joined by Sally really well nice to be here nice to meet you it's right up my street this um history of the a bit more about it absolutely so it's called 'A really it covers a huge huge archaeological to modern day and it's talking about our rural is I wanted to talk about rural archaeology like a landscape that's really ignored in terms in the depths of of North Yorkshire and I see lived here whether it's bits of farming equipment structures of a village all these kind of things around me and I wanted to write a book that wasn't the countryside is much more interesting than labour, superstition sacrifice I talk about all the relationship with them why churches are where they tried to pretty much cover the whole gamut of the about a bit more about the the layout so the book is in the title. But my idea about the book was distinct little essays but I also wanted to be a to read but also kind of took a really detailed start at the beginning and ends in modern day and next because I found that almost like you know people to kind of finish one object and then go I know you were just saying that it's linear but actually you can dip in and out of it because only got five minutes you can just have a quick if you want to and dip into it whenever you get it's it's worth sitting down and reading all the journey. Sally, it's amazing the amount of objects must have done as well it's really it's truly me talk about the book and I really hope that found it to write and honestly this who knew that full of drama and excitement this is definitely say thank you for joining us on Time Team News soon. You're very welcome, Dani, nice to speak of the Countryside in 100 Objects' by Sally Coulthard North. Now for one of my favorite finds of the year possession is their trusty spade. So imagine the what might just be one of the oldest wooden spades of years old likely dating from the middle Bronze in Dorset during evaluations ahead of the Moor into a designated wetland. Thankfully the cameras wooden Spade, it made me sit back in my chair and actually cuz I wish I'd been on site that day carried out by Wessex Archaeology with a project Agency and its project partners, RSPB and Natural wasn't 100% sure what I was looking at because ring ditch that we were Excavating at the time thought for a moment, and together spade. It's pretty decent, didn't expect that! The tool, which was fashioned from a single piece of some amazing colleagues with me to help me transportation. Success! Because it's wood, it's very it will start to decay. So it's been taken back to be conserved and consolidated, but we're also to try and find out what would it's made from so this is the wooden spade from Arne Moor. When just using soft sponges and tap water just bamboo skewers where the surface soil was a bit this we have to make sure that it doesn't to shrink and the wood will warp and change like tool marks and things like that. There are easy to identify just by eye or maybe with a identifying water logged wood such as this very very thin sections through the wood and a bright light through it and then that will from a mature piece of oak most likely from the center of the tree we know this because there are anatomy and these little balloon-like deposits are radiocarbon date we've obtained it calibrates 1500 BC to 1,400 BC it's probably going to be on on something like this and I really look process unravels. It's the sort of thing that as career so it's something that they'll time. World news now - 1,000 year old statues The Grand Royal Palace at Angkor Thom was once over huge swathes of land across southeast Asia its height, Angkor was a huge bustling city, one of irrigation system today it's a UNESCO World Gate archaeologists discovered 12 beautifully many of them almost intact. The beautifully the 11th century, based on stylistic features of stone masonry, which is said to exemplify the complex. The discovery was announced by Cambodia government team for safeguarding Time Team have just released our Black Friday a 16% discount on annual membership - that's the of that in the description box below. And with very special festive live session in December will get to join us live as the team reflect their questions to the team live. Full details are Well, that's all for this month. Please do cover the stories that you'd like to hear about know in the comments. Additional content from including 3D models and extended subscribe and press that notification Bell that's all from me for now thanks again Join Time Team on Patreon to masterclasses and behind the scenes insights.