Papua New Guinea is one lying 150 kilometers north of Australia. The town of Lae Here it more commonly It's a sorry sight its packed mini buses In the streets, uncertainty reigns Trying to keep law and order, the locals call upon These guards only bows and arrows. When they do step in, Papua New Guinea has one In his warehouse behind high walls, Kevin, a highway driver, In Papua New Guinea, a simple breakdown Well, before each journey, Because if I ever have the criminals can use Bands of looters on his cargo of pasta, These staples Come on, closer. But the bandits Right now everything is ready. I don't think Only if it starts to rain. It's the beginning of the rainy season and the mountain roads Papua New Guinea but with a road network There are just three main roads And yet, road transport Just about everything is imported. The merchandise arrives The containers before being loaded onto trucks. Like these vehicles, on one of the most dangerous roads. It's the Highland Highway. The highway is merciless, It crosses wild regions that are unforgiving A road that wears out the drivers. And destroys their machines. Torrential rains batter the road, In the Highlands, At night, Off the highway are slopes There are not many drivers and because of this, companies Kevin earns four times the wage of a teacher. His employer also houses him, with a beautiful house where he lives I just see them once a week. I spend the rest Most of the drivers do their work but my husband, When he's on the road he calls us When he gets back, he spends So I'm happy. When he calls, he says it's going well. I thank him. Kevin spends over 60 hours At daybreak, he takes a town lost but his journey We left late. We should have got The cabin windows On the highway, this is a must. We put them on who like to throw rocks on the road. Sometimes they hit Without this protection, Before taking on the mountain, The nuts are powerful stimulants. He eats about 50 a day. It's a way of beating tiredness, but it's also a drug that We chew betel to stay awake and most importantly, to keep on till the end of the road. In Papua New Guinea, the consumption See this is the betel nut, here. You get the shell off like this. Next, the chewer uses a bit of a creeper So we take this and after and then when we chew it, it goes all red. That's what helps us keep It's better than alcohol. Or beer. Unfortunately, though, Alcohol causes as witnessed by these rusty carcasses Here, when a truck flips over, if it's not a drama, it's an opportunity. Two months ago, The young creek guys came and they smashed and they stole all the cargo. This is an even less cultivated area. Just 50 years ago, the warring tribes from the rest of the world. It's no easy feat to tow with its twists and turns Kevin does all he can while the road continues to get worse. The tarmac sections They're being replaced Not yet, no, not yet. What's waiting for us up there is awful. We're really going At 1,500 meters above sea level, it really starts to get difficult. At the first mountain pass, Can you see the road? Yes, well, not really. The mist hides everything. The potholes and the other vehicles. On the way down, the fog becomes rain, It's sliding, so I'm forced When they are as wet as this, We're in danger of ending up in the river. Just below, a ravine 700 meters deep. With 36 tons pushing him from the back, Kevin must negotiate each bend, He's been behind the wheel and he's finding it difficult This is a bad sign. A tow truck. I should ask if there's a problem. What's going on up there? Can I through with my truck? It's muddy. To the Congo. Congo? The way up is slippery. Okay, I'll take care. Congo is the name of this place. It's the last stop before Kundiawa, When it rains, like today, The road is poor, Rainy days, it's always like this. You can quickly lose control No, no. No, impossible. The only way to get through, press down on the gas Unluckily, the truck is overloaded. If I stop now, I would have to go back Kevin completes the ascent You were lucky. For now, it's over. He has just traveled Here we go, we made it to Kundiawa. Destination, the town's supermarket. I'm a bit exhausted, His rest will not last long. Right now, I am waiting till they finish unloading, and then I'll go back Down there I've got my wife and kids. They will take care of me, because they know The driver sets off in the opposite direction. In all, he will spend 20 hours It's nearly midnight, A tree is lying in the middle of the road and around it are men armed with machetes. No, we're just villagers. We're trying to free up the road because after the heavy rains yesterday, this tree fell down. If we didn't do this, we'd have to wait It could take six to eight hours Of course, They are not about to work for free. Certainly we'll ask and the people will pay us Kevin is no fool. In my opinion, They could have either or anyway, it's too dark to check. It's hard to believe that and once the road is clear, the gang shows its true colours. The racket is underway. Ironically, the tree that now serves as the tollbooth barrier. Here come the police, stay cool, guys. Luckily for the road clearers the policemen don't seem We'll go speak to the villagers we'll tell them not to charge too much. Under two euros would be good. If the police are turning a blind eye, they want to avoid Tonight, no one has so for them, Yes, at the same time, Only five euros, and we don't The authorities end up by leaving. The extortion continues. After a three hour wait, I've just got two euros. If they take them, How much you got? Two euros. Oh, that's good, hand it over. Kevin is relieved. He won't have to sleep on the road They told me you can go but what they know best is the company Here even the bandits avoid an organization known The boss is a Frenchman. Gerard Philip has been living and has made his fortune, Makanem in the local dialect, Here in Kundiawa, all the green shops, about half of all the stores, In just a few years, Also a butcher's. Then the town's first cafe. Since then, provides the rhythm of life in Kundiawa. With a road as unreliable it's always a good idea to stock up. Really stock up. Everything depends on road transport. Everything comes If the motorway transport wasn't there, everything would shut down. In the rainy season, the road can be closed for three days, We had a huge landslide here, and the road was shut down for a month. Gerard, doesn't restrict himself He supplies the entire region When the businessman he is no longer astonished to find Gerard's greatest success Never before has such a thing The Papua New Guineans and they want more. This is good for Gerard's business, You got two empty containers on the way? Are you asleep or you drunk? In the back room, young women Here is what Gerard's seven businesses It could be as much as a million Ballpark figure. We transport it ourselves in the car. Is there a bit of tension Oh, we take security We change our routine. We keep our eyes open. Keeping one's eyes We get ready when we go down, though. Gerard keeps his loaded and ready to shoot. The destination is the town's only bank. The journey takes only a few minutes. Letting one's guard You mustn't nod off, Behind, in front, looking at anything suspicious. Off we go. It's the signal. It's necessary to move quickly. The money is put The annual TNA turnover Banks, supermarkets, roads. Papua New Guinea is changing. Even in the most remote areas. Here in Gumine, it's a big day. They're celebrating Ministers, governors, government officials all have turned Among them is Gerard. After the traditional welcoming ceremony, the crowd heads off to the main square Gerard Philips. We make you feel at home. You're most welcome. Gerard is entitled to all the honors. He even has a place at the tribunal. If you take good care you will become rich. Coffee is Gumine's gold and oil. I declare this water supply open. Thank you. This adventurer has before making a stop here For 16 years, braving death Come and see this view here. All these places between all these mountains and every day. You shouldn't tempt fate, though. So I reckon 16 years was enough. I've buried people who didn't quit, One day something is bound to happen. The plane, the only recourse for hundreds Many pilots have lost their lives here. The dead husks of their machines are The tropical climate is unpredictable. At any moment, the meteorological conditions There are always some daredevils of Papua New Guinea. Antoine is a young New Zealander and has already notched above the country. This morning, however, The clouds come down pretty low, and low visibility around the place. It just makes it difficult to get around, especially when So this guy here, he'll make a few phone calls and we'll make We're just waiting If it's still raining? No, we don't go. Yes, it's not a fantastic area We've got make-shift radio over here so we can call all the different strips The Papua New Guinean weather You're going to fly or not? Oh, probably. As soon as it clears up, He's transporting rice, biscuits It's only 40 minutes flight away, but one of the most Next problem is trying This is an incredibly tricky area The risk is the clouds just above the mountains When you're in mountainous there could be chance of a collision. Really that sets about the only thing that you got to respect There is nothing to be fearful of. I suppose you could say crashing. You don't want to crash in this country. There's good visibility below the clouds. Antoine winds his way It's time to land. That tiny, far off strip of land It rained in the morning At any second, In Kaintiba, the arrival So we have no other forms of transport. It's only a plane. We don't have road services for big taxis it is very remote. Most of the people here have not They have never sat There's certainly no hospital here. There's just Sammy, When someone is seriously injured or sick, if it's an emergency we bring them to Kaintiba. The only place a plane can land If the plane is late, The sick person also needs It costs nearly 120 euros. Here most of the locals live Antoine only stays for a few minutes. Another community is waiting Back on the highway just after Kundiawa, the truck must deliver to the oil wells of Moro, The road stops there, At the wheel is Billy. His cargo is precious, Bart, in the escort car opens up the way. The road is bad here, take care. Slowly. On the highway, Another trucker warns Billy via radio that Well, the road is good. So what blocked road Billy, what are they saying? Yes, they say that Okay, we'll be there in half an hour Just before Kalpana, and Billy finds out what's going on. That section It's very huge. So for bigger trucks to pass through, because that will cause more problems. Even if the vehicles get off the road, For the moment, Other trucks have already parked It's a windfall I've got coffee, biscuits, In this place tucked away there are not many opportunities For the men from the village, to make a bit of money There are many thieves in the area. We own this land, this is our home. We keep watch. They come here to steal, Bart and Billy leave and go to take stock Wow, it's going to be a bitch to cross. Look at that. Oh, shit, but for us, it's impossible. There's a muddy trench Turning back without I'm here with the escort car. I have to get tomorrow, It's difficult to get through. There is a hole and a climb My truck won't make it. Okay, now what do we do? Do we make a U-turn or what? The orders are strict. No U-turn is to be made. They must wait until the road is repaired. The minibuses filled with passengers Only the four wheel drive vehicles Non four-wheel drive vehicles have to rely on the local villagers strength Come on, forward. That's it, come on, straight. Why are you stopping? Soon, the minibuses misadventures and after 30 minutes, it finally makes it. These vehicles are the only method Not everyone enjoys In Kundiawa, each afternoon, The mountain dwellers and now it's time Hey, clear off. Get out of the way, The car is packed, overloaded in fact, however, Paul is getting ready to tackle Mount Wilhelm. The young drivers are scared to come here. They drive on the highway, It's dangerous. We need this road to survive. So we keep using it. He's been making with his faithful pickup. The gearstick moves on its own, but that's not because The car is the same as the road. It's old and battered. The road damages the car, The government does nothing. This is a corrupt country, Nobody gives a shit about this road. Merry Christmas! In the back, In any case, the passengers It's the only way We have your market Even when you are used to it, Come on, you have to push. Come on, push. If they get stuck, All right, come on. Climb back in. With all the people in the back, Paul is using a lot of petrol. As there are no savings to be made, he prefers to let his old banger When we go down the slope, the car will become uncontrollable. We could leave the road Playing the same game many drivers find along with all their passengers. Now look at that. We have to swim for it. This is no pleasure cruise. In the back, but at least until now, At these altitudes, The chill settles in with the rain, which soaks everything. The passengers, along with the road. Happily, Come on then, get off. The pickup will take three hours On each journey, in the village of Gambogl. At an altitude the locals live off the coffee culture. The little money they earn, or cigarettes. Lower down in the valley, we find Billy. While waiting for the road to be repaired, he has parked his truck in the village. Tonight, he'll sleep amongst his family. Hurry up and make Have you told the kids to cook or not? I told the women, they were returning Hurry up, make us some food. My brother, it's good to see you. I see my wife, my brother here. My mother, I feel surrounded, it feels really good. Does he take care of you? Yes, very much. Yes, they really do. Look, they're in the middle Billy will not be the only Tonight, all the neighbors are going who has returned to the fold. Whenever I come back here, I help them financially. Everything they want, I give to them. In order to bring money Tiny, his mother, I do worry a lot. When he goes to Lae, I stay up and I can't get to sleep. I think about all the rascals, the bandits Kill him? I think about accidents, about his truck overturning It's only when he calls that I can finally go to sleep. There are all sorts For example, from the company knocks it gets risky for me. People accuse me of being responsible. When they see me, saying it was you. Even if I explain to them, they'll make me In Papua New Guinea, There's no point in dwelling on the topic. They prefer to tell stories. You should have seen this film, mate. An amazing fighter, Rambo, climbs on the car and then, boom. Yes, that's how he shoots. You better believe it does the job. Only a few kilometers away, Tribes and clans often fight In Papua New Guinea, Only today, Before we fought when we were injured, Now we shoot It's a lot more dangerous. Before, it was a kind of a game. Now, far too many people have died. These men have been Their camouflage must raise a smile, but there's nothing In the last few days, We've got AR-15s, also M-16s, homemade weapons, They exchange the hashish often provided by smugglers. When the enemies arrive, I do this. I do like this. The rest of the weapons are homemade. All this is local handiwork. The pipe is made from a truck tow rope. It has the same diameter as an M16 bullet. We put in the bullets With this, we turn it When we shoot, the bullet comes out, but the pipe stays put. Looting, rapes, lynching, when these villagers they are capable of extreme violence. Our families When the fighting intensifies, the others might come They burn houses, they massacre people. What did he say? I said that I want to shoot someone. That person is our cameraman. The guy who made the joke Here, people often mix These remote areas, if they accidentally Billy takes up his journey once again. He's going full throttle. He's been stuck for three days I've got to keep an eye just to make sure that Soon, however, My spine and my testicles. I always have to put like my towel to ease them up it shakes hard up and down When the family jewels It hurts. It's not just the driver In the back, the two machines The chain slipped. We've got to check it and tighten it. We need to stop and take a look. Step aside, pull aside It's more serious than expected. One of the machines Its tyre has shifted 20 or so centimeters. It's going up and down. The machines bounce around It can't take the pressure This chain is broken. They have to fix it Bart and his assistant, and tighten the chains Put in the middle. After two hours of effort, It's done, we can go. Now our load will move like that. If you go too quickly, it'll fall. That's why we must Just a few kilometers later, It's on the center section now. The wheel is once more Bart realizes that You saw at the back? Yes, it's dangerous. Okay, wait. Pull it. Make sure you check it regularly. Yes, I'll make good use of my mirror. Moro and its petrol wells but at any moment, the load could topple. The chains have got to hold, It's okay, we'll be arriving soon. Billy finally reaches of the oil drilling site. That is heavy stuff, mate. You're going to need Now Billy's work is over. I feel better now, everything is safe. The journey has ended up taking over a week. Here it's a long way The walkers climb down the mountain. In this remote village, the most important village in the area. It's the 25th of December, and nobody wants to miss Christmas mass. Over the past 60 years, even the most remote areas Father Matthew is leading proceedings. Merry Christmas, everyone. After three hours of mass, one is allowed to take Like any self-respecting Father Christmas, this one has not come empty handed. Everyone was awaiting Father Matthew heads and several hundred parishes. The mass comes to an end. For this man of the cloth, I must put water in the tank. He's getting ready His main ally in spreading the good word that he pampers prior to each departure. No one else dares to go adventuring For his parishioners, Hi, my friend, I'm a priest. So as there are people I must go and see them to give My life is devoted to them, I must go. As he carves out his route. Hey, brother, I'm off to Guinea. Father Matthew is not Hey, I'm on my way to the Guinea. The slope seems impossible, but it's not enough He is an expert I love driving on this road. At the wheel, It's almost a sport now There's a big cliff just below. If I miss the road, I wouldn't survive. It would be curtains for me. Twenty kilometers, Father Matthew finally arrives. Hardly anybody ever visits here. So each of the priest's Is that your dog? He's so cute. This is part of my duties I must show them that I am here. If they have the slightest request I must forward it to the authorities It's been a long time these remote villages lost in the jungle. In Papua New Guinea, lives below the poverty line. Here, Father Matthew's little white jeep is about the only vehicles