[MUSIC PLAYING] I know there are a lot of people And how many have been and you're starting to hear the when it comes to songwriting So we got the hook. We got the say what We got the song structures, There's words that keep coming My interest in hopefully meeting for you to attend to try to understand what your personal And that could be, why do you seem and over again? Why do you have trouble Why do you feel like your songs are and you can't get them shorter? Why do you feel like you don't or that lyrically the feedback you is that people are Or they have trouble distinguishing They don't really know Musically, why do you keep the same grooves? Do you feel limited instrumentally So what I'd love for you I'm going to give you time but think about what are your dealing with right now, that if you things, you would noticeably be or songs that leave an impact, rather So my method for doing that let's say arrogantly, &quot;Five Tools of Songwriting There's a lot of tools of And I'm going to tell are the primary places when I have this feeling or when I'm trying to makes them truly effective. Within each of these five and I will tell you what those are. But I've tried to narrow it down to because I don't know about I'm trying to manage so It's overwhelming. I think the idea is that to be inspired and find we feel is quality, creative And we feel their lives are And so that assumes, what is enriching about your songs. What do you feel is a strength And when I say songs, I'm of take away the production, take away What have you got that's melody, So I'd like to think you do that you feel is a strength with If you had trouble you might think back to what kinds not your mom. But musicians, people who are like you are, what might And think about your personality too. How is your personality reflected in Now, I'd like to look at and think about, what's a weakness? Where do you tend to lack maybe your process gets difficult, that you're writing that maybe it's a lack of contrast, Maybe you've said everything and you have nowhere to go. Think about what's lacking from There's a lot to say when And I think that certainly to be able to say and identify. You know what? If I could really look at my here's what's not shining. And I think if you look each song is going to carry strengths. It's going to carry stuff that is really working for, And if you can look at your own and recognize that it's not for and identify why that is, And one thing I wanted to do, then, and see if you can connect that strength or several of them that I'll be touching of these. So you can identify where I think the thing that I just I think so many times, am putting myself in a position of Do you like it? Can you use it? You know? And it really, I think, works against you tell me what's wrong with my song. But you have a sense. And I think part of the value you're in an environment where so that you can self-correct. You can analyze. And you have a feeling in you. If you've been doing this for any You need to give that So let's start from the top. We all know that repetition people to be able to sing our song. We can't just have a melody, in melody, that has no sense of and no sense of repeating pitches. There's note pattern. There's nothing to remember. And so there's also nothing So what I'm going to is that there are tendencies as to what level of commercial or that you appreciate, and how you to craft your own songs. My four-year-old, I believe that At least this is my alternate reality. But he goes around singing-- [SINGING] I just want to shake, shake, shake, And it's like-- [SIGHS] Now, I appreciate the repetition And I strive to involve I have nothing against Taylor that use repetition to that extent. And I think a broader how am I going to use as a template for what I love, not as but how can I use that into the music I want to create? And I think I listed some song examples to recall what we've talked I would encourage you to grab songs for each of these characteristics. So commercially viable music, in and of themselves, the songs that are A motif is that small common denominator repeats, throughout the song. And it's a rhythmic Those two elements If you can't identify what then you have an issue If I can't sing your melody, at least in understanding to assert, what's it trying to be. So one thing that I noticed, I was I guess-- aw ah, commercial music And I was thinking, well, let that I know and love and see about that. How does the repetition hold up? And it is that what kind of creates And so I thought, OK, &quot;Stand by Me.&quot; Love that song. I mean, who doesn't like that song? Really. I've never heard anyone say, God, [LAUGHTER] And lean on me. Apparently, we have to the end of the title with three words. Beatles, &quot;Get Back.&quot; It's a fun song. I like that. Tom Petty, &quot;Free Falling.&quot; I always hear that one. And countless more. But that melodic motif So the first thing you might do you have a melodic motif? Is it repeated several times in And each section will have Many times what songwriters will is you'll write a very long melody. And then you'll vary it a And then by the third line And it's like, well, Again, that's not the tendency The tendency is a short melody, like [SINGING] Hello. You know what song I'm singing, right? All I said was one word and two notes. But these other songs-- [SINGING] Some times in our lives-- You know, how simple is that. Dun, dun, dun. It was a very straight melody. It goes up, and then it goes down. And the word is just some, time. Like how often have you it's that short, where it's And I think the key to walk Do you give your listener rest space? Try writing a melody like and you know, you'll educate I do that longer thing. That's OK too. But then, own it. That's what I do. I do the longer phrase thing. And that's part of what makes me me. But then, get real. How easily is it going to Maybe for you. You've got a live-- you're an artist. You're not trying to get other and be able to sing them. You actually sing very well and of many strengths that you have. So I'm not saying that your They have to repeat. And they have to follow Not at all. But it's something to look what do you do that's truly your own. And then examine how that holds up. So the next thing-- that's The next thing is contrast. When you have a clearly that you are repeating, easier to write the chorus Have you ever had that trouble? You get to the chorus and you have the There's something great tried a number of different doesn't seem to be something different enough. You might look to that. Did I clearly distinguish so that I can do something Again, if you look at there is huge contrast which comes from a clearly So we'll often find that we can create so melody, harmony, lyric, but I put down five melody. There's five basic melodic The phrase length, so the Do you sing all the way through that Or is it one measure long? Or is it two beats out So we'll often hear commercial music in the verse to a little pre-chorus lots of rest space, very short can go back and create contrast again again. Again, that's the tendency Note length, big one. [SINGING] I'm standing on a Short notes. And then, in the chorus, dun, So again, highly commercial That's a very, very easy one to One day a activity that you could say I'm going to try to The greater the contrast, sometimes the the more refreshed we will feel. So you could say I'm going verse down here in pitch, and a And you just use two very typical to do that pitch I just talked about. Again, a highly commercial would be lower pitch in the verse, a tendency, certainly not something Position, this is a really big one. And it's so, so subtle. Get back. [SINGING] Jo-Jo was a man So where did I start that? Jo-Jo. It's on the downbeat. Highly commercial songs change at the beginning of each song section. Notice how the chorus is two, So you will find this over and over and There will be a change in Now, if you layer these start your melodic motif in a And generally, if you don't speak generalize it. Say, well, I'm feeling it starts when I start playing. And I'm feeling this other one So it was before the measure starts. Or it seems like I always which is another tendency you might back to your typical ways of writing. And so you play. And then you sing. And if you notice every man it's hard to work against is a very catchy, hooky, or chorus, because you're making choices shutting doors of opportunity. So when you can keep then you have more control And then, the last And if we look at the shape of songs we'll often be able to generalize &quot;Lean On Me?&quot; [SINGING] sometimes in our lives, we It's, doo-doo-doo, So if you take out some staff paper, or map out your melody. I like to do it in The shorter the line, And then it just shows the shape. It really doesn't matter what I think, as far as a melody when you get to the contrasting [SINGING] Lean on me, If it's all the same, I think there's a reason it's-- [SINGING] lean on me, It's a different shape. It's an octave up, too, which helps More on contrast-- harmony, certainly the entire time, to have a talent in harmony where you solve your Many times I find that as like, what chord can I go to? It's all about I don't Give me chords, chords. And if I think about some it's not as if they're just loaded the more I like the song. No. So it's simplicity, repetition. Once again, just like to establish what it is before And so be aware of things like in a single section. There is beauty in simplicity. Songwriters who know more chords than John Mayer. I mean they're commercial, and very beautiful songs often rely maybe until we get to a bridge where take us somewhere else. But again, you have to So what does that mean? Talking not just means that you look at your again, you're involving a lot of So if you think about that, well, If I've already kind of provided it's hard to contrast. What if you challenged yourself to and that's all you could do? Boy, there would be a lot of What if it was a two-chord groove? Another thing, though, to think about And often, as songwriters, again if or playing piano or something, we're So those are our tendencies. And if our tendency is to you can imagine you're probably as you typically do. That's going to close off It's going to prompt you And then all of your songs begin So look at how you might be able to How about changing chords what that does to create So I think chord Also with contrasts, then, if you change I mean, man, if you do then that's going to be one Maybe. Then, in the pre-chorus, And then you go back in the Look for how you're using contrast. And again, hold that up to songs And honestly, if of what chords are they using, from ever sitting down about what chords are being played. Map out how frequently Get yourself some staff Every beginning of the And then you begin to see that Contrast as far as lyric, to designing the content of that we get contrast in that way, too. So the chorus delivers the main message. So we often have more big thought, there, which contrasts with verses, Here's what really happened. Here's a small moment that proves is true and real. So there's contrast in the The third idea, repetition. Again, when and how much? Have you ever taken a song that and mapped out how or where the title phrase occurs? Or if there is repetition For example, how do Does line one complete the phrase with Noticing things like that. Consistencies in the language. Always starting with the verb can be a wonderful way to make a should always read your lyric out loud I'm not saying that it Certainly not all lyric does that. But if we're asking our and finish it off and add the and conjunctions, it's that while we're experiencing musically that's coming at us. Don't ask your listener Say what you mean. Harmony and groove, number four. I talked about tempo and how you might predispose yourself to results in the same groove and the changing chords. And those unconscious decisions are that's you. But if that's all you're doing as One exercise we have in a course is we choose a title, and songwriters will set that And at first, that sounds-- I don't know if that's But by the end of the week, man, Some of them are certainly assumed the title needed and the song developed from there. But when we try it at slower we start to think about mean that we never thought before. So that can be a really cool technique. But that's one thing Instrumental groove-- if you I recently went in and got real when it came to guitar. And so I went on a mad search to try I think just facing those There's so much to do as a songwriter, and what to do yourself. But I think, as a writer, that was a I had to figure out what to do. Chord frequency, we talked about that. And there's some song examples there. Lyric, when it comes to lyric, having the ability to write taste, touch, sight, is some serious power as a writer. Many times we will say, to write country music, use that kind of language in country. It's all over the place, though. Pop, hip hop, huge in hip hop. It's presented a little And when you have the capacity to you know, then, when you're going to say feeling, it's actually good language [MUSIC PLAYING]