CHRIS BRENNAN: Hey, my name is Chris Brennan and Episode 336, where I talk with astrologer Richard of the planet Pluto in astrology. Richard is the titled Cosmos and Psyche which was published in discussion where we covered a lot of different some digressions about other interesting topics episode, we did have a bit of a digression about at the beginning of 2020 and how that I wanted to talk with him about this a little bit the few astrologers who had done the historical alignments had coincided with some pretty major including pandemics and other major events. So I at the beginning of the episode to check in with in retrospect on that topic and how things had The last time he was on the podcast was in anniversary of Cosmos and Psyche. So, that did digression and then eventually we get straight about the broader significations of the planet related to pandemics but also some of the more I did want to let people know that if they want timestamps for this episode which are available this video on YouTube or in the audio version you on the podcast website at theastrologypodcast.com. Richard harness and other relevant website links with that introduction out of the way, Hi, my name is Chris Brennan and you're listening I'm going to be talking with Richard Tarnas and what it signifies, and how astrologers or dwarf planet historically. Today is Tuesday, Colorado, and this is the 333rd episode of podcast. Thanks for joining me today. Chris. Good to see you again. the show. You previously appeared in Episode 84 your book, Cosmos and Psyche: Intimations of a New five/six years since that time at this point. at least at least for some of the lockdown experience, it can be both moving so fast as if the day starts and ends CB: Yeah, especially last year going through Saturn-Uranus square sort of alternating at different points. So you recently took part in January called Changing of The Gods, which RT: -Ausubel. Yeah, whenever I read his name I always want Assyrian king Ashurbanipal but it's probably not has been a long time coming. I think they've been RT: That's right. Yeah. Certainly a full seven of central period of the Uranus-Pluto square that I had basically focused one part of Cosmos world transit cycles; the conjunctions, the Ausubel who is the Co-founder of Bioneers, focused particularly on this big Uranus-Pluto conceived the film. And then it became such a big documentary series that it went the in making it. But the advantage of doing it that alignment and the cultural correlations phenomenon that is so evocative of the out so dramatically over the last decade or so. already and I felt felt especially that episodes were tying it on the one hand, the women's rights happened in the 1960s and how those tied in with of some of those themes in the past decade at Rights Movement, which was also a key defining how that was tied into broader cycles as well. beginnings of the abolitionist movement and going Lives Matter, for example, just huge. There always the archetypal energies around both Uranus and impulses that we've experienced in human as you look through the centuries, every time or opposition or square, there's a bit more women's suffrage, women's feminism, really get activated in new ways that clearly come into cultural focus and intensified the same thing with the civil rights movement. I many forms. Same thing with gay liberation, phenomenon more generally. Also, technological seems to have something. Obviously, the planet change and revolution and the impulse status quo on behalf of greater freedom, and scientific breakthroughs and so forth, energy which I know is what our focus is going to other archetype it's coming into contact with. And to overwhelming proportions. When that happens and towards change and rebellion and originality intensification both in frequency and in kind of qualities. The other way it works, of course, is kind of sudden unexpected way with unpredictable in its implications or consequences, and there can to how it expresses itself. When that's combined you know, the arts or through romantic or social or artistic creativity is stimulated. But when archetype in so many ways. That's one of the CB: Yeah, for sure. And watching that series the meaning of Pluto in the way they were just focusing on certain pieces of it in an was otherwise a really dense book that you spent all of the terrible things that have happened over interesting for you to see how the and how literally how much some of your previous over the past couple of years? I mean, a lot looked to your work when the help contextualise what was happening and felt bit of a fulfilment of some of the things you had articulated some of those energies. What was your RT: On the one hand, the flow of life is always how the specifics are going to unfold. So much interactions of multiple factors. But astrologers that allows us to get a glimpse into what are the at a given time because it's been so consistent read the cosmic symbolism and have a decent It's what Stan Grof calls a Rosetta remarkable translation device like energies and meanings that are activated being clairvoyant in thinking that when the be major phenomena of a certain character, I every time Saturn and Pluto come into hard as well as the squares, you see very decisive tend to be quite challenging. And if we just of our lifetime-- my lifetime now, seven decades-- 20th century. The Saturn-Pluto cycle, its 1914 and basically, particularly from 14 to 16, And then the Great Depression comes And then World War Two begins right as Saturn and War begins under the conjunction of 46-48 where conflict that has nuclear intensity. And then most under the most recent Saturn-Pluto opposition. 81 conjunction? preceding one. And of course in Cosmos and Psyche, correlations with the Black Death through Europe and much of the world under the because Saturn has to do with Pluto intensifies that so it's often a there can be, you know, the Saturn-Pluto I mean, there's many good things that are also the capacity for courage under great pressure, circumstances, tremendous powers of organization focused on a particular purpose that is sustained are classic Saturn-Pluto virtues and people often a certain way because they're accessing these but with a Saturnian discipline and foundation happen under the Saturn-Pluto alignments tend to Saturn and Pluto, of much greater ecology, you know, with more of an apocalyptic Greta Thunberg who is born under the preceding to 2004 period, then she comes into prominence as the tremendous gravity of our global ecological and Pluto intensifies whatever it touches, great gravity. Gravitas like, &quot;This is morally life and death. Issues are at stake, etc,&quot; but Saturn relates to the Saturn Pluto heaviness ship that weighs countless tonnes very Saturn-Pluto. The whole 911 Twin Towers fell under the next opposition in 2001. you've got that tendency towards confinement everyone's confined to their homes and there's a tremendous sense of isolation. And have to be out on the front lines as healthcare infrastructure of the deliveries. All the people fed and warm and so forth during this COVID of the way the social inequalities are and on they're facing the Saturn-Pluto more at risking themselves with very hard labor. While and loneliness and feeling cut off; grandparents couples separated and so forth. We are also all of the Saturn archetype these last two CB: I have this really distinct memory during the a generation of astrologers have come in read your book at this point, and the emphasis on wrote your book partially in the aftermath of talking about the Saturn Pluto opposition that did you see that meme of where somebody had during the pandemic? I think an astrologer or something like that. I don't know if you ever- astrologer, she sent it over to me. [laughs] when it's been turned into a meme.&quot; [laughs] audio listeners, instead of the title, it says, Intimations of a New World View, Richard Tarnas.&quot; basically a god and a goddess both pointing at the gods both being at odds with each other and also screwed up and that actually the warnings had been that was a very clever meme. and obviously, nobody revels in that. It you had covered that so much and archetypal way pretty well when the next major one came about. It been somewhat fulfilling in terms of to whatever what certain upcoming cycles might bring. was younger because, you know, at this point I've on the larger both the archetypal meanings but late 70s. So, the Saturn-Pluto conjunction of the things that I kind of would have anticipated bear with, again, I spend a bit of time in Cosmos You brought up the AIDS epidemic as being one are older will remember that that was the period of where the nuclear that was called the Sword dangerous precariousness. And Ronald Reagan was was before Gorbachev. And so the last premiers were so many nuclear missiles placed in Europe and any little mistake could have triggered it, nuclear danger that mass demonstrations-- the all around the world at that time particularly But it was the Saturn-Pluto gravity of the danger the apocalyptic intensity comes in more from on &quot;what is the meaning of Apocalypse?&quot; Depth at conferences where they were examining extremely popular television film called what would happen the day after a it was very vivid bringing home to many people was a big book at that point by Jonathan Where he's bringing the attention to this nuclear let's see... Jonathan Schell wrote that. Then conjunction wrote the book on Hiroshima that had pleasure in seeing the cycle fulfilled happening were just so- Some things are avoidable. China could have acted in a different way. The acted in a different way. There were all sorts Or under the last Saturn-Pluto opposition, the of Afghanistan, the invasion of Iraq against in the US and around the world to that invasion. a lot of the consequences of those decisions Iraq and Afghanistan because this was such Vietnam Saturn-Pluto opposition in the mid So it's hard to take pleasure in how in perfect conformity to their meanings, but it's up in their shadow side that didn't have to be relationship to those archetypes. And this how we can take-- in this case we're talking talk about it in terms of Pluto just generally, or realms of the plutonic archetype and become in the world, and come into a more reflective and skillful way of enacting them. express themselves. But to an extraordinary inflect the direction or the quality to a higher life-enhancing range of the spectrum of planetary complex represents. And the Plutonic consciousness to come into relationship driven by it like puppets. It's such raw, of nature. It's coming from what Freud called the will to power. All of which are both healthy acted out unconsciously. And part of our psychological reflectiveness, a thoughtfulness, collaborative relationship with these powerful them or trying to suppress them. Either in terms of how that archetype will manifest. to go to extremes. Maybe that's part of the of and being careful is most important in All right, so let's let's segue into our opportunity to just check in and ask you how Let's start talking about Pluto. This is the the planets that I've been doing this year where dive into their significations and meaning. We've was discovered on February 18th 1930 by the Observatory, who was an astronomer who for Pluto a decade or two earlier. And so our solar system after Uranus and Neptune. One of planets has raised for me is how do astrologers Pluto is one that I struggled with the mythology of Pluto, after it was named point that astrologers started using to develop because it was named after the the Roman god planets like Uranus, there are these stories have almost a more empirical tone in terms of how first putting them in charts or looking at them I wasn't sure then if there's been a shift when Pluto are empirically derived versus derived from reasons I wanted to talk to you today because I work definitely takes that archetypal, oh sorry, into account so that it's not all just sort developing certain meanings of Pluto. and complex topic. I'm glad you're emphasise how we- Well, the the mythic names other celestial bodies are, I think, should account. We also need to look empirically and reliable with certainly the outer three planets first one by telescope as well. And then mentioned. One of the things about those three is he pointed out the synchronistic phenomena that those particular planets. So, you know, Uranus is of the periods of great revolutionary French Revolution both happened within a decade emancipatory enlightenment period. It's also when kings are being toppled and forces of activated. The first rebellion by for about 15 years or so on each side of that year phenomena happen that give us a clue astrologically. Because of course in the modern planets and all the other solar system bodies don't have an archetypal astrological Let's just take Uranus, Neptune, and Pluto. Uranus the father of Kronos Saturn who was the father Mercury, Venus, and Mars or Hermes Aphrodite and sequence. It's a patriarchal mythology provide us with those figures. motive in their mind for choice of the planet's astrological meaning in mind. Mercury, all known to the ancients, they're visible to early in the records of where there is, you know, earlier millennia are so undifferentiated. They're the movements of the stars and had a lot to do with the fact that they were whether it was they were the gods and goddesses the abode of the gods and as Plato's eponym is Platanus scholars attribute to Plato written each of those planets Kronos, Zeus, Aphrodite... the planet that is sacred to Kronos. So, right up being somehow related to or expressive of the gods astronomical mentality in the late 18th century they just are seeing while Uranus is the next Saturn, twice as far from the Earth as Saturn is, system, let's call it Ouranos who is the father the starry sky, which really fits the fact that developed. But as astrologers, we're focusing They were also just looking empirically. Let me just say in general terms. I think the they had some kind of intuitive, you know, believe in astrology to maybe come up with archetype that may prove out astrologically. as an astrological planet, has a lot to do with travel, with air travel, with the interest in and so forth. So there's something to be Neptune certainly to the water. Every astrologer of Neptune and its connection to rivers and oceanic feeling of the mystical and so forth, astrological archetype tend to be quite So it makes sense that they were onto something And Pluto, when it was named, a A number of names were being considered. You may the people in England who was on the committee And P L, the first two letters of Pluto, also set in motion the discovery of Pluto. So there way. You can see it in the astronomical cliff In addition, even the Disney cartoon figure of thoughts about it, but I think she CB: Yeah, what I was reading is that she did have mythology and that was part of what motivated her? Zeus and Poseidon and Hades were each Poseidon Neptune was given the realm Pluto was given the realm of the underworld, cetera. And so there was that as well. the ability to become invisible or to cloak said was that because Pluto is so distant and you even get a glimpse of with telescopes, thought that Pluto would be a good name for it. way in which even a non-astrologically aware up with a name. They went through several names Herschel, who discovered it, named it Georgium His friends didn't like that idea. [crosstalk] it called George, because like where the planet would be much more entertaining in some level. our other interview, but so many of the qualities have to do with, you know, rebelliousness originality and genius and creative All of these are not particularly characteristic characteristic of the myth of Prometheus. on the one hand, recognize and acknowledge that has become their main line of thought-- that the name that is given to a new celestial body sort of coincidence, just through that that in that will have some meaning. But then on the one some newer astrologers may not know that you wrote where you kind of argued that the mythology significations that astrologers give to Uranus than the myth of Ouranos does on its own? Arroyo made very briefly just a single sentence I think one or two other astrologers co mentioned that there's a Promethean I think it was Barbault. But it's been hard to I think what it allowed me to do was to start about a myth is going to tell us about that lots of details in a myth of a particular figure For example, Zeus can act in a very Saturnian the principle of order where he's restrictive, overthrowing his father Kronos. And who did Kronos in that battle. And of course, engaging in sexual conquests and so forth. So, or each of the mythic figures associated with the relevant to an unfolding of a particular manifestation that goes beyond what the pure obvious that this would be the case is, there's incredible culture. The Romans were an incredible shadow qualities as well. But what the Greeks and necessarily become the way of understanding all of nothing to do with Greek and Roman mythology, And presumably, the astrological meanings of culture just because they have a different Greco Roman tradition, they're very patriarchal overwhelmingly male and yet I think every planet including Venus and Mars, has ways of expressing themselves. Same thing with constructed mode of understanding Venus or the Moon just to a masculine there's so many signs right now in our society confining binary of male/female being the patriarchal hierarchy. And instead, I think kind of primordial transcending they're gods' goddesses, they're they're platonic archetypes, they're Jungian but they go across all the different cultures. archetypal principles that we can glimpse through Saturn, etc, each of those can be expressed the volcano goddess in Hawaii is pretty clearly In order to understand Neptune, you pretty much it through Greek mythology, you really have to go in terms of Maya, in terms of Leela, in terms of unity of all things that is so emphasized And there's trickster figures, that Uranian in so many different cultures. Same thing with the These are transcultural archetypes, they can be understood as cosmic principles in interior psychological drives and realities Hillmanian way, archetypal psychology. not just take the name of a planet assume that that exhausts the meaning of from an interaction between the name of the the qualities and features of that mythic being period that it's been discovered in and get that is dominant at that period, which we can look very very carefully at well, &quot;What on their Sun, or Pluto on their Moon, or Pluto on Sun or Moon or Venus or Mercury or whatever it about the expression of love?&quot; Let's say, with the Pluto Venus conjunction as we're and the Moon square Pluto as well so we've archetype there. All right up at the Midheaven. when we started with late Taurus rising Venus and Pluto in Capricorn. Today is actually But yeah, that was a pretty good chart we picked. RT: Yeah, and just after Saturn has just it's been closer like 5/10 now and just past Even Mars and Pluto are in a tight semi-square the so-called minor aspects. As Rob Han not a minor aspect? When it's really major indeed. So, should we talk a zeitgeist and what's going on at that period? mythology thing as a new interpretive principle also complicated by the debates about astrologers to assign it to because by then there'd started to as a new ruler of Aquarius instead of Saturn, and then Neptune to the zodiacal sign of So there started to be debates about assigning it for that, and eventually those who assigned the majority. And the tendency to conflate signs and houses that increased and became more in drawing some significations from Scorpio in That's an additional complicating factor. But one to give it some historical context about how the I've looked at some historical sources, and one the Western and especially the English A Combination of Stellar Influences. Was that a RT: It was definitely one of them. You mean in charts and transits and world transits and CB: Yeah. I mean, it seems like Ebertin wrote who wrote Planets in Transit in 1976. And some kind of seminal in terms of influencing in in the 60s and 70s. So I thought about maybe and then going to your book. I think Dane Rudhyar was extremely influential was quite remarkable, you know, the German certain dimensions of Pluto, for sure, and in. I mean, living through Nazi Germany, World War well, but in his mature years, World War Two. And bring Ebertin into, you know, he translated part And Rob Hand certainly was an admirer of Ebertin. intuitive grasp of many things, and one quality of death and rebirth, destruction collective level. He wasn't in tune with it in I'd love to see more-- if there's any interested in knowing if there's literature or indication for where he started getting his first a lot had to do with his grasp of the periods which I can talk about in a couple minutes, but CB: Sure. So here's the excerpt from just So he's writing in 1940's Germany, so that He says, &quot;The principle of Pluto is force powers. Psychological correspondences, positive the manifestation of unconscious powers, influence the masses, propagandist aspirations and psychological correspondences are ruthless use a fanatical zeal to state one's own doctrinal Biological correspondence he gives is the sociological correspondences, persons influence over the masses such as propagandist So it's like we can recognize some of the And there's also some in there that are hear repeated as much in contemporary sources. he's got the force majeure, which has to do an earthquake, that's force majeure. It's large urge to have power, including through influence, leading them in a particular direction through And he's got a sense of the mass quality too. that's why during the periods when Pluto's things tend to happen on a more mass large demonstrations and riots and so forth. Ebertin generally has a tendency towards... He he has a tendency to at times to single out the this is where I think some of the great over the last half century, particularly a willingness to enter into that plutonic going through kind of whether it's ceremony, LSD therapy, holotropic these where there's a capacity to become a come into a more conscious relationship to driving us from the depths without any agency on informing our expression of it. I think becoming friends with Pluto, so to speak. our inner work as astrologers, because if we &quot;Pluto, oh no, too bad you got a Pluto transit or come to terms with that archetype in yourself pass on a negative view to your client wounding unnecessarily. So I think it's relationship to Pluto perhaps in particular. back around to the emergence of psychology thing that happened and became more prominent, jump forward historically a few decades to 1976 where he went through and provided delineations of a major and novel thing at the time. And since it's become one of those books that I think every astrologer's short list. So as a Pluto was really important or the way he transiting Pluto, the nature of Pluto is similar destroyer. Pluto usually begins by breaking down a This entire cycle of death, destruction, and Pluto is not a mild or even very subtle planetary clearly ranging from machines breaking down and Decay at one level or another followed by new life Characteristically, Plutonian people are those everything around them. Often a Pluto transit will your life either for good or for evil or it can same effect. Pluto also rules those energies It rules the death and regeneration of the are replaced by new ones that could Pluto does not signify death in the literal something that ceases to be.&quot; And it actually worth reading the full passage. So he goes on Pluto is transiting become a source of change and in serious power struggles with other people and that planet. As Pluto transits your houses, due for radical transformation in the area ruled that have built up to the point that it is no It is time for a full scale reconstruction the old change-resistant patterns. It's extremely Plutonian change, which is built into the very And you should not try to prevent it because All that you will do is force the energies then the inevitable changes will come about with the Plutonian energy of destruction you should also assist in the rebuilding process consequence of the Plutonian breakdown.&quot; And entirely understood, Pluto also has to do with revolutionary groups, organized crime, and elements into your life, although it's often quite So that's kind of his introduction to this and delineates specific transits of Pluto to But there, I think we can see sort of the the modern take of Pluto for the most part, right? Shiva, for example, the destroyer and creator, he masculine and feminine. Kali is the great goddess mythic or goddess figure that expresses Pluto. when Rob came out in 1976 with Planets in he did have before him Frances full delineations of all the planets and their books. Actually, they used to be in booklets, transits of Neptune, transits of Pluto, And then later those were combined into a And then of course they had the Astrologer's they were both in New England, but she was And then he's got Ebertin behind him. He's characterization in what he's setting out the early Marc Edmund Jones from the 1930s and I think, was the one who most was tuning in the same way that the 18th brought this great period of revolution technological advances and so forth, industrial Neptune coincided with many romanticism, Asian mystical traditions into the west, also industrial, like pharmaceuticals and overall, the great focus in the mid 19th century cruelty to animals, the Geneva war conventions, many forms of the child labor such a more empathic, socially compassionate deep Neptunian phenomena that were coming in at if you look at the... That's the midpoint of the that encompass World War I and World War II. So you've basically got both world wars, you've got think I wrote up in Cosmos and Psyche a little... go ahead and do the honors of reading it. that period that we're talking about. Pluto's the unleashing of nuclear power, the modern industrial civilization and military force, Remember I talked about that kind of mob energy rallies that the Nazis held, just massive. That's there too, Mars, Saturn, etc. But the plutonic of evolutionary theory and psychoanalysis at depth quality, what's below the surface of Plutonic, which is also the underworld, he says it's not quite understood why this has like that, but Pluto's the underworld. So it's the the urban underworld, the psychological But getting back to my description from Cosmos and social mores in the arts. So the plutonic survival instincts, it's reproductive instincts, activity and public awareness of the criminal criminal, the gangster movies that became very of instinctually-driven mass violence evident in the world wars, the Holocaust, and ecological devastation. And here if that it's a 20th century phenomenon surrounding the intensified politicization and power the development of powerful forms of depth the scientific recognition of the entire cosmos as fireball to the still evolving present. So in many in just a couple years before Pluto's discovered Harlow Shapley and Hubble, and they're recognizing galaxies and is evolving. It's a whole different Newtonian universe that scientific revolution I think I may have also... So those are the picking up on, and then they get played out. they're starting to differentiate Pluto with the different planets, Pluto with different advances in our understanding of Pluto. and we'll circle back to some of the things but I just wanted to provide some context Your next passage, which is when you summarized basically the significations of Pluto very do you feel like reading this passage? principle of elemental power, depth, and and intensifies whatever it touches sometimes It's associated with the primordial instincts, and regenerative, volcanic and cathartic, with the biological processes of birth, sex, Let me just take a bracket here. We think of things, while Pluto is death and rebirth. It's got sex, and death and rebirth, it's the whole big back to the description here from Cosmos and decay and fertilization, violent purgatorial This is what Stan Grof calls pyrocatharsis, that you go through pyrocatharsis, where there's a that releases the repressed energies from one puts you in touch with the life force and is power struggles, all that is titanic, potent and underground in all senses, elemental, political, social, sexual, urban, criminal, taboo and often terrifying reality that lurks societal conventions, and the veneer of that is periodically unleashed with destructive burns, consumes, transfigures, resurrects. In with all myths of dissent and transformation and death and rebirth. Dionysus, Medusa, Lilith, Inanna, Isis and [unintelligible], the serpent power, I think, it was quite helpful when Rob Hand and in doing so, it helps us recognize that these also feminine, not just masculine that certain elements of the Pluto archetype that is the goddess. If you have birth, you have a makes birth possible. And that also involves process as any mother who has given birth could take over the body to bring forth the infant you one thing about Rob. I invited Rob to come to Planets in Transit came out, cuz I was director of saw Rob's book come out, up until that point, we'd work. And so Rob along with Liz Greene and with their works, but Rob's systematic work was time he wrote that book, he told me he was almost like channeling. He could hardly remember transiting his Sun, Venus, Mercury conjunction. which in his case opposes both his Uranus and born 1942, opposite Sun and Mercury and CB: Yeah, here's his chart. So he has and Venus at 17 Sagittarius, and in the mid right through all of those points in Sagittarius. When he came to Esalen, had him come in a number there in the living room in a kind of Buddha pose. were on cushions in those days. There were And it was in the big house living room, and talking about what each of the planets meant, etc. But I remember he was particularly... Because the death, rebirth process, LSD therapy, and at Esalen, he called us the Jupiter-Pluto quite memorably described the process kind moving in his discussion of when he would Sun and Moon moving out through Mercury's in the psychological development of the focused on. And then when he got it's also the ego structure that we kind and he said, &quot;But then when you get to the that challenges the ego structure and the reality was Uranus breaks that, it comes in and kind of so to speak. And then Neptune dissolves it, and memorably put it describing people who've gone Stan Grof has a great description of it in when the plutonic energy fully comes in pyrocatharsis and the fiery energies, the and the sexual, the orgiastic, the aggressive, scatological, etc. It's a real journey through the last stages involve a kind of annihilation. He said, &quot;First Kali comes in and requires in all her power and terrifying quality.&quot; &quot;And then Shiva comes in and just completely what's left.&quot; And he said, &quot;Then at that the incredible grandeur of the cosmic pantheon and kind of the golden light of spiritual healing go on and on from there.&quot; When I had an experience deeply came in through that kind of golden of my head and many other insights, biographical, of how suddenly how the planetary archetypes, themselves in our lives, the power of transits, birth and as well as facing death, all those So this deep inner journeying that so many breaking out of the constricted worldview in materialistic universe with astrology as the gold And instead, suddenly realizing that you live in aesthetic majesty, and that we're participating And Pluto plays a big role in that. solely seen as this terrifying will to power or to really grasp it's transformational and principle. It's almost like the principle of teachers, wise elders, therapists, navigate that guide, navigate in a guiding way like Jung, for example, has a lot of wisdom on had Gandalf playing that role for Frodo, wished that he hadn't been born to deal my daughter, Becca, who's a Tolkein scholar that beautiful passage where when Frodo says, Gandalf says, I'm paraphrasing, Gandalf says, it's what we do with when we find ourselves in it's what we do to in this circumstance that a soul, that's where we become an identity. This in your own soul, even at the very moment that identity being devastated. That's part of the anyway, we have guides, we have elders that extremely powerful energies which probably ever, because we both have the rise of massive power struggles in the world in quite when Pluto was discovered in the thirties. because that's something I've been the United States experiencing its first exact certainly, it's been pretty close to that for the later stages of Capricorn. But one out to me when we think of that principle the that when a new planetary body is discovered, that time that are defining world events will give And discovering Pluto in 1930 and just what one of the things that always jumps out is the been building up for a little while up to that but also how that kind of got exported to started being imitated in different countries. point or what that means to people a little bit, in passing like an obvious thing, but it's really that that becomes really a striking point. CB: Just in the sense of how do you define of fascism in the 1930s in its relationship RT: Right. Yeah, that activation people identifying with a collective suppressing fuhrer, the strong man, the dictator, the psycho historian Lloyd deMause and Stan dictator, tyrant, who's leading Underneath they're a small person in certain And he said really what makes them so powerful is [ed], and the term that both Lloyd deMause and of the collective psyche, of the shadow that has just went through a four-year period really as if the soul of America like Persephone and we suddenly found ourselves in a kind of a and often criminal will to power was at work. And almost represented the shadow version of the be to be male or shadow version of wealth or the United States birth chart at that point was being and then now Pluto's returning now and has been, is a big, long transit. It doesn't just activate enormous 248-year cycle. And even as it gets to much as a Saturn return does in a personal chart. Saturn return doesn't just from 28 to 30, you can pretty much depend from three years are going to be pretty characteristic approached here. You can see how tight it is prior to that, back five years ago, Pluto was Sun energy when you are a very powerful will kind of massively influence the, in chart we're looking at that, where Pluto's came down the escalator and started his ascent which suggests... I mean, this isn't just phenomenon. Just think about the degree to which really been entering into the underworld of its we've been and not owning it, not recognizing since the beginning, the great expansion of the at it from the other side of the people that were American experiment for African Americans, blacks lynchings and disenfranchisement and not allowed to live in many neighborhoods and is having to be faced at many different levels. of a spiritual growth and of a psychological right now. But part of a Pluto return of going through a destruction, going through a [unintelligible], of the refuse, the suppressed look at. It has to be brought to the surface and before it can be released. That's why this time as of a rebirth the United States, which has a deeply, deeply believed in an American ideal that before him and on Frederick Douglass and so These are potentials within the American brave going through this plutonic crucible underworld of transformation. take place. You have to go through the risk everything, you have to experience revivified through the mysterious grace of the I think, quite accurately that Pluto, Hades, Pluto, and Hades were three Heraclides said this, the great Greek And this points out how life and death, because Dionysus is so much the god of life, even And Pluto, Hades, the god of the underworld and deeply tied to the giving of life, even And these are in turn conveyed so powerfully principle in Kali, in Shiva, in the Kundalini I think we have resources, the question is ritual means that are available to vision quests and so forth. So many people but we need to have the collective, wake up to Pluto return that the US is going through and been going through, generally world transits, now we're just starting to move into the trine quite promising. There's a real possibility, plutonic energy, that we will be obliged as dying in order to realize ourselves. Goethe die and become, you'll be a stranger on this dark been a stranger on this dark earth. It has as if that was something to conquer and control, And in doing so, it's like it's suppressed to the birthday party as it were, and with a vengeance which we're experiencing expressions of it, the return of the repressed. beauty and power of the earth community realizing that our species and our civilization participating in, the only way we'll wake up through dying and then becoming then actualizing and not a random mechanistic, materialistic, great intelligence and great spiritual the mystery of Pluto, whether it's in birth charts what we're talking about as well, the Pluto a crucial role in world history. At this point, as an important one by people around the world, morally and so forth. I think this is asking us to be aware of to be able to live a more life of the earth and the cosmos. main core significations of Pluto that dredging up of the darker parts of one's to confront and recognize them and deal with collectively in the instance that you're talking one of the interesting things about the emergence might be very much relevant to Pluto as well. whenever you have a depth dimension, deep is a they move towards the heights, even Neptune with has that impulse towards the above, up and out into depth, and depth psychology was born in the in many ways the key figure. He's born with a sense for Pluto in eloquent, philosophical Zarathustra, and one really can get the sense and some of his key phrases were... Yeah, see that CB: For the audio listeners, his Sun is 57 Aries. It's a very close opposition. later in Cosmos and Psyche, where I kind of go that Sun-Pluto. And so much of his key ideas like that's one. Or he has another one, &quot;What lived dangerously? Build your homes on the side of Live at war with yourselves and with your equals, is the secret of living a fruit life.&quot; You can at war with yourself too, he was into transcending redemptive power. He has another passage, &quot;Behold, and again,&quot; he was saying, &quot;Nature told me must overcome itself again and again.&quot; Or he &quot;One must have chaos inside oneself Well, the star is the Sun, that's our star, central principle of self-hood. And it's the hero an immature form of just being the John Wayne hero that goes through the descent, that becomes a true heroism. And so when he says one must inside oneself, the Sun, in order to give birth Another one of his phrases, become what thou ways in which he was carrying that Pluto-Sun, that guide or precursor of the whole depth psychology by Jung, by Melanie Klein, by Marie-Louise von James Hillman. I think Stan Grof's work becomes an Jungian, the spiritual, the instinctual, and it LSD and the sacred vision plants, psilocybin, depth psychology, Jung once said, &quot;We have not of the unconscious is a critical spiritual preserve our civilization.&quot; I would say in order which I'm sure he meant too. The discovery of Moon-Pluto conjunction near the base of his chart. the IC at 29 Taurus and Pluto is at 23 Taurus squaring Saturn which is at 24 Aquarius. square Uranus as well. So he has The Moon is so potent all three outer planets are the tight conjunction to Pluto the Moon is right in between Neptune and Pluto in carrying those intensified Neptunian energies of his understanding of the anima and why our of come into re-engagement with what he called the both masculine and feminine qualities. But his aspecting his Moon. And so he has a great &quot;The apprentice piece of psychological development is the encounter with the anima.&quot; Now he's because our civilization has been so to the collective psychology and the great gift for our civilization, if it's willing to do this the shadow, the things that we don't want to see, of modern civilization, of all the things we've the effect on other species, the patriarchal, suffering has been caused by what is also a We contain both. And if we can first face the integrate that, he said, then we which is to come into relationship to which is the soul of life, which is the anima soul of the world. This is what's been repressed. powerful paper called Anima Mundi: It's in a book called The Thought of the suppression of idea that the whole that suppression has allowed a kind of destructive whereby it tried to basically objectify the other species and even other human beings, very, Because of that view of an objectified and particularly a certain type of subject namely in a sense have that identity overcome, destroyed living universe that is imbued with profound, And we're going through a kind of plutonic us both the opportunity but also the necessity at stake now in a way that wasn't as visible Pluto as Shiva in Planets in Transit. It wasn't and it's probably going to get more visible. And I in the world who are waking up to the nature gifts that depth psychology, indigenous social and ecological justice movements for us in terms of a potential radical on board for this great kind of heroic be a more dramatic period than we are in. pulled up... You were talking about Jung's chart and it made me want to pull up Freud's It's a little wide but a Sun-Pluto conjunction RT: Yeah, Venus-Pluto with his focus on the... and his whole focus is on the pleasure sexual energy as he became a kind of... He had Jung's work and Grof's work is that they expanded sexual but it's more than the sexual. It's the there's a sacred dimension to it. But yeah, in many ways. He's basically born with Jung's born with the Sun tight square to Neptune CB: It's interesting seeing their Sun, Moon would've remarked on that. And I can't help where he was comparing Sun, Moon, people in must have been in the back of his mind somewhere. didn't work with Pluto at all for example, but the planets out through Saturn and But in many ways, Freud looked at Jung as being how Freud described Jung with his Sun. So Freud's Sun-Uranus conjunction. Let's see. Freud's got the Moon which is square Uranus. So they each have Freud focused on the heroic conquistador the Sun Uranus of Freud's in the outer chart, so he's got that... His followers tended to be liberation of the anima and the integration of to become whole and not suppressing it the way the Mother Goddess and Sophia and the Virgin Mary, etc, while Freud was focused much more on solar God the Father and his Moses and monotheism, etc. hero from the clutches the power of the Plutonic side of life as the way to get in contact with purposes. And what's interesting is it's right and Freud's Sun-Moon conjunction, it's during that CB: That they had a falling out. Coz with that One of the things with Pluto is its tendency to go treating Jung like the golden child that would one of the typical things of Plutonic synastry but when it goes negative, it can go the opposite very painful falling out. CB: So it was 1910-1911 when RT: Yes. It went through a series of stages. Even quite decisive. I write about it in Prometheus in the late 70s. Yeah, in fact, then there's a the Jung's transits, just unbelievable transits he the descent into his unconscious that brought work is that basically Neptune as you can see and Yeah, you can see Neptune right on his Sun there 1914 you can see Uranus. Go back to 1913 actually And then as the years go by, Uranus squares is a period when he just went through that flooded into his visions and his dreams centered sanity and identity, it was so the prime matter of his whole life's work. because there's a bunch of points we wanted to get through in the rest of this so we'll Something an astrologer friend of mine said that interpretive principle for Pluto and I think is saying the astrologer Alan White who passed away Hindsight. But something he always said was that And I think this is connected with this thing things too extreme or pushing them beyond their Pluto. What do you think about that? things. It intensifies them. It gives back after the first three outer planets were that Uranus was the upper octave of Mercury Venus, like universal divine love compared Uranus is the cosmic mind, just Mercury's relativity theory or something like Pluto is the higher octave of Mars, or one might is like a fistfight, Pluto's like an earthquake. or even just a war that's Plutonic. So, it that it is coming into relationship to. to that because you can see how that would make a but are the technological empowerment super muscled. But the making the larger and I have a feeling what he's getting at is the ego death part of it, the death. Anything that's so, it serves as a compensatory principle. It where you are in the journey. examples of the first part that he always used bomb where you're taking something extremely then causing this huge explosion. There had been like Mars principle of dynamite or TNT or far beyond anything anybody had previously RT: And did he say anything about what he meant CB: I'm trying to remember about one of his technology kept miniaturizing things like decade suddenly becomes fitting in your mobile Yeah, I think that was part of it. In terms of in doing research for this episode, the element Pluto in 1941 following a convention where named after planets when they were in terms of the significations of Pluto, even the wartime secrecy prevented them from discovery until 1948 several years later. with the connection between those CB: Yeah, but just, I don't know, in practical being dropped in World War II ended up interesting things there. And just going back we mentioned the intensification of anything that so sometimes that when combined with other So for example, combined with Venus and taking to their utmost extreme, which on the one hand, utmost extreme for love or what have you a negative side of that of going too far or being when it becomes inappropriate or what have you. One of the ways in my courses at CIIS, California for this last better part of three decades, I've Art and Culture, where I will use works of the nature of a particular archetype or planets by having the students we all listen to a with the Venus-Pluto that we're just talking I would play something like Janis Joplin who's Mercury in her case all opposite Pluto but that another little piece of my heart even though it's just say take another little piece of my heart. Mercury at 9 Aquarius opposite Pluto at 6 Leo? there brings in the communication of it with can intensify the voice as well as the mind say John Lennon with his scream, he could scream and Shout or something like that and he would make his voice so ragged at the end of the song Mother in his first solo T-square. You see the Moon opposite is at 8 Scorpio in a T-square with Pluto and the talking about whether it's betrayal or the his mother, you had me but I never had you. And the Mercury coming in to express the intensity her singing. Before Janis Joplin's singing Ball and Chain, she was bringing voice that it could sound just like an animal Ball and Chain and that's the Mercury coming in. where she, sometimes it can be as you put it relationship like even though you aren't good for you or I don't want you to leave me even though me agony. Even though you're out on the street want to be... It's passionate love but it can I often use the arts if I was going to then I would bring in someone like Joni Mitchell angelic, the more lyrical quality of her singing Venus-Neptune compared with Venus-Pluto. It's And the beauty of using the arts, whether it's can feel the archetype because these archetypes and then apply in a mentalistic way. Words are really crucial for getting us to the meaning. But by artistic experience because music taps in very language, music is part of the evolutionary CB: Right. Some of my other examples I was looking famously, both in terms of artistic style as RT: A perfect example. I often use Frida Kahlo The colors are just coming right out with great crucifixion, bloodiness, real personal agony doesn't she? I love that chart. And she has a very close conjunction of RT: Square to Saturn so it was... Yeah, she had all that Sun, Jupiter, Neptune, the different men in her life like Diego Rivera assign the film Frida that was quite well done, it CB: Yeah. And then another example is Alan Turing playing a major role in the war effort and helping he was a codebreaker basically. Despite that, he sexual orientation and ended up either dying or to receive chemical castration for that. is hidden or needs to be hidden or is taboo in and Venus-Pluto often can indicate that that cannot be revealed lest one although Saturn has a lot to do with shame, have a relationship to the shadow side of our we don't want to admit to polite society or that puritanical conventions of one's particular you. And there's often wounding around CB: Yeah, that makes sense in the cultural given time in a certain point in time in society that are hidden or suppressed or underground in this case, relationships or what have you. CB: Let's see one other example. Maurizio Gucci fashion empire had a Venus-Pluto conjunction 1980s, but he ended up leaving his wife up having him murdered afterwards as a result that just came out or is about to come Gaga is playing his ex-wife who had him murdered. see Venus-Pluto sometimes Venus-Jupiter-Pluto and where there's a lot of wealth, focused on high fashion, on cosmetics, But those other qualities of the Venus-Pluto, those can be themes as well. Yeah. I've seen mixed with Jupiter where there are people who fashion where there's often a lot of manipulation, a lot of power struggle within families, erotic involvements and things like that. plays seem to be major Pluto themes. particularly has to do with wealth and success relationship that the Greeks recognized. There are the O was long O omega and then that was the Plutus where the O is short O. That's the omicron. that's the short O in Greek while the long O is Like, a micro O is omicron and omega is the mega O the one who was the lord of the underworld originally involving the God of wealth, but wealth where the minerals were and so forth or there became a conflation of the two that mythic lineage. So our word plutocracy ruled by wealthy plutocracy. You combine them there. but two of my favorite charts for time some of Bill Gates who has a Jupiter-Pluto conjunction in and his extreme wealth, because there's a normal have you, but then sometimes there's the wealth richest person in the world at one point in time. a lot in very wealthy charts. So J.P Morgan J. CB: I have one more. My other has a Jupiter-Pluto conjunction in the 8th house. Now, all people who have going to be super wealthy figures as Stan Grof and I used to laugh at both of us case and in my case, the opposition. RT: Oh no, not at all. RT: And while we both have the Jupiter-Pluto in totally different ways, which I won't spell particularly our leading characteristic. of knowledge. I don't know what your stance falling in the 2nd house 8th house axis it's falling in the 3rd house 9th house axis. and Pluto in the 3rd for me. Yeah. When I write history of Western thought, Cosmos and Psyche and Again, Pluto intensifies whatever it touches. to take in all the cultures of the world or you see it with people who are involved in or Kissinger shadow version of it. So yeah, Pluto has a passionate drive towards whatever in terms of that drive towards passionate love With a Pluto-Jupiter, it can be not just a towards excellence, for example, striving But there's different ways of defining success. even suicidal depression at certain points in his his birth chart. He lost his mother when he So there's Lincoln with that Saturn-Neptune But look at that Jupiter-Pluto conjunction the Gettysburg Address. If you're just to speeches that have ever been given that's his Mercury-Pluto-Jupiter, you you would think of the Second Inaugural Address, most suicidal space, he said, "I'm going to try and that will make my life worthwhile and just do something significant." And that's what Jupiter-Pluto likes to succeed in politics and And you see it with people who have leadership Zeus there at the top. But Pluto drives that And so, the fact that George Washington, perhaps the three presidents that just had the nation's history, they all had Jupiter-Pluto real leadership potential as well. A lot Jupiter-Pluto, Richard Burton or Paul Newman or in his case, he's got the Sun squaring Saturn and very tight square Saturn that was the at the same time having to hide his love and/or But with that Sun square Saturn-Neptune, he had to and dealing with fear and anxiety and so that's fear itself in his inaugural address that became the fact that he stared it in the face, that anxiety that was overcoming the entire Zeitgeist But with that Jupiter in there, the Sun square the a better world, more empathic, compassionate, but then there's that Jupiter-Pluto which it's 11deg it's quite clear to me that we need to how the planetary archetypes interact with each light switches. They're aspects that just away. They're archetypal waveforms as it's coming If you look at the full Moon when the Sun for right up to about 15deg on each you're in a full Moon part of the cycle and the Empirically, I didn't start off with the it was empirically just looking, you look at that Rob Hand and I have talked about it, and it's it all the way from about 1960 to about 1972. familiar to us was in evidence in the civil in the ecology movement, in the youth African Independence Movements and so exact and going into the early '70s, those recognize that when we talk about the '60s, we're energy had flushed into the system so potently stop when the aspect is moved past So anyway, that's also true with natal charts. Explorer for the way that they visualize some form like this illustration of the Saturn-Pluto 2020, but still stayed in effect and came back into a range but it's like a range of influence up to 15deg or 10deg in the other hard aspects. He was a student of mine in the Philosophy and I would sometimes draw those waveforms in transits so that they could see the way it is The first person who started implying that Anyway, he was the first one. He The Cosmic View was his original thing and then and he worked out the program that started has employed it in a more comprehensive way. year in order to visualize some of these outer in which they're in effect and also going back pandemic in the earlier part of the 20th the Jupiter Pluto conjunction which went exact in 1919 that second that ended up coinciding of the pandemic when the most deaths took place there were some interesting things in 2020 when to some of the Jupiter-Pluto alignments that the number of COVID cases would skyrocket and other things like that. It's been interesting to visualize some of these things. the Jupiter-Pluto was in a triple conjunction so you're getting Jupiter, Saturn and Early in the pandemic, I did a talk Right Now because that was the question a public programs. It was just called What's use those graphs to show how and unpack more Saturn, and the Pluto. In fact, there was a period pandemic was just really launching CB: Yeah, that pile-up of a lot of planets in That was really the lineup. And that was the a lot of credit last year for the work you in archetypal terms broadly pointed to that as different reasons. But then Barbault had actually that time range as a potential for a major focused on that question of when have pandemics alignments might indicate that in the future. you get a clustering of several planets within That wasn't the only thing he paid attention in the development of mundane astrology. And he became the leading mundane astrologer in the possibly one other person coauthored a book on not remembering the third author, leading figure in that. Andre Barbault, there's very interesting letters exchanged between how Jung was finding astrology's value. about this last year. I did an episode that more about that in both your statements as titled Misconceptions About Mundane Astrology in by The New York Times in May of will Coronavirus completely missed by the astrologers. And our and you had done a pretty good job through upcoming one as a difficult one. So going back to- but I don't go to it for astrological astrological discipline. It's not its cup of tea. digression because it's been actually coming seeing some of the younger generation of in the past few years or the past decade. It's in a way that I don't think we've But there's been weirdly also a drop off it seems And I remember in even the 2000s, the skeptic leadership and was much more antagonistic against fallen by the wayside a little bit over the past that statement about how astrology is regarded RT: Or superstition generally. If you want to say something is really not worth compare it to astrology if you're well educated. you deal with practicing a subject that is viewed scientists? How does one deal with the place that How do you deal with skeptics in particular? who is skeptical? And what does it actually really with an intellectual argument or demonstration? experience of astrology that is impressive? CB: Yeah, sorry. This is like RT: Yeah, it would be. Well, just I've argued and I believe this is the case those of us who are in touch with what a gift it is. It gives insight whether looking at history, whether you're looking at virtually any field, astrology provides the nature of the importance of the nature of philosophical mysteries like nominalism is such a gift, it's such a privilege, such a initiated into it have been bestowed. It would The person who knows astrology well has an insight vision, a vision into the interior dynamics the average person, even the brilliant scientist to them. And that can lend itself to a hubris, elite, and having the social reality despised, not just relegated to second opposed and in quite intensely shaming ways. In the potential inflation that can come with this that's helpful to keep in mind. It keeps us And then the second thing, I think I don't think there's been a dwindling among the Dawkins of the world are still around, but they're ready to take their place. But I think there the generation born under the big long and the '90s. They don't have the same what isn't such a rigid boundary between what's of a sense that this is... There's a the imagination and reality and that we are there's a requirement for a rigorous imagination. an undisciplined one. But even the most skeptical is seeing things through his or her imagination It's only letting certain things through. tremendous value in going through experiences barrier and open oneself up to the possibility universe and is not just a function of as they're called, but rather is say that we are that our conscious intelligence is the cosmos that we are cosmic expressions of the whole. It's the universe has left quite valuable clues to able to read symbolically the movements of the I think you're getting at the importance of just a kind of undisciplined credulity where That's why I am always encouraging serious There's ethics of being a good astrologer like two seemingly big correlations that you've noticed house means or that's what a Chiron midpoint One should be able to give a dozen can assess from the public record, famous significant cultural milestones and then you just ascribe something to your new favorite account the factors that have been most supported come to a consensus about. there's pretty much a universal consensus the outer three planets Uranus, Neptune, planets all through Saturn, there's pretty And you can see these meanings played out you're looking at personal transits or personal and relationships between individual chart or mundane astrology and the collective cycles. If new planetary body or celestial body or if we're means in that chart, we need to be able to back This is where the mainstream modern educational go through college and graduate school and of critical thinking and of bringing in evidence And so, when one is writing a Ph.D. in order to pass and enter into the virtues and disciplines to cultivate as rather a little looser in doing so. I mean, a lot earlier generations. But if we're going to make deep thinking morally and intellectually use critical thinking and solid empirical evidence the principles and the convictions that we are the way in which we can incorporate the skeptical simplest, most compelling explanation for arcane possible explanation. Well, we have a disciplined imagination and a capacity for traditions that are in the astrological world, people. So I think it's that balance that we need. been very much directed towards making to non-astrologers in Cosmos and Psyche, to what attempt to do that and make the case for astrology versus sometimes there's been a tendency, it pull back and become more insular and say, if that's fine, that's up to them but to the extent was that it doesn't meet up to, let's say, the statistically and therefore fall short of what Will we ever be able to truly prove And do we need to continue trying to? Should something that should just stay more insular? I don't think everybody has the dharma particular role. Some people- ultimately the goal though? I think it was, but- CB: No, I was curious for you Cosmos and Psyche all along, the primary one? of the power of the astrological Cosmos and Psyche has barely scratched the surface But I just thought, "Okay, I'm just going to will help and give a philosophical and enter into the astrological perspective." And had only read my earlier book, The Passion of book but which is a history of Western thought. it still is as a history of Western philosophy But then they read Cosmos and Psyche, and astrology or had any reason to think astrology was by reading that in that sequence. And in some entree to an astrological world view. I used The people an understanding of the evolution of our and so forth that would help people make, the help people be prepared for when Cosmos and Psyche book and it turned into two rather large books. intention, but I think it's very valuable for insular mode for a while to protect something by skeptics. And I think that's what astrology did when some of the because of the Gauquelin research certain astrologers including John Addy in getting the sense that the statistical support for some scientists who had no appreciation were very compelled by the statistics and felt went against our basic beliefs, which it did and sceptics are human beings, and human beings that they would find challenging to their that belief system is deeply intertwined their careers what their whole way of defining determinative would be so threatening to so this is faulty evidence or it's faulty research is that much of the research wasn't the patterns, although they did recognize the basis. They recognized some patterns. But it just say, &quot;Okay, what's Gauquelin saying about readings were coming from the esoteric tradition coming from the statistical correlations which brute a tool, an instrument to get us to something CB: -was reductive? Now, let me just say that there seems to have in interest in a more sophisticated approach when Cosmos and Psyche came out, the Institute Dean Radin called me up and asked if I would &quot;Well, I'm convinced,&quot; and when I talked to him nuanced, sophisticated enough, subtle You have to be able to take in multiple variables archetypal multivalence, that is any given psychological ways, relational ways, but it also trivial forms but also in You can't tell just by looking at the become Hitler or Chaplin, you know, to give one there are forms of statistical analysis using what encompass something like archetypal multivalence. increase the sophistication of the statistical who is a physicist and he deeply studied with Stan astrology at times and given presentations to a number of statistical researchers that are doing paper that will summarise a lot of this that will copy when he's got one ready. Because even though too insufficient for registering the extraordinary kind of poetic in a disciplined way, but that kind to be astronomically mathematically rigorous, into the categories, but you have a good sense for discernment and you have to use self-critical Cosmos and Psyche. So, I think statistics equal the human mind and the full statistics are never going to register why work it is, it takes the whole human including the emotions and the imagination and the of Beethoven's music. Beethoven's music is you can see his birth chart and go, statistically, you're not any more than you're physical manifestation of the music and what duplicate what the human being can experience with to the music. But that's how the archetypes speak, mind, and not just to this quantitative form respects but very limited and others. thinking about lately about how much anyone something legitimate or worth looking into somebody who's truly skeptical about it in seeing their own transits line up how notable that correlation can be in living quote-unquote &quot;belief&quot; in astrology or But that's a whole whole thing. So, bring it. on that point that I think you do have to go that is how you know things and what you you have to go through a transformation at the Most people open up to astrology or/and to going through some kind of a transformation astrologer or a therapist when they're in tools that I have to live my life are not of my tools in order to get some insight to live That often requires some kind of a crisis, and is therefore probably more likely to open up also a wider range of fake news and the opening of what we and others have that involve the empathic imagination, the a narrow version of rationalist empiricism measurement of what is real, I think most past that. Yes, there's a good number of people But most sophisticated intellectuals, I Sources of the Self: The Making of the Modern got such an embrace of the modern intellectual need to transcend such a narrow reductionist of our worldview. It's a severely limited in a kind of prison, a kind of iron cage. Also, living in such an objectifying worldview social and ecological crisis of our time. you just mentioned, but maybe part of it is the senses are fundamentally flawed and untrustworthy the world around them. Whereas for astrologers crucial or paramount in terms of accurately symbolic importance of what's happening RT: Yeah, that's exactly right. And be trusted, that our direct subjective human transcend that with a mathematization of our you know, it comes out of John Bacon were all kind of moving in that called primary qualities and secondary Only primary qualities like mass, weight, things that could be measured, those were experience are just subjective realities what's happened is that there colonization by the reductive natural sciences, humanities in higher education. And there's a the natural sciences, and particularly methodological universe to encompass what the literature... They can't be subjected to what was There is a movement right now within higher the importance of the humanities, of a with the humanities, that includes philosophy, looking at psychology in terms of behaviorism, I'm imagining we've probably carried our audience this in segments rather than all in one sitting. chapters. Just to bring things back full circle. after the discovery of the dwarf planet Eris International Astronomical Union in 2006 that they created of dwarf planet. This astrologers of whether that had any significance or if astrologers should just keep on doing what Do you have any feelings or thoughts about that? the decision to demote Pluto was made by planetary scientists who were in general quite it and still quite feel that it was not the right made the decision, the particular committee committee was Owen Gingerich. He was my professor He's the world's expert on Copernicus He was the head of that committee and he dissent on the decision. And a lot of what had never been used before as a criterion is whether the planet can clear the neighbourhood gravitational power and mass to do that, and as put the Earth out in the Kuiper belt where Pluto one has to recognize that this decision is the last couple of weeks in a science journal temporary and very possibly erroneous But the main thing to recognize, and this era, is to recognize that these are These are names that we come up with. I Moon because with the Greeks, the word planet a wanderer. Which means that if you looked same relationship to each other as they like Mars and Mercury and Venus, but also the the ecliptic. They had different zodiacal signs and over the years, and so they were seen as mean something different than it did before. So make a difference in terms of anything astrological community that I'm familiar with in emerged out of CIS. Pluto is an extremely powerful archetype of power and it didn't get diminished It probably carries very little a dwarf planet It is smaller than the other new body that helped trigger the recategorization, as well as more massive, but it turns out has slightly more mass than Pluto, Pluto Because Eris and these other bodies that are cycles, you can't get the same data. So far we relative to the inner planets, relative the planets out through Pluto. But I think the celestial bodies and these other circumstellar and the Oort cloud, we're basically recognizing body or system. We're recognising that it's got galaxy, we're opening up to the larger galaxy just many galaxies that it's in larger clusters and recognising how we subjectively categorize things planet or dwarf planet, etc, or male and female, only way of understanding the richness of human certain assumptions that seemed to be absolute cosmic reality are, in fact, human constructs and We're also recognizing that just as we but we are in a permeable porous relationship relationship to each other, and in relationship the water, the microbes, and so forth, and system in a kind of permeable relationship I see these new discoveries and changes in naming postmodern crucible of underworld descent where certainties are being dissolved engagement with the whole of life, and the egoic bubble that has cut us off from CB: Yeah. In terms of the downgrading, it's been things small and small things big that when Pluto be about the size of Earth. But then throughout size and they realized it was smaller and smaller actual demotion of Pluto in 2006 by astronomers, Eris wrote a book later, ironically titled, But then eventually, the New Horizons space probe and that ended up doing a flyby of Pluto actual close-up photographs of it and scientific the past several years, giving us much more Interestingly, it turned out that Pluto than thought previously, because now they're as well as a large deal of water underneath it one of the more interesting planets in the elements that could support life on Mars, some there may yet still be, you know, a re-examining magnified again at some point in the future with actually witnessed close by for the first time. correlation between 2005 and 2006 because that mission were outraged when Pluto got there was quite a conflict between Mike Brown I have a nephew who is a planetary scientist and he told me, &quot;You know, among the actual they paid no attention to whether Pluto He said Mike Brown is kind of like an aggressive to upset that applecart. But he said, &quot;Among they're just doing the research and they kind ones in the scientific community who really of the change. I just don't actually give it a which whether you call it a dwarf planet or not, with just as much nobility and potential for high achievement and value a big human feature that I think determines significance. I shorthand response to that. It looks like it'll there could be many more planets fully called you know, what a particular community given moment. That's always in flux. that astronomers make are not always but it's just interesting symbolically some of of the things that are happening in terms of as well as just, you know, now Mike Brown is large planetary body somewhere out there not too distant future, and then we'll see coincide with that discovery if it happens. Mike Brown's team is doing great work. it's quite important. We don't know but clearly our understanding, I mean, what's Hubble and Shapley and Clyde Tombaugh From that, the recognition of the many galaxies, background radiation, then recognizing exoplanets likelihood of the Oort cloud, and understanding of the universe than we on right now getting back to Pluto and the Dane Rudhyar beautifully described that And for 18th century, 19th century, and 20th basically pushed us past the Saturnian boundaries bigger universe, a deeper one, and they were and so forth. The discovery of those three the fact that as those are being discovered and interior self explorations of whether it was and William James and Jung and Anthony Wolfe Groff and you get to recognize that these powerful death-rebirth experience and the reliving stages are all so closely connected to the four That the understanding of the inner meaning of meaning of the planet or the discovery and that this is happening right at the time that is going through a death-rebirth crucible of It's as if the Cosmos is giving us, you know, dark forest to home. It's like it's giving us mediate and navigate this tremendous culture and as an Earth community. I think it's a cares about the Earth and is paying attention correlations between the movements their birth chart in their and every time they look at where the planets are and see the correlation, that's a sign of the Like, we are a moving centre of cosmic in the larger scheme of things even though So to me, astrology provides for those who have up to it by life, by circumstances, by opening experience. Anybody who has that gift, that grace, embedded in a larger cosmos of love and of deep the goddess of the cosmos as beauty and love. a discerning partner who will love and glory CB: That's a brilliant point to end on, and just turning point and shortly after the discovery of and for the first time, the ability to wipe itself And also being on the verge of such an important the Earth and outside of its own solar system positive things, but it clearly being an important RT: Yes. Yeah. And Chris, you're a great that you take in preparing for an interview and to the technical and to the substantive parts of yourself to the astrological community month this very long afternoon conversation with you. to apologize-- forgive me for my own Sun-Pluto utmost extreme, and having what was supposed blowing it up into a four-hour one. But thank me for this today. Let's mention one more because that's really something that we'll go into and Pluto when it comes out in January. Right? I think the full launch date is CB: Okay. CB: There's a whole trailer on their RT: Yeah, and we can thank Kenny Ausubel much made in kind of collaboration between also Louie Schwartzberg. It was quite a in mind is that it's based on Cosmos and Psyche Uranus-Pluto square began. So everything that's given the patterns and the meanings that let's look at see when Uranus and Pluto next came published it-- how does it bear out in terms of in terms of the women's movement, in terms of breakthroughs and so forth. They've done a and I appreciate they would come to me fortunately, two of my students; Max DeArmon and making of the film and they were very dedicated Grof plays a role. Well, you'll see there's a lot of our time play a role in those 10 episodes. So I in February where each day one episode will be I think February 22nd is when it gets launched CB: Great, awesome. Well, people can check that the director, Kenny, very soon for an upcoming does a great job of giving much more insight into historical cycles. So people should check it out. joining me for this today, I really appreciate it. will listen to us. I hope we conversed CB: Definitely. All right. Thanks, everyone, of theastrologypodcast.com and Special thanks to all the patrons that supported through our page on patreon.com. In particular, including Thomas Miller, Catherine Conroy, Kristi Sumo Coppock, Issah Sabah, Jake Otero, If you like the work that I'm doing here on to support it then please consider becoming and in exchange you'll get access to bonus the ability to attend the live recording access to a private monthly auspicious elections exclusive episodes that are only available for the credits at the end of each episode. For more The main software we use here on the podcast Fire for Windows which is available at alabe.com, discount. For Mac users, we use a similar called Astro Gold for Mac OS which and you can use the promo code ASTROPODCAST15 If you'd like to learn more about the approach then you should check out my book titled and Fortune, where I traced the origins of Western that was developed about 2000 years ago. In this into intermediate and advanced techniques timing techniques. You can find more about The book pairs very well with my online course on Course, which has over 100 hours of video lectures read a birth chart, and showing hundreds of how the techniques work in practice. Find out more Also, special thanks to our sponsors including The at mountainastrologer.com, the Honeycomb available at honeycomb.co, and the Astro Gold and Android at astrogold.io. There are also two The first is the Northwest Astrological Conference Seattle, Washington. Find out more information at Society for Astrological Research conference, 2022 in Westminster, Colorado. You can find out