Hey everyone, Kevin here. Today I want to show you how you VLOOKUP is one of the most If there's a good function to know how to use, In fact, when I worked at Microsoft, this So what is VLOOKUP and what VLOOKUP stands for vertical look up and it allows So, let's take an example. Let's imagine to know the customer's name. So, you have a you can look up that ID and Or maybe you have two different tables of You can use VLOOKUP to join It's really versatile. Today we're going to start off by Then I want to show you a variation of up information in a horizontal list, and then I want to show you how you can use something and HLOOKUP. Now if all of this sounds a little don't worry. We're going to walk and if you want to follow along, I've also You can click on that and then you All right, well, why don't we jump Here I am in Microsoft Excel now and I've included a link to this workbook in the we're going to start all the way on the left-hand We're going to work our way through you are going to be an expert in looking up OK, so let's get started with a really simple VLOOKUP. Right here on this sheet, I Over on the left-hand side, I have the customer Then you see the customer name and then Now over here, I want to be able to type in a number 4. Once I type that in, I want to then I want to get the customer name back. And we're going to dive in in just a moment, how you use VLOOKUP, I want to take a moment to Over in the look up table you want to make sure that the value that So here I'm looking up the customer the customer ID right now is So, if you have to rearrange your data so the that before using VLOOKUP. Along with making sure you also want to make sure that your look This helps VLOOKUP make sure that So here you see that I have one at the top Also, if let's say you're you want to make sure it's in alphabetical So, let's say that it's not in ascending order. It's easy to change that. You can go up to the header of your and then you can go down to sort Also, alternatively, you can also go to the data So here I'll toggle it off and over here I can click on the filter and here Next, you also want to make sure that use to make a connection, so over here, I'm also has a customer ID, so when I look up Now I wouldn't want to look up, say, the address an address, so I wouldn't be able to match on Lastly, it also helps tremendously when you do and you don't necessarily have to make it a also help you avoid some errors. So, you might be Well, let's jump to this next Table, and I'll show you how you can make a table. So right now, this is organized in what looks like and it's really easy to turn this into a table. Right here, once I have all of the data selected, you can go up to insert up here on the top tabs, When I hover over you also see so I could also press that to make it a table. Let's try the shortcut key. I'll press CTRL + T, and here and so I've already selected it, and my table has headers, so I'll make sure to at that. I now have a table of information, Now let's go back to the previous sheet. about how you should structure your data before because this ensures that when we run the Next, I want to enter my VLOOKUP function, so over here, for this cell, where I want and then let's go up to the formula bar Let's click on that. This opens up a prompt where VLOOKUP, so right up here, type in VLOOKUP and so let's double click on that. This now opens function arguments and we're going to walk through So let me pull this down a little bit so we can First, I need to enter a look up value, and argument that I need to enter, and the customer ID number 4. So I'm going to click That's my lookup value. We're going Here I can verify that it's kooking up 4. Next it asks me to enter the table array, and over here, I want to so here I'll select the entire table and so one of a table, here it refers to that table. Now, once to turn your table array into a table first, Well, let's say maybe I added another customer. The table would automatically account for that. If instead I went through and, let's If, let's say I added another account for it and then maybe my So, it's a good practice to create a table. of creating a table, couldn't I just select One downside with that is, let's say Those might also be included as a best practice, create a table and then It tends to avoid errors in the long run. I've now selected my table and next there's another argument So right now, I'm looking for the value over in the first column and it says is there Now this next argument says well which So I've selected this table and it has three to send the name back and the name is the 2nd And last, there's something called into more detail on what that means, We want this to be an exact match. What I mean by that is when it finds customer ID finds the exact value for number 4, will it return ID 3.5 or 4.5 or customer ID 6. Well, there is I want this to be an exact false, and a little later, I'll show true for this. Now this all looks good and It looks like Wholesome Foods I'll click on OK and here I see Now because I have the VLOOKUP set up, So I can type in customer ID number 1 I could also type in customer ID number 5 and that'll show me the customer So pretty cool stuff. Now we have VLOOKUP working. With the V look up, let's say that maybe so let's say I enter number 6. Right When I press enter, I get this #N/A error Now, if you've done VLOOKUPs before, you'll start means that it looked up for that exact value, but once again it's not that To improve upon this, we can use If there's an error, we can show Right up here on the formula bar, sign and before the VLOOKUP So, I'll type that in and then let's there are two different arguments. One of them is So, the first one is if there is no error, what well, I just want to show the output of the But let's say there is an error. I'll enter in a comma here, and this I could just put in some quotes and maybe I just say "not found" just so I'll close the quotes and then Once I'm done entering that in, I'll hit enter and here now you can see that So, if I type in customer 5, well, we have a But here if I type in customer 6, now so that looks a little bit nicer. Next I In this example, we were looking for an exact And for that, let's go down to the different VLOOKUP closest match. On this next worksheet, I have cookie orders over here, so here I have an order ID and then I have a certain number and I want to offer some free cookies, So here for example, if you order 100 cookies, we'll throw in five for free, Or if you order 400 cookies, you get 20 free people to order cookies. Now I want to put in how but I don't want to have to go through, and say, hey look at how many cookies they ordered and And in fact, when you look at this, here's There is no 26 in this other table. This is where we can use closest match. Another good example is, taxes and you have different tax brackets. That's another instance where you Just like we did before, let's go over our VLOOKUP formula. Once again let's go This opens up insert function and right down I'll click on this one. Once again, we can Here I need to enter my look up value and I want if someone orders 26, well, how So here the lookup value is 26. Right down I'm looking it up against this table over Right down here, it says what index or So here I'll look up 26 and here it's going to finds out what bucket it falls in, then I want to And that's the second column, Now with range look up this time instead of doing and if I don't enter anything at all in this so I'll just leave it blank and then let's click I now know how many free cookies I should and so you might be wondering, well, So here, let's just take a look at 26 cookies and that falls between 0 and 100, so so it finds the closest value that's less than 100 is close, but it falls back to zero because With 101, it's greater than 100, but the closest value that's less than. And so here in this case, we include five cookies. So there you can get a feel for how it works, so it's between 3 and 400. It's closer so it falls back to 300 and then we've included to get a feel for how VLOOKUP works and the great don't have to be on the same sheet. In fact, Let's jump over to the next sheet called VLOOKUP Except with this example, I don't have Instead, the other table is on this second sheet, so let's see how we could run the Here again, I'll click into this cell. This opens up the insert Right here the lookup value, once again, Next I need to type in the table array, so to this next sheet and this is the table I and here just like we did previously, And here with the range look up, I'll leave Next, let's click on OK. And look at that, the VLOOKUP works just like before, except this time Next, let's go down and let's click into HLOOKUP far, we've been doing vertical look ups. But what if you're looking up against We can use something called HLOOKUP and but we're using it against horizontal data, so and right up here, let's select this cell and click on the FX. This once again and this time let's Type in HLOOKUP, Hopefully by now this prompt is First off, we need to select the lookup value, and once again, I'm looking up Right down below, this is now my table I want to see how many they ordered and then So here I'll select table array Now the key difference here is instead of a vertical table, and that's fine. It works just the same, except we need And over here it says the row index number, So, in this table over here, we So here I'll type in a two. Also, here for We're going to do a closest match again and then if a customer ordered 26 cookies, well for so we give free, we give 0 free cookies back. One #N/A for all these other values, so I Let's click back into the formula Here for the table array, I'm just looking Here as I go down, if I click into this cell, you see that it automatically adjusts I don't want it to do that, so and I need to make it an absolute reference. So, as I pull this formula down, To do that I can press the F4 key. I can press and now you see that the formula works properly. table in Excel. You can't properly define it use an absolute reference, and I think most they tend to use a vertical list. Horizontal lists you can use each HLOOKUP as well, depending Now by now your look up skills should be getting even better version of looking up? And that's and HLOOKUP can do, but it can do even more. horizontal lists, so you don't need separate and in a moment, we're going to run through to And for that, let's go down and click I'm now on the XLOOKUP worksheet works. Over on the left-hand side I have a I have an order ID, I have what product and then I have a bunch of empty the costs per cookie, and the order Luckily though, I have a nice reference table over how much cost for cookie, and and look at that, I can match based on the and here the product name matches In fact, if I click on this drop-down I can see So we could certainly use VLOOKUP to fill this Now first off, one thing to notice is my In fact, here it's the right most column. So, if I wanted to run a VLOOKUP, well, first the left-hand side, but why do that? We can use So, let's go over here and first off, for all these different cookie types and let's let's click on the FX. Within insert function, and here you should see the XLOOKUP function. Let's click on that and then click on OK. This once again opens up function see that there's more that we can fill Right here, you see the three bolded And down below, you have some optional different XLOOKUP is going to give you a lot more power First, I want to look up a value and just like over here. We're going to look up chocolate So over here, I need to select the lookup array. Now, previously with VLOOKUP, we selected this entire table, but Instead, I'm just going to select this column. I So, one of the nice things is once Over here I want to select what I want and I want to return the revenue per cookie. So, so I'll select that column, so I don't have to index. Instead I just select what I want to get Now, some of the other benefits. Down here, Remember earlier when we got that #N/A error make it a little friendlier? Well, you don't can simply type in something like, let's say so you don't necessarily have to do this, In a moment, we'll come back to what match mode basic XLOOKUP working, so let's click on OK. revenue per cookie, so it looks up here Chocolate this value over to the left for $5, so that's data and here it basically does what VLOOKUP Next, let's do the same thing just to make sure with cost per cookie. Here I'll click on the let's click on XLOOKUP. This opens up the function product type, and I want to look up over here, so Next, I want to return the cost, so I'll select and then here, if not found, I'll just leave and I mentioned we'll come back to So all of this looks good. Let's click on OK. And right there I see my cost per cookie. It just OK, so next I want to calculate the profit functions together and this is going to So, in this order profit cell So, to calculate the profit, well I want to my profit on an individual chocolate chip cookie it by the units sold and I can do all of this So first let's enter the sum So, let's enter in XLOOKUP and Now if we want to make it easy, here we can click This once again opens up the function I want to look up chocolate chip, I'll select the look up array I want to look it up over here. Now for the interesting is I can return multiple values So here I want to return both the revenue and revenue. It'll sum the cost and that'll Now here for if not found and all these others, I'll leave those as is for So here now I have my XLOOKUP in place. Now I'm going to take the value or the profit this by the total number of units sold, and And just like that, using I'm able to get the order profit or the overall with XLOOKUP is I can return multiple values and dig in and see exactly how this works over on the Now previously to get the revenue we entered XLOOKUP into one column and But instead of doing that, I can simply pull all How do we do that? Well, once again, let's type in XLOOKUP, and make it easier, I'll click into FX, but you This opens up the function arguments I want to look for chocolate chip array and once again my look up array is over And next I need to select my return array and just like before you can select So here I'll select both revenue and and over here, I'll leave the others Now check that out. So not only did it return the so with just one formula, it sent an array So that is pretty cool. Now if I want once again I need to make sure So here I'll select F4, F4 and I'll just set it Then I'll hit enter and here I could pull the then that it will automatically look up both the So, this works exactly how I want it to, Now you might be thinking, XLOOKUP I should probably be using this over VLOOKUP Let's click into the next sheet called XLOOKUP Within XLOOKUP, there's an option called match mode and here you can see Now in VLOOKUP, we were able to do an exact but if none was found to return a smaller We could find an exact match, but if it doesn't So, if you remember the earlier over here, maybe instead of falling want to go up to the largest value. Also, down below I can also set A wild which one is the first customer I can use XLOOKUP to do that, and let's I'll click in this cell and Over here, let's select XLOOKUP. For the lookup then I'll type in a W and then I'll type in an So, I want to find a W and I don't care what comes Over here I need to select my look up array and name right here, so I want to look up the customer well I want it to return the full customer name Now right down here I need to select a wildcard match, so I'll And look at that. The first customer with a W in its name is So once again, this is yet Lastly, I also want to show you and that allows you to Let's go over and this is the congratulations for making it to the very end. Once we go through this, you'll have a very good to know when Lola's last order was. So over here our customers and she had an order on January 16th Now with VLOOKUP, it's going to look from top to return this value. But the nice thing is with modes, so here, just like with VLOOKUP, I could But now I can also start from the bottom and the search mode. I also have binary search as and it's the same concept. I could start from bottom and work my way up. With a binary search data in either ascending or descending order, Now let's try this, and let's try to find I'll go up here and let's click into this cell. It doesn't really matter which cell we Next, let's click on XLOOKUP. For this one, and I'll make sure that I enter it in quotes. So, there we're looking for Lola and here I So here I'll select the entire and I'll just highlight it all the way to well I want to get the order date back, so And if not found, I'll leave that as is. I I can now set the search mode. Once again, for to work my way up. So, for that, just like we we see that to perform a reverse search starting So let me type in a negative one here. Now I'll click on OK and here now 7/13 and here I can confirm that. and her last order was on 7/13. And that now and so hopefully now by going through these the power of using XLOOKUP especially In fact, there's really not much of a when you have XLOOKUP. It can do everything that both but it has even more power and customizability. All right, well if you now HLOOKUP, and also XLOOKUP, please To see more videos like this in the future, Also, if you want to see me cover any other in the comments. That's where I get a lot of my I had for you today. I hope you enjoyed, and