The first U.S. presidential different from the way Americans In 1789 there were no official candidates. There political parties, no nominating conventions, no very short. And the major issue of this election system that they were using as the basis for the Okay, well, you might be thinking, why were in 1789? Didn't they declare independence in Well, they didn't have a It's important to remember that the United States was a collection of 13 separate countries. The 13 had each been separate from each other, distinct but not really ties amongst themselves, So when the 13 colonies they did so not as a single unified country with each other -- what we would today order to accomplish their common goal There was only one branch of government, which was the Continental Congress, is a stretch because there wasn't Anything that the Continental Congress decided and if a state did not want to Some people at the time saw this as states would be better off if they entered was mainly for financial reasons, So they held a constitutional convention drafted the Constitution that we This new constitution was different Under the old system you had one branch In this new system there were three branches of the executive branch, and the judicial branch. but now Congress would have two separate which would represent the people directly, and And then the executive branch and then under him would be everyone who is in And then the judicial branch and then there would be various So one of the questions that the framers how are they going to get the president chosen? Now, one obvious choice would be to have him a parliamentary system. In most English-speaking Parliament decides who the prime minister is going The Framers of the Constitution did not want to in Philadelphia in the summer of 1787 and drafted They didn't want to do that. They wanted executive branch and the legislative So how else could they elect the president? Well, one option, which is the option I think was that the president would be elected directly also didn't like that idea. They thought it would So the Framers hit upon another system that would have would be the famous Electoral College executive branch, so you don't have to worry about and the Electoral College's only job was every Now, how do you choose the members they just left that up to the states, If the state legislature wanted to choose state legislature wanted to leave that up to So the American presidential election has electors. And then once the electors That's still the system And when Americans go to the polls in early for electors. And then the electors meet -- they cast their votes for president, and So what we call Election Day is The Constitution gives Congress the elections happens -- when the electors are Nowadays it's early November and mid-December. In this first election in 1789, the and then the electors would meet and So Election Day in 1789 was January 7. Now, some online sources will say that this over two years, 1788-89. It's not quite true. The Where that's kind of true is in two states, in New two-stage process for choosing their electors. they would want to have as electors, and then that the voters sent up to the legislature the voters went to the polls -- polls isn't town meetings and voted for who they'd like the state legislature, and on January 7 the But in the other states that participated There were 11 states that participated North Carolina had rejected the technically not part of the United States In five of the states the state legislatures electors were chosen directly by the voters. And Now let's take a minute and look at because they did it differently In Pennsylvania and Delaware they had wherever you were in the state, if you were voting the top 10 vote-getters statewide would become had 3 electors, so wherever you were statewide statewide -- everybody wrote down 8 names because where 5 of the names had to come from the Western Virginia did it a little bit differently because electoral districts. Virginia got 12 electoral up into 12 electoral districts. Each one would the 10 congressional districts that Virginia had. So looking at the different that reflects the politics So Pennsylvania, for example. The Pennsylvania people who were pro-Constitution. Support for the so they thought by making it a statewide ballot, it would make it more likely for The Virginia legislature was dominated by to the new Constitution. And they wanted drew districts to make it more likely that and rural people were more likely And this touches on the big issue of the Constitution itself, whether the Constitution was in a way that I think most Americans There were a lot of people who were opposed to the Constitution was quite controversial in several was a betrayal of the goals of the Revolutionary for another. They'd gotten rid of the tyranny of and they now were instituting a new A lot of Americans, especially in rural were afraid that this new federal system would be government would be dominated by commercial policy decisions that would financially benefit In fact, this controversy between those who favor it ended up making it so that New York could not because the New York legislature was was majority federalist. The lower house, So the Senate, which was 10 to 8 in favor the legislature to choose 4 of New York's 8 Assembly would choose 4. And that way 4 of New The anti-federalists wanted the legislature So each member of the legislature would of 8. Essentially they would choose them in would mean practically is that all 8 of New So the Assembly would pass a bill saying this would go to the Senate. The Senate would say, pass their own bill that would go back to the It went to conference committee. They argued went on for weeks. Then January 7 came and they still hadn't chosen They did not have electors. New York had no senators, because it was up to the until I think the summer of 1789 to finally A similar thing actually because New Hampshire's legislature was also the anti-federalists in the lower house and agreed to the Senate's terms. So New Hampshire made that compromise -- so New Hampshire Now, this business of whether or anti-Constitution, what was that about? The Constitution ended up getting approved people who were uncomfortable with it, and so convention. That's what they wanted to have. They that would draft a different constitution that Barring that, they could at the very least get and then undermine the federal system from within, government from coming into force, perhaps to make provoke them to agree to a new constitutional anti-federalists elected to Congress, at the very Now, when the Constitution was approved in the people promised -- seems a little bit shady go ahead and approve the Constitution now. So people were voting for the Constitution really binding -- but with this understanding which ended up happening -- that was the Bill But that was the idea of electing hoping that if you get enough then they could cause problems Everybody knew that Washington was going to in 1787 when they were drafting the Constitution. and he was actually sitting there in the president and it was kind of an open and George Washington's going to be the guy So the federalists were afraid that up the election. And how would they do that? system where the electors would vote for two And then the person who got the most person who got the second most And the weakness of this system because the way it's supposed to work is, George Adams will get the second most votes. Then But what if George Washington does not get the What if some anti-federalist electors Maybe they vote for Adams and then some They could potentially making John Adams the first president Now, the problem with that is, Adams was not as and so that could reduce the goodwill that the So that would help to undermine the federal anti-Constitution people had. That was something Or, alternatively, another possibility would be they could get George Washington elected president. Now, among the Anti-Federalists there name that was bandied about at the time was George it was expected that you would end up voting or maybe Adams-Clinton, you could do that. So just to give you an example of a possible thing vote for Washington and Adams, and then the and Clinton. And so then Adams ends up getting Clinton comes in third. That makes Adams the Just as one example of many So the point is, the system that was written the electors vote for two names and not designate they wanted to be vice president was a flaw, and So remember, there are two stages of electing and then the electors choose the president. the president on February 4. In the some political figures in the country were trying that Adams didn't get as many votes as Washington. Alexander Hamilton. He was writing a ton of one involved with this. There were a few others writing to the different electors saying, Make sure there are some guys there who are So if you look at the results of the 1789 it looks like everybody voted for Washington, and then there were a bunch of A lot of those votes were deliberate voted for Adams but deliberately they were trying to mitigate against In Connecticut they had 7 electors, 5 2 of them voted for Washington and Huntington. Adams. They voted for Huntington as part of In Pennsylvania, again those 2 that voted In Maryland there were 8 electoral votes. Two the election. The Electoral College meets in each state come together. In Maryland the 8 do their voting. Two of the electors couldn't therefore couldn't travel. The other one was think he had to cross either the Chesapeake and so he wasn't able to make it to Annapolis. 6 of them voted Washington and Harrison. Harrison He was not a national figure. They voted for him that Washington came in first and Adams came in Now, not all of these votes were like really were voting for someone besides they wanted somebody else instead. I think the votes for John Jay were legitimately for John I couldn't figure out exactly for every single But if I were to guess -- and this is based on the election would have looked more like this Now, this setup of the way the electors two names and not distinguishing which one president -- this continued to be a problem in they fixed it. And they finally fixed it in the will say which one they're voting for president The election results really hurt John Adams. I elected president. He like everyone else expected he didn't expect to get as few electoral votes as It's kind of sad because it didn't have to happen anti-federalists would pull off a scheme, because shenanigans came to nothing. Washington easily to get more than him. There were enough people prevent Adams from tying with Washington. But, anyway. Those are the election president. John Adams was elected vice president. They both traveled to New York, which was and were sworn in in the spring of 1789 I'd be curious to hear your thoughts on this be better or worse to have our elections the way how much better do you think your system is I do plan on doing a follow-up video on when George Washington was re-elected, so