[Shouting, gunshots, general chaos] Much like most video games, you don't I mean, sure, the game shows you some of how to sneak up behind someone, how to kick a spectrum of ways you could murder, but it doesn't This is relatively par for the course for games, Doom, Hitman, or Devil May Cry, Deathloop is is evil, tell me the target is an oil baron, and method I use to take out these enemies is the game unlike any of those games, Deathloop's to think about the ramifications of kicking And, as much as I like the game, the fact that of a missed opportunity. I'll get back to that- A time loop is an inherently video game-y throughout a playthrough of this game. Let's another title from the same developer. had lots of wacky, off-the-wall Dishonored put a lot of weight on how the effects Kill too many people and rats would guards would be more numerous and vigilant, the In Dishonored, the quote-unquote morality with of internal canon for the game- your character killed anyone and slipped through the levels like of chaos, who did the craziest stunts you've ever If you chose one route and then wanted to see what the game and replay the level, of course. But Internally, the character remains consistent- he him may have played this level already with But in Deathloop, the main character, Colt, is means that Colt's experiences and the players are is and the best way to manipulate them at the same we do. Colt, just like us, can play the same of chaos, deciding which he prefers at the same the best way to get across this level was to jump across a hanging plane wing, teleport through personal with my assassination target. I learned the same day, which means Colt canonically It was occasionally frustrating, but ultimately right- And I presume Colt, grumpily trying actually felt a similar emotional arc- us both experiencing the familiar endorphin I expected I would enjoy learning all but the looping mechanic also led to a I got less careful. My first couple times round essentially how I played Dishonored. If you creep through the levels, tag every enemy, nothing can stop you. How can I get better And I was partially correct- that tactic never sequence twenty or more times in Deathloop, every time, a shadow that never faces direct if I'm going to do this all again, if there why would I play in a way that's so boring? Going except, who's got the freaking time man? If I'm to do it in a way more interesting than crouching It's how my version of Colt, deadened to ended up wielding grenades, dual SMGs, and I sprinted through buildings and lept from really got with Dishonored. Through countless me that self-preservation, minimizing collateral was really important. As long as you accomplished In this way, playing through Deathloop feels learn the rules of the simulation and then push familiar enough with the rules, playing like this video of her speedrunning a level in Hitman 3 I fully understood what was happening. She walked fired again and took him out, popped another guy out the elevator. The whole thing takes about 16 a level that normally takes far longer- and it's a Sometimes the methods used in speedruns can seem in Bloodborne, you might kill the from her corpse is slightly quicker than leveling a game you play it dozens and dozens of times, of what each mechanic is fade back into their the world and story of the game, killing the game is just a series of puzzles to be solved in purposes of a speedrun, the emotional consequences When they reset the game and play for an even The second act of most time loop stories is fun one. Bill Murray steals a car and drives into in a pool, Tom Cruise tries to roll under a truck though Edge of Tomorrow isn't technically based the best video game movie ever made). It's very the void with reckless abandon, knowing that But, I think there's a fairly important and the violent hedonism of Deathloop, and stories frequently off themselves in violent and treat death largely stays internally focused- in There are certainly tonal reasons why this is comedies, Edge of Tomorrow is a pretty motivated and tone being able to withstand a random murder the stories get that there's a difference between and, I dunno, Bill Murray getting more And I think a major reason we punt a guy off a cliff, is the understanding as a character. Since these stories always it would be a disturbing endnote to think of after a repeating eternity of causing others others with care again, when they spent so long Deathloop, as we've already stated, is a game Deathloop is a game about making the deadliest, you possibly can, learning the system inside marionette, knowing just what strings But it's in the ultimate goals that and the gameplay, Colt's motivations and Through all the marketing and all the campaign of trying to do is clear: break the loop. Find out figure out a way off this island. Our main has the singular goal of stopping him. Colt can't single day. And Julianna is perfectly consistent. knows the loop allows her the foresight of a god isn't this easier? Doesn't the outside world playground of death forever, continue to perfect Julianna loves to hunt and that's what And through the game, Colt enjoys the the same power and deadliness, but unlike her, he- are trying to get back to a world where humans entertaining way possible. Which is why I think already has Colt as a rollicking murder-go-lucky Who is Colt, if not for this time loop? I have no from him is how creatively he offs people, and I to rid himself of the consequence-less mindset of Groundhog Day, Murray figures out how to be a finally understands what's important in life, at killing machine you've been training for since the Aside from one relationship-level twist I don't anything new about himself during his dozens And I think that's what I want in a story themselves? What did they discover? Twelve Minutes is another time loop game that came on nailing a specific sequence of events. Unlike somewhere between 10 and 15 minutes, can't grounded story, centered on one apartment and 12 Minutes, because it plays into something I've to accomplish within a day, but was able to try Let's say I wanted, within 24 hours, to get a series of words I could say, calls I could make, It's like a combination of monkeys banging Eventually, by trying enough different 12 Minutes doesn't have you talk but it does pose an almost equally absurd and solve a years-old murder without ever Fair warning, I'm gonna spoil some parts it may be more entertaining to hear this So if you don't do anything at all, the loop of home, greets your wife, starts a romantic then a guy who claims to be a cop breaks down wife that she's under arrest for muder, and Right off the bat, there's a lot of stuff wife that you're in a time loop- some what would really convince someone that you know the cop with a kitchen knife or something, But, like in Deathloop, there's a feeling loop over and over and over again, and so the One of the earlier moves you can try, one that is just to hide for the whole time. Don't let let the cop come and attack her and pry some shoot her. You can just hide for the whole about letting my wife get murdered just to see data to use in my next loop was a lesson to me. what scenarios would provide information and what Like a monkey on the butterfly effect typewriter, I pushed buttons at random. What if I eat my if I go in the bedroom and turn off the Nothing. What if I stab my wife? Nothing. then nothing. What if, unbeknownst to her, I'm not sure if this is the intended way to play most people end up playing it. And as the game themselves, any sense of ethics was the first hated her or thought she was evil, I stabbed 12 Minutes isn't as inherently game-y kick dudes off cliffs, you're not shown how to it takes death more seriously, or at least the for the protagonist to do the horrible things But you do them anyway. And they escalate, Eventually, you find out some truly heinous every combination of things in this apartment, the end of the game basically asks you to decide horrors. You want to keep living your life? You But my question, and I'm now starting to feel this character going to do with all the present of all the near-mindless stabbings, druggings, Unlike Colt, this guy didn't seem to but he did it all the same! It feels he should be profoundly affected by this. the story assumes that the actions he and and so they won't make an impact. And I just I dunno. I recognize this topic is kind of don't exist! They're a brilliant fictional device aspects of a character that they might keep under several times writing this, spending so much time that none of us will ever face. We can't hit the perfect route through a difficult situation. Maybe almost entirely sheltered from the consequences do often end up acting uhhh the way you might act decisions in even their lives that mean things. I think the reason I'm frustrated with the lack these stories is, I have actually seen it done In Nana Kwame Adjei-Brenyah's short story "Through lived through Deathloop, lived an incalculable and then had to...keep going. Lemme So in Through the Flash, our main character is a misleading. She's been 14 for, at this point, been paying even a little attention to this her whole town is. At the end of the day is "the the same day starts again. She says in the early to watch the flash together. At the beginning, meaning they realized they were in a loop. And into the near-infinite, and Ama made the same "I'm going to use this loop to become There's a several-hundred-year period "knife queen." Like anyone who's ever met a middle terrifying. She says "I use my body better than with my bare hands...[I] could kill all one hundred twenty two minutes. I'd take a shower and change She promises that, whatever the worst everyone. More than once. I am not going to read even for our gamer-desensitized-brains, the Julianna to her Colt or the inverse, and who often returned the favor. They each But in Through the Flash, there's no breaking of the loop or solving the the things Ama does to other people becomes she decides she's not going to be "knife queen" being supreme, being infinite, and I think her past is gone. She still thinks about what on the block, when she could be alone and She still sees Carl and thinks about the time she STATIC She has a conversation with her neighbor, an that she's worried she liked "the old me" better, asks if it really was a different person, an Ama says "The old me did everything one way. And everybody instead of killing them...I used to be the worst person who ever lived. I know that. Mrs. Nagel asks again if that means Ama's Ama pictures crushing Mrs. Nagel's neck like "How can you not see the difference?" And Mrs. Nagel says "I think you've done a fine terrible witch...but I think there's only Through the Flash, unlike Deathloop, unlike 12 an impression upon you, always. Even if no one tomorrow, being a person who performs great capable of performing great violence or cruelty. will not instantly become a new person if he someone who did everything the game entailed, the Flash is that it acknowledges this, knows and yet shows that you can work to get better rises, no matter if it's the same sunrise I don't know how much sense this makes, made it in this gig was when I got my videos put always looked at the creators on Nebula as like- standard that i want to be at." And I've been great and they have no ads and bonus content- look at the creators there and I think "wow look Does this work as an ad? Like I think it Nebula is the best place for this particular brand and yeah this is- this is an ad. Like, I want you it's 15 bucks for a year if you if you follow the made me a better artist. There's other stuff too, really excited about, and um there's Curiosity geller, like it's, that is a place that you get and nonfiction titles. You get two amazing I don't know, I think if you're creative, art that feels better than you could ever helps me kind of push further. And that's what for background noise while you're washing it is a good service and in any case, I