I'm a fully grown human of average build and engine that I cut in half. It is exactly 16 times and now I'm going to use my average strength to try and definitely able to do it, it takes a considerable It takes strength because to open the valve I the resistance of the valve spring. The work and &quot;stored&quot; in the spring and once the camshaft moves away the spring decompresses and snaps the valve shut. Now I did this just a few times and when running, has to do this thousands of times and the exhaust valve during every full combustion Which means that, to keep operating, to open the valves, It must consume some of the energy that the valve train is reducing the power output and the But we don't really have a choice. Four stroke engines, which is what 99% of the engines on the road are, they need to let air in during intake. The combustion chamber must be And we must let air out during exhaust. This means that we chamber thousands of times per minute while at conditions present inside the combustion chamber. one actually do. They are great at sealing because conical shape of the valve seat and together they They're also both made out of hardened metals which temperature and as combustion pressure acts against the counter-sunk seat. So the greater the Unfortunately, other than being great at sealing the poppet valve has no other inherent advantages. You can even say that from an engineering perspective this is decades of technological advancements. The first to even last a reasonable amount. Back in the 50s not fail very quickly was to put lead in the fuel. just to prevent knock in the engine. It was also valve seats because the intense hammering of very high temperatures would lead to micro welds again these micro welds would tear eventually another word for valve seat failure. The engine Then we realized lead is bad for us so we phased forced to develop better materials and designs and seats to last a reasonable amount without lead. That was the first challenge we had to overcome The next challenge was the valve spring. It too is a big and close the valves many many many times in It can simply not open and close that fast, full closure you get something known as valve which of course leads to a loss of performance to contact between the valve and a piston which you need an engine rebuild. Ducatti developed system just to get rid of the valve spring. Koenigsegg just to get rid of the camshaft. But neither In the mainstream, engineers persisted with the the conventional valvetrain. They persisted. They We got better valve spring materials, better still had conventional valve springs but they and we got variable valve timing and lift control Freevalve can do. The valve remained and a lot of effort we made it better and better. But development can resolve with the valve because that the valve, which is supposed to let air in to air flow. It impedes and slows down the flow of Imagine you have a container A and a container B. Now imagine that you want to get the maximum amount of gases at the maximum speed from container A to container Well, both physics and common Ssense tell us that the best But unfortunately with valves, we can kiss a straight instead of a straight tube we have something It cannot go straight out through the tube. The aerodynamic shape of the valve does help to smooht out the air flow but still, the gas must go and out of the chamber. There is no denying the if the poppet valve simply wasn't there. But we got with variable lengths and clever resonances to ram in the form of super and turbocharges to stuff complicated exhaust manifolds to help suck the about it a lot of the development of the internal work around the valve. When You observe a typical with the intake and exhaust manifolds takes up is the engine block where the crankshaft rods and equipment because valves make breathing hard. But simply got rid of the valve instead of trying to asked this very question over the years and they One of the more promising and more elegant ones valve seat, spring, retainer, rocker arm, lifter and As the barrel rotates the cavities line air in and out of the engine. So what we actually which means dramatically improved airflow performance and less need for complicated intake springs which means we're not wasting energy on Also because there's no valve springs which means that achieving ridiculous RPM is much system is much more simple than a conventional parts which means less complexity, less chance So the rotary valve is better than a conventional If it's better in every way, why have we been using the poppet valve for the past 100 years and not the rotary valve barrel? Well that's in everything except one thing, and that one a good seal with a rotary valve arrangement like because to seal, the rotary valve barrel must together with some sort of o-ring and then the We have plenty of o-rings and round seals in every camshaft ends they rotate in round seals. But round or rubber o-rings and round seals on them, But a rotary valve barrel is. Because it's Now the problem with expansion is that needs very tight tolerances to operate. When the part very hard and then the seals either fail or wear not impossible to do it and, in fact, it has been and operated an engine with a system and raced it successfully since 1989. rotary valve system for a British BSA 90 degree V twin o-rings together with wavy rings, additional bronze o-rings perform as they should during engine The rotary barrel sits on oiled bearings and has overall As I said this engine has been used and raced In fact the project is so good that it outlived Ralph Watson Although this is not some sort of mass very valuable because it's an obvious proof of can work and can be employed in practice. But what valve technology into the mainstream, into mass of a company called Vaztec from North Carolina been showing you is from Vaztec's website. The who want to take this technology rotary valve barrel with cavities similar to Ralph big difference is that Vaztec's cylinder head no need oil in the cylinder head, in fact all the oil a rotary valve sealing system that consists of thrust washers and support bearings and of the Japanese Society of Automotive Engineers Here you can see the comparison of the required parts power equipment engine. As you can see, the Vaztec At this time they have goals to introduce power equipment but aim to expand to the vehicular So, overall sounds very promising right? Rotary valves. Many decade maybe two? Is it going to happen? Well, maybe. but the timing is not ideal. We have two obstacles The first obstacle is that many industries with electrification. Whether that love affair But the love affair does to an extent impede The other issue is that many major important developers have spent insane amounts of research so they want to see a return on their want to keep selling the conventional valvetrain for as long as possible. So the timing is not ideal despite the benefits. Speaking of the Well there are two minor ones that I can because I never had anything in my hands. The first drawback, little one, is that the size of the rotary valve barrel and its proximity to difficult to locate a spark plug right in the little CAD drawing, the spark plug is on the a direct injector because the barrel takes up a engines with larger combustion chambers The other small drawback that I noticed, and this We can see traces of combustion around, on the underside cavity is not sealed against the combustion So some of the combustion gas, some of the into the little tiny space which is around the a little loss of energy and thus a little loss which is far outweighed by the elimination of again something to keep in mind. There's also and rotary valves. The rotary valve barrel is also driven by a timing belt or timing chain take a variable valve timing gear and attach it timing using existing technology very easily. So, a pretty much it. Definitely a promising technology and the timing for it isn't ideal but it's still, or two or not, it is still worth knowing about of the shortcomings of the ubiquitous poppet lot for watching I'll be seeing you soon with