Thwomps are some of the most memorable Mario This strange grunt was used as the but where exactly did the sound come Well, in this video I'll be going through and mysteries. Like, did you know there's Super Mario Galaxy 1 and 2, but can Or have you ever tried to figure out the meaning behind the strange voices in And did you spot the in-game band Let's take a tour through some interesting, Number 1 I'm always fascinated by "cut text, and audio that's sitting on game Cutting Room Floor is a wiki dedicated and sitting on the game disc of Super Mario Galaxy This song is called BGM_IN_BUBBLE, so clearly it was intended to play when Now interestingly, while the song can't be heard in early game demos from 2006, the It played for just a few seconds before Mario. However it seems that some time between this nice, calming harp song ended up being cut. Number 2 Now, while we're on the topic of cut Mario music, let's jump to the next 3D Mario Now, while Super Mario Galaxy only had a handful Galaxy 2 is a different story. There's sped up early unfinished tracks, and that But what's way more exciting than any of that is 3 songs which were cut from the game's finished. First is an unused And then, there's a second But my absolute favourite track is the next the song was cut before it could be recorded synthesised instruments you'd never know this song It's incredible that this piece of music is Number 3 Next, let's talk about Donkey Kong 64. This British studio Rare, with music by composer Grant Rare's Donkey Kong Country music, plus he added in music and sound effects. Let me play you the music Does that harpsichord melody sound let me play you the jingle that plays when you Kirkhope took that iconic jingle and used It's even in the exact same key! Number 4 The Splatoon series is known for its in-universe only for the player. It's what's known music which isn't actually playing in-universe. Splatoon, on the other hand, makes heavy stage audience listening to Splatoon's idols sing, that music exists in-universe. The game characters And it's not just the idols. During Splatoon 3's actually from an in-game band - C-Side. But there instance, which plays before the tutorial proper, Now, in Splatoon 3's in-game jukebox, the song is listed artist. Does that mean it isn't being Because in the stage Mahi-Mahi Resort, off to the side of the stage. And That's right, it's "What's Your Style" of course, the band could be performing a cover but either way, we finally have a band Number 5 Ring Fit Adventure's soundtrack has a Most of these are likely gibberish, nonsense words there is one set of voices that fans have managed Ab, Trap, Del, Sol. If you're up on your muscle names, those each of them is short for a major muscle in the Now, I should be clear this was all ascertained by had those muscles in mind when they recorded game all about muscles, well, it doesn't seem Number 6 Next, let's talk about Yoshi's which has a truly excellent soundtrack Kazumi Totaka. Totaka is one of Nintendo's most Yoshi, Pikmin, Animal Crossing and more. in which Totaka began providing Yoshi's But what I want to talk about right now is but the actual CD soundtrack release. Yoshi's one for America, one for Europe, and one there's a bonus song not found in Staff's Voices". This is a remix of the game's So yes, as the name implies, this remix development team! Each staff member was and Totaka remixed those responses There's 26 staff members voices that vast majority of the dev team - in fact, don't appear. Which is super impressive! A never having featured in an official this song offers a unique glimpse into their Number 7 When Super Mario 64 was released in 1996, Nintendo characters voices of their own. Obviously, Mario classic Mario enemy, from Piranha Plants to Koopa This slightly bizarre grunt was used for Thwomps 2007. And, it's still cropping up for Whomps in Well, the answer might surprise you: that voice is actually Charles Martinet! Charles but edited versions of his voice were And take a listen to this grunting Martinet. Super Mario 64's simply slowed down the recording to make it But that isn't the only voice for they have this evil sounding laugh. Which is Wario's voice clips were recorded by a German So Thomas Spindler was the voice &quot;Wario! I've gotta win!&quot; But in the English version of Mario Kart 64, his voice lines were replaced with new &quot;Here I go!&quot; Here is Wario's laugh. And then, here's the Which means that, at least in the the Thwomps are yet again But that's all for today's video! Thank you very Patrons for making videos like this possible.