Memory matters. Memory is kind of everything. Like, who are you without your memories? If I if I took away your memories, You would simply not be who you are. I gained a perspective that happening to me in my life. I can use these practical problem solving I can implement that solution in my life Hi everyone. I'm Ryder Carroll and today I have Tiago Forte, author of Building teacher of building a second brain So let's get into that. So Tiago first question, tell us a little Building a second brain is system of knowledge management. When I say a second brain, what A piece of software is my preference. To preserve and save for the future your ideas, your memories, your reading, your highlights, your notes. The whole world of digital information but you can sort of curate the very second brain for, for safekeeping. It sounds like it could solve I'm curious for you, what What problem were you looking to solve? The first one was a medical condition. One day in 2007, I was 22 years old, San Diego, uh, fashion Valley and in Uh, I was working one day and just for feeling like a pain intention in my neck it, but it grew worse and worse and that I reached the stage that I had It was like this just incredible, I would wake up in the morning with. Which is a kind of problem Like it's, you know, I needed, And so I started seeing different doctors, at least a dozen different doctors. None of them could give me any clue as Uh, and finally they gave me sort of It's a very powerful medication anti-seizure medication, usually It effectively shuts down your, whole nervous system head to toe. Sort of like an off switch to Of course at the cost of basically what it felt like most days. Um, there was another side effect of that So there's a period of a couple years from the pain, but uh, it just would that I had and trips that I took, books I like the hard drive had been formated. And I think that experience, you know, the of having really precious memories, you in me in appreciation for memory. First that memory matters. Memory is kind of everything. Like who are you without your memories? If I if I took away your memories, You would simply not be who you are. Eventually I just decided I had to take I, uh, asked for my patient record, and folders, you know, this thick. Uh, took it home, digitized it on my and, uh, turned all that into digital sense of it, organize it, annotate But what I found eventually for that like an illness or an infection or a It was a functional condition is It was something in my body telling me, You need to be healthier. What I took away from that was meditation, exercise, habits. Um, I really had to start taking care had not been a priority, , and I Didn't go away completely. Still hasn't actually, but I gained of what is happening to me in my life. I can use these practical problem solving I can implement that solution in my life You know? Uh, and once I figured that out, a general approach to solving And the whole time, I, I feel There's one thing I do. I capture the organ, the distill it, and I express it. It's like my one thing I do. And it's just gone so much further so many incredible experiences That's an incredible story. What do you feel like is surprised by in that process? They don't know anything about it. They're learning to What's the first light bulb that goes off? I think one of the big ones is I think we live in a decentralized era, The internet arrived and now everything communication, decentralized, infor, Now even currency is decentralized I mean, in a, in a way we're making up for by now becoming way decentralized. But it's sort of like there's centralized, which is information. You don't have to keep things in 25 the default thing that people do. You can route it all back. You can suck it all back into one place. That is like your safe, your Maybe only some tiny percentage, 1% back here, but that will be the most That's, that's the practice like, why would you do this? Are you like a academic researcher? Are you a librarian? Those people have been doing it for that practice to everyone else. So one of my favorite parts of your Like my biggest problem when it comes information has always been me dreading Like all the files, all And once I get all that addressed, But you have this way of dealing you to tell us a little bit about. Yeah. It's this idea of archiving, I learned from my my mom. I've been consulting, consulting with on her computer since I was a kid, and to get rid of anything, like nothing. Every little image that she saved from the random download, it had to all be kept. And the interesting thing is I found know, we'd go file by file and say, Okay, delete, keep this We get about maybe 10 and then I'm so tired. This is so tiring. Making decisions is so tiring. And of course she has like a gonna get anywhere like that. But then I realized mostly just So my impatience always is my you know what, mom, everything Put it in this new And she's like, oh, okay. That's easy. I can do that. And then every few months we would just desktop folder with today's date, all until finally we just had a series of whatever was on her desktop at that time. And looking back and I realized, oh my This actually works. You never have to make the difficult you kind of know where things are. It's almost like, I think there's Like a lot of people that have a lot of cuz they're sort of reverse chronological. They go, oh, I was working So it's like around here. And that's what we would She could find things just fine. And most of the time And so I kind of took that philosophy people organize their New Mac computers, and it just kind of grew from there. But it's essentially avoiding choice organizing principle, which every of time and saving to your fu, leaving organization or distillation or processing Especially since digital content just And so you have to be so discerning limited time and attention with a, with a Like you're not gonna win that battle. You're not gonna organize all the things. So it's best to just kind of do the Yeah, I think that's a pretty clean what our natural first brain is I think for me, I always noticed I can concentrate and do one thing distraction for me is, is so high. I feel like if I deviate from that and like, it's like waking up from sleep. I don't easily, I don't very easily get And modern life requires us For most people, most of the memorization is the lowest priority. It's like on the whole stack of brain for memory's the lowest. It's the thing that we are worst at, And that machines do the best. So it's like the first And honestly, like you can really make databases and all these things, but notes. There's a simple way to use notes write something down, look it up, record or retrieve like many of the And so, um, that's my top recommendation especially the remembering of detail. Especially details that don't that have to do with some specific So what would a second Yeah, it can look many ways, and this a Bullet journal is a second brain. Some people use their calendar For some people it's, it's a And really for most of us, it of all these working together. Uh, I kind of think of Often a notes app or a knowledge sun, that's the, the centralized thing. But then you have all these planets and are part of that greater solar system. Um, but to me it's, it's just When you have an idea or something, write that thing down, the place that percentage chance that you're gonna So for you, it's not a matter whether um, what you feel drawn to, essentially, What you feel drawn to, what you feel most what compliments your thinking style, It can change too. It doesn't have to be not In fact, in a way I've had a different And what is more natural than to change That resonates greatly. A big part of whole journaling is about And speaking of which, I'm been part of your second brain? And if so, how? It has been. And it is. It is. I love, I mean, there's really nothing I mean the, the tactile sensation, the you're like in a coffee shop, just Like, I really. Okay. So to me there's journaling they're like different worlds. When I journal, it is a introspective, experience, and I optimize for that. I'll often leave. Go to a park, go to an like a a sense of awe grande things Um, I'll often take a lot of time, a whole afternoon or, or an evening. I'm trying to get out of myself to, subconscious desires and dreams and wishes In the, the hub of, of daily life. Um, and so I will do Cuz digital is just a There's Twitter and so the So I wanna do paper and pen. I wanna be away from civilization. I want to not have any rules or But then none of that needs I used to, I used to take photos of my weekly review, but it was never interpersonal issue five months ago. I just never found a use for that. And if it, I did wanna revisit that notebook from the shelf. So journaling is over here. It's like my right brain is all the way over here. It's much more about external It's about projects, it's about and process and productivity. And so I guess I just have And paper journals for me What do you think the point I think for me, productivity is simply It's kind of like something you can't remember how you put it, but Right. To me, productivity is the steps. The step by step process of getting an or whatever you wanna call it, and having as beautiful as that is, having it step the world that then becomes something access, can actually make a difference. A real difference to someone or Um, productivity you know, You, you have to supply the the meaning and the values. It's not gonna do that for you, right? It's just not. What if you have those things, A things, but then what are just, what And that's what Just the most efficient line between Assuming those two things are what you need to get there. Speaking of productivity, I'm curious, might be hearing this and thinking, productivity scheme of some kind. I would be curious to hear how you feel productivity, how it diverges from it. Yeah, so productivity is kind of But then within productivity, What we management, which is specifically Uh, and then within pkm there's various them called Building a Second Brain. I think productivity is going through used to be about checking boxes and getting more done, more tasks, but really becoming about, about content. And the way I always think When I write a blog post, might piece of writing on my blog in a way access that knowledge at any time future without taking any of my time. What is that worth in Like how much productivity would I have to It's almost impossible to calculate. It's like having a whole sales force. It's having a, like having And so content is a form of leverage. And I don't just mean often this, a podcast or YouTube channel, Think of content as you know, you write of the most frequently asked questions Think about having a wiki Some of the most common resources. Think about having a Something as simple as like having an can send every time someone asks a common That's all documentation. So it's almost like we're all now We're all having to We're all having to become writers. And what do you need to produce content You need a pipeline, you need an Um, the way that writers always have some of the foremost notetakers. It's almost like productivity and everyone is becoming a content creator of creative raw material to draw from. And that's where the That's right. Yeah. One thing that goes around a lot in interesting is this idea is like once you for lack of a better, which is another to struggle with the blank page anymore. Yes. I'm curious if you could tell Yeah, the blank page or these the, the thing most to be avoided. There's there's no upside, You know, it's terrifying. It's anxiety provoking. You also don't come up If you're just making them You, you're not incorporating You're not drawing on past It's like anytime you are just screen and trying to create something, in a, in a difficult situation. And so what I really did is just Like I'm a huge fan of history. I always go to history and when you that made amazing work, but also They all have something like this. It's kind of amazing. They don't often talk about it. You have to be a little like a the behind the scenes process. But they all have a notebook. They all have a journal, they have with, you know, newspaper clippings. They have a, a swipe file. They have something that they're almost embarrassed by it. They're like, oh, that's That doesn't matter, because that they're producing. But I think having that kind for any kind of producing. Yeah. So what I'm hearing you say is essentially only help you store information, but ever have to encounter the blank page. Because essentially, if you're go into your second brain, be like, boundaries, time, accounting, finances, This is one thing that I find interesting space, and one thing that you talk about don't organize information based on where Right, which I think is such an One thing that I struggle with with time I don't know where it's gonna go. Right. I'm curious how you run in, how you deal kind of interesting information somewhere has no purpose, but it's interesting. Where does that go in the second brain. Yes. So I think it's, it's good to point is extremely kind of utilitarian, it, that separation, everything about is over here in the journaling world. So my note taking is left with just this The reason I really like to constantly purpose of what I'm collecting My constant tendency at all To over acquire. And if I use the filter. So I do sometimes use the filter just but I'm curious about a lot of things. A lot of things resonate. It's too wide of a filter sometimes. Sometimes I need a more narrow filter actually trying to accomplish here? What are you actually trying to get? And that just helps me make the, the truth is most of the time, so actually needed to move forward. It's so tiny that I, I essentially as a, as a stricter filter. There are other times, such as when or reading on vacation or reading just different, different filter, which is Um, but even then, I, I have to, I It can't just be something like, huh. Because as I'm reading, I'm like, huh. Oh, wow. Oh, interesting. It's like every paragraph, right? And so I have to ask myself, like, is I, Is this scintillating? Is this surprising? Is this shocking? When I use words like, Suddenly I I'm saving and highlighting I kind a sense of, or are kind of obvious. Um, so I'd say in both cases, their, I'm capturing in the first place, much work at every subsequent step. And the reason that's important is what All of this to me is creation, business, but to me everything is, is. Having a kid is creation. Making a sandwich is creation. Walking through a city, you know, you're creating a, an itinerary, Um, that's something I learned from fantastically creative, but in every he has this thing he does where Dad, there's nothing to eat. I swear there is nothing to eat. He's like, oh yeah. And he'll go in and he'll combine like even exist as part of any sandwich. Put them together and he'll be Some of the time. Um, he really brought that, that Which means everything is fuel. Everything that happens, he can use. Everything that he sees It's not like this one small and the rest is not creative. Yeah, that makes a lot of sense. And that's a, that's a challenge think also is that there's like, There's always too much information, like With building a second brain, A four step process about how I'll let you talk about that one, but that it actually provides you with not can dump anything you want into it. There's actually like a very can use to make this effective. Yeah, call it code. Code is the heart and soul Uh, it's really my attempt to describe, an artifact, which is a second brain, like, oh, like a pretty museum piece and oh yeah, there's my second brain. It is something that is in use. It has to be something that you're you are interacting with, and that steps, which are really a workflow. It's like linear. There's a beginning, middle, and end. The beginning the seeing code is, your life in some shape or form, in some place outside of your head. Then it has to be organized in some way. There's some structure, some hierarchy of how this is. This is. Then it has to be distilled. Once you've collected all the stuff, matter how strict of a filter you had. So then you have to distill it, which the the actual sentences and ideas And then the E in code is express, what is the purpose to all this? Why are we doing all this? To communicate is to express your your story, express your, uh, your world, but not just the reason. It's not just e by itself is, I mean, part There's value in that. But if you want to communicate in a Or that, you know, makes them happy or If you wanna communicate in ways that your cause, your beliefs, uh, there which are c o d, that are essentially Organizing, and whether you call it the examples, anecdote, stories blocks of your communication are And the purpose of that is that when the singular moment, whether you're group, or you're sitting at your desk where it's like, now it's the time. This is the moment. That is kind of mysterious and can't But I know for sure that if you have distilled building blocks that you specific type of expression you're doing, So in addition to code, you also step process for kind of thinking about should I say, um, take advantage of all Can you tell us a little bit about Para? Yes. So code is how to create things. Para is how to store things. Para is straight up just store. Files, store notes, um, and I love my four letters, uh, projects, are these really big categories, but not So the, the, the main What is the most important principle Like you can really only make, you can I think it's actionability what is needed which is projects, what is needed over That's areas. What do you kind of wanna keep handy as and no longer relevant archives. Um, and that also kind of form. A bit of a, like a pipeline too, Oh, we're just, you know, like, That's, that's a trip project, then we love it and we decide, So the whole Mexico City folder, meet restaurants to try, just gets now it starts getting filled with we want to take to surrounding areas. That first initial seed, which is area of our lives organically. But then one day we leave Mexico City, So it moves one column over, For example, now these days a lot of they always ask us, what should we visit? I don't wanna keep answering So I have one note in that resource folder picks with all the details and links. So the second they text me, even write anything back. I just respond with the link to my note. I just go there. Um, and then one day that will no just become part of the archives. Does anything ever come I think, I think this is the hardest thing is we're used to information systems Like in the library you see that book, What that number tells you is there is entire building for this book to go. And you're trying to find that place. But with personal information, There are notes and, and different It's almost like a, it's Where like the rain goes up in the clouds, the land goes into the ocean, evaporates. Those charts that we had in school Um, if something is not moving, It's probably just not But even from the archives, I mean, I think I have over 200 Every single, even small project almost decade, the value of that. Like someone can ask me, have you ever event, you know, for a large company? And I'll be like, gosh, like nine years And then I'll go in and I'll notes, but they have good stuff. Like how else would I How would I recycle those something like digital notes. Like I, I don't think most people do. Oh, it's so interesting essentially what our library is. Like for me I can like always and like, look at what I did. I can't search for it yet, working on it. But yeah, that, that makes a lot of sense. And one thing that I think is so matter what your tools are like, unique about building a second brain, How do you use your second Do you use the second brain to the second brain to support the A little of both. Yeah. Projects to me, I. That word is so exciting to me. This is how I know I'm a, It's like a project is, it's, It what a project is, is describing that It's like the threshold of the doorway. When you say this is a project, you Now all these things start moving people. Systems, tools, information, it's of manifestation to say, this is I try to be open that they Sometimes they're outta necessity. You know, if you have a medical It's not just hoping and, and There's a whole set of actions to take place to resolve. Some are really internal Some are from the external world They really come from all But what's important is, I think what's beginning of a project as a sacred moment. Like I almost feel like there should, sound, or like a ceremony or a ritual. Because what is happening You are, you are dedicating a It's so significant. It's like, oh my gosh. I am, I am deciding that a, a that I get is going to this thing. It's time. I will never get. So I'd love to hear what your distinction For me, a goal is just the destination. It describes a single moment in be true, but it's just one, it's, It's the finish line, like The goal is just that one line at the end. And it's binary. It will. It will be. At that moment in time, it The criteria that you set All the stuff details, so many details. You need to know the route, you ate, the training regimen. The amount of details to manage your When you set a goal, right, you're distance from understanding what Yes. So it's the most unrealistic part of any know what the conditions of that goal are. And then as you get closer, it increases as you get closer and. What I'm hearing you say about can use that as a vehicle to kind of Yes, and that word is perfect define projects and goals together. They, they say, we're gonna do X and Y is They need to be separate because just know where that finish line is. There's so many routes to. You can walk, you can run, you car, you can ride a bicycle. You can get in a plane. If you know only the destination and you to get there, suddenly you have so many be open to them cuz almost never will. The first way that you think of It just won't be. That all resonates a lot. I'm curious. Having structured your entire productivity at what point do you shift goals? Once that project has, once the water, when do you, what are the or realize that things need to change? Yeah. It's funny, I, I hold even goals. I hold very lightly. A goal is sort of like a hypothesis, there's just as much value in True. Which is like very not how We're taught to think like, It's your job to make it happen. Um, I like when a goal doesn't I mean, as one example, last year I to a hundred thousand subscribers. It didn't budge. It didn't even went up by So the hypothesis was Which was that I, by myself, can But that, that failure, the, the, that goal taught me something. It taught me that I need a team, that It's like if I hadn't failed, failed discovered all these lessons about what To the point where these days I will It almost becomes more like a vision. Like I describe all the things that are I want there to be as many ways for it that it fails teaches me something. Do you have any rituals in To make sure that things you're Is there a reflective I do. Um, I have similar rituals. We a weekly review, a monthly like to do things all at once. So I find in, in the midst of my workday month, I can't think I have trouble It's almost. They require such a And in the day to day, I like to be so so close to the metal, um, that I like places at completely different times. So like, just to give some concrete at my projects, which is just like It's like lifting my head a little everything that was active last Okay, back. On a monthly basis, I look at my areas of It's like my marriage, how household, my health, finances. And then really only once a year, completely and really ask those big going the way that I want it to go? What do I want? Where do I wanna be A few years from? Um, you know, are there any make to our, to our lives? Um, sometimes I do a mid-year review, Uh, but I, I try to limit it. I think one, because it takes a because this is kind of strange, I don't know if this is just me, if I'm I, I go to those big picture questions, backlog of emotional tension if only kind of springs out and it's very clear. Whereas if I, I found, if I ask those like, something is a little bit wrong. But it's so subtle, it's a little bothered to go, to go, like, investigate. I, I have a similar thing and. Usually like keeping my place a way for me to get organized. But I definitely have that if I'm just kinda let stuff keep piling up. So then it's like so much more properly and it's like you reset it. That's a good analogy. Yeah, that's a good analogy. That's exactly what it is. Is, how does that factor into your pkm? Like do you have any in those rituals? Like are you using your second brain personal life, your professional life, of like house keep like dust out your Yeah, there are a few things, like when inactive or gets postponed or whatever. Uh, I will get the whole project folder Sometimes if it's related to a different a follow up, I'll go through the notes But usually I don't Just move it to the archives. That's the equivalent of like, that you've been working on. It finishes you just kind of like put and just like stick it in some drawer. It's all there if I ever need it, but let Uh, same thing with areas, uh, They don't have nearly the same turnover. But for example, if I have an apartment that we had in San Francisco, there's the light bulbs that were needed, know, we had about the neighbors. Like all this stuff. I don't wanna delete it. But it's also no longer active. So the whole area folder Uh, and then the same Sometimes I've been researching and it just becomes no longer relevant. I don't wanna delete it, Um, the fact that I'm treating, which would take forever. I'm moving big groups of notes, We're talking minutes. Just look at your projects, any any that are no longer active. Boom, resources. We're talking maybe 30 minutes During that process, is that when you and professional things as well? Like is the ritual of keeping your you to see what it is that you're moving commitment from and com recommitting to? Is that accurate? Oh yeah. Oh yeah. Yeah. What I'm describing here is organize basically everything. It's a dashboard of my life. It is, it's, it's in some ways, you have like things you say you're gonna and then things you've done, things That's how Para is also, So you've been doing, building a What has changed the most? The crazy thing is the methodology has It was all there. I think built into it is the kind of it's based on historical precedence. It's based on pre-digital precedence. I mean, everything that I teach If you think about it Progressive summarization is with paper intermediate packets. It's all valid with paper. If there's anything that's changed, When I started was the peak lot of people don't remember. I mean, the mania, the craze of how Still, we've not reached that point yet. It was a whole big thing, but You were on Evernote that was They were the first mover, The first people to talk In this context. Uh, now, oh my gosh, there's a whole of them explicitly marketing themselves as Many of them specifically trying term lifelong knowledge repository. Um, so I hate to say, I hate my answer But, uh, it's just, it's just flourished different methodologies in a way the early days I was just helping a and it's kept escaping that framing. To become something that has transcended Why do you think it's so popular now? I mean, PKM has exploded recently and Logseek and on and on and on. Like why now? I mean, the technology has Yeah. I mean, the only thing I can think of is Everything from mobile device, desktop computers and usage. Uh, even things like remote People now have a lot more autonomy. They have to structure their Things like the huge growth in Same thing, things like social media, uh, controversy that people, there's this, Have you heard of? The cozy web is like this idea that like online and in social media has become retreating into this like underground cave groups, text message threads, circle wide open public internet, but that are Um, that's part of this, you know, second brain concept information It was everything public Everything on full blast, That's only one way of doing things. There's also, besides the the private and the timeless. It's like the other, if you make the opposite quadrant, right? The other end of the spectrum is now what timeless, it's personal, it's meaningful. It's, uh, subjective. Uh, according to you, all these things left behind, you know, the internet the reading and note taking practices, and But in a digital centric way. A lot of the digital tools out connect with the world around us And it makes. Now where it's becoming clear that that's like I think we hit that plateau now. It seems like technology's becoming Yes. A lot of it focused on how we And I'll, which kind of Do you feel that technology, digital the experience of writing on paper? I think it's the wrong question, I think when cars were invented, will cars ever And the answer is no. But that's not really what they're for. That's not really what they offer. Um, it's gonna create whole new Uh, including some that could be that are not even in the same universe. Um, I think the, there's this idea called, Ephemeral. Like ephemeral. Um, that is sort of this theory of which is the ultimate endpoint of any Basically dissolves, it Into, uh, language, into the, the into the media, and it becomes this, um, that we just come to expect. My favorite example is, uh, when General called MBO management by objective, which departments should have objectives That was. Incredibly, like the huge If you suggested that, people would be It's obvious, it's natural, with thinking tools for sure. We will just have a thought and there in our, in our brain eventually, or our bodies, or the interface will That we will sort of think having to think about the tool. Asking what notes app you use or thinking know, what kind of air is in this room? Like what is the composition It's like this sort of esoteric Or it'll be like, you know Or like the parts in It's like, I guess I could go Because it's a utility, it's a, it's a that I can just, this is the important percent predictable, such that, you by, I think Sir Alfred North Whitehead, lot of people talk about, which is more and more things without thinking. Like the sophistication of what you think about it is the measure of our are gonna become completely ephemeral, I think my interpretation of what of thinking tool is the one that Exactly. It's just exists. It just does. It's. So you can do yours. If people were interested in advice you'd send them off with? If this is the first I think my number one advice is to just of time, a week, two weeks, a month. Try taking one note a day, one about, an idea, a concept, a theory, will be useful for the long term. See if it fits you. See if it's part of your value Don't take my word for it, especially, kind of overly elaborate way that we do Uh, it's basically to start small, from there rather than trying to I think that's a wonderful Where can people find you? Where can people learn about about your YouTube channel? It's all at buildingasecondbrain.com. There's the course, the book. We also have a podcast, a YouTube channel, you can imagine for helping people get Thank you so much, Tiago I Absolutely, my pleasure.