In today's chaotic world, achieving inner peace can So many of us are overwhelmed feeling drained and disconnected. You're at the whim of until you can learn to Wanna learn how to reclaim your peace? Hi, my loves. Welcome back to Lavendaire. Today I'm sharing simple strategies to help you reduce stress, and nurture your happiness and wellbeing, a reminder that your inner So let's work on it. Before we begin, make sure and you click that bell to get on personal growth and lifestyle design. Number one, set boundaries. So we are responsible for Otherwise, if you don't set any boundaries, people are gonna walk all over make you feel uncomfortable, etc. So know what you are okay with and what you are not okay with. And then once you've decided that, communicate that whether that's in your with your coworkers, with your friends. It's important to clearly communicate what your boundaries And if they overstep it, they're in the wrong. But if you don't communicate you can't really get mad at other people for overstepping your boundaries. So it's not something that you have to communicate right away, but say someone asks something of you, you have to be strong &quot;Oh, that's not okay with me. I'm busy. I can't help you with that.&quot; You have to be strong enough to know what your boundary is and clearly communicate your boundaries because boundaries are how and protect your peace. If you wanna go deeper on how to get better I have another video I'll link it here and down below. Number two, limit your exposure So take a look at your the environments, the the media you consume, and really gauge, okay, Where does the energy feel negative? Where does it feel toxic? Where does it feel like, That doesn't feel good. That is interrupting my peace. That is triggering me, making me angry, making me frustrated, So identify those things. It could be people. It could be environments. It could be anything. But anything that feels like a negative influence on your life, do your best to cut it out So an easy example is if there are people who and they like to complain a lot and they tend to vent to you and you notice that it's then that is an example of where you can create some distance, either communicate to them, &quot;Doing that much venting It's interrupting my So work it out from there. Environment is also another big one. And sometimes this is a especially if you're young, you're living in a home That does happen. So in those cases where you can't exactly remove yourself from the environment, do what you can to limit And what I mean by that join a club where you spend or that negative environment. Find ways for you to not be in There's always a way. Don't look at it as black and white. Look at it as like the There's a lot you can There's always room for progress. So focus on that instead &quot;Oh, it's impossible. I If you need more help and dealing with negative consider therapy. So thanks to BetterHelp for Therapy has been a to understand and heal Over the years, I've gotten so much better at setting boundaries It's become much clearer what So I don't overextend myself or put too much of a burden on myself for things that I can't control. I'm more equipped with a and I've become more comfortable with putting myself and my needs first. In therapy, I learned that taught me to pause and observe my reactions in real time, allowing me to consciously rather than defaulting to people pleasing. If you are interested in trying therapy, BetterHelp connects you who is trained to listen and give you helpful, unbiased advice. To get started, just go answer a few questions, and BetterHelp will match who can help you with your needs. You can do it all from via phone call, video chat, or messaging. Let BetterHelp connect you to a therapist who can support you all from Visit betterhelp.com/aileen or choose Lavendaire during signup, and enjoy a special discount (gentle music) Number three, don't take It's not about you. So this is taken from the which is one of my favorite books, and this chapter especially It really opened my eyes to So if you haven't read that But to summarize, don't It just means that whatever whatever people say about or just anything really, it's not about you. Don't take it personally. People are not trying to It's that people are mirrors. And so this is something that's is that whatever people express outwardly is a reflection of who they are within. So someone who has a very dark heart, like someone who's been they will be very hurtful. You've heard that saying, It's because they are they don't even realize it, but they just want to They want to have road rage They wanna say mean things because something wants to be And then if you think of like someone who is so loving and so pure, they're gonna just like They're gonna just say nice things. There are some people because they are just In both situations, don't take anything personally because it has nothing to do with you. Whatever they say, it has and it just is a reflection of them. You could have like a and a really terrible outfit and the loving person will tell you, &quot;Oh, you look amazing.&quot; This is just an example but if they were truly seeing they might not tell you the truth because that is their truth. Their truth is love and positivity versus someone who is is only gonna say mean things. I'm not saying that all So anyway, this is a reminder that whatever happens in your life, certain things might trigger you, they might disturb your peace, remember that it's not about you. Don't take it personally. That person or the situation, they have their own issues. It's a reflection of them and it's not necessarily a reflection of you. So just something helpful to consider. All right, number four, this is a big one, is to clean up your self talk. So I'm talking about protecting your peace and I've been referring and people outside of us. But to be honest, a lot of the times, we are the disturbers of our own peace. It is really what's going on up here that makes us feel like we're struggling and suffering all the time. Imagine if you truly said and you truly loved yourself, you put no pressure on everything's gonna be fine, no worries, that is peace. You would be able to live more peacefully. But a lot of us struggle with being like that because we have this internal critic. We have this negative self-talk. We criticize ourselves. We stress ourselves out. We have anxiety. So much of it is internal that a huge part of protecting your peace and really nourishing your inner self is to learn to clear up that self-talk, is to learn to become aware Where am I being negative? Where am I stressing myself out? And literally write it out. Write it out in a notepad, the negative self-talk that like, &quot;I'm not good enough. I can't do that. I'm not capable. I don't believe in myself.&quot; Whatever it is, write so that you're aware, you're aware of your toxic self, and then you choose to You can always choose Yeah, those thoughts are there, but your thoughts are not you. You can change what You don't have to believe every single thought that you think. That was like a game changer for me. I learned that from therapy. I used to think, &quot;Oh, my and it's the truth,&quot; but your thoughts are not the truth. Thoughts are just opinions. They are not fact. And in fact, you can choose which thoughts you choose to believe in. You can choose to believe you are capable or you can choose to Whichever one you believe, That's gonna be how So what you choose to is so important. It's so essential, and there's so much I can go in depth with in rewriting your limiting beliefs. I actually have a video I'll put it here. It's a video where I share a worksheet on how to but I've made a lot of videos on that topic. Yeah, I'll post some down below as well. Moving on to number five, practice self-care and mindful habits. So you have to be taking care of yourself. That is one huge way If you are not taking care of yourself, if you're overextending your energy is draining, that's when you get just cranky, you're easily triggered. You're just not in a good place. So it's so important to prioritize self-care and the mindful habits that keep you feeling and calm, and positive. So it's different for everyone, but some really great habits are meditation, some sort of movement, whether it's yoga, walking. Any type of exercise really is good for making you feel balanced and positive. Journaling is huge for me because that's how I let out my emotions. It's how I kind of regulate how I feel and just come back to center. And things like simple Learn some breathing exercises to calm down your nervous system. That is how you protect your peace. There's so many like practical exercises and applications that you can The key here is to do them consistently. Literally make it like a non-negotiable in your daily routine to do something to nurture your self-care, do something to protect your peace. So whether it's like breathing exercises throughout some stretching, anything. Make sure you commit to Number six, unplug from So it's not realistic to unplug all the time. Clearly we have to stay connected, and technology, media is a part of life, but don't overdo it. I have this video on how that is super popular because a lot of us have this problem with over scrolling on social media, or the news, or Twitter, Know that when you are scrolling some sort of online media, most of the time it's an algorithm and it's out of your control. You're not being intentional You're just seeing whatever Instagram, or TikTok, The algorithm is And because the recommendations are basically out of your control, you cannot control that disturbs your peace, whether it's like an article, or it could be anything. But there are some things or maybe it's some posts that make you start getting self-conscious, There are so many things out there that can disturb our peace. So the best thing you can do scrolling media and technology. Be as intentional as you can with whatever media you consume. So like I said, you can't but make sure you're following that don't disturb your peace. And something that I like to do is I literally put time limits on all of the apps on my phone. Like I give myself like 30 minutes on social media apps a day on my phone because I have to make sure even if it's my job. Sometimes I find myself scrolling because I wanna research but then I end up staying on it for hours and then not feeling great about myself. So anyway, be as intentional as you can about the media you consume and do your best to limit it, positive influences as much as possible. Which brings me to my next point, design a positive environment. So we are a product of our environment and I don't think we realize our environment has on us, our lives, our mindsets, our routines. Even the layout of your home and the way you set things up in your room can influence your routine. And even the apps you have on your phone, the layout of the apps can Because if you have like social media apps right in the front, or you're bound to like you're bound to reach for whatever's easy. So reminder to design that suits you, that suits the ideal life that you want to live. So things you can do is maybe start your day with I love to play meditation, calming music, or classical music when I'm at home to just feel peaceful vibes. I'm all about calm vibes at home. And also, you can like I know you guys love the that I make on this channel. Even things like having The people that you see every day, the people that you talk to every day, that's also part of your environment. What else is part of your environment? Healthy food. You just want to make sure that you have good vibes all around. And another big thing is for me especially, is to not have too much And I say that because my but the reality is it is very messy often because Wilson is definitely I'm messy too sometimes, but anyway. I realize that I feel so much better when everything is organized, everything is in its place, and my countertops are clear. It just feels so good. It feels so clear. My mind is clear when So just do your best to but also remember that no one's perfect. Things are not going to be but you just have to kind of deal with it. But whatever you can change focus on that. Focus on putting a book by your nightstand if you wanna read, or put your favorite calming so you don't have to to get to where you wanna go. Make sure everything that is easily within reach. Then it will help you and ideal lifestyle. Number eight, find healthy So the reality of it is, no matter how much we sometimes our peace just We sometimes feel these and that's totally okay. All humans feel emotions. You would be weird if you just So in order to get those you have to find the right outlets. So find the outlets that feel good to you, whether it is journaling it exercising, running, blasting and running really hard, Or, for me, I also love singing. I love dancing. I feel like incorporating music, whether you're listening to really helps me express those emotions. It just really helps me get that energy out in a healthy way. Unhealthy way to express would be to lash out at your partner, I don't know, just be Those are negative ways The positive ways are or let me scream to I don't listen to screamo, For me, it's just... You can also find a safe space where you can let out these emotions, whether you want to jump around and kick or literally find a place at the top of your lungs if you like that. Everyone is different. So find what works for you. But there's definitely always a healthy way to express your emotions. Number nine is to practice daily gratitude. So gratitude is one of those things that the more you practice it, the happier you will become. I don't know why. It's just like magic. Just when you focus on good more good feelings come. I didn't make the rules. So if you can find time to practice gratitude every single day, whether it is a simple write three things you're or whether it's before you go to bed, you just say what you're Find your gratitude But the more you practice gratitude, the more you're rewiring your brain to think with gratitude. The more you practice it, the more you go about life, and then you find things Having a mindset of gratitude helps you pick up on the and the little moments in If you're not used to thinking about what you're grateful for, then you just go about and a lot of these beautiful things, beautiful moments happen to you, but you kind of don't see them. You're kind of like, &quot;Oh, that's just life, whatever, whatever.&quot; And so you're not like taking and truly appreciate like, Something as simple as let's say you bump into The amount of factors that had to come, that had to happen in is actually pretty amazing if you think of the statistics So if you had a grateful &quot;Wow, that was so amazing that I got to see this friend unexpectedly. Life is so amazing. I'm so grateful.&quot; So making gratitude a daily practice really helps you work It really rewires your mind for positivity and you just feel good about life. It really makes you a happier person. Final tip number 10 is to choose yourself. It's not selfish. It's called self-love and compassion. So this is a reminder, especially if you're the type of person that tends to put others before yourself. You tend to put everyone else or everything else above yourself. Remember to choose yourself. Because if you don't choose yourself, nobody's gonna be choosing you because they're choosing So you have to be the protect your peace. You have to be the one Give yourself what you need, be your own best friend, be your own guide. Literally be your number one cheerleader. Be your number one person for you because nobody else is doing that for you. You might have someone... Yes, some people in your They may love you really hard, but they're also busy with their own lives and they're not with you You. You are with yourself 24/7. So in order for you to truly be really great at protecting your peace, you have to learn to choose yourself. And this simply means to all of your decisions with Don't do anything that Everything that you do, should align with what feels good to you and who you are, who you wanna be. Choose yourself means always Put yourself first. Don't sacrifice. Don't overextend yourself. Don't do too much. Don't deplete yourself because you have to think about taking care of yourself first. Basically, don't sacrifice for anything or anyone. And if you do find yourself and wellbeing for anything or anyone, then it better be worth it. Maybe it's your baby and you're a mother, yeah, we gotta sacrifice It's up to you whether And in a way, that's because you chose that. You chose and you decided that you would want to sacrifice Let me know down below, from one to 10, how peaceful do you feel One being not peaceful at all, 10 is I have reached inner All right, let me know down below. And also let me know which one of these tips was your favorite, which one of these tips are Because you don't have to You can pick one that resonates with you and then start to implement All right, sending you so much love. And don't forget to check reclaiming your peace, reducing stress, setting boundaries, all of that. Sending you lots of love, and I'll see you in the next one. Bye. (gentle music)