Orlando, Florida. A few kilometers from the city center, several shopping mall-like buildings. We are in the heart of one of the largest prison complexes in the United States. It houses 3,000 detainees awaiting trial. A state-of-the-art prison, the new generation of American prisons. At the heart of the system, the Booking and Release Center. This 200 m2 hall resembles an airport waiting room. But for these men and women, only one destination: prison. Future detainees are registered and on file. 100 to 250 people pass through here every day. On the other side of that door, it is the prison guards who take over from the police. - This is the check-in location. Our job is to initiate custody proceedings. And we take responsibility for the detainees who are brought in by the police and the sheriff. Sergeant Applenalp has 300 guards under her command, a third of the staff. She often has to intervene at the registration centre, one of the most sensitive points of the prison. This man in the white shirt is showing bad will. Foreigner, he pretends not to understand English. - Mr. Meyer, let me explain something to you. Yes, this is America and freedom of expression exists. But when you are under my responsibility, when I give you an order, that I know you speak English, you must carry out this order. It's clear ? If you start again, we stop your registration procedure there. You will not have access to the telephone, you will go to the cell of inmates who do not obey the rules and it's going to get really tough for you. On this platform, men and women. Robbers, rapists or even murderers find themselves sitting next to drunk drivers or undocumented people. Everyone waits their turn. - In the old prisons, this process was very long. But here, on this platform, it's much faster. Rationalize time and space, this is the watchword in this remand center opened in 2006. - Take off your shoelaces. Here, the procedure goes 4 times faster than in a traditional detention center. - Look at the camera. Thanks. - Do you have anything else on you? The personal effects of arriving prisoners are confiscated and carefully listed. - In case an inmate accuses us of losing something, we can prove him wrong. We have an inventory of all business. We take pictures of them one by one. We can prove our good faith. The personal effects are then carefully classified and stored in a 100 m2 shed. Here, the order and efficiency of the system are supposed to avoid any dispute at the time of return. The prisoner must now submit to the taking of fingerprints, then at the medical visit. Check blood pressure and temperature. Last favor: the 3 phone calls he has the right to pass before going up to the dormitory or cell. Then, in small groups, new inmates watch a video about the terms of their stay in prison. *- Welcome to the Orange County Department of Correction. This video will help you understand the prison rules and to guide you in your installation here. Pay close attention. After viewing, detainees must certify in writing that they have understood the video. From now on, they will have to learn to live in a universe with its rules, those of prison staff, but also those of other prisoners. The America of skyscrapers and wide open spaces also holds a record, that of the largest number of prisoners in the world. More than 2 million people live behind bars. This is more than in any other developed country. On average, one in 115 adults is imprisoned. Overcrowding, gang rivalries, fights, sexual assaults, the calm that reigns in the prisons is only apparent. Orange County, this new generation remand center is one of the largest in the United States. Inside, more bars. The detainees are locked in glass cages. - We can come across cases of sexual assault or escape attempts. Omnipresent light, 24-hour cameras, despite this constant surveillance, we will see how the prisoners use tricks to circumvent the taboos. - Someone broke a broomstick then tied up some of his laundry with a knife and wrote: &quot;They will kill you&quot;. Bill has been locked up in Maryland for 28 years for murder. - It is the strongest who survive here and the weakest die. Keith is serving a 40-year sentence for several serious crimes. He spent 10 years in a maximum security prison, a particularly violent place. - There was a good chance that I would be stabbed or that I myself have to kill someone. Diving into the heart of the American prison system. Return to Orlando, Florida. It's 4am. Sergeant Applenalp goes to her place of work, the orange county jail. 30 minutes of travel during which she mentally prepares herself. - Every morning, I have to prepare myself psychologically before going to work. In general, I don't want to arrive with concerns who can prevent me from doing my job. So I do a little meditation. What is the hardest part of my job... it is that you must always be ready to react physically and psychologically. Most of the time I don't need to use physical force. But there is always the possibility something happens at any time and that's what causes the stress. In addition, you always have to be on the alert. I would say it's this need to be on constant alert which is probably the hardest part of my job. Sergeant Lynn Applenalp has been a penitentiary guard for 20 years. - Hello. As soon as she arrived, the sergeant was called urgently to the registration center. An agitated inmate has just assaulted a guard. Several agents must master it. The man is pinned against a padded table specially designed to facilitate the search of detainees without injuring themselves. - Keep one foot on the ground and lift the other. Even shoes are checked, in case a weapon is hidden. The whole operation is filmed by a guard, a way to guard against a possible blunder accusation. - I'd like to call someone. My mother. - Put your hands behind your head and don't move until the door is closed. - I film to have a trace of this incident. If ever force had been used, this video would be evidence to show what exactly happened. Avoid burrs, be efficient and ensure the safety of the guards as well as that of the detainees, these are the golden rules in this 3rd millennium prison. The incident under control, Sergeant Applenalp continues her rounds. In 20 years, she saw Florida's prison population double, then triple. And she witnessed all the changes related to this evolution. - What you will see this morning is a new style of prison. We transformed the old model, which was linear, with the bars, and we created pods. The pods are these fully glazed living spaces which look like aquariums. Inmates sleep in cells with 2 or 3 berths or in dormitories, depending on how dangerous they are. Beds, sinks, toilets, everything fits in a space of 12 m2 without any separation, any privacy. In the annex, the living room. The prisoners take their meals there, relax there, are bored there. Everything is organized in one place in order to minimize the movement of prisoners and the contacts between the pods. But the inmates always manage to find their tricks to circumvent the rule. These men, for example, use sign language to communicate through glass walls. A practice tolerated by the guards. - These pods can be found all around the control room. The inmates who live there are both part of the classical population than dangerous population. I'll take you to the control room. This is really the heart of this floor. Good morning ! To monitor, we have a hundred cameras. The guards thus see all the units. They have very little contact with the inmates inside. Trading with them is done from here or from a place called the control tower. The pod principle is to allow guards to communicate with inmates without physical contact. 2 guards manage the control room. Around them, 4 pods each housing 60 prisoners. 2 guards are enough to control 240 prisoners. Hard to do more efficiently. The pods are equipped with speakers. When guards need to communicate with inmates, they use a microphone from the control room. - Prepare for your lawyer's visit. Thanks. The incursions of the guards inside the pods therefore remain exceptional. - They go to the pods when there are problems. If someone needs us, if we need to carry out inspections or just to talk face-to-face with someone. But the officer's office isn't inside the pod at all. - Why ? - The style of this prison, the concept, it's for the safety of our staff, but also of our inmates. Tensions can rise or subside, but we do very good monitoring. We have cameras everywhere. 6 cameras in each pod, no blind spots. Control room supervisors can see every corner of the cells 24 hours a day... including in showers and even toilets. But that does not exempt the officers from making rounds, especially on the 3rd floor of the prison, a sensitive floor, that of the most dangerous prisoners. They are 2 per cell, in a space of about 10 m2. Here, the light never goes out, not even at night. Every evening and every half hour, these agents walk past the pods. They make sure everything is in order. - When carrying out safety inspections, we can come across cases of sexual assault or escape attempts. It has already happened in the past. Sexual assault between prisoners, a taboo word in prison. Embarrassed, the press officer who accompanies us intervenes and gives us a more official discourse. - When the officers make rounds, it distracts the inmates. It keeps them from doing... You know, what not to do. And the officers do their job very well. So it's rare that we come across complicated situations, such as rape. According to the US Department of Justice, more than 4% of detainees would have been victims of rape at least once during their stay in prison, i.e. about 80,000 people in 2010. In Orange County, despite all security measures, the violence of men but also of women detainees problem number 1 remains. Agent Fesselmeyer is part of the prison's anti-gang unit. In his office, he has a whole collection of homemade weapons confiscated from prisoners. - Here's a homemade knife. These improvised knives, they call them &quot;shanks&quot;. Someone broke a broomstick, then tied up some of his laundry with a knife and wrote: &quot;They will kill you&quot;. This improvised knife also taught me that it belongs to someone from a rival gang like Folk Nation, because it has a little fork here. Although it seems a little simple, in prison, this knife can do a lot of harm. The person was probably trying to make a handful. That's the kind of knife they strap around their hand so as not to lose it when they stab someone. Here is another weapon. It's nothing special, just a padlock and a sock. Prisoners tie the sock around the padlock, then they use it to hit someone on the head. They can do a lot of harm with this weapon. - When was the last time an agent was hurt? - I suffered the last big injury. Me and two other sergeants two weeks ago. A prisoner did not want to go back to his cell, he threw chairs in the air. A sergeant was injured, I decided to intervene. The prisoner was 20 years younger than me, he was much taller. It was a big fight. In this prison, despite the transparency of the pods and the draconian security, the number of officers injured during their service is constantly increasing. Here, on average, 5 guards are assaulted each month. Often very violent surprise attacks, as shown in this video filmed in another prison, in Texas. In these images, everything seems calm. The guards do not suspect that the 2 men on the phone are about to escape. In another room, other inmates start a fake fight, forcing the guard to leave his post. When the door opens, the 2 detainees take the opportunity to burst into the checkpoint. They go first to the goalkeeper, then to his colleague. One of them is violently thrown to the ground and beaten. He manages to get up. The fight continues. But meanwhile, it seems that one of the inmates activated the opening of a security lock located off-screen, thus allowing the other to escape. He will flee in a car waiting for him behind the prison while the other is overpowered by a guard. Orange County, 6 a.m. Lieutenant Bines is on a war footing. She oversees the anti-gang team, of which Agent Fesselmeyer is a part. She's just been called in to perform a surprise search. The team had a tip. An inmate is said to be in possession of a cell phone. It is urgent because a phone smuggled, it means a breakout may be brewing. - I will brief you before entering. We're going to undress them first. Men, you start with those who are at the back of the room. The women will watch the front. And I'm going to do all the security and I'm going to supervise. These inmates have just been awakened. They must leave their dormitory immediately. The search is about to begin. In this unit, prisoners share a large room. Each of them has a locker for their personal belongings. - Just take your towels. Open your lockers and don't touch anything. Agent Fesselmeyer is in charge of the body searches. - Open your mouth. Show well. Your ears. Do like this. Drop your underwear, bend down and cough. Go to the next one. One by one, the inmates will pass this exam. A full body search because it is often on themselves that the prisoners hide prohibited objects. - I'll close the door while we search. The inmates like to watch us to see where we are looking and to make sure we don't find their hiding place. It is better to close. Then, since we have an idea of the inmate who has the cell phone, we're going to target his space over here. Chances are he hid it there. Thanks to their informants, investigators have an idea of who may have this phone. So they're going to search the perimeter of his bunk. - These are tea bags. Take a look. - False ceilings are systematically searched first. There are always places to hide things in prison, whatever we do to prevent that. It's part of the game and the prisoners like to play. But we are here to ensure their safety and ours. - They are not allowed to keep perishable food, like the slices of bread they get for lunch and that they like to keep. Sugar, too. If they manage to hide fruit, they will use it to make alcohol. It's very simple, they mix oranges, bread and sugar, they leave to ferment for a few days, and lo and behold, they made alcohol. Personally, I wouldn't drink it. But they have no other means. I always look here to see if there are any hidden razor blades. Sometimes they put them in the corners. I don't even know how they manage to get certain things. The biggest problem we had was a guy with a cell phone. He denied having it. So Officer McCandele x-rayed him and the object was there, if you know what I mean. - No, I do not see. - They use their rectum to hide objects. They call it their baggage. And the guy did indeed have a phone in it. - Speaker ! - Interesting. Are there small batteries? Electronic components? - Looks like they took it on a phone. - Residents are quite astute. Many of them are probably electricians or come from other sectors and they create and build everything themselves. Phone parts and toilet paper rolls, here, everything can be hijacked. - I don't really read what's in the letters, unless they catch my attention. I fly over them. I watch everything related to gangs. The simplest things, like sentences or a drawing, we do not notice them. But when you've been doing this for a while, you understand right away. The search is over, but teams from the anti-gang unit did not find the famous mobile phone. However, the lieutenant remains confident. - We may not find anything today, but if one inmate sees another with a cell phone and that he doesn't share it with his buddies, we'll throw it at the officers. Inmates are invited to return to their space. But agent Fesselmeyer will not stop there. He fully intends to pursue the investigation with his own methods. - What I especially like to find are the little written notes. These papers tell me everything. Prisoners love to keep diaries and write letters to their girlfriends or boyfriends. So I take some things that I will return to them later. From time to time, I discover little words that gang members pass among themselves. So sometimes there is something, like in this letter. Thanks to my experience, I know immediately what it is. Captain Black and Blood. There, it's B for Blood. And the 5-pointed crown, these are universal symbols among gangs. I will read the letter diagonally to try to find something interesting. I'm mostly looking for street names, gang names. If I know the name of their street, I will be on the same level as them during our next conversation. Example with this prisoner member of a gang. - You're Emmy, right? The man is a newcomer to this prison. Agent Fesselmeyer wants to get to know each other. - I see you have a 6-pointed star. So apparently you're a gang member. What's your nickname ? - Casper. - How long have you been part of this gang? - Since I was 13. Emmy, nicknamed Casper, is a repeat offender. He has been in prison regularly for 20 years. At 13, he was imprisoned for a burglary, 20 years old for domestic violence. Today, he is there for the theft of several vehicles. - Do you have any other tattoos related to the gang? I've seen things about you before. I see you've already been to jail. The brothers in struggle, the devil's forge, the 6-pointed star... Were you part of the GDs? You weren't affiliated with the Bloods or the Crips? - No sir. - You're not causing trouble in prison. - No no. - We have Bloods members all over the prison. Do you have a problem with someone? Can you show me what you got here? Let me photograph them quickly, and then you can go back to your unit. I'm not trying to command you. You will stay here and continue to work. So as long as there's no problem, the gang won't bother you, okay? I appreciate it, man. If you need anything, come see me. Sergeant Fesselmeyer is the gang specialist. His look is an asset to gain the confidence of the prisoners. - You work in contact with tattooed prisoners. You too are tattooed. Is there a reason for this? - When I started to take care of the anti-gang unit a few years ago, they decided to call me &quot;Tattoo&quot;, like &quot;tattoo&quot;. The idea does not come from me. One day an inmate said it, and from there it stuck. The difference between my tattoos and those of the prisoners, it's that mine have nothing to do with gangs. When inmates see my tattoos, suddenly, they have less reluctance to approach me. They see me differently of a clean street policeman on him. It surely made my way of communicating with them easier, whereas without my tattoos, they would mean nothing to me. Thanks to that, I manage to work better, that's for sure. Each warden has his methods of gaining respect from the prisoners. Sergeant Applenalp greets each detainee with a wave of the hand. - If I walk around and don't stare at the prisoners, they'll think I'm scared or paranoid. As an officer, I have to look like a person who has confidence in her. A polite hello to inmates never hurts. It's also a way to keep in touch. - We're going to go see a recess. In this piece, a hundred prisoners relax or play cards. Suddenly, seeing our camera, a man, member of a gang, makes a sign to the attention of his brothers. 3 pointing fingers, clenched fist, 5 pointing fingers is 305, the rallying sign of the Miami gang. In prison, these codes are strictly prohibited. Sergeant Applenalp immediately calls him to order. - Sir, which dorm are you in? - In the Christian dormitory. - Earlier, you made signs. - Yeah, I'm sorry. - Could you do me a favor ? Wait for me in your dormitory, please. - OK. - I ask you nicely. I don't want to have any problems, okay? Wait for me in the dormitory. Thanks. Finally, this inmate gets away with a simple call to order. - No confrontation, good communication, no problem. Sergeant Applenalp handled the situation. Gangs are the scourge of American prisons. 60% of the prison population would be part of it. Prisoners at risk for guards because they clash at the slightest opportunity. Head to the outer courtyard. In this prison, all prisoners are entitled to 1 hour of outdoor recreation each day. The spaces provided for this are a few meters from the dormitory. Objective: to limit travel. But some detainees cannot be mixed with others. Too dangerous, they are in a cell, isolated 23 hours a day. And when they come out in the open, it's to go into these individual cages. 15 m2. They turn in circles like wild animals. It may surprise, but in reality, it is an improvement in their conditions of detention. - Before this individual cage system was designed, we had to use the same space for a single inmate because these men are too dangerous to cross, even during 1 hour. With the new system, you can take out 7 prisoners at a time. This allows us to offer recreation to everyone every day, while maintaining the necessary protection so that they do not attack others. Thanks to these new measures, inmates in solitary confinement are now entitled to a recess every day. According to management, they are 3 times less aggressive than before. But not all prisons have this infrastructure. According to the US Department of Justice, fights between prisoners are on the rise. Here's what can happen at any time in a dormitory where the detainees are grouped together. A simple altercation between 2 men causes a real riot between dozens of prisoners. Everyone gets into it. The opportunity to take out his weapons, like this man who hits others with a padlock hidden in a sock. Control the violence of prisoners, this is the problem facing all prisons, especially those that accommodate long sentences. Head to Maryland. In this state, a few large farms and 4 penitentiaries. Seen from the outside, this detention center looks like a university campus. Inside, more than 2,000 criminals locked up for several years, even their whole life. Here is the sports hall, a place frequented by inmates, and not just for fun. - It's my thing to stay in shape. I'm ready to defend myself and to fight back if something happens. It is the strongest who survive here and the weakest die. And I don't want to be weak and die. At 56, I can still resist. And that's what I do. But for that, I need to be healthy and ready to react. Bill has been imprisoned for 28 years. Charged with first degree murder in 1984, he was sentenced to capital punishment. A review of his trial 20 years ago allowed him to leave death row to join this prison. Here, the prisoners are occupied. Work relieves tension and allows them to get quite a few benefits. Bill chose to clean up. Every night, while the other prisoners sleep, he cleans the hallways for 25 cents an hour. A derisory salary, but he considers himself lucky. - This job is one of the few privileged jobs because he earns a little more than the others because we work at night. I need it to be able to make ends meet. I don't think of anything, it occupies my mind. And then, it's a job that I could exercise one day. There are many malls outside whose floor needs to be cleaned and polished. 6 a.m. Other prisoners work during the day and may apply to be employed in the prison business, a workshop that manufactures office furniture. These prisoners are among the highest paid in the prison system, $2 a day, but they never forget where they are. - It's a prison, we don't forget that. It's a jail. They tell you when to go to bed when to wake up and when to shut down. It's a prison, we have no illusions about that. We are clearly facing reality. And we are not happy to be there. Oli is serving a 25-year sentence for drug trafficking. As for Michael, he was sentenced for 3 acts of rape to 30 years in prison. - You realize that's part of the punishment too, being in jail. Sometimes you have to make sacrifices to be able to reintegrate into society. If Michael and Oli were able to get this job, it is because their conduct in prison is exemplary. Give-and-take, a basic principle found in most American prisons. Those who behave the best not only get the best job, but above all they reduce the length of their sentence. Each month worked is 10 days less in prison. - Every 3 years, you earn a year. We'll say that in 4 years, I'll be going home thanks to the benefit of this work which shortens my sentence by 10 days per month. I can save some money for my children to send them birthday presents. 'Cause even if you get locked up, you must still take care of your children. Here, all the prisoners use sharp tools. Powerful weapons. How is this possible in a prison? - How are you today ? When the director visits the workshop, we ask him the question. - We are in a prison, there is a pair of scissors on this table, why isn't that a problem? - If there were other places than here where it was allowed, yes that would be a problem. But in this workshop, you have an inspector who checks the material. He controls everything. He knows who has what and what tools they need to do their job. This prison seems calm and under control. However, it contains dangerous criminals. Keith was sentenced in 1990 to 70 years in prison for multiple armed assaults and kidnappings with forcible confinement. His first 10 years of detention, Keith spent them in a maximum security prison. But his good behavior allowed him to obtain his transfer here. Today he is one of the few inmates to be able to move freely in the prison. Ultimate privilege, he even has the right to an individual cell that he can lock and arrange in his own way. - My whole life is here. What do I have ? My chess set, my books, my typewriter, my TV, my radio, pictures of my daughter, my clothes, my music, my CDs, my gospel tapes and the newspapers I read. This small comfort helps Keith to support the daily newspaper. But he is well aware that outside, life goes on without him. - A lot of things happened. My mom died, my grandparents too. I only know the outside through my reading or watching TV. I don't know what society is like. Recently someone told me that the telephone booths had just disappeared, that there weren't many left. So I try to integrate these things in my head. Against the passage of time, Keith can do nothing. His only satisfaction since his transfer here: having survived 10 years in high security prison. - My biggest worry was that I was going to have to to kill someone to prevent someone else from killing me. After experiencing hell there, in high security, escaping it, I think I can get away with it. I'm optimistic I'll get through this. If Bill has his cell key too, he must share his 10 m2 with a fellow prisoner. - For now, I'm here. This is where they put me. It won't remain my permanent residence, I hope. But it's my home right now. Before living here Bill spent 8 years on death row. 8 years to see his fellow prisoners executed by lethal injection while waiting his turn. - When there was an execution, everyone had to go back to their cell and they dimmed the lights. At that time, you knew someone was being put to death. The night was very heavy and calm. The next day, it was routine, the usual daily life, breakfast, walk, work. As if nothing had happened. Bill hopes to get out of this hell by obtaining one day, perhaps, a review of his sentence. Back to the jail in Orange County, Florida. In this room, 3 people open some 2,000 letters a day. It is by post that 50% of the products prohibited in prison arrive. Each letter is therefore scrupulously checked. - We check all stains on the letters. Even lipstick can be a problem. This letter with lipstick will be sent back because that's where we can hide drugs. We remove the stamps because you can also hide some drugs on your back. Here, you can feel it with your fingers, it's rough and irregular. Most of the time, that's how drugs come. The inmates hide it in official legal letters. - What do you mean exactly? - It's mail from a lawyer or a court. Normally, we should not open this legal mail, unless you are in the presence of the detainee. So they try to take advantage of this rule. Even children's coloring pages are suspect. - On this type of drawings, we check that nothing comes off when we rub, especially when it's pastel, it comes off very easily by rubbing. Illicit substances can be hidden there. We have already found prisoners eating letters that concealed drugs. - You accept all these photos? - No, it has to be family photos. No nudity or suggestive images. You see, those kind of photos get sent back. Some really naive shippers even try to push through plans for future heists. - On this letter, someone tells how to rob an ATM. - Can you read it to me? - So we can read: &quot;Equipment needed: a stolen Ford 150 truck, &quot;a Chevrolet car, a concrete saw...&quot; It even indicates the address of a store. Here, defying prohibitions means grabbing a space of freedom. We are in the women's quarter. They pass the time by making greeting cards, collages. And with colored pencils bought at the prison store, they will be beautiful. The mine reduced to powder becomes kohl pencil to highlight the look. A trick of prisoners. Because here, make-up accessories are prohibited. Heather and Ashley are in jail for serious crimes. Heather for assault with a gun, Ashley for murder. Today, with what they found in the prison grocery store, these 2 criminals are going to cook. - I don't eat prison lunch. We're going to be served bolognese. I don't know if you want some, but I'm going to make myself a burrito. 1st step: crush and mix chips of several flavors. - I'll get some clean water for the mixture. No knives or sharp objects are allowed here, Ashley cuts the sausage with her prisoner card. This, too, is normally prohibited. - It's funny, it's the sausage from last night. - It is still good because you have preserved it well. By mixing hot water with the crisp powder, Heather gets some kind of sauce which she pours into the glass. During this time, the rest of the moistened chips continue to swell in the packet. This will form the dough. 2nd step: collect cheese to garnish the burrito. It's rudimentary, but Heather leaves no stone unturned. - Wait, there's a piece of cracker there that needs to be removed. You have to mix it well. Then it's time to take out the dough. - It's perfectly square. Heather now spreads the cheese and she fills the tortilla with the pieces of sausage and Chinese noodles. - Look, isn't it great? Here's my lunch. While the other inmates fetch the dish from the canteen, Heather and Ashley, they taste their masterpiece with satisfaction. When the meal is over, the young women go back to their cell. Tonight, Heather receives a visit from her boyfriend. She wants to look her best. No make-up products are allowed, let alone accessories such as tweezers, sharp and therefore dangerous. So you still have to be tricky to get around the rules. - My tweezers... - Very cool ! - Don't let the guards find him. Hide it in your bra. Look at this. - Owl ! - Hey, what's going on? - Nothing, we pluck our eyebrows. Oh no ! Oh, I'm sorry. - Yes. Where did you find it? Let me guess. Ah, is that a thread you pulled from your jacket hem? - Yes. - Well, I learned something new today. And I've been here for a while. I'll show you how. - No no no no no ! - We're just trying to look good. - Sure. And you have a visitor today? - Yes, it will be fine. He's been coming every Saturday for 7 months. - He's caring. - Yes, he is very devoted. He's a nice man. I am really happy and very grateful to him. Back to Orange County, Florida. A few dozen meters from the prison is the brand new visitor center, a state-of-the-art system. Here, each inmate is entitled to 3 visits per week, instead of just one in a traditional prison. But visitors must content themselves with seeing their loved ones from afar. - Your visitor number? What time is the visit scheduled? Tomorrow at 5 a.m.? You're welcome. Goodbye. Tours take place between 9 a.m. and 9 p.m., 7 days a week. They last 45 minutes. But if such schedule flexibility is possible, the price to pay is heavy. Prisoners and their visitors only see themselves filmed through a screen, a virtual system that keeps inmates a little further away the real world and their families. - Father ! No more face-to-face, no human warmth, all in the name of safety, to avoid the risk of smuggling and the movement of detainees. - But people don't prefer to be physically close, even if they can't touch each other? - People want to be close prisoners they visit, but safety is our priority. We try to respect this desire for closeness and give them what they need. One of the advantages of video tours, is that they help reduce smuggling. It is also a security measure. If ever there is a problem between a visitor and a prisoner, they will argue by video, without any physical contact. - They don't mind not being physically in front of the person they come to see? - Yes, of course, but safety comes first. Tonight, as planned, Heather has an appointment with her friend. She settles in front of the screen near her cell. He too is in front of a screen, but in another building. They now have 3 quarters of an hour ahead of them. - Hey, hello, baby! Did you receive my letter ? - Yes. - How was your interview? - Good. Show me your drawing. Yep I'm fine. - Do you remember the cartoon I told you about? - Oh yes. Don't worry, it will be our secret. When the screen goes black, this is the sign that the visit is coming to an end. As always, Heather's friend comes out frustrated. - I will not hide from you that old-fashioned visits I miss you a lot. - Why ? - Well, because at the end of the visit, we could touch each other, hug. The new system is a bit impersonal, but I understand. In the 90s, if you had good behavior, your relatives were allowed to visit you in person. Yes, it was good to have this physical contact. Of course, it's always nice to see them, even if it's on a tv screen and we can't touch each other. One does what one can. Paradoxically, this impersonal system However, it seems to appeal to some families. No security checks or searches, visitors save time and no longer have to undergo what some experienced as a humiliation. This type of prison tends to become the norm in the United States. Rationalize the conditions of detention as much as possible, even if it means dehumanizing them, it is at this price that the American prison system manages increasing numbers of prisoners.