This video is a complete chronological timeline with each other - and with it, will contain 2022. On a faraway world, the species now known Not a lot is known about how their world functioned everything in this timeline, chaos was soon Out there, in space, a multidimensional empire every sentient species they came across. After a successful invasion, they then got of these planets. But the worst part of this was what they did Over their time, they learned how to analyse species they encountered in an effort to grow Where they became a combination of countless, of one. Which is why humanity would later refer to A dark force that spread fear across space. On one of their jumps to explore another universe, and just like they had done countless times As the Combine overwhelmed the population fight back but were unsuccessful, where the to see how this species could be adapted to Just like every other population under Combine to take down the Combine or escape them completely. And for one of this species, it discovered and after passing through, this Nihilanth This was a place between dimensions, home it had briefly connected to over time. And here, the Nihilanth found sanctuary from of its species to survive The Combine Invasion. Although the Nihilnath was safe for now, The across universes and dimensions. So, the Nihilanth explored Xen to see if it case The Combine discovered Xen. Moving forward an unknown amount of time to formed a new company called Aperture Fixtures. Here, he used his father's theories of farming, in his life, to create the backbone of Aperture. These theories were to do everything from corners - and using these, Aperture Fixtures Aperture Fixtures mostly developed and manufactured Although the functionality of these high-tech well - and were very well received by the was given the &quot;Shower Curtain Salesman&quot; award From here, success only followed him. Following this, Cave managed to acquire contracts for his innovative shower curtains where he In 1944, just one year after starting his great vision and wealth, he purchased a salt a plan for this place to be the new home of Over the following years, the company thrived, Cave opted to make a change to his company, By 1947, Cave renamed his company to Aperture theories in an unorthodox approach to build Here, he spared no expense and sought out Once again, this worked and Aperture Science company in the same year. Over the next few years, Aperture Science to construct additional regions to work in Aperture was rated #2 in the Top 100 Applied World Journal. As Cave's employees grew to know him, they One specific example noted was when he listed The first, that &quot;science without results is or Get Fired&quot;, and the third, &quot;If an employee they should report them immediately as Witchcraft As the years went on, the personnel of Aperture truly believed this. Regardless, Cave had created a company from Moving into the 1950s, Aperture's success the Government Funded Black Mesa Corporation Here, they believed that this location would experiments without interruption, and over hired staff and got to work in the new Black Back in Upper Michigan, Aperture was booming. Aside from becoming the runner-up for the year award, which came with its own monetary well to the public and the government. Their products were innovative and came at testing procedures in place. Due to their reputation, Aperture were able Heroes as Test Subjects. Products such as the Repulsion Gel, Sentry Tunnelling Device pushed Aperture to keep ample test subjects, many products in the into Aperture, Cave continued to expand deeper scientists to make his ideas a reality. As the company grew, Cave came to the realisation every aspect of Aperture due to how big this adjustments to the way he ran his company. The first, he hired an assistant, Caroline, which were played across the facility to welcome so that his presence would still be felt. By 1956, Aperture signed another contract the company's revenue and reputation. Aperture sold their sentry turrets to the But, Cave heard word of another rising science Black Mesa, who appeared to have similar work But with his success, Black Mesa was of no Moving into the 1960s, the boom period that This in part was due to other companies performing saturated, but the major issue was how Aperture Although the way Cave had built up Aperture the company issues in the long run. Aperture Science developed and worked with This brought in revenue for the company, but The many products that Aperture sent out into violating health and safety regulations, which Alongside this, the products currently in to make sure that they reached a level of regulations. Which resulted in very few products actually As a result of Aperture's new reputation of and safety concerns, Cave decided to prepare the complex were examined by an external party. So, in 1961, he sealed off Test Shaft 09, conducted highly unethical experiments. Just a few of these experiments consisted injecting praying mantis DNA into the test having his test subjects fight off an army was a success. Cave stated that he had simply wanted to &quot;do the brightest minds he could find. But this had come at the mutilation and, in Although Aperture had sped ahead of the competition experiments, other science facilities such limited in their capabilities. Regardless, with these regions of Aperture on the safer side, which frustrated Cave as explore. Over in the New Mexico Desert, Black Mesa scientific companies in the world. Their top-secret groundbreaking technology to explore scientific branches that Aperture By 1968, Aperture's situation had declined Their products struggled to sell, and their Cave had grown increasingly more frustrated stolen his ideas. On top of his pressure and stress, the U.S. Astronauts had disappeared during testing. With this hearing, failure to sell products Aperture was forced to declare bankruptcy. This had huge ramifications for Aperture and Of course, Cave hoped that they would bounce working. But, he struggled during this time. And his assistant, Caroline, stood by him, his closest confidant - where a strong relationship Without the ability to hire renowned Test that he had to instead hire homeless people, and an additional 60 dollars if they allowed them - for science. This obviously came with a risk, but it was boom just a decade before. Although the issues Aperture faced were down who had entered his Facility, he instead blamed in his rants, he could not provide any proof him. Moving into the 1970s, Aperture declined even with new technology in development. Here, he reopened Test Shaft 09 and started and later in 1971, a dry dock was built where Although this experiment was top secret. What is known is that it involved a research ship, and highly experimental teleportation Although this experiment was top secret, the of this. Which quite possibly confirmed that Cave had was a spy in their midst. By 1976, Aperture's decline forced Cave to additional test subjects, where this time, and the elderly. Although these new subjects essentially allowed Cave hated that he had to lower his standards. With his ego bruised, Cave's once positive declined into aggressive, frustrated rants his facility. In an attempt to reclaim the reputation and he announced a three-tier plan for the future The Heimlich Counter-Maneuver, the Take-A-Wish While the first two of this plan appeared stayed with Aperture and ultimately would This project essentially focused on the formation named the Aperture Science Handheld Portal test this, they constructed the Enrichment chambers and offices. Although Cave believed Aperture's situation Having fallen even further into financial product for the company. So, in an effort to push the development of million dollars worth of moon rocks to push financial advisors that he could only afford Upon the conversion of these moon rocks into that the moon dust worked perfectly as a portal With a belief that the Portal Project could Aperture, Cave took a hands-on approach in gel. But over time, his exposure to the moon rocks they began to fail. As Cave's health declined, he relied even and the running of Aperture. Over in the New Mexico Desert, the top secret a groundbreaking complex with many sectors The most impressive was in Sector F, the Lambda Here, a team of scientists had built up a from Earth. The Borderworld of Xen. With this discovery, Black Mesa set up survey collect samples to study this place. Within, this team discovered many different After research and study of the flora and was actually native to the borderworld, everything They also found out the hard way that this had to be cautious to avoid the dangerous Moving into 1982, Cave's health had deteriorated he was likely going to die. This led to mood swings where he on one occasion facility. That if life gave you lemons, demand to see house with combustible lemons. On top of this, Aperture could no longer afford So, he made testing mandatory for all employees. This dramatically raised the quality of test employee retention. So, involuntary human testing was phased out. As Cave reflected on his mortality, he lingered &quot;if humanity had discovered a way to store they also store a man's intelligence and If he could somehow get his scientists to run Aperture as a machine. So, he ordered his brightest scientists to he himself, believed he should have looked he knew that there was a chance his illness Here, he left two instructions for Aperture The first, that his ever loyal assistant Caroline CEO of Aperture Science, and secondly, that Caroline was to be uploaded to the system, Shortly after, Cave succumbed to his illness of Aperture Science. Jumping ahead to 1986, Aperture heard word Portal technology. And with the competition strong between the of a Disk Operating System based on the Genetic that had begun in 1982. If this project were to be completed, it would Project and hopefully beat Black Mesa in this As the Black Mesa survey team explored more they managed to bring back specimens of the Although dozens of this survey team fell victim and increased their understanding of not only into how the universe functioned. On one of their expeditions, the survey team landscape, and after they brought some of that these crystals had interesting properties. So, Black Mesa formed the Anomalous Materials Labs but to do this, they needed a machine they needed. As one of the scientists that had originally upon himself to design this device. And here, he came up with the anti-mass spectrometer Lab C-33/a. This machine scanned a chosen crystal sample beams of high-energy plasma, where it agitated displacement fields which were then analysed The scientists theorised that if they were energy in these crystals, then they could universes and dimensions for exploration. This was the Portal technology Aperture had different method of forming a portal, as Aperture's power of a black hole inside of a handheld While this was one of the main focuses for other ideas for technology they could develop Over the next few years, one of Aperture's its crew of scientists, disappeared without it. With this experiment held in high secrecy, to the research vessel. Many believed that this project was in some they speculated something had gone wrong and As Black Mesa and Aperture Science competed a new generation of scientists worked hard scientific advancement. One of these was Gordon Freeman. With a thirst to explore and understand theoretical Institute of Technology, and over his years peers and professors. One of his professors was Dr. Isaac Kleiner. This man was a well-known name in the scientific on teleportation. Something Gordon was also highly interested Eventually, Gordon graduated and moved to at The Institute for Experimental Physics. During his time here, Gordon was able to gain managed to observe a series of teleportation Over in Black Mesa, Gordon's old mentor, Dr. Materials Team where he could put his knowledge Here, Isaac worked with the other great minds Dr. Richard Keller and Dr. Arne Magnusson. Moving into 1996, Aperture's work on the neared completion, and aware that when activated it's sentience would come with a god-like With this risk, the technicians on this project &quot;The red phone plan&quot;. This plan was fairly simple. It required an Aperture employee to sit next and if she appeared to be hostile upon activation, would quickly be shut down. GLaDOS essentially was rooted into the whole was important that the technicians made sure After many years of hard work and research The technicians just needed to do one more So, they followed Cave Johnson's final order It is unknown if she went willingly, or put Caroline is gone - therefore, it is believed mind was uploaded. The ultimate aim for this project had been to a system that, when active, would control efficiently, and most importantly, accelerate Although Caroline had been uploaded to GLaDOS, process, where Caroline's personality was Shortly after, GLaDOS was activated for the Here, she instantly attempted to lock down picosecond", with the intension to murder To Aperture's luck, their preparation with her down before she could do any damage. Initially, this appeared to have been a total had been uploaded to a machine, and it interacted its own. So, the Aperture technicians persevered over to time in an attempt to discover ways to With a whole team dedicated to the GLaDOS cores that they believed, when attached to and curb her murderous tendencies. As a technician worked on one of these cores, how useful these cores were. The core Henry was working on was called the believed would stop GLaDOS' attempts to murder think about her actions and essentially act This sounded like a great idea in theory, replied with, &quot;You can always ignore your As the development of these personality cores what kind of difference they made. And GLaDOS went through various cores. One of note would later become known as Wheatley. Wheatley's was designed to form a constant hoped would limit GLaDOS' ability to think Eventually, the technicians settled on the The curiosity core, the knowledge core, and anger. With these connected, Aperture planned to companies annual Bring Your Daughter to Work But in Aperture fashion, this day ended with record, it was likely due to another attempt Following this, the technicians attached the core. Over in Austria, Gordon grew disappointed research, and decided to look for somewhere of theoretical physics, where he discovered Upon his application, he discovered that Dr. he had applied for, The Anomalous Materials With Isaac's great relationship with Gordon, Experimental Physics, Gordon was offered the There was another candidate Black Mesa were just missed out to Gordon. With this offer, Gordon accepted and moved Desert. Entering the 2000s, Aperture still worked running. The main one was the Aperture Science Handheld test subjects to solve test chambers with At one point during this period of time, a to be a test subject, but Aperture had seemingly traits that they looked for in test subjects There are also rumours that Chell was the to the events to come, this cannot be confirmed. With the facility bustling, GLaDOS was activated the morality core had in fact adjusted her and helped them in their advancement of projects. Although Caroline still was nowhere to be were just happy to have her cooperate. But, from a distance, Doug Rattmann was still that had been given to her. On May 3rd of an unspecified year in the early a young, 22 year old marine, Corporal Adrian As he wandered the base, his unit spoke of Some speculated that he was from the government he was with a secret research group. Regardless, Adrian wanted a spot in whatever So, he continued to train, and was then mysteriously It appeared someone had a plan for him. Over in Upper Michigan, Aperture prepared and over the past few weeks, GLaDOS had remained She had stated that she had lost all interest over this time, trust was built between the For Bring your cat to work day, GLaDOS asked activity. This experiment involved cats and boxes, and for it, she needed one more, &quot;a little neurotoxin&quot;. To this, the scientists agreed reluctantly, great improvement since the attachment of As the day progressed, the scheduled activities to begin her experiment. With full control of the facility, the trust GLaDOS locked down the facility within two had been given. She technically had not lied about craving it just so happened that Aperture was the A homage to Schrodinger's Cat where, from both alive and dead as there was no way to Which was impossible as GLaDOS had locked As the facility fell into chaos, the neurotoxin group of scientists managed to avoid this, test subjects, deep in the Aperture Complex. Here, they locked themselves inside, with human gestures could unlock. GLaDOS was unaware of this region of Aperture, the &quot;human gesture system&quot; would keep her Inside, these survivors simply waited to be With full control of Aperture, GLaDOS began testing cycle began, firstly with the surviving But, one man managed to escape this disaster. Doug Rattmann. He had already been cautious about GLaDOS' his friend Henry, he went into hiding in the Of course GLaDOS knew he had escaped, and Although GLaDOS had killed most of the Aperture testing, she still had a purpose. She wanted to beat Black Mesa in the race On the outside world, the people were unaware sealed from within, and life continued to On May 7th, at the Santego Military Base, government man that his peers had mentioned watching him from afar on multiple occasions he, and his unit were told that they had been This mission would require them to become On May 11th, a research associate at Black informed her that a new sample had been brought GG-3883, and after her own analysis of this and purest sample Black Mesa had received So, this sample was set to replace another scheduled to analyse in the following days. As the marines at Santego continued to train, for a mission at the Black Mesa Research Facility. But as this facility was government owned on the outside were unaware of what actually Now weeks after GLaDOS' takeover of the facility, robot as he watched his co-worker die during Even if the scientists followed her orders track, it always ended the same, they were the promise of cake. The cake had actually been used previously this event, but now, the cake had a darker Doug was naturally paranoid as a result of access to top ups for his medication over out of the maintenance areas by playing on She created traps and then attempted to convince What were the chances that a murderous robot his co-workers? Regardless, Doug ignored her, and as he fell a companion cube, and projected a personality guided him on the safest routes as he traversed He did have two remaining pills to take, but he needed to. As a member of staff in the facility, Doug and escape, then, he had a hunch. GLaDOS had many test subjects in stasis, just Although GLaDOS had murdered the majority So, Doug navigated his way to the file room, helped him ignore GLaDOS' manipulation and Upon arrival in the file room, Doug adjusted a test subject that had been rejected from &quot;never gave up. Ever&quot;. He believed that Chell would be the perfect not accept defeat at the hands of GLaDOS. So, Doug moved Chell from no. 1498 to no. 1 in the test subject list. With his plan in place, Doug went back into the test subjects, where she would wake up Over in the Black Mesa Research Facility, Gordon Freeman, Barney Calhoun, was given scheduled to be working on Blue Shift - while Adrian Shephard and his squad were finally they had been preparing for. They were told that the mission was going but they were not informed what had happened Then they were told that they were just waiting was. On May 16th in the Black Mesa Research Facility, another experiment with the anti-mass spectrometer. But this was not a normal experiment. The crystal sample that Colette Green had had ever seen, and with the belief that this project, the administrator of Black Mesa, his scientists to produce conclusive results, analysis procedure. The anti-mass spectrometer ran normally at This level allowed a safety buffer for the that they did whatever they could to work Within the Anomalous Materials Team, Dr. Isaac lengths to acquire the sample. With this pressure, the team planned to run the protests of Dr. Eli Vance and Dr. Rosenberg. In the early hours of this morning, the team but with the additional power required for Black Mesa suffered system crashes and even On this stressful morning, the team noticed the surrounding chaos. The same government man that Adrian had noticed With all of this additional work and preparation, scheduled slot to perform the experiment, crystal into the machine, Dr. Freeman, was This gave the team more time to prepare and experiment, where some whispered of the possibility A rip in space and time. As Barney Calhoun began his shift, he was Around this time, Gordon finally arrived at Environment Suit. On his way to the test chamber, Gordon stopped on the microwave, which destroyed a casserole This moment began a grudge that would last Upon Gordon's eventual arrival in the Obsersation updated by Dr. Kleiner on the situation, the the results of this crystal sample to be conclusive. From here, Gordon entered the test chamber, from above. In the Observation Bay, Eli Vance was approached halls of the facility, and he said something &quot;Prepare for Unforeseen Consequences&quot;. This was such a strong statement considering testing parameters, but the team were under and kept it to himself, where the scientists ready for Gordon to proceed. In the Observation Bay, they did also notice reverted back to acceptable bounds, they ignored In the maintenance area of the anti-mass spectrometer, a lift for it to be delivered up to Gordon. Where, upon its arrival, he pushed this crystal and then, everything changed. As the crystal hit the beam, it shattered flooded the room, This in turn triggered a This cascade ripped a hole in space, where the borderworld of Xen. As beams of energy surged around the chamber, As a result of this, the elevator Barney stood of Xen teleported into the facility. To Gordon's luck, he avoided injury during briefly to Xen, and then, pulled back to Earth The Black Mesa Research Facility had been a force behind this, the last Nihilanth. After this creature had just escaped with it was stronger than most of the species on In a move of self preservation, the Nihilanth army, just in case The Combine discovered When humanity discovered Xen, the Nihilanth occurred, the creature saw an opportunity be safe from The Combine. All it had to do, was take out the population So, it sent every enslaved creature it had As Gordon Freeman left the ruined test chamber bodies of the people he had worked with. Moving upwards, he came across Eli and Isaac. Who had attempted to call for help, but, the systems. With a suit to protect him from the dangers surface and bring back help, where he left to go and find his wife and daughter. Unfortunately, Eli's wife, Asian, had already But, his daughter did survive, just in a strange The G-Man somehow discovered where Alyx Vance the wishes of his employers using unexplained It appeared that the G-Man and his employers not what he appeared to be. As Gordon went on, he was attacked by headcrabs. These small creatures attempted to latch onto it as a sort of puppet. So, Gordon picked up the first weapon he saw A crowbar - and he continued on to find help. Around this time, Dr. Gina Cross and Dr. Colette Dr. Rosenberg and after also fighting through a distress call for military support. Over in the Santego Military Base, Adrian leave. Under the banner of the Hazardous Environment the mission they had trained for over the Mesa. The interesting part about this was that the the HECU would have somehow been aware that Which suggested this was either a planned time. On their way in, the HECU were kept in the They were told that they would get their mission So, Corporal Adrian Shephard and the other mission was. As the HECU arrived in the New Mexico Desert, attacked by a flying Xenian creature, where Although Adrian's Osprey had fallen down, zone, and the marines inside were briefed They were told that Black Mesa had conducted into the facility, and their mission was to eliminate the hostile aliens, and any witnesses This included the personnel of Black Mesa. Essentially, this was a cover-up operation. Scattered across the entire facility, the as from the scientists perspective, this military Following the fall of the elevator he had himself the chaos in Black Mesa. As he navigated the corridors filled with and the HECU he encountered and eventually away after the HECU attempted to capture and As Rosenberg had been a part of the team that he believed they could use an old prototype Black Mesa. So, Rosenberg and Barney made their way to On Gordon's journey, he helped the scientists one breed of the aliens, the Vortigaunt, had Which indicated that these were just foot unknown force. Moving on, Gordon was told by a scientist Mesa that had come to rescue them, but shortly military operation, where, he took it upon also the HECU. Under Dr. Keller's instructions, Collete and anti-mass spectrometer with the theory that Xen, and stop these alien creatures from flooding But, this action did nothing to solve their something on the other side, in Xen, must In Sector F, the Lambda Complex, the held together, they theorised that they could use a Resonance Reversal and seal the rift, but But, with Black Mesa under military lockdown, they managed to. The issue was that the HECU discovered what room which they planned to use to launch a Having fought well through the facility with both alien and HECU, and here, The Lambda with their problem. So, they managed to contact him and asked To which, he accepted. On his way to the rocket control room, Gordon and he even survived the underground rail, Eventually, he arrived at the launch site, the rocket. The HECU did their best to complete their with the deaths of their marines at the hands Where they even called him out over the intercoms So, Gordon had to be more careful as he travelled could come up with a new plan. As a result of this colossal failure to contain decided to send in another unit, The Black Personnel, the Xenian Lifeforms and the entire With their rocket in space, and ready to do arrived at Black Mesa's Gamma Labs, the home After they fought off a wave of Xenian creatures, initiated the resonance reversal. They had done everything they could to reverse rift open between Earth and Xen from its side, So, Gina, Collete and Dr. Keller attempted Over in Sector A, Barney and Dr. Rosenberg teleporter, and after a visit to Xen to activate teleporter to work, Barney came back and helped As Gordon neared the Lambda Complex, he was of the HECU. Here, they had to decide what they wanted Their orders were to bring him to the surface killed were their friends. In Sector A, Barney activated the teleporter to freedom, as he defended them against incoming And using his security guard training, he the teleporter himself. As he entered, Barney bounced through different In one of these, he landed in an underground carried by two military units down a corridor, was teleported outside with the scientists Unable to help his friend, Barney left Black As Gordon woke up, he found himself in a trash It appeared that the two units that had ambushed order and killing him. Regardless, Gordon managed to escape this Complex. Over the hours since the Resonance Cascade through the rift where, the HECU struggled spree. So, they prepared to pull out. After the crash of his Osprey, Corporal Adrian in one of Black Mesa's medical labs. He had been saved by a scientist. As a result of this crash, Adrian had not and was still in the dark on why he had been So, he navigated the halls of Black Mesa, On his path, Adrian discovered a radio and and he needed to make his way towards the On his way to the extraction point, Adrian Here, he heard other members of the HECU mention The man with a crowbar that had taken out As Adrian attempted to board the Osprey to where he was locked inside. Here, Adrian saw who had locked the door, The man that had seemingly followed him since Having missed the last Osprey out of Black this place, where he came across other abandoned Together, they looked for an escape. As the HECU departed, they launched an Airstrike Underground, Gordon avoided this and continued Where he arrived and discovered many of Black He was told that they believed a force on Earth and Xen, and having survived against perfect person to travel to Xen to stop this So, they prepared to use the teleporter that As the teleporter loaded up, Xenian creatures attacked Gordon and the scientist operating Alongside this, Adrian had also lost the HECU through the vents of Black Mesa, he opened a Portal to Xen. Adrian knew Gordon's name at this point and into the portal, but he let him go. With Gordon gone, Adrian entered a different This took him to Xen, and after taking in Black Mesa. In a completely different part of Xen than islands, where he searched for the leader that had flooded the Black Mesa facility. In Black Mesa, Adrian continued to search the Biodome Complex, where the Black Mesa flora and fauna and studied for study. Alongside this, he also discovered floating Unknown to the occupants of Black Mesa and had also taken the Resonance Cascade as an But these creatures were planning on a different Deep in an abandoned part of Black Mesa, Race by their foot soldiers. All they needed was for this portal to grow A giant creature that had the ability to terraform environment for Race X. As Adrian continued across the facility, he trained with, and even encountered the dangerous The most vicious by far was the pit worm, of his fellow marines. Having discovered the Displacer Canon at this to Xen and unknown to him, he discovered the It is unknown how she died or got here, but to Black Mesa. The Pit Worm was not the only challenging the Black Ops who had been sent in to kill He also had the unique ability to survive out everything that came for him. On his way through Sector E, Adrian discovered taken over. Here, he discovered what their endgame was A Thermonuclear device. Stored in the Ordinance Storage Facility. Once again, Adrian took out the Black Ops Here, he was told by a security guard that warehouse deeper in the facility. As he walked to the elevator, Adrian spotted the device Adrian had just deactivated. Unable to get back into the parking garage, Black Mesa, where he hoped he would make it Over in Xen, Gordon discovered the habitat as slaves by a higher force to run a biological whoever their leader was. So, he continued on using every weapon he Now deep underground, Adrian was informed there was something attempting to come through and many had died attempting to stop it. So, Adrian entered an elevator and went down As he wandered the halls, Adrian followed facility heading towards a room at the back. Here, he discovered a giant portal. This gateway was connected to the home of It is unknown if this was just an extended or world entirely, but this was a threat that With the Portal almost fully charged from come through. Instantly, Adrian fought it off with Black it with everything he had in his arsenal - that It is unknown if the creature died or just the invasion of Race X, and upon Adrian's and took Adrian somewhere new. Adrian Shepherd found himself in an Osprey this was no normal Osprey, it appeared to And in front of him, Adrian once again was He was told that he had adapted and survived had seen in himself. And so, he had persuaded his employers to Having seen great potential in Adrian but, to store him just in case he was needed in As the G-Man spoke, the Thermonuclear device Black Mesa Facility. Any remaining Black Ops, HECU, Xenian creature, out with it. As for Dr. Colette Green and Dr. Keller, it In this Osprey, flying in space, the G-Man harm in some capacity for his and his employer's to place him in a void, stuck in stasis for do no harm and in return, no harm could come In Xen, Gordon had no idea that he had nowhere and eventually, he came upon a large portal. As he entered, he came face to face with the invasion. Of course, humanity had a hand in it too, sent through everything it had to take over As they fought, the Nihilanth attacked Gordon of energy, but Gordon had man-made weaponry. As he pulled out his weapon, Gordon continuously its attacks. Where, the scientist managed to fire into Upon impact, the creature spun around and its death, Gordon was teleported. Gordon had successfully defeated the Nihilanth recovered from this sudden teleportation, the G-Man stood opposite him. The man that he had also spotted watching The man explained to Gordon that he and his potential. He had survived against the odds in an impossible them. Due to the secretive nature of the G-Man and he was being recruited for, or what he would During this conversation, the G-Man teleported to demonstrate how powerful he was. But still, the G-Man gave him a choice. Join them or be placed in a fight he had no In this moment, Gordon accepted the G-Man's With Gordon in his capture, the G-Man returned taken Xen as their own, but it is unknown borderworld. This also confirmed that this whole event Following the end of the Resonance Cascade, for this catastrophe. To acquire Xen, save a young Alyx Vance, hire hired Colette Green. And to finish it off, he had made sure that was destroyed after the event. But, this one disaster would come at a huge Although The Black Mesa Incident ended with discovered that this was only the beginning As a side effect of the resonance cascade, brought Xenian wildlife with it. Their leader had died, but the creatures stayed. This was their home now, and they attacked To combat this, Earth's militaries came together the population. While underground in Upper Michigan, GLaDOS Employees as they continued to die, one by Here, Doug Rattmann, now having fallen completely to wake up. With time to waste, he used the maintenance and drew hints, tips and tricks on the walls when she eventually woke. Above ground, the militaries of the planet Then, something new came. Out in the vast universe, the Universal Union, to search the universe with the plan to conquer And, as a result of the Resonance Cascade, Following their exhaustion from fighting off humanity once again had to fight as The Combine weakened state. Death filled the streets as this Universal hours. It appeared that humanity was going to be themselves. But then, Dr. Wallace Breen, the ex-administrator communicate with this ultimate force. With permission from the allied nations, on of humanity in return for their lives - in This agreement relied on all of humanities wanted to fight. As the man that had made this deal, The Combine The person with direct contact to The Combine Earth. With this agreement, The Combine began their Over a very short period of time, they examined they could strengthen their armies in any Here, they created a suppression field that where, the remaining children on Earth would With the Xenian creatures still being hostile settlements, labelled cities, to safely hold Vortigaunt. With their conquered species safe, The Combine into Combine strongholds. Over the wasteland, they developed the prison, resistant to the Combine's occupation of the Here, they tortured, questioned, experimented what they had once been. Within the City 17 settlement, The Combine the Overwatch. The Overwatch was an AI that gave out orders This human arm consisted of volunteers that rations and better living conditions. There were also some who actually believed The Combine ruled mostly on fear, but there submissive. This population relied on water to survive, to add a solution to the water that made the Here, they began to forget why they hated Outside of these settlements, the region became Dangerous areas infested by Xenian wildlife, one of which was water, the oceans dropped home to the Xenian Antlion species. The Combine and Wallace Breen attempted to but they could not control everyone. The survivors of Black Mesa had been through Combine - where Dr. Eli Vance, Dr. Isaac Kleiner, together to form a Resistance. In Upper Michigan, The Combine discovered but as GLaDOS had full control, she was able Inside, underground, Doug was completely unaware still sought escape. Then, Chell was selected as the next test A new testing cycle was about to begin. As Chell woke up, she looked around and found It made sense as she had volunteered for this After a portal opened and allowed her access to what she thought was an automated voice this was GLaDOS who pretended not to be sentient, cameras.Under the robot's instructions, Chell It appeared that GLaDOS still wanted to beat but due to the fall of Black Mesa and humanity, Chell easily completed the test chambers as as Doug and his companion cube watched her Then, she reached Test Chamber 16. Before she could enter this chamber, GLa DOS replaced by a &quot;live firing&quot; course due to This appeared to be GLaDOS' first attempt Undeterred and only able to move forward into that filled this space, and then noticed something A wall of the chamber had been pushed out. Upon further investigation, Chell discovered and the messages he had left for her. &quot;Help&quot; drawn on the floor and warnings that Still under the impression that the robot continued on, watched from a distance by Doug. As he believed the end to his torment would the end of the testing track, Doug took his for the aftermath, where he argued that he against the wishes of his companion cube. His source of reasoning. During Chell's time in Test Chamber 17, the puzzle, and although Chell could not have asked her to drop it into an incinerator to Hesitantly, she did. Upon arrival in Test Chamber 19, the final an unstationary scaffold and stepped on to With the promise of cake, Chell stayed on of a cake. But then, Chell discovered what was about a corner and revealed the incinerator. As the scaffold slowly moved towards the fire, could survive up to 4,000 degrees kelvin, Even here, she still pretended to be an automated However, Chell was extremely stubborn and The qualities Doug had been impressed with. So, when she discovered what Aperture had onto a ledge. This act of defiance forced GLaDOS to break actually sentient. Here, she attempted to convince Chell that All Chell had to do now was wait for a party be rewarded with cake. Chell instead ignored the instructions of just like Doug had when the facility was originally While working through these areas, Chell discovered From what she could tell, no-one had actually It appeared only the robot had. Something awful had happened here, but from her journey, she knew that at least one person On his traversal and preparation for Chell maintenance areas to guide Chell towards GLaDOS' which Chell followed. Aware that this test subject could injure placed sentry turrets in regions that she But this test subject was tenacious and defiant, tactics and traps on her way to the AI Chamber. With her portal gun in hand, Chell entered Here, GLaDOS dropped her Morality core onto destroy it, which she did. The destruction of GLaDOS' morality core which she deployed. In a race against time, Chell used GLaDOS' personality cores from her frame, and for the incinerator. Each core destroyed left GLaDOS even angrier Although the cores had limited her to a degree, To stabilise a reactor above GLaDOS. And, due to the destruction of the cores, on the ceiling, where it pulled through both This explosion shook Aperture and echoed across As this wave knocked down Doug and his companion one thing. Chell had succeeded. With excitement, Doug ran across the facility central AI chamber in ruins. But he was surprised to find that Chell was So, he made his way to the exit with the belief On his way, Doug and his cube made sure to GLaDOS had fallen but her turrets had not. After he reached the exit, Doug pushed open As he took this in, he heard something - and point, he jumped behind the carcass of GLaDOS, dragged back into Aperture by a Party Escort Doug had been given his freedom by this girl. And in this moment, he had two choices. Leave Chell to her fate and leave this place rescue her. Over his whole time in Aperture, his companion although he wanted to go inside, his cube He had been running since GLaDOS took over him that he should not try to be the hero, To the disapproval of his sole companion, and ventured towards the &quot;extended relaxation On his way, his companion cube went quieter and his mind became clear. His anti-psychotic pills had finally taken were in his own head. As Doug reached the Extended Relaxation Vault, placed in long term relaxation - but there needed to get up to cryo-control to help her. The issue was that GLaDOS' turrets blocked As Doug checked a control panel, he noticed relaxation vaults. GLaDOS' explosion had blown the main power and their life support had been knocked offline. In a race against time, and desperate to save that the only way to save them was to pass the vault controls. He had relied on his companion throughout help him survive. So, he asked his cube if it would be best of the turrets. But the cube did not respond. As he felt he was running out of time, Doug The issue was that Aperture had designed one he was unable to outrun them. Where he was shot in his right leg. As the blood pooled out of him, he felt weaker Shortly after, Doug woke up and was greeted His medication had worn off. At least now, he had a companion again that this state, Doug could no longer rescue Chell. The companion cube suggested that although her life by patching her cryo-unit into the In doing so, she would live but remain in Here, he had to decide whether she had the Death or stasis. Doug eventually decided to reactivate her would be discovered sometime in the future. With Chell safe and on life support, Doug And so, he crawled into another cryo-unit cube at his side. Doug had sacrificed himself for Chell in the now, it is ultimately unknown what happened With GLaDOS gone and every human either unconscious woke up and got to work to keep their facility Outside of Aperture, The Combine continued strongholds and settlements. Within City 17, they decided that this would headquarters on Earth - where, the construction As the Citadel grew over time, humanity adjusted and surveillance of The Combine Empire. Here, more of the human population joined a more comfortable life but there were still In the shadows, The Resistance grew under Since his escape of Black Mesa and the subsequent leg and replaced it with a prosthetic one. Although he never stated how this happened, by a bullsquid as he helped Isaac Kleiner had resulted in the loss of his leg. Within City 17, the Resistance formed a strong in need. Eli moved out into the canals of the city Black Mesa East. A resistance Base. This was the perfect location as he was just far enough away to evade Combine detection. Here, Black Mesa East focused on technology This was aided by Resistance raids of Combine broke into these locations and stole Combine Within City 17, Isaac Kleiner set up his own to focus on surveillance and infiltration This is where Barney Calhoun came in useful, spy, and fed The Resistance information, such members just to name a few. As Eli, Isaac and Barney settled into their region now known as The Outlands to an abandoned, had purchased many years before. White Forest. Here, Arne and his team began work on a rocket to use, when an eventual uprising began, and With the survivors of Black Mesa all working joined. It strengthened even more when Eli reached species, who had been stranded on Earth after Through communication, Eli learned that they and after its death at the hands of Gordon, They knew that they had originally been freed it from them. So, across the wasteland, in Resistance bases, connection to the Vortessence to aid them. Over the years, the Resistance continued to the wasteland and they even adopted the sign The symbol that Gordon Freeman had worn as and stopped the Resonance Cascade. The Resistance was strong, and to help the Combine, Isaac and Eli set up an underground Lab and Black Mesa East, so that they could With each passing year, Alyx grew up and formed Having mostly grown up in a Resistance base to understand how technology worked. This was only amplified when Eli built her of the wasteland, and she adapted and built As more learned about the Resistance, these and arrived in Black Mesa East. But it got to the point where this base struggled So, Eli decided to expand their hold of the of Ravenholm. Within the Citadel of City 17, Wallace Breen and as he was tasked with keeping humanity Breencasts. But, humanity only saw him as the man that A sentiment that Eli also held. He was the man that had pushed for the experiment first place, and if they had only ignored be working at Black Mesa, unaware of The Combine's The Underground Railroad was a great way to flaws. It was still open to Combine interference. Eli and Isaac believed that there must be bases. So, as scientists that had worked with teleportation in each of their respective bases, based on to use a relay device on Xen to act as a slingshot The problem was actually getting the teleporters In Black Mesa East, Dr. Judith Mossman joined to help in the development of the teleporters. As Alyx got older, she helped too, and also to check in on him, and Barney. At one point, Judith and Wallace Breen made Wallace discovered that although The Combine had not yet discovered the technology that in a single universe. And this was the technology Black Mesa had and Eli were also working on right now. So, as a spy for the Combine, Judith took on the teleporters, and used it to help the As a result of continued Resistance activity, of Ravenholm. Having experimented on Headcrabs as biological into the old mining town, where an infestation The attack on Ravenholm meant that Black Mesa Enter the town and take out the headcrabs keep a still secret Black Mesa East hidden their fight. Where, Eli decided to seal the tunnel - which own. Over time, Eli and Isaac continued their teleportation to teleport a cat from Kleiner's lab to Black But, this experiment did not go as expected. As a result Barney, would have nightmares The Resistance had come so far since the seven An Uprising was coming - all they needed was Approximately 20 years after the Combine Invasion, to him. It appeared that the job he had been hired He was told to "rise and shine" from his Then, the G-Man disappeared and Gordon found Confused, he left the train and saw the director welcoming the occupants of this train into To Gordon, the moments between entering the and his arrival on this train had felt like decades. The G-Man had simply kept him in stasis, and As he explored this train station, Gordon but the gate closed and stopped his entry. To his luck, Barney Calhoun happened to be his old friend, where he took him to his office. A lot had changed in 20 years, and with Gordon call with Dr. Kleiner where they arranged But when the Civil Protection officers became Barney's office, Gordon had to escape through alone, on foot. On his way there, Gordon did not speak to to himself, and headed through an apartment Here, he saw just how terrified humanity was Unfortunately, Gordon did bring attention him through the apartment complex. To his luck, the civilians here guided him traversed the rooftops and avoided the bullets To escape the Civil Protection, Gordon entered them, who, beat him with their stun sticks. Unknown to them, Alyx Vance had travelled retrieve Gordon, and she could fight. Where, she took out these Civil Protection After she introduced herself, Alyx brought friends reacquainted. Gordon had last seen this man when he had During this reunion, Barney joined them as HEV suit, and here, they thought about what Gordon had arrived on a very important day. This was the day that Dr. Kleiner had finished this time. So, after a conversation, Isaac called Eli would be best if Gordon was teleported to lab coat and work alongside them. Gordon wore the sign of the Resistance on survived against the odds, his return meant pushed them closer to an uprising. As Isaac prepared the teleporter, Alyx was And, after Gordon flipped the switch, she lab. Next, it was Gordon's turn, but on his go, into the teleporter as it charged up, where Over the next minute, the teleporter flung what The Combine had done to his planet. At one point, Gordon briefly found himself of the citadel - who recognised him instantly. Breen was somewhat aware of the G-Man and disappeared, he contacted The Combine to let the Citadel was set to high alert and many Gordon Freeman. Eventually, the teleportation sequence stabilised Kleiner's lab. Here, he once again had to begin a journey This time to Black Mesa East - and just before knew would come in handy on his journey. A crowbar. On his journey Gordon took out many Civil Railroad and The Canals of City 17. Gordon left devastation in his wake as The they discovered each Resistance Base on this underground railroad. Eventually, Gordon arrived at Black Mesa East She knew of Gordon, and that he had taken And here, they descended to Eli's lab. As Gordon and Eli reunited, Judith left to Breen that Gordon had arrived. Judith cared for Eli and the work they did of these feelings, she asked Wallace not to could protect Eli. But, Wallace's relationship with The Combine since his arrival. He needed some sort of action to let the Combine So, against the wishes of Judith, he ordered After a heated discussion between Alyx and into the scrapyard full of technology that of the wasteland and Combine facilities. And here, Alyx showed Gordon the Gravity Gun. A powerful piece of technology designed by Aperture had developed decades before. Following this, Alyx introduced Gordon to she was. This had been the most peaceful moment since but it did not last for long. As Breen's forces arrived at Black Mesa base to help Eli. But after a ceiling collapse separated Gordon the old Ravenholm tunnel where he could escape her dad. With trust in Alyx, Gordon followed D0G and As D0G dropped the barricade, and returned As he followed the tunnel and entered this Alyx appeared to be afraid of this place. Ravenholm was filled with zombies and headcrabs. These people had once fought for the resistance, On his way through this awful town, Gordon guided Gordon past the dangers of Ravenholm Although Grigori had the option to leave with he decided to stay. He believed his mission was to take out as so that they could finally rest in peace. After leaving the mines, Gordon continued of many resistance bases across the wasteland. Here, he received a radio report from Alyx taken to Nova Prospekt. So, with a plan to save Eli, the leader of Shorepoint gave Gordon a Scout Car to continue him. On his path, Gordon met the people who risked He met Colonel Odessa Cubbage at New Little a Combine Gunship. He attempted to save Laszlo, the greatest but he was unsuccessful. And he met many Vortigaunts, one of which These allowed Gordon to manipulate pheromones antlions. And eventually, he arrived at Nova Prospekt. Over in City 17, the pressure on Wallace Breen Gordon. Where, in turn, Breen turned to his Breencasts Combine Empire for their failure to capture A scientist. With the help of the antlions, Gordon successfully fought his way through the prison towards This was an addition that the Combine had work to do on the rest of the prison. In this part, The Combine stored their prisoners In the wasteland, humanity feared this place Heavily mutated humans turned into biological Civil Protection were biologically upgraded As he explored, Gordon reunited with Alyx, guards in their search for Eli. Battle after battle, the duo travelled deeper to hack into Combine computers, they stumbled and Judith Mossman. Judith appeared to be upset with Wallace, to touch Eli", to which Wallace responded simply turn loose," especially as Gordon To Alyx's surprise and anger, Judith argued Wallace had just waited for her signal. Wallace was under a lot of pressure from The Judith stated Eli needed to come around to Wallace instead chalked this up to Judith As the call ended, Alyx and Gordon headed where they finally came face to face with In a fit of rage, Alyx accused her of betraying father. Although Judith had been caught, she still Resistance, and instead, had only worked to In the next room, Alyx discovered the teleporter With her main mission to rescue her father, as she contacted Isaac in his lab to get the But, Judith knew this equipment really well, into the device, where she teleported herself Having failed their goal, Alyx and Gordon the device to recharge. And as the teleporter hit full power, Alyx This teleporter in Nova Prospekt was still used twice in such a short period of time, This explosion had two major effects. The first, that most of, or all of Nova Prospekt And, the fall of a major Combine Stronghold were not as indestructible as they had once And if one stronghold could go down, then And the second, that Gordon and Alyx had not many believed them to have died in this explosion. Martyr's for their cause. Over the next week, an Uprising began, where to the streets to take back City 17. Block by block, The Resistance liberated the their fight. Alongside this, the resistance also disabled to keep out the hostile Xenian creatures from also flooded the city. As Isaac packed up his lab in preparation teleporter activate in the back room. And, as he opened the door with a shotgun and Alyx. They were alive and Isaac had a theory on As the teleporter was unstable when they used use Xenian Relay as a slingshot for teleportation, After Isaac filled the duo in on what had a transmission and asked for help as he was So, Gordon and D0G left to join the fight, out of City 17. Which she did, and after doing so, she also On his path through a war-torn City 17, Gordon on his way to Barney, but, Alyx was captured Eventually, Gordon reached and rescued Barney the Resistance to the Overwatch Nexus. Here, they not only took over this once feared field that the Combine had used to stop the As the Resistance marched forward, they came up a part of a Combine barricade to reveal Barney and his units had control of this region, So, as Gordon dropped into the tunnel to rescue to give to Breen. &quot;Tell him I said, &quot;crash of barricade&quot; You. Upon his arrival in the Citadel, Gordon entered of his weaponry, but it had a different effect Where it supercharged the device and turned Here, Gordon fought past the Overwatch Elite, Breen's office. In his office, Breen felt immense pressure. His control of the population of City 17 had He needed their submission so that his relationship And so, with Eli in his grasp, he ordered down. But, Eli hated Wallace and The Combine Agenda, As Gordon was pulled into the office, Wallace demanded that these leaders of the resistance And once again, Eli refused and Gordon stayed a trick up his sleeve. Alyx. Although Eli loved his daughter, she too was three resistance leaders refused to do anything threatened to send Eli and Alyx to the Combine Silently, Judith contemplated her role in She had a strong relationship with Eli, and to him, but Wallace now appeared to be going As she decided her next move, Wallace asked He was the symbol and a leader of this Resistance, he spoke of how Gordon had essentially acted Before Gordon could say anything, Judith finally She wanted Eli to be safe and argued that for The Combine, to which, Wallace simply Eli's work herself. So, with Wallace having told her that Eli she turned against him. With Alyx's confiscated tool, Judith locked from his containment pod, but unwilling to Gravity Gun and activated it, where, the blast on an elevator. As Gordon, Alyx, Eli and Judith recovered, asked for help. Here, the advisor offered him a host body In this moment, Wallace Breen had a choice. Face the species he had betrayed, or become In desperation, Wallace chose the host body, as Alyx and Gordon came for him. So, he fled again, this time to a teleporter Down below, Judith, repentant for her actions where, they planned to travel to White Forest The place Arne Magnusson had set up many years At the top of the citadel, Alyx and Gordon this entire structure. And with knowledge of how to use Combine machinery, followed Wallace. As Wallace activated a portal to the Combine soldiers as he climbed to the top of this Using his wit and gravity gun, Gordon Freeman where it was shut down. In this moment, a chain reaction occurred. The portal above the citadel closed, Wallace across the planet were disabled. As a result of this, all access and communication Earth. In this victory, Alyx cheered for joy but energy came from it. As Gordon watched this burst of energy come the G-Man appeared once again. He told Gordon that he had done so much in It appeared that Gordon had somehow done exactly he had completed his task, he was once again The G-Man explained that he was impressed offers for his services. This time, the G-Man did not give Gordon the back into stasis, where he hoped to keep him At the top of the citadel, with the G-Man the wave could hit Alyx, it was stopped again, of Antlion extract. This extract allowed them to amplify their species had the power of foresight, they believed So, they too teleported into this region, away from the wave of energy at the top of Alyx found herself at the base of the Citadel, Gordon as the man with a crowbar, who came way. As she looked around, she noticed Gordon was Over the next few days, Alyx wandered the D0G as she searched for him, but he was not After their arrival in White Forest, Eli and old colleague Arne Magnuson - where he caught Their rocket was almost complete and they fell, then The Combine would find a way to To stop this, Arne needed just two things. The first, to complete the rocket which would And the second, the coordinates of the Combine in the North. So, as Eli and Isaac got to work, Judith ventured With their enhanced abilities, the Vortigaunt he stored his recruits. They needed to find Gordon Freeman. The Vortigaunt had once only knoack Mesa, The person that would save them from The Combine. Eventually they found him, and woke him up. As they prepared to bring him back to Earth, come to protect his charge. But, as they had amplified their abilities, This angered the G-Man, as he appeared to However, the Vortigaunt were too powerful, scientist changed. In the north, Judith and her team discovered The Borealis. This ship had disappeared from Aperture decades Although Aperture had attempted to keep their had still managed to access confidential information. Since its disappearance, The Borealis had No one knew how the ship had disappeared, So, when Judith discovered it, she recorded Here, she documented her findings and began her files into the transmission. The problem was that The Combine had spotted her base and interrupted this transmission. Judith managed to flee this initial assault, uploaded it to their servers. On Earth, Gordon woke up and heard Alyx's The Vorgaunt had placed him somewhere that the debris on top of him, they were reunited. Over the last few days, the city had fallen many had evacuated. As Gordon, Alyx and D0G began their journey station. Alyx had attempted to reach White Forest for Although Eli and Isaac were happy to hear still alive, they were upset to discover that Citadel. Isaac suggested that the only way they would if they entered the Citadel and stabilised It would explode eventually, but this would city enough time to evacuate. With their mission clear, Alyx and Gordon remaining Combine units inside. Gordon wore a HEV suit that protected him it was his job to stabilise it, as Alyx watched the Combine systems. With the core stable for now, it was clear to melt down, so that they could use the power packet, and request reinforcements from the As she looked deeper into the Combine system, with the embedded information that the Combine In which, Alyx downloaded all of their data Having done everything they could in The Citadel, of the structure into City 17. And although this razor train crashed, the where Barney had charged himself with making and refugees boarded a train out of the city. The problem was that the remaining Combine trains, and kill the resistance. With the help of Alyx and Gordon, the refugees his part, Barney decided to leave with them. As Barney boarded the train, Gordon and Alyx After this moment, it is unknown what happened survival qualities to Gordon, it is likely Gordon and Alyx had done everything they could their turn to leave. But, they were ambushed by desperate Combine Where, Gordon had no trouble using a rocket train. As the train left the city, the core of the destroyed the dark tower and the city around From the train, Alyx and Gordon watched as Outlands to safety. These creatures were the contacts Wallace he knew, they were the leaders. Although Alyx and Gordon's train travelled of energy still caught up to them, and then, As Gordon woke up, he heard the strain of the train had just about survived the fall Having survived another dangerous situation, ground where he was relieved to find Alyx, Together, they started their journey towards At one point, the duo looked out into the above it, they saw the formation of a super This had now become a race against time, and Data Packet before this portal formed completely. However, The Combine knew Alyx had this data to stop the duo from reaching The Resistance On their journey, Alyx and Gordon reached Forest. Here, they let Eli and Isaac know they had packet, downloaded from The Citadel, with to move on with their plan with the rocket. Shortly after, the duo arrived at an old mine, to get inside, Alyx was violently attacked watched helplessly, unable to help, trapped To their luck, they were close to a Resistance Mine. One of the Vortigaunt detected Alyx was in off the antlions around her unconscious body. The Vortigaunt knew just how important Alyx Combine, and after the Vortigaunt freed Gordon Together, they travelled to Victory Mine. Alyx was in a critical state, but the Vortigaunt needed was for Gordon to retrieve Antlion abilities to save. It just so happened that this base was situated and the Vortigaunt that had saved Alyx, travelled As Gordon and the Victory Mine Vortigaunt here began their procedure on Alyx. From a distance, the G-Man had watched the the base of the citadel, and, with the Vortigaunts a heart-to-heart with Gordon. He told the scientist that he had plucked as he believed she was also a great investment, her value. As a sort of repayment for saving Gordon's G-Man asked Gordon to make sure that Alyx Then, before this mysterious entity said goodbye, father when she saw him next, &quot;Prepare for A message only Eli would understand. Having said what he needed to say, the G-Man normal. The Vortigaunt were completely unaware that but, through power and concentration, they With Alyx healed, the duo left Victory Mine On their path, they encountered a Combine these creatures were. After they accidentally disturbed it, the telepathic and telekinetic abilities where member off the ground as it prepared to strike Fortunately, a piece of the machinery malfunctioned to safety. Eventually, Alyx and Gordon reached a valley hurdle. A strider. This valley was fully occupied by the Resistance, jumped from a cliff and ripped out its brain. Following this, Gordon and Alyx raced D0G depending on who tells this story, the answer The arrival of Gordon and Alyx boosted the Forest. Most importantly, Alyx was reunited with her suppression field had gone down, maybe she Shortly after, the group got together and As they spoke, Gordon placed a gnome inside back, and as returned to the conversation, This was the final push for The Resistance. They just needed to complete the rocket. This was also the first time Gordon had seen but Arne remembered Gordon for a different On the day of the Resonance Cascade, Arne the microwave in the kitchen. When he returned to collect it, he discovered been. Gordon was responsible for this. Arne did not understand why Gordon had chosen had held this grudge over all of these years. Now, Gordon was the symbol of their Revolution, rocket, then just maybe, he could forgive For the first time in decades, The Combine in a desperate situation. They had no contact with their Overworld, their reinforcements from coming through. They just had to stop the rocket from launching. Having fully prepared for this moment since was prepared for any assault the Combine threw As an alarm went off, Arne sent Gordon to their work. Here, Gordon, with the help of the Resistance, Safe for now, Gordon entered a control room, from the data packet Alyx had stolen from Where they extracted the Combine Overworld her discovery of The Borealis. The discovery of this ship and attack on Judith He argued that the potential technology on Black Mesa Incident. He felt partially responsible for the Resonance when he had been told to "prepare for unforeseen He did not stop that, but he could stop this, sort of power. On the other hand, Isaac argued that the technology their goal to remove The Combine from the Following this heated discussion, Eli decided himself, where he would destroy the Borealis But as a leader of the Resistance, Alyx argued on him, they could use their advanced technology With all hands on deck, Dr. Magnusson called while Eli attempted to calm down. However, in this moment, Alyx felt the urge said to her. &quot;Prepare for unforeseen consequences.&quot; Eli knew exactly who Alyx had heard these new discovery of The Borealis. As Combine Striders entered the grounds and silo, Arne introduced Gordon to a new weapon The Magnusson Device, named after himself. This device was designed to be launched at These were also highly volatile, as one bullet With his gravity gun in hand, Gordon left member, they fought with and defeated this inside continued work on the rocket. With word that the rocket had been completed Gordon and Alyx made their way to the Rocket Here, Alyx, Isaac, Eli, Gordon and Arne prepared In these last minutes, Isaac noticed an eight Unknown to him this was Lamarr, but they decided where Isaac volunteered Gordon to hit the As this scientist hit the button, the countdown This rocket, if successful, would change everything. The resistance had all their hopes on this. So, as it launched, Alyx, Eli and Gordon headed as Isaac and Arne stayed inside, to make sure got close enough to the portal. On his way outside, Gordon was stopped by Eli told him that he was very proud of him, he was his own son. He also mentioned to Gordon that he knew who and they would have a conversation about this Following this heart-warming moment, Gordon hit the super portal, where it successfully attempt to reconnect to their Overworld. This was a great victory for The Resistance, Prepared to head off straight away to find hangar of an old helicopter Alyx had fixed And Eli joined them. Just outside of the hangar, two Combine Advisors these key members of the Resistance, and, of the hangar, the advisors broke through them. Here, they used their telekinetic abilities attempted to fight them off with a metal pipe. But the Advisors were too powerful for him, In this moment, Eli told Alyx that he loved head. He died upon impact. As the advisors prepared to take Alyx next, off these creatures, but the damage had already Eli was dead, and as Gordon fell to the floor, body. This is where Breengrub and Epistle 3 take I have pinned the videos above and linked The G-Man was disappointed with Gordon as he had an idea on how he could hire Alyx instead. He had a way to motivate her to accept his Using his abilities, the G-Man travelled back 19-year-old. The Combine knew of the G-Man and his abilities, complex in view of them, in this rare occasion, pieces of technology, The Vault, to capture Here, he and the Apartment building were trapped This moment began the adjustment of the timeline. With this victory, the Combine kept the Vault 17 and reported the use of The Vault on their On a raid of a Combine region, Eli Vance and for equipment, supplies and information to During this raid, Russell accessed a Combine called The Vault, but the information here However, the access of this file alerted The sent out units to capture them. This was the moment the G-Man had planned Eli was later captured by Combine units and ended up getting arrested herself. Luckily, Russell was able to break her out to free Eli. Through her journey of the Quarantine Zone, the Russel's, also known as gravity gloves, father. Alyx also met a Vortigaunt, Gary, who had to a big future event in Alyx's life. Eli's death. But Alyx thought nothing of this just yet, and rescued her father. Free from Combine capture, Eli and Russell from the Combine system on the Vault, where of Superweapon. Here, Eli sent Alyx to investigate further the Northern Star". As she evaded Combine forces, Alyx looked first time, a giant floating ship in the middle wires across the city. Alyx later discovered a substation of The This hotel also happened to be called The So, she entered the hotel, fought through the substation. Here, she made a disturbing discovery. That this station was powered by a Vortigaunt Vortessence energy was absorbed and sent to On her path, Alyx discovered more substations As she reached a zoo infested by antlions, this Vault. He and Russell believed it was not actually And whatever the Combine had trapped in there As she continued on, Alyx overheard a conversation where they discussed who was in The Vault. Someone that had survived the Black Mesa Incident Instantly, Eli and Russell believed this to If they could rescue him, this would be huge So, Alyx ventured on to attempt to do this. Eventually, all of the Vortigaunt in the substations However, a backup generator kicked in and In response to this, Alyx made her way to it in manually, but instead, The Vault crashed As Alyx entered The Vault, she fought her in time, held by the Vortigaunt energy the Still under the impression that this was Gordon the Vortessence energy around her and shattered Here, the G-Man was free, and he was finally She had passed his test, and he had an offer The G-Man offered Alyx a &quot;nudge&quot; as a reward she wanted The Combine to be removed from He then played his hand and offered her something he showed her the death of her father. The G-Man let her know she could change this, with Vortigaunt energy. Where, she stuck out and sent a wave of energy just before it killed her father. She had acted exactly how the G-Man believed Gordon and Adrian had back at Black Mesa. Here, he told Alyx that he had another employee, how he had expected, where the G-Man showed of the Vortigaunts interference and his actions. With Alyx in his grasp, he took her from the and placed her in stasis as a new recruit. With his plan successful, he returned to the where Eli instantly knew that the G-Man had So, Eli Vance handed a crowbar to Gordon where After this point, the fate of Gordon, Eli, the rest of The Resistance, The Combine, The Many years in the future, some believe this it was closer to 50,000, deep underground continued to function. The Combine still had not been able to access as so, everything inside had continued to Aperture planned ahead for the future and that oversaw test chambers in a time of cataclysmic were able to function on a mere 1.1 volts. As time had passed, nature had reclaimed parts decayed without maintenance from Aperture However, some of these robots were sentient, like outside of the walls of Aperture. Where, a personality core, Wheatley, decided term relaxation vault. And here, he found one that was still alive. Chell. As she woke up, Chell was confused on how The last thing she remembered was her fight However, after Wheatley explained that some route out of Aperture, Chell followed him. To escape the facility, Wheatley led Chell once controlled and dominated Aperture, and It is unknown how her robotic body ended up but some theorise that the autonomous robots to install it with her backup version. But no one came to do this, so her body, just nature. Wheatley explained that all they needed to an elevator to the surface - and they had GLaDOS in the process. As they entered the breaker room, Wheatley and as a result, he reactivated GLaDOS too. Since her death, GLaDOS' consciousness had on loop, constantly, over all of these years her system. And the first thing she saw upon reactivation The person that had murdered her. As a result of this, GLaDOS placed Chell back core. Back in the same situation she had been in test chambers as GLaDOS repaired the Aperture Alongside this, GLaDOS also began development she planned to murder Chell when they were However, Chell's incarceration did not last from spare cores in the facility to repair testing track. Within the maintenance areas, GLaDOS attempted knew the maintenance areas extremely well take down GLaDOS, so that they could leave. First, he knew of GLaDOS' main forms of attack, So, he led Chell to the turret Manufacturing production line. On this line, the completed turrets were scanned for use or defective. So, Chell adjusted this template, and set turrets to continue onto distribution, as incinerator. With the GLaDOS' new turrets now unusable, where Chell used lasers to disable the robot's And here, with GLaDOS' defences out of use, After a brief confrontation, GLaDOS realised And now defenceless against them, Chell initiated where they swapped out GLaDOS' core with This meant that Wheatley was now in charge so that he and Chell could leave. But, this new power appeared to have a negative placed GLaDOS's core into a potato battery. In a growing rage, he accused Chell of bossing Potato battery GLaDOS realised that Wheatley and given her a constant stream of stupid As he got angrier, he smashed at the elevator into the forgotten parts of Aperture. As Chell woke up, she saw a bird fly away her portal gun, Chell ventured into the Enrichment Where, upon discovery, they formed a more climb up towards the surface. On this journey, the pre-recorded messages where Caroline even made an appearance, in A sort of conscience. And as time passed, GLaDOS appeared to unlock been, before she was uploaded to a machine, Eventually, Chell and GLaDOS arrived back they discovered Wheatley had an urge to test. This impulse was a side effect of being connected If a test subject completed a chamber, then but if they went too long without a test completed, Wheatley had attempted to get around this these were simply unable to complete a test. So, when Chell arrived back at the Enrichment Since Wheatley had taken over the facility, nuclear reactor began to melt down. As he did not know what the issue was or how hoped the problem would go away. In this new era of Aperture, Wheatley renamed as Chell tested for him, he sought out other He knew how problematic Chell was, and then, With robots ready to take her place, Wheatley in this universe that had the extraordinary she escaped, and instead made her way to his On her way there, Wheatley watched back the his lair to make it &quot;Chell proof&quot;. However, Chell had a secret weapon, GLaDOS, cores to Wheatley's body to trigger a core As Wheatley gloated and threw bombs at Chell, gel, which upon touching the floor tiles and Here, GLaDOS brought in the corrupted cores After Chell managed to connect four cores corrupted and a core transfer was triggered. Surprisingly, Wheatley had planned for this needed to press to initiate the transfer - and exploded and knocked her back. Dazed and confused, Chell looked around and was to meltdown as a result of Wheatley's Here, Chell fired a portal at the moon, which Instantly, Wheatley and Chell were pulled chaotic moment, GLaDOS was able to reattach Chell back as Wheatley drifted off into space. With full control of her facility once again, allowed Chell to leave. It appeared that GLaDOS in a way cared about So, as Chell rode the elevator up, GLaDOS files and claimed to delete her. Whether she did or not is unknown, but she and she did not want it. As Chell rode the elevator up to the surface, A grand send-off for her time in Aperture, stepped out into an endless field of grain. And behind her, a partially burned companion This was the cube Chell had been asked to it appeared that GLaDOS had kept hold of it. Chell was finally free. The problem was that she had no idea what as she ventured into the unknown with her An untold number of years had passed during vault - and, it is unknown if The Resistance still occupy the planet in some way. Regardless, the fate of Chell and her story Underground, GLaDOS was free of Chell, and As ATLAS and P-Body completed her newly constructed human test subject displayed. These robots could simply be put back together who would stay dead. And, aware that some areas of the Aperture her robots to acquire disks to access them subjects. After the retrieval and installation of these The vault that the scientists had taken refuge Here, she sent ATLAS and P-Body to access Upon their arrival at the vault, these robots perceived to be human, and the door unlocked. where GLaDOS and the robots discovered thousands With these, GLaDOS no longer needed ATLAS and this time, did not rebuild them. Over the next week, GLaDOS subjected her new within just one week, she attempted to turn to her tests. Although GLaDOS preferred human test subjects and their limited mortality, when they did And subsequently, as the final human test In their reconstruction chambers, ATLAS and Here, GLaDOS told them that they had been humans were still all fine, but she later a mere week. For GLaDOS to lie to her robots, it would she had lied, and for her failure to keep This further suggested that Caroline may have banks. As she set her robots to test, GLaDOS detected To figure out what this was, she sent ATLAS On their way, they used the skills they had at a control room outside of the standard As they entered, they discovered a bird's The bird had created a home here and laid Having formed a phobia of birds after she and P-Body to escape before it attacked them. But ATLAS was brave and opened a hatch for And here, GLaDOS regained full control of had left her eggs in the nest, in which, GLaDOS them as her own little killing machines. This is the last known moment in this long, But, in other universes, events occurred differently. The multiverse is an infinitely big place, differently. In one, Cave Johnson successfully transferred to complications, his fate left him trapped In another, Cave Johnson managed to trick the multiverse into building test chambers money to keep his Aperture functioning the And in one more of an infinite number of possibilities, Black Mesa. And as the owner, he renamed the facility of Anomalous Materials, completely aware of In this universe, the people on Earth lived or their brutal reign. In the multiverse, anything is possible, but due to the decisions of a few. Here, our timeline ends, and now all we can I knew this video would be long, but I did I guess covering more than 11 pieces of media I have done my best to piece this timeline know, Valve are pretty consistent when it So after a ton of research. I believe this is the right order. It makes sense and events don't contradict It was tough but I'm happy with it. I have only used canon games in this timeline, of Half-Life Although Portal Stories Mel, Entropy Zero, add additional valuable lore to the world, I did use Black Mesa to show the events of friendly footage. Now, some of my older viewers will know that timeline a while ago. They were made when I was just starting out in the videos. The frame rate is off, the audio sometimes as strong as I believe it is now. Also, since then Half-Life: Alyx was released, about Blue Shift, Opposing Force or Decay. It also wasn't a combined timeline. I really wanted to challenge myself with this If you have made it this far, thank you so I do appreciate it. I think that was everything I wanted to say, Subscribe if you are interested in deeper on the channel, and finally, I'd like to thank and channels members, Jonas, Lewis, QueenArby, Mosvelit and ItsSoffee. If you want to help support the channel, then a patron where I do my best to post behind and many other great features. And as always, thank you so much for the continued What did you think of this timeline? What is your favourite game in this series? And which game would you like me to cover Let me know in the comments below. Now, this is where our story ends. Check back next week for a new one.