Hi guys, thanks for tuning in to another I'm Ian McCollum, and I'm here at the James D. Julia Auction House taking a look at some of the machine guns that they're going to be selling in their upcoming Fall of 2017 firearms auction. And specifically today, we're going to take a look at the MG34. Now, more important than the 34 itself perhaps is understanding where it came from, because this was really one of the very first implementations of the concept of the universal machine gun. This is an idea that was circulated in the and I believe it actually originated with a to combine all of the different machine guns This. Hence 'Universal'. Now for the Germans, and this was they put out a request for a machine light machine gun, which had been the MG 08/15, and then machine guns for use in armoured and machine guns for use in They wanted one universal gun that could be and they actually had a really interesting ... philosophy There were elements of what became the MG34 that The Rheinmetall company was pretty heavily involved. The Mauser Company had a lot of this gun as a whole thing, Vollmer was involved. The Simson company plant, which became Ultimately, in order to negotiate patent and manufacture this gun, they had to There were something like 18 different Gustloff, Mauser and Rheinmetall, and of all of the patents ... as they applied payment royalties for each company. That But it's really impressive that anyone Normally with machine gun development and that company ... would use only their best fit the government request. Well in shepherded by the German Ordnance They had actually Louis Stange, the a bunch of other cool developments to He was probably ... the primary engineer in putting all Now this was ultimately completed in '34. It was tested However, it didn't actually become formally At which point, by the way, they But this was actually considered a serious editions of the manual were classified. foreign military attaches, even see the guns. to be doing this sort of machine gun and for another thing, this really was ... a This took the idea of a light machine gun, a ZB-26 for I should actually elaborate on One of the requirements to have both semi and full-auto capability, And they also wanted an adjustable rate of fire. a little clockwork rate reducer in the grip frame from 400 up to 900 rounds per minute. requirements for the different roles that this role they really wanted as high a rate of fire that the original early MG34s could do, more for shooting at airplanes, because fast-moving target and the more bullets you At the same time, 900 rounds a minute for a ... would have significant control issues. for the gun when it was deployed as a light configuration is what we have here. In this setup it This weighs just over 26 pounds, about 12 kilos. The typical weight for a magazine-fed so this is at the high end, but area for a magazine-fed typical light So it was able to take the role of something or certainly a BAR. This thing could run circles It was controllable, it was portable by a been run by a two-man crew, one guy involved in the shooting. But one In the heavy machine gun role, the same gun was fitted to a The advantage of this was it was what where instead of simply being a solid made it very sturdy, and you sandbagged Instead, the idea of a soft mount the Madsen company was the first was the tripod is firmly fixed to the a spring-loaded recoiling cradle in the ... recoil from the gun is which allows for much more accurate fire. when the gun was in a tripod, a Lafette mount, He used a separate trigger built into the trigger in the gun, hold on to the gun while it was cycling The Lafette mounts were sophisticated, they're them is an absolute nightmare, but they basically, allowed a light machine gun to effectively You're capable of sustained long-range firepower, both the light and the heavy machine guns. I should point out, it does also have a quick-change The quick change mechanism is actually set The need to change the barrel was a little bit less as a One other thing that I want to touch on is the So I mentioned that 50,000 had been when the gun was adopted. A lot of people the standard German military machine gun through Well, propaganda pictures are always and best, and newest equipment. And so western Europe in World War Two, most of showed guys with MG34s. However, the Germans had about 84,000 of these, total in their inventory. So, of the German 84,000 of these, and then they had about a combination of MG 08s, 08/15s extensively in the campaigns in At that time the Germans had also occupied a lot of guns there. They got, I think, a lot of converted Schwarzlose heavy guns, and they got another 7,000 or 8,000 another batch of Schwarzlose early in the war, you know, maybe two in five Now they would continue to produce these bunch of different companies and by March of 1941 they did successfully In that year they issued orders for all Those guns were overhauled and refurbished for use in rear-echelon, you know, guys on the expected to be in front-line combat. And So, let's take a closer look at exactly how this works, and Now let's take a look at some of the various This is, of course I should say, 8x57mm, Now in the heavy machine gun role on a Lafette In the light machine gun role through (or through all of the war actually). This is device here. If I flip this handle over that This is a 50 round belt with a starter tab on it. And the way that this drum works is that simply you load 50 rounds in the belt, and then and set it inside this drum. The back plate here, by the way, is a little And then this doesn't feed for a 50 round belt of ammunition. clamped onto the gun, like so, while one man is carrying the gun, This is the sort of thing that they did not light machine gun. You had to carry a box of when you got to your new position. hanging out the gun. Those aren't Now early on in its development, at the for the top cover. And they actually that was able to use a double drum trouble than it was worth. Those things but they were actually removed from service and So this is what you will see troops actually using. Those very early guns also had an adjustable dispensed of, it was also more trouble wartime production grips are like this, they marked 'D' at the bottom and 'E' at the top. and the [bottom] is a fully automatic without depressing this secondary This button at the top is a manual safety, ... the There we go, now with the gun cocked I can The safety disengaged, it will now fire. In order to access the working parts of the One important safety note here, should Never open the top cover If you have a stoppage while shooting, it is release the bolt, and chamber a round, So before you open it, lock the bolt open and then We also then have a separate feed to have better access to the This is the late, or the standard It feeds only from the left side, actually had a reversible feed tray that could go either like a pillbox or a vehicle mounted machine gun, They realised that wasn't all that and also add the two clamps here for the belt box, and so that was the standard Now, we've got our bolt in here, but I can give you a nice little What we have here is a recoil operated (I'm going to drop this gently), when the bolt goes and then rotate back out of battery when the We have four locking lugs up here at the front, The sights fold down when you're not using them, But we can get a nice good look at them here, which is actually not all that crazy for a fire at a large area that far away. This is adjustable Up at the muzzle end we have When I lift that up it's usable, it is a these is basically the same as the We have a flash hider and muzzle booster at the front. That's integral to the recoil operation of attached at the front. There is this little actually allows you to make the legs you might be on. So I can thread that down, Or I can do the opposite, thread it in this way, One of the essential elements of the gun had to have a quick-change barrel, and the barrel We want to have the bolt locked open, which it is, well, the back of the barrel shroud. and then the whole receiver pivots down, down and around, and we then ... can slide the barrel right out of the gun. This, by the way, is part of the reason that through the end of World War Two, even The thing is this system worked really you didn't need very much extra space at the axis of the barrel, and so you could mount these When they switched to the MG42, or lateral space, to pull the barrels out well, mostly vehicle mounts, it was than redesign the interior of the Anyway, we can actually take this one step this button comes down on the and that allows me to completely So if I push that in, and then, pull the whole receiver off. Now I have this easily transportable and I can take the bipod (by the way, the these two openings on the bipod I realised I forgot to mention this. This little like, a spiderweb type sight, so you'll have anti-aircraft sights on them. universal machine gun. In order to adapt the anti-aircraft sight and mount it on and the gun's good to go. I mentioned that this was a recoil operated gun, and and we will actually find ... we'll find a recoil booster inside, this against the face of the barrel here, Now before I take the rear end of the There's actually two disassembly this simply removes the butt-stock as a component. This is another element of it You can see there's still a receiver well, in a pillbox probably, you didn't need to have this sitting on the end the buttstock went in a separate box with your bipod components for turning it into a light machine gun, Now I want to take the whole rear so I'm going to use this latch. Push that There we go.There is a fair amount of tension I can then use the bolt handle here to slide the bolt out the back, and then this same latch allows me to remove the charging handle. And then one last thing I can do is remove two-part split pins here, and on this gun they are Once we have both sides of the pins out, then But wait, we're not done yet. Let's open up the top cover, we can this is a spring-loaded button the whole top cover assembly. Alright, and finally there we have the whole gun stripped apart. This may take a little bit of time, but it's actually a pretty darn simple process. And there's nothing really to go all that wrong in it, so once you understand how this works, it may take more than about five seconds, but strip the gun down to all of its major I am not going to go into detail on the trigger I do actually have a video that I did many years so there will be a link at the very end of this video We are going to look at exactly This is going to be a little bit hard to sit just slightly inside the receiver and it is sitting like this with a plunger spring. This little guy is a really stiff spring because this is a recoil the barrel is actually going to come back a bolt and barrel are going to remain locked That's what allows pressure to drop So ... that recoil of the barrel is and as soon as the firing cycle is basically done, this is going to push the barrel forward again, Now we also have a pair of curved interact with the rollers on the bolt, but the the important ones are these The MG34 here is going to work kind of like the AR-15, like so. We have these locking lugs, two on this side recesses in this barrel extension, right here. So this is the unlocked position. The bolt's are going to travel on this curved surface, the inside of the rollers are traveling on the that's going to force this to rotate the bolt head, ... the bolt head is what's rotating. So the bolt body is actually The bolt head rotates it's all the way in battery, and then and the firing pin is going to Then this whole assembly recoils backward, that is going to re-cock the whole thing like this. (This is a little tricky to show you without the receiver in But once this thing is going to unlock like that, and then separate backward to eject I think the important point here is, or at least that these rollers have nothing to do These are just roller bearings, kind of They serve to make sure that the whole assembly any serious purpose in the locking. The locking is As I'm sure you're aware, the MG34 was replaced in case someone is going to ask why, This is a very complicated receiver. German interests at the time, this Strong alloys, alloys that require specific trace minerals That is why the Germans in general Not only was the stamping process but it also allowed them to use a lot of inexpensive and easy to acquire alloy. you didn't need extra nickel, or tungsten, in the steel alloys for stamping. So by switching intricately machined and milled, and expensive, type of part and get to just a So, we will cover the MG42 Hopefully this video has given you a bit and I think more importantly, some This really was the very first of that type And the universal machine gun concept Some of the best machine guns that are still The Soviet PK or PKM being one of It's a light machine gun, it's a heavy machine it's kind of pretty good at everything. So, it was the Germans, acting suggestion, that first were able If, having seen this, you decide that you really have to They do show up for sale and here's an example take a look at the description text below, you'll find You can take a look at their pictures, their description. that I don't have in this video, and you can see all of and participate live in the auction, or submit Thanks for watching. [ cc by sk cn2 ]