Pixar films are beloved for many reasons. From relatable, lovable characters, there's always there's also the more sinister And today, we're taking an especially I'm Kifinosi with WickedBinge and this Now, for this list, we're doing our best to from Pixar's more peaceful outings. who could be described as morally decent. characters with good intentions who are Kicking off our list is the newest Pixar father is the closest thing this gorgeously then, he's an absolutely outstanding man. Bernie center and one of the only places in Element City both a literal and figurative sense, he's a light he's also a great father, doting on Ember decides not to run the Fire Place, assuring her business, but that his dream was simply her. is that he's prejudiced against those of other but given how frequently Bernie and his family even Bernie's own father didn't give his blessing he managed to overcome that by the end of the Wade. It may have taken him sacrificing himself and about as peaceful as an antagonist can get. isn't too impressive in the context of this list, From the perspective of Marlin, this man is a Gang, he's an obstacle that constantly finds a way there's not much to fault him for. From his struggling for life outside the reef. He's a good cares and shows concern for his fish, and really, barged into your room the way Nigel did. The worst issues giving fish as a present to his incapable trying to be a nice uncle. He has respect for the would've let Nemo go if he knew he was sentient. the good section, is Joy from Inside Out. You'd be anything but an antagonist, but let me give you Have you ever been down in the dumps, and That's Joy. One could argue that Joy is the most technically the movie's protagonist, trying to unfortunately manifests in her bottling up Riley's feel worthless while passive-aggressively job" by pretending she doesn't exist. That said, important as herself when Joy herself experiences again. She relinquishes control to Sadness and as well. She caused a LOT of trouble for Riley learn her lesson and fix it-not to mention that Riley, which keeps her from falling any lower. nice, but also don't fall into the category of Kicking this tier off is one of the Darla from Finding Nemo. Okay, so she's she's not really doing anything malicious. child who gets overexcitable about pet fish. To killing every new fish she recieves-though never Regardless, we refrain from placing her despite her lacking ill intentions, she really either. Any way you slice it, she's and her fascination with marine life is nothing to channel it in healthy ways. You'll find Who else could follow her up but Pixar's very toys of Toy Story, Sid is a total nightmare. yourself whose favorite hobby is torturing you at that point. From launching them on rockets amalgamations out of their parts, Sid's That said, let's take this in the context of Sid not nice to be so rough with your toys, but riddle they were sentient? I mean, okay-Sid's a brat sister, but in terms of the toy torturing we can't kid who seems to have a difficult upbringing, and can. At least he's not hurting people, for the therapy...probably even more, after realizing for years without realizing it. Poor kid... antagonists, Terry from Soul is next. Which, may I by other events in 2020, because it's honestly enjoy life instead of letting it pass you by. easily-and that's why it's a shame that Terry It's his job to count the souls in the Great there's a miscount, he's determined to fix it At one point, he's so desperate to fix his another man by mistake. Although granted, he advice to stay away from those processed comes to his work. But while he is cold and a trophy for the grand gesture of doing just doing his job at the end of the day. It's but he's the grim reaper. It's his thing-and he's really just kind of...there. A threat to truly malicious-just antagonistic in the confines Everybody has known a Terry at some point... it's a lot worse to bully people than toys. Enter at least I HOPE nobody likes a bully. And constantly mean to Mei and her friends, and later on even blackmailing her to get her to All-around, he's a pretty big jerk...but he's not the aforementioned performance, even though he had movie's final act, he runs into Mei and company fan and becoming their friend-even helping stop which is more than we can say for most When it comes to villains, they tend to do things Because he is AUTO. Now, AUTO does deserve damage to a protagonist between tazing his power Wall-E into nearly irreparable scrap. He's also with the intention to throw both out to their At the same time though, he's only following In his own words, he's just following his it's all in service of his unbiased, unemotional him given that he's a machine-it would be like villain of Toy Story 1 because it burned the toys. before the REAL bad guys is its MAIN antagonist, model, her best friend, and ironically her worst Ming loves her daughter; she's always around to protective. To the point where she follows her anyone she even suspects as troubling her publicly ever dealt with helicopter parenting will feel perfect, controlling her life to the point where to her. Near the end of the movie, she destroys the entire audience when her panda is unleashed, was deeply traumatized by a need to prove herself manage to accept Mei for who she is and it's at a bad mother, but still-it's clear that Ming's her to bottle up her feelings for years and years. Alright, no more Gray Area-esque commentary but on a smaller scale than those below Moving over to Toy Story 4, we now gab about Gabby by force is pretty bad. So is bargaining Forky's memories with Andy that she got from Forky tad bit unsettling and her creepy ventriloquist she only wanted to be loved by a kid and knew After Gabby gets what she wants though, she Woody back his voicebox when Harmony rejects get what she wants by comforting a lost little essentially stealing the organs but it takes a lot to turn your life Following up her up and kicking off this whose placement next to a female toy is probably a woman. That's okay, though-he's more interested He's a collector, and the owner and think of Comic-Book Guy from The Simpsons as a and greedy-not above conning innocent people out the movie, he steals Woody from Andy's mother knowing he's worth way more than that. Even Slinky rest of the Woody's Roundup gang for big bucks-for think of those guys who buy convention like, 300 times the price. That's Al. But while While he is an inconsiderate con artist who that's really the worst we can say about him. moral sense, though. It's just Roar Omega film with a battle of the fraternities would preppy but downright nasty frat squad and that rival team to Oozma Kappa and consist of some of Basically, if Sulley and these guys are the they aren't that evil. Barring some standard standards of this list, the worst thing they do attempt to get them to drop out, but that's not considering the fact that there are legitimate, Besides, who you are as a teenager is become eventually-just look at how nice Sulley Monsters Inc. Yeah, we'll get to him... good dinosaur. With that being said, Thunderclap of this movie, there's barely anything interesting reprehensible villain in a dinosaur movie? The got is a carnivore that just wants to eat the real for a moment, but that's just nature. and that scene of him eating an adorable raccoon a dino's gotta eat. The real villain here is the it, so we're not gonna give him a TOTAL pass. gotta eat, but...come on, man, that poor raccoon. 3's main villain, Jackson Storm. Jackson Storm first movie-nice redemption arc, by the way. racers like Hudson and the King; Storm looks down needs to emotionally manipulate his competition patronizing to passive-aggressive faster than his lower than ROR simply because he was willing to wasn't long before Lightning's pupil, Cruz, showed But he's not Cars's worst racer, morally-that Chick's methods of dealing with opposition on Jackson was a master of manipulation but played He caused a massive pile-up to try and delay leading to one of the most horrific crashes from bitter racer who deserved every boo he got. even more-we're now entering the Here, we have a name that's not to be steamed hams-it's Chef Skinner. Sous chef until his depression-induced death, Skinner is and goals. Gusteau was a warm presence in his own and pursued his career out of a love for the art overbearing dictator of a head chef spreading No wonder why Gusteau's was on the decline factoring in his besmirching of Gusteau's good frozen food products to profit off a dead man's Gusteau's biological son, he proceeds to do and even captures Remy and makes a simple deal: And unlike Sid or Dr. Sherman, he knows Remy is considering he knows that Remy was Linguini's We're done toying around now-seriously, we can't One of Toy Story 2's main antagonists, Woody's Roundup. Still in the box and in great and even Woody to embrace destiny as they're soon But when Woody attempts to escape and get back to let anyone get in the way of his destiny of being true intentions. Pete had even turned on the TV get his arm back from him and escape-even letting we have to note that Stinky Pete is basically held in storage for years alongside Jessie and visibly shaken by it, it would be unreasonable mental state as well. This doesn't justify him but it puts him in a sympathetic light; anyone much less BEEN in there, knows that it's not just wants to be loved, which is surprisingly Amy. The Darwin Medal is for the prospector It might be surprising to see a villain as young teenage bully, but far from a typical one-while other films, that doesn't stop Ercole from He assures those around him that he loves being safe from this, constantly being treated like himself and his reputation, being willing to even money and status. Despite them being sea monsters, attempted murder is no joke. Honestly, tossed into a fountain was the least this he doesn't show any redeeming qualities