[gunfire] The Yugoslav tragedy. Neighbours become deadly enemies. Millions lose their homes, [crying and gunshots] The uninhibited cruelty in the Southeast Violence was used to send messages. Murder, rape - If you stay, The ideological incendiaries Two ruthless nationalists Milosevic just wanted power Tudjman wanted to break up Yugoslavia, He actually believed The war drags the entire Europe and the They didn't clearly see the and arresting the bloodshed. Why did the peoples of What blame lies with It's a lesson about Zagreb, May 13, 1990. Yugoslavia has been But today, Croatian and Serbian At the time, Vjekoslav Skrinjar The Yugoslav police are especially It is a taste of what is to come. At the time, Yugoslavia is made Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, The Serbs are the more than a third of them live outside In Belgrade, Slobodan Milosevic Since 1987 he is the His dream: Slobodan Milosevic He became a party official After Tito's death, Milosevic became more He saw the power of national expression and he saw what he could do. I don't think at the beginning he was Milosevic wants to stop hopes for power But his nationalist propaganda In January 1990, a special communists After the collapse of the Soviet Union, the Slovenians and the Croats When all of their reform proposals are [indistinct chatter] The idea was greater independence, that they could determine and that they could move towards European Union type New parties emerge in In the spring of 1990, hold their first free elections Milan Kucan wins in Slovenia. The ex-communist runs as He stands for economic reforms. In Zagreb the winner is Franjo Tudjman. Tudjman was one of Tito's He then rose to Yugoslav Army General. Later Tudjman also developed and was imprisoned multiple times. With Tito's death, As he sees it, the Croats live and have to free themselves. He wants a strong, independent Croatia. His model for that is Hitler's puppet state, Everywhere you went in Croatia, you saw the U of the Ustashe. It was a festival of extreme and nobody could doubt, 45 years after World War II, Tudjman makes He downgrades the Serbs and massively limits their rights. Tudjman's nationalist politics The new Croatian president minimizes lowering the tally of Serbian victims, Whether it was the "sachovnica", which in many ways to Serbs was It was a symbol a state where they suffered where hundreds of thousands Franjo Tudjman and Slobodan Milosevic Both of them, the Croat and the Serb, bundle nationalist slogans They used state television fear of an Ustasha revival, fear of a Chetnik Serbian They were generating hysteria and they did it through the mass In the crosshairs of propaganda: mainly Serbs live here, In August 1990, thousands protest Tudjman wants to replace all That reminds many here of World War II. Behind the scenes, these people were and their fears were being Saying: you won't be safe here. Drago Kovacevic still remembers the fear In August, Serbs build roadblocks around A purely protective measure the Croats call it terror. Because, in the middle the barriers block the holiday Serbian nationalists want to split off the and create an autonomous Serbian area The Croatian Ministry of the with special forces units to Knin. Fighter jets from Belgrade A first showdown. In the spring of 1991, The first skirmishes happen the Krajina and Eastern Slavonia - For the central the time has come to bring The army sees its mission as and resolving internal conflicts. A peaceful solution to the Belgrade wants to preserve the Slovenia and Croatia want autonomy. On June 25, 1991, the Croats and The significance of this move The European Community had just adopted It was a bright new world. We were The Yugoslav conflict and crisis But it seemed that they should be able Yugoslav tanks roll towards A last attempt to hold But the Slovenians are ready: The troops of the &quot;territorial They capture units of the and hold them in their barracks. After only 10 days Belgrade gives in. It was a symbolic attempt but that was never really in the plans - The war in Slovenia ends so quickly At this point Slobodan Milosevic If the Serbian people can no longer then they should have including all Serbian settlements. A third of all Serbians Almost 1.4 million and more than The first step in Milosevic's plan: split off the Serbian and displace all non-Serbs - supported [shouting] The Bosnian Serb Ratko Mladic is the commander in charge His neutrality is a facade. Ratko Mladic was two when his father This is probably a reason why, as a colonel he is ruthless in his actions He is considered an ice-cold strategist. The first Croatian village that Mladic He field-tests his strategy there, the army advances with heavy weapons, Anyone who stays is murdered One of the roles of the paramilitary things, In a sense - to do the dirty work. Often they are prisoners, offered a deal: Stay in jail Paramilitaries like the infamous plunder, massacre, The Serbs call this &quot;ethnic cleansing&quot;. By the end of August, Serb fighters have brought the entire Meanwhile, Croatian President Tudjman calls on the European But they disagree on [camera flashes] This is partly due to historical ties. In World War I the Serbs fought on the while the Croats, as citizens fought alongside the Germans. In September 1991, invited the parties The fighting must stop. There's no agreement in sight. The points of view are far apart. ...installing a totalitarian directly violated human rights, peace and an overall The European Community to prevent the beginning Even world powers stay out of it. In Moscow, the newly is struggling with the The USA have just been and see the Yugoslavian crisis For the United States, they didn't in getting involved It wasn't worth risking bloodshed or any kind of American lives Vukovar. It is in the region of Eastern Slavonia, This is where the bloodiest battle on September 14, 1991. The situation around Vukovar the Croats expect an attack. But the defenders are helpless against Belgrade is sending 30,000 On the Croatian side The city is at the mercy Up to 8,000 grenades hit Vukovar daily. [tank shooting] [shooting and explosions] Stjepan Vidakovic was a volunteer who Today, he still doesn't understand how After a few weeks, On November 2, 1991, Serbian fighters attacked This house served Stjepan walks through the halls [Howitzer shooting] There's grenade shrapnel in his arm. His brother drives him. On the way to the hospital, [breaks squeaking] While he is treated in Serbian units storm his district Nine of his family members Among them were his wife and son. Their remains are only found Three family members It was such a brutal and senseless shelling of a very that it meant the Serbs were never going Nobody really wanted to be At Germany's insistence, the European to recognise Slovenia and In January 1992, the UN negotiates When the military conflict Slobodan Milosevic has One third of the country The ceasefire was the beginning but it was the beginning of war It was, under the circumstances, probably the only thing Bosnia-Herzegovina - Catholic Croats, Bosnian Muslims But after Slovenia and Bosnian Croats and Muslims The man chosen to lead Bosnia-Herzegovina He has been president of the [applause and cheering] As a young Muslim activist, Under Tito he was considered a dissident The lawyer only found His goal now is to preserve as a small multi-ethnic state. In Bosnia-Herzegovina, Muslims have lived alongside A legacy from Ottoman times. Bosnian Muslims The Bosnian Serbs, want to remain part of Yugoslavia. They make up about a third of and fight bitterly against [protesting] If this happened, absolutely uncontrolled A terrible ethnical and religious war. Radovan Karadzic came He studied medicine, but identifies as a poet above all. Later he entered politics and In the summer of 1991 hundreds of people demonstrate The highlight of the movement is a a place that symbolizes a time of Senka Kurt is 24 years old at the time. [rock music playing] Thousands came from all over the country to the Olympic Hall Senka Kurt is the only one of her In early 1992, events pick up speed. In January the Serb-populated areas to form a &quot;Serbian Republic&quot;, On March 1, Muslims and Croats vote for the independence of Hoping to prevent a major war, Europeans and Americans recognise For Radovan Karadzic it becomes clear that he will split off the Militarily, he has a clear advantage. As Bosnia became independent and the most of the resources of the army that and they were left Almost overnight, Karadzic Led by Ratko Mladic He had become a hero By the time he was appointed he already had an established The first battlefield This is where war tactics are tested. As in Croatia, paramilitaries are They also use sexual violence and systematically rape Muslim women. The Muslim Nusreta Sivac was and taken to a Serbian camp As a young woman, she stays imprisoned Nusreta Sivac has fought It is estimated that more than 20,000 Even if Slobodan Milosevic what happens in Bosnia Hundreds of thousands Almost half a million Bosnians flee to Dalida Rakic also left Today she lives in Munich. Dalida's family boarded that shuttled refugees Serbian soldiers board the buses, After many hours of driving, By the end of the war, more than two Many were displaced within other Yugoslav states or Many, hundreds of thousands parts of Europe, parts of North America, looking for protection, Nusreta Sivac has returned to her hometown A city where Bosnian Serb soldiers and where Muslims are still not welcome. In April 1992, Serbian fighters Karadzic and Mladic want to drive From the surrounding mountains, Snipers shoot at everything The occupation of Sarajevo At times, Ratko Mladic personally [explosion] All this is happening in full UN soldiers secure Sarajevo airport, provide humanitarian aid in the [explosions] [shooting and screaming] The need keeps growing. There is no electricity, no water. Food and medicine are in short supply. The city is surrounded Only a narrow strip around the airport The area behind it is The Bosnians design a tunnel to supply the centre Nedzad Brankovic fights As a qualified civil engineer, The project is top secret. Neither the UN troops at the airport nor The tunnel is dug from The workers are supposed A risky plan, but it's the fastest way. As they near the end, It is 760 metres long - It becomes the lifeline for more Strategically, however, the outlook Surrounded. Militarily inferior. Hardly any support Instead, Islamist fighters Albania, Chechnya and other countries The up to 6,000 Mujahideen They are accused of war crimes [war cries] The situation in Bosnia The Republika Srpska already includes There is another front Bosnian Croats suddenly turn Until then, Croats and Muslims were an alliance of convenience The Croats from Bosnia were as the most nationalist, and they often saw their capital So what they wanted was to join with Croatia Croatian President Franjo Tudjman As soon as the war broke out in 1991, he met with Slobodan Milosevic One of the main hubs of this The Croats want to make it and drive all Muslims out of the city. [explosions] Zoran Laketa was He still remembers exactly On May 8, 1993. Zoran wants to pick up his on the east side of the river But the brother doesn't come. On this night Mostar is split in two. Zoran is on one side, He will never see him again. Croatian fighters occupy Bosnian Muslims hold the east, Zoran happens to be in Croatian territory and is forcibly recruited, He has no choice - and must fire where his brother and many friends live. [explosion] On June 8, 1993, Zoran's brother The Bosnian Muslims in the Old Town of Their Croatian enemies and fight fiercely For months, Croatian commander doesn't allow any aid convoys to pass. Muslim soldiers, who had fought The Croatian attacks don't The old Ottomans bridge held the Until it is bombed by Croatian tanks So far, the United States but are increasingly criticising the Only the newly elected is ready to put an end And then there's the power of images. Numerous media reports increase pressure on world leaders. The scenes of violence: You had the besieged city of Sarajevo, people going to get water - Not being able to survive. Those pictures, in determining public made it impossible not to intervene. The Americans make a plan. Franjo Tudjman should stop supporting and go back to fighting alongside the Tudjman had no interest He had dreamed of a Croatian state - He was persuaded to do so Western - United States - Support for ending the for making Croatia a functioning state. Since 1991, a third of Croatia With American support, a powerful [gunfire] [gunshots] Essentially, ex-generals, ex-military who worked in the headquarters and were able to help Croatia a strategic level perspective On March 25, 1994, and Bosnian President Izetbegovic They agree to form a common territory, [applause] Ending the war between was the first step to Because otherwise the war would have and that's what made it possible But it will be years before the Despite the Washington peace agreement, The greatest single tragedy the genocide of Srebrenica. It will cost more than 8,000