- There are only two kinds of people who do not experience painful emotions. The first kind are the psychopaths. The second kind are dead. (bell tolls) (mournful music) There is a false that a happy life means No. Learning to accept, and even is an important part of a happy life. And the study of painful of the field of happiness studies. My name is Tal Ben Shahar. I'm a student and teacher in And my most recent book is There is a very important by Nassim Taleb. And that is antifragility. Antifragility is Resilience 1.0 is when we After the pressure is to its original form. Antifragility takes this You put pressure on a system. It actually grows bigger, stronger. We see antifragile systems For example, our muscular system, we go to the gym and we lift weights. We're putting pressure on our muscles. What happens as a result, We're an antifragile system. On the psychological level, PTG, post traumatic growth. So where post-traumatic is about breaking down, post traumatic growth is as a result of pressure of stress. It's antifragility. The role of the science of happiness is to teach us what conditions we can put in place to of growing from hardship. Now, there is a paradox when (bright music) On the one hand, we know that whether in and of itself, or At the same time, we by Iris Moss and others, that people who say to themselves, &quot;Happiness is important for those individuals actually In fact, they're more likely So the paradox is that on the one hand, happiness is clearly a good thing. On the other hand, valuing it as a good thing is problematic. So what do we do? The way to resolve this paradox is that we pursue happiness indirectly. Think about sunlight. So if I look at the sun directly, it's going to hurt my eyes. However, if I break down into its constituents, I can look at the colors of the rainbow. So I'm indirectly looking at the sunlight, enjoying it, savoring it. In the same way, pursuing can cause more harm than good. But breaking it down into its elements can lead us to enjoy the and by extension, to raise our What are the metaphorical when it comes to happiness? Here we have what I've come And it can trigger the antifragile system. SPIRE is an acronym that stands for spiritual, physical, intellectual, relational, and finally, Spirituality is about and purpose in life, at work and at home. If you wake up in the you're more likely to overcome barriers. When it comes to physical wellbeing, The most important idea the silent killer. In the United States, more do not use up their vacation time. And even those that do, close to their work. The problem is not the stress, it's the lack of recovery. With intellectual wellbeing, that people who are are not just happier, they also live longer. Another important element is it's deeply engaging with material. It can be text, a work Relational wellbeing is very important. The number one predictor of we spend with people we care And it turns out the number one condition that we can put in place to increase the likelihood of growing through hardship is the quality of our relationships. Finally, emotional wellbeing. So embracing painful emotions is critical, but how do we then Specifically, the emotion of gratitude. Cicero talked about, of all virtues.&quot; When we appreciate the good in So happiness is much more than pleasure. Happiness is wholebeing. These five elements together create that sunlight, happiness. I don't think there is is unhappy after which one is happy. Rather, happiness resides on a continuum. It's a lifelong journey. And knowing that, we can have realistic rather than unrealistic I do not think that things However, we can learn to make the best of things that happen. (bright orchestral music) - [Announcer] To learn even more from the world's biggest thinkers, get Big Think+ for your business.