Welcome to Shanghai. Few cities in the world evoke so much imagination as the largest city in China. Rich and glamorous on one corner, rough around the edges on another, Shanghai is truly one of the most fascinating places in the country. I was lucky enough to travel to this amazing and in this video I will share with The Bund is probably where every trip to Shanghai This waterfront promenade is located right in the center of the city, and provides a stunning contrast between historic colonial architecture, and the awe-inspiring modern skyline of Pudong, on the other side of the Huangpu river. Many of the old buildings were used by Western powers as consulates and financial institutions, around the early 1900s. Join local Shanghainese for an early morning stroll, or watch them practice tai chi, an ancient Chinese martial arts. As the day progresses it usually gets busier, culminating in the evenings when massive crowds converge on the Bund. They come here with a purpose, to witness the iconic skyline of Pudong bathing in spectacular neon lights. And this takes us to number two on the list, It's hard to imagine that this spectacle of glitzy skyscrapers was mostly farmland only three decades ago. But in 1993 the Chinese government designated paving the way for massive development The Lujiazui district in Pudong quickly became a major financial hub and symbol of China's immense economic growth. While impressive at night, Pudong's business district is most active during the day, when countless commuters use the crowded public transport to get to work. Most offices are off limits to random visitors but you can get a good sense of And if you're lucky you may just get invited If you're curious about the view from the All of the major buildings, including the second tallest in the From here you can get amazing The are plenty of other things to do in Lujiazui, as the area boasts some of the fanciest malls and restaurants. One of my favorite places however is located where you can can walk through glass tunnels admiring some of the most mesmerizing sea creatures found in Asia. And that brings us to number three on the list. Located not far from the Bund, Nanjing Lu Even if you're not looking to buy gives a great insight in China's expanding consumer market. Beware though, the crowds can sometimes be overwhelming. Make sure to visit during the day and the night if you can, when neon lights create an otherworldly atmosphere. If you need some peace and quiet then the Jing'An temple at the The Buddhist temple almost feels like The original temple was destroyed during the Cultural Revolution, and this replica was built in 1983. Come strolling through People's park in downtown Shanghai, and you witness people playing cards, In weekend afternoons though, parts of the Parents and relatives of unmarried adult children hoping to find suitable partners for them. Marriage plays a crucial role in Chinese society and worries among families can grow by the year if their offspring remains unmarried in their twenties. While it may seem a bit weird to see it's actually a reminder of traditional culture when parents used to play a big role in their childrens' spouse selection. You have to look closely these days traditional residential neighborhoods that shaped I remember walking through some of the narrow alleyways getting lost, not only in place but also in time. These areas used to house working class families and grew into close communities spanning generations. This authentic Shanghai, however, is on the brink of Many young people decide to while most elderly often have no It seems like a double-edged preserving historic neighborhoods while Most of these neighborhoods have now been replaced One area around the historic Yuyuan garden is rebuilt as an entertainment center, with classic looking stores and restaurants. Despite its commercial character, it's a pleasant place to stroll around, even if it's difficult to imagine the real old Shanghai here. With enough time you can organize a day trip out The first can be reached by high-speed rail from Shanghai's Hongqiao train station, one of China's largest and busiest transport hubs. It may seem a bit intimidating to navigate this station, but once you find your way it proves to be quite efficient. Suzhou is a city less than half an hour from Hongqiao and has a distinctly different character. Although it's more laid back than Shanghai, with some extravagant architecture It's worthwhile to venture further exploring remaining classic neighborhoods. The region between Suzhou and Shanghai boasts more of these characteristic water towns, and my favorite one is called Zhujiajiao. With its classic houses and stone bridges, it's easy to see why these places become popular tourist attractions. Yet traditional ways of life continue and it's fascinating to walk the quiet back alleys. And if you're hungry traditional snacks, such as zhongzi rice dishes wrapped in bamboo, are made fresh on the spot. For the next place on the list we stay out of the city proper, traveling all the way to the coast to visit Located on Yangshan island you can only reach the Port of Shanghai with your own transport or with an organized tour. But for those with an interest in international trade and infrastructure development this is definitely worth the effort. Construction of the Yangshan deep as previous port facilities became outdated The waters of the older harbors Historically an important trading port, Shanghai saw its relevance diminish, as rivaling nearby harbors continued to expand. The ambitious project was an attempt to revive Shanghai's role in the international shipping industry, and it proved a successful one. In recent years it has become the There is a small visitor center and pleasant From here you can watch the seemingly delivering and picking up colorful containers Some of these products are likely to have made an appearance at the many trade shows that Shanghai usually hosts. And this brings us to number eight on my list of favorite things to do in the city. Held in different locations around Shanghai, trade shows or exhibitions are used by companies to promote some of their latest products and services, hoping to attract customers from around China and the world. These can range from technology, robotics, to automotive, food products, While not for everyone's taste, they provide an interesting glimpse into the world of doing business and trade in China. Not all exhibitions are open to the general public, and of course most of these types of events Tucked away on a crumbling industrial area in the far North of Shanghai, I found something best described as a graveyard for bicycles. Don't worry, this sounds more sinister than it actually is. Bike sharing in China has become very popular recently as dozens of companies flood city streets with brightly colored rental bikes. A potentially great and environmentally friendly idea, to relieve many cities from some of their transportation issues. The rapid growth of these companies, as bicycles were parked illegally or Many local governments decided to remove these that were quickly nicknamed as bicycle graveyards. The 10th and final place on the list, visiting the former Expo site in the South of Shanghai, took me back to one of my first trips to the city In 2010 Shanghai hosted the World Expo, one of Every five years the host city invites countries from around the world to showcase the best of what they have to offer, ranging from cultural traditions to sharing technological innovations. To imagine the scale of the event, just consider that the Shanghai government spent more money preparing for the Expo than Beijing did for the Olympic Games two years earlier. And it turned out to be a big success. More than 73 million people visited and more than 240 countries The majority of visitors were Chinese from around the country, eager to catch a glimpse of cultures and countries far away. While waiting lines were intimidating sometimes, and they proved a good example for the boom in domestic tourism that China experienced in the years after. Activities were held into the evenings when many of the buildings were lit up with beautiful neon lights. Today many pavilions remain intact. Come here to admire some of the eye-catching architecture, or if you need a break from the And that concludes my personal top 10 a city so massive that it can really be explored Thanks for watching this video and feel free to leave comments below. I hope to see you again next time. Travel safely!