- This is what it looks like to close out a year of your life trying to answer one of Exactly how high can elephant toothpaste actually be launched into space? Now, if this looks sort of familiar, it's because this isn't my first attempt. Last year, my buddy Fletcher and I were here with this monster of a flask but with one critical oversight. We didn't make the floor stiff enough because I just didn't consider they'd lift a one ton structure and so, while that attempt did yield a new Guinness I couldn't stop thinking it could have gone if only all that stuff that came out of the to come out through the top. Like, what would happen designing and building and was basically bombproof? And then what if we could just go on to make the world's by building a massive slip along with the 26 million Orbeez pool, plus a devil's toothpaste explosion two and a half times Then, the only thing that would be missing would be someone to throw and that's where my new Now, to understand who Brody is, all you really need to know is that as him and his an incredibly difficult as he narrowly fought through his battle against blood cancer for three years, Brody used his one and to buy a brand new ATV for He didn't even know when he heard that kid had his ATV stolen. By the way, I told my friend, Mr. Beast, this story, and he had some thoughts on what we should do about this situation. So now that we had a plan for the surprise party and a kid who definitely deserved the world's it was time to return to in the small town of Gridley, And while I'd love to take credit for single-handedly digging the truth was as word got the good people of Gridley So Arnie here, who's been volunteered to dig the Orbeez pool, while Dave, the town master carpenter, started working on the skateboard ramp. I even harnessed some child labor to prep the devil's toothpaste troughs. Although, it sort of backfired when they began to protest against their harsh working conditions. Which just left my nemesis, the giant elephants toothpaste flask. And this time, I was taking no chances. And so for the base, which would be attached to the flask with 33 quarter inch bolts with a total clamping force of 80 tons. And then instead of a the plan was to use five tons of steel all fused together On top of that, we designed So now all we needed was a 20 second build montage to get it all done. (upbeat music) And so as the party for several days in the 105 degree heat, let me take a moment to try and debunk a myth about elephant toothpaste floating around on the internet. There are some wildly some with over 30 million views and hundreds of thousands of likes which demonstrate that when to some Orbeez and then and pour it over the top, you get this, which is pretty impressive. - Look at that. - This also works with Mentos. Why didn't Mark Rober tell us that? - Maybe he didn't want - True. - Now I had a slightly which was that these guys and lying to people for YouTube views. So as firm believers in Science Bob and I tested that hypothesis. And as it turns out, if you then combine the mixtures exactly nothing happens. And even if you don't well then you're gonna have to explain how the balloon shadow at the edge of the hole. And where these orange and how the hole itself from this frame to this one once they've removed their layer mask. The way they actually elephant toothpaste is always made. And that's to mix the correct soap and food coloring. Then you just add a catalyst And in preparation for this year's party we also played around with the devil's toothpaste formula with, at times, very interesting results. Now, as a reminder, this is and this is devil's toothpaste. It reacts insanely fast, and because it's super dangerous, wearing some very nice protective gloves. And so back in Gridley with Brody's arrival slated the afternoon turned into the evening as the feverish pace of work continued late for the If this dang mega flash at least I could console that it wouldn't be from lack of effort. And so when morning came with of preparation left to go, I about an hour and a half away out to see some more specialists for a day filled with medical tests. - Okay, we ready? - Okay. Okay. Thank you. - Fletcher and his incredible out to help with the surprise. And I just wanna preemptively say I know I'm quite possibly - Well. I'm Dr. Fletcher. to look at, tests um, 'cause today, this actually isn't a - And while I think I'm he later said he figured out it was me as soon as he heard my - What up buddy? I actually brought someone This is Fletcher. Fletcher here, He was with us last year. We did a big party. So today we're gonna do another You brought someone with you? - Gavin. - Gavin. Let's go meet Gavin. How's it going buddy? - I followed you when I was like six. I've known you for so Oh, this is, oh, thank you. This is Fletcher. - Hi, nice to meet you. - Nice to meet you. - And that's Ila, Fletcher's sister. All right, let's bounce. Here we go. So step one is to get in the Tesla. - So, we actually have, and We have two ways to get to Gridley. Option one is to take the Tesla. Does anyone want to want option one? Or do you want to hear option two? - I wanna hear option two. - You sure? It's a Tesla! Okay. Option two. And again, you guys get a vote on this. Private jet. - Option two. - Option two. - Have you guys ever - No! - Let's ride on a private jet. - Your guys' private jet is ready. - Private jet's ready! Remember guys, act like And the private jet was but a generous benefactor caught wind of what we were doing and let us use his which actually helped and a half hour drive down - So guys, we just landed. - I knew it. - I knew it. - I knew it was a limo. - Only the finest. - We live in luxury! - And so after a short trip in a sweet ride, Brody had arrived. (group cheering) (upbeat music) - So now that the party was rolling and we were feeling refreshed, it was time to head over to in the form of six massive Now I need to pause The first is that because each times more volume than we couldn't just dump it on the top because it reacts so fast, even make it to the bottom So each trough that contained the mixture of the hydrogen peroxide, basically has a massive that contains the catalyst. Then we put a big fat So when you open this butterfly into this chamber, over and causing everything And as you can see in real And the second is you might of the troughs already kind of went off. And the truth is, when I walked We tested for so many different but one thing we didn't food coloring manufacturer only to the purple color. So now it randomly reacts all on its own. So after a bit of leaf through even if we did lose two of our six troughs to that little mishap. - Here we go. Here we go. Here we go. - 3, 2, 1. (exclamations and cheers) - Let's check it out. Yes. Oh my goodness. Oh, you can feel the heat. - Oh, it's hot. - Fletcher, we have a camera. Go get the cameras. - Where are they? - Right in the middle. - All right, I got it. - What'd you guys think? - That was crazy! - And so while I helped clean we had to get all hands on deck to prepare for the Like last year, the idea by having these troughs dump the catalyst into the hydrogen peroxide pool below. So chemicals had to be because even if a small amount splashed out prematurely, we'd have an even more disastrous situation on our hands than with But Brody still had no So we distracted him with in the form of some quality (upbeat music) - Submersing yourself in millions of Orbeez is such a wild feeling because it's like having a squishy slippery weighted blanket compressing all around you no matter where you move. And while we could have stayed there for a few more hours, soon that the flask was in So we all headed back over. And word apparently had So quite a crowded gathered, So the pressure was really that L from last year and to - Look at this. - And so with that all that was left now was to place all our hopes and dreams on our engineering abilities - 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. (screaming and cheering) - We actually had a and it turns out the force pushing all the elephant toothpaste out the top is about feel when pushing against - Oh my God, yes. - That was so cool. The mannequin. The mannequin is still there. - Wow. Oh, look at that. It's like a volcano. Whoa. See, it's still - Oh my gosh. - Is that better than going Look how far over it went. Wow. The flask stayed together. You got me once, elephant's toothpaste. You don't get me twice. - And in fact, when you do of the max height from I'm happy to report we the previous record by rising to the height of a 25 And so with the new Guinness I still had one grand So back at the house while with liquid nitrogen powered and trash can rockets nearly taking out our drone pilot Nerc in the process. I called up a friend of mine. - What up buddy? - Hi, what up MrBeast? We've been hanging out all day today. - How's it going? Did he do the Orbeez thing? He told me he got 25 million Orbeez. - Yeah. - Yeah. Is that more Orbeez than you did? - No. - We had a pool though. I think MrBeast has one more surprise. - Do me a favor and - Oh my God, that's your hog right there. Delivered by none other then Dale himself. Well get on buddy. It's not mine, it's yours. - And what's cool here is he wanted to get for himself before he gave it away to someone else. And he didn't do that in return, just like to put this party together for him didn't expect anything either. Which is why I believe when it may not always come but somehow it always comes back.