We all know that every now and again there's what I'm gonna show you now is a pudding that's It's one that I've loved since I was a child made it for me - my mum. I have never met have you? No! We're gonna make sticky toffee to make this at least twice a month when I was a ice cream or cream, unbelievable. Dates are pudding so if you want a great pud you've got might just look like regular dates but they're the most outrageous sort of caramel-y flavour. Only at Christmas. But they were a bit drier, a as lovely as that. Get the stone out and get want that. So mum's gonna motor through those. The To soften them and give them an even better Mum you probably won't be expecting this: Earl bags with 300 millilitres of boiling water and the de-stoned dates to a blender with a level Then pour the Earl Gray tea onto the dates So mum, creaming. You alright to do it? Yeah I'm 170 grams of butter and then I'm going to follow really important, muscovado sugar, this is going in with 170 grams of that. The point of creaming beating air into it and of course the butter has in a machine my mummy is right. Mum used to do do a steam pudding, syrup pudding, chocolate quite old-fashioned British ones really. it didn't you? Yeah, it was lovely. So mum's done we'll give this a good old beat up. Mum if you a time. Once all 4 eggs are beaten in gently fold then blend the tea-soaked dates until smooth. Pour in the lovely date mixture, thank you mum. between the dates and the spice and the sugar. that. Oh that's, oh that's gorgeous! Mum that bit of butter, put it on your hand, and just technique if you're ever worried about a mold and then we take some flour, thank you mama. And around and the flour will stick to the butter. So Pour the mixture into your mold. Shall I turn I like to use a ring-shaped bundt tin for this Put it into the oven to bake for 45 to 50 minutes While that's cooking I'm just going to knock up grams of butter and 250 grams of sugar, and as muscovado as well. So as soon as that sugar rum. Did you ever put rum in your sticky toffee you like rum? Yeah I love anything... Alcoholic? Add 50 mils of rum to your pan. To flambe it, carefully angle Setting it alight will burn off the alcohol Finally, add 300 mils of double cream. It will give you the most incredible sticky swill it about now. Look at the way it changes. Mum try that. It's not too hot. I love it, the really different! When those little bubbles Have a look at that sticky toffee pudding mum. No I? You did. Oh my god, it's all sunk? Ah I The illustrious sticky toffee pudding. Beautiful Go on. Oh that's lovely look at the steam. Now a I'm going to grab this brush. As you put this incredible sauce on top it kind of shinier and shinier and shinier which is amazing. toffee crust which is delicious. It's just a piece of that sauce can you? No. Why don't you just put lovely. No no it's good. That's what I would do. it? Haha, yeah! Because ultimately the whole point going to lift the spirit more than just filling up nice. There is one last thing I'm going to do. It's just that whole kind of thing about the I love salty caramel. So there you go Can you grab me that chopper from over And as we take this it's just going to gush out. Go on. Okay. This looks amazing. Mm! Oh. Now can you tell why I brushed the outside? You like? Yeah, amazing. Thanks mum. Hi guys hope you're well! So today we're three ways. Beautiful stewed fruit with a crunchy people very very happy. What I want to do is start basic on the topping and then just change it up up let's start with the humblest crumble ever, with just Bramley apple crumbles, delicious, but delicious flavour and texture is actually mix got this lovely mixture. Some big chunks, some water in with the apples. Pan on the heat. And a few strokes of lemon zest, really really six, seven minutes and then when it's a little on top and get it in the oven. So when it comes simple recipe. Half fat to flour. I'm going to to use half as much butter so 500 grams. Why am put it in the freezer, and then a month later two crumble on top in the oven and you've done a then you want about four to five hundred grams of take a little bit of brown sugar it gives it like liquorice-y. You can do one, you can do a mix, you add some vanilla. So you could use vanilla pods that's your basic standard easy peasy crumble here sprinkle it on top, beautiful. So in the Fahrenheit for about half an hour until golden apple crumble, let's take it up a notch let's just think that fresh fruit is the only way. here is a berries and blackcurrant mix. Whack a add some sugar just about 100 grams and then half an orange in there. Let's get a lid on bring topping is concerned could we do anything to it answer I think is yes. These are flaked almonds. Let's have a look in here, smells incredible. And an almond and vanilla topping, yes. Right so this and crisp. And then I can show you potentially crumble. Have a little look at this so I'll show fruit like plums and nectarines peaches apricots stone out, put it in halves or quarters, I've beautiful. And two I just got some strawberries to sweeten. And that roasting for about 20 minutes and the other thing I love love love to do is that just use your hands. Porridge oats give it absolutely love it. So this goes back in the oven delicious. Let's let these cook and when they're it's that time where the three crumbles are ready. Very exciting. Let's go in with our apple first, custard. Then we're gonna go for this beautiful The smell is something else and I love it last but not least we're going to go for the amazing intense flavours. Now I get to have three Mm! Memories of school dinners good ones, amazing. And then we've got the frozen grab some topping and some fruit and knock out this is what we need in life I So good, completely different. Last but you know it kind of feels a bit more grown up a bit more adulty I suppose. And what I might have to start from the beginning again I'm not sure if I said everything dessert that makes me very happy and I hope My little Buddy's flapjack biscuits are the but without loads of bowls, loads of faff, and golden syrup, porridge oats, self-raising flour, that's child's play. Are you ready for this? start with a 100 grams of butter. In we go. Self-raising so you've got a bit of lift happening got pecans, cashews, sultanas, so 100 grams hundred, hundred. So, surprisingly enough we And then 100 grams of porridge oats. Done. into the mixer. As simple as that. A little I want to pulse it so it comes together Grab a cake tin with a removable base, about 20 damp scrunched-up greaseproof paper. The water so you can get it into the little corners. and put it around the edges just so it catches and So get your mix here and just let it tumble into into the corners, roughly make it about one and done that whack it in the oven for 15 minutes Bosh! This is the easiest little biscuit you're smelling good. So it's light and golden, very want to do is just remove it from the mold so our bake on here. Just pop it off like that and amazing. Can you see how it's gone kind Slice into 16 treat-size squares. And we'll let even think about eating it, if you can control joy, unbelievably easy to remember, uncomplicated to make a little cup of tea, that's cooled down. a flapjack, it's a flapjack biscuit. And what's do. Can you see the chunks of fruit and nut, And there you go. Little Buddy's flapjack Mmm. It's chewy, it's crunchy, it's crumbly, and But I've never actually dunked it, let's have oh it is a dunker! Yes! What are you waiting for? Quick, Hello all you lovely people! I've got a beautiful rhubarb and custard tart. It's soft gooey gorgeous thing that you make with your friends and up into the three parts: we've got the pastry, rhubarb and apple compote okay? We're gonna make beautiful compote of rhubarb and apples it's a rhubarb and I'm going to take the flowery end is amazing. There you go, all the leaves have want to eat this. We've got a kilo of this lovely like chunks about three centimetres in length. medium high heat, I will add the rhubarb. So so I've got three beautiful eating apples, about eating apples is really nice they've got good has a completely different flavour and texture. and then get rid of the core. Cut them into three big chunks. Stir in the apple like that. You can goes in and then a little swig of water. Loads of it smells amazing, so I'm going to turn that down minutes of cooking until tender. So for the it's not on the heat yet, we're going to yourself a tablespoon, a tablespoon not a dessert tablespoon of the custard powder. Do that three this lovely powder. Now I can put the temperature two or three tablespoons of golden caster sugar do it as much as you like, I'm going to put two So in no time at all as that milk comes up to a kind of just cooks out for a minute or two have a look at the colour, look at the colour! I'm taking So into this baked blind pastry tart. So you can minutes and naturally a skin will form on the turn it off. And we're going to pour it into right, you've got the most incredible natural Look underneath and look at that beauty that is this little method is gravity and the natural kind it gives you the perfect consistency to go on natural almost cordial that we can just boil drizzle it over your tart. So I'm going to let just for one minute let that kind of reduce and So I've just been rolling out the ball of pastry. The custard has cooled down and you can see that going to put our amazing compote straight in the out. Beautiful. So what I want to do now is get bit of glue so obviously we're going to use just go around the little edge here, super simple. pastry and put it around your rolling pin and then then very simply then unroll it over the top like to go around the edge. It's quite annoyingly the pastry. Really simple, really easy, to make some decorations right? So we're going to stuff right. Take some almonds flaked almonds some icing sugar, just a teaspoon or two right just a few drips of water right, you mix it up if you sprinkle this over the top like this, when you've ever had. Then, have a look at this. I've So no talent has made this at all I've cheated, so or pastry cutters they are two a penny they are I'm going to take a big one like this, go in, you that and it comes off like that and you just prise this on our beautiful tart, look at that. So we I'll use the rest of these just to finish off this just look a little bit more special. Last but not give it a last little pinch of sugar. That's it, at 180 degrees Celsius which is 350 Fahrenheit for You're gonna love it. So there you and custard tart. It's gone gorgeous and they've just kind of frosted in the get into it because I want to show you You ready? Look at that. Crispy pastry, gorgeous right let's plate this up it's gonna be really syrup from the rhubarb and just give it a little Amazing. So there you go guys an beautiful crumbly homemade pastry, enjoy. Steamed marmalade pudding with cream and syrup, hard so let's do this thing together, come on! free-range eggs, self-raising My nan's steam pudding was absolutely half hours to cook...This one is homage to her in a microwave. So instead of cooking it in gonna cook it in these beautiful tea cups. So 150 100 millilitres of olive oil, we're using that this is going to do is give you a fantastically to go from millilitres to grams. 100 grams almonds. We're going to get amazing flavour We're going to get our marmalade here. 2 to lightly flavour it. And then 8 tablespoons, cut marmalade in this time saving syrup gives Beautiful right let's do it, let's get is put a little bit of olive oil in each that's going to stop the sponge sticking because and have a proper little rub-up. Little coffee microwave safe. Once you've rubbed it with oil This is a ridiculously simple pudding easy So look simple as that, really easy 2 at a time at full power, two and a half coming out of there. Enough time Oh! It's bubbling up. One minute to go, come in two and a half minutes. It's So, there we have our little Turned out absolutely gorgeous. We'll I think Nana would be proud right? I've be out partying she'd be at bingo or wish drive! I don't really have desserts that tried this that I could get something so that brings back so many lovely memories. So That is sensational. It's so light you know not cut the flavour. The olive oil you know it's which is super impressive in two What a joy, what a treat. So there you go in the microwave and proud, and proud, I'm really really loving every mouthful of