"Imagine a world millions of years in the Where evolution has written a new chapter That was the tagline of 'The Future is Wild,' exploring the speculative lifeforms of the And it was... amazing. I think this show left an impact on a lot I loved this series, and I think my interest led to making this channel. The special effects are, of course, a little is fantastically detailed, and an impressive that inhabit it. And while some of the predictions are pretty Wild' never set out to flawlessly predict -- but to get people excited about biology And I think these creatures definitely deserve never heard of them before. So, for this extra-long entry into the archive, -- having fun incorporating contemporary new insight into these speculative lifeforms, world the series created. So, prepare to jump forwards several million is Wild.' The future is wild is divided into three eras years into the future. Our journey begins in the 5-million-year era, Humans aren't present in this narrative, died out. We'd know this frozen wasteland as Northern under ice sheets over half a mile, or one And stalking this icy tundra is the first lifeform, and one of my favorites when I was This snowstalker has journeyed all the way And it might have found some in the form of Despite their size, these blubbery beach-dwellers ashore to lay their eggs. Their ancestor is the modern gannet, a bird with its wings. The concept of a gannet transitioning to a years is in some ways surprising. It might make more sense, for example, to lions and penguins would be the ones to evolve But we now know better than ever from the from a rodent-like animal into a large, sea-faring So Gannetwhales, though unexpected, aren't And while a single Gannetwhale would be a is just too large to be worth the trouble. Further inland, however, another potential On the horizon, a herd of Shagrats slog their These thick-coated creatures are the descendants over three times larger than their rodent And while Shagrats look a bit like musk oxen, million years is plenty of time for such a Yet Shagrats aren't big enough to deter All it takes is for one of them to fall behind last get its meal. Yet this meal won't just feed one mouth. This particular Snowstalker is a mother, and The moment here always stuck out to me -- as ecosystems, parental instincts haven't changed. But other ecosystems are even more barren. The scientists imagine that to the south, the Mediterranean Sea into vast salt flats. Dashing along this harsh expanse is a Cryptile. These lizards are some of the only creatures their clever method of getting moisture. Near pools of brine, enormous swarms of Brine These engorged flies are an excellent source them. And the Cryptile is an expert fly-trapper. The lizard rushes through the huge swarm of and licking the trapped flies off the net It's an extreme concept for a lifeform, The Cryptile, like a lot of the best lifeforms unique traits from modern animals -- such -- and combines them into a new, yet still Rising out of the salt, the Mediterranean rock. For Cryptiles, they make for an ideal egg-laying Deep fissures in the rock called grykes mark miniature canyons are narrow enough that they But near the larger grykes, a Cryptile needs For there is a predator here -- a stealthy cover the grykes provide. The Grykens' closest ancestor is the pine the branches of trees instead of narrow canyons. But five million years is a reasonable stretch Gryken. Efficient as Grykens are, however, the Cryptile A Cryptile isn't the preferred prey of the Instead, the delicate looking pigs known as At a glance, it's easy to tell the Scrofas one distinct change. Scroffa leg bones have become elongated, with toes. It's an adaptation we've documented elsewhere This hoof design mirrors those of Klipspringer like hooves to move on rocky outcroppings. So, considering the Scrofa's environment, With pigs this athletic, the Grykens have one. Further south is one of the regions I remember Huge grassy plains stretch across the South stood before the ice age. And upon this Amazon prairie, a strange troop move through tall grass. The Babookaries are fairly intelligent, weaving in shallow lakes to catch small fish, which While this level of tool use in a primate documentation than when this documentary aired But the monkey the Babookari are theoretically But no matter their ancestor, the Babookari's quite perilous. For the troop is always in danger of being predatory birds that patrol the grasslands Like the Babookari, the Carakiller's ancestor to have evolved from small falcons in just A larger modern bird like the red-legged seriema the real-world inspiration of the Carakiller these giants. But in either case, Carakillers -- for all like a Rattleback. These reptile-like armored omnivores are imagined to break through. Their 'armor' is actually derived from hard scales. This is because the Rattleback isn't a reptile from a forest dwelling rodent species. They were another of my favorites from this to a reptile-like creature that can move its years would be quite the transformation. But a relative of the Rattleback that is closer desert of central North America. In this ice age desert, the North American This particular Rattleback is a mother traveling winds of a sandstorm. Luckily, their spines aren't just adapted from the unforgiving environment. These creatures are more what one might expect To find food, the rattlebacks dig underground But this mother is unknowingly disturbing lifeform. This tiny creature is a Spink, and although According to the documentary, the Spink evolved to an underground lifestyle. The Spink are another creature that seems years of transition -- although we do have creating burrows in which to lay their eggs. But the Spink live almost their entire lives cover of darkness. Peculiar as they are, I've always found Far less adorable are the creatures that swoop With wingspans of 4 feet, or one meter, these giant predatory birds. But these are actually bats, which have evolved North American skies. It would take a very special extinction event birds of prey like eagles and condors. But certain modern species of bats like flying from a biomechanical perspective, given the could indeed take flight... Yet five million years into the future isn't Wild' explores. The documentary then jumps to my personal Beginning in the coastal swamps, this is a conditions have led to a period of tremendous And no species is more emblematic of this These lumbering giants are huge -- described the weight of even the biggest dinosaur. So, it's surprising that the ancestor of Tortoises might not be the most expected lifeform we now have better research suggesting that get so large thanks to their starting advantage Still, I always loved the concept of giant -- like legs that have shifted to under their a tremendous amount of available plant matter Near the feet of the Toratons dwell a family These excellently named creatures are the they can move on land. Strange as this might sound, we now have more upon the land in a limited capacity, using The Swampus takes this concept further by extent, sort of like the strange mudskippers And like the mudskipper, the Swampus spend true land-dwelling cephalopods. Those will come later... And every time the Swampus returns to the For there's an apex predator here in the This is a Lurkfish, a descendant of the catfish to a weak electric field the Lurkfish generates. But this terror of the wetland has another Releasing a powerful shock, the Lurkfish stuns gulp. While this menacing lifeform might seem far-fetched, is surprisingly similar. Certain species of catfish can produce a small backs, which the catfish uses to stun its But it's not just the swamps of this era Higher global temperatures have caused tremendous now flooded. These vast, shallow seas stretch across the This is an Ocean Phantom. Always one of my favorites, this complex looking Like modern siphonophores, the Ocean Phantom lifeforms, some which act as sails to help the lifeform afloat, and some which trail The idea of a lifeform using biological sails siphonophores and their relatives have already So, while the Ocean Phantom is certainly an siphonophores... Under the water's surface, small creatures At a glance, these creatures look like fish, a descendent of sea slugs, or nudibranch. These are Reef Gliders, and they play a vital here. Free swimming sea slugs might have once seemed is a nudibranch that has evolved to spend So, the concept of a fish-like sea slug such all. But the Reef Gliders are in danger here in For the Ocean Phantom is a hunter, and is using them to feed the colony. But feeding on small Reef Gliders is a dangerous adults are large enough to pose a serious Yet in cases where the colony is menaced by one last form of protection. It has its own personal defense team, in the Huge sea spiders that live in the chambers They attack the huge adult Reef Glider, until The highly complex symbiosis between the Spindle parallels; as the documentary points out, The trapezoid crab lives among coral, and with its sharp pinchers. The Ocean Phantoms take this a step further, with sustenance produced from red algae that Truly, these siphonophores are almost like seas... Not all regions of this high-temperature Earth A vast rainforest can be found upon a rather We know this landmass as Antarctica -- but warmer and warmer as tectonic plate shifts Now, near the equator, this green Antarctica Birds are the main inhabitants of this region, to migrate to this island continent over the But this particular species -- the Spitefire When threatened, the Spitefire Bird sprays While we've never seen such a defense evolve can produce a burning, acid-like substance The Spitefire Bird might just be the most On the nearby peaks of the Great Plateau, The mountain range where it dwells was formed Eastern Asia colliding -- a crash that would Himalayas of today. And soaring over these peaks is a Great Blue This giant bird possesses a wingspan of almost And upon closer inspection, it actually has altitude. At the time of 'The Future is Wild's' wings was just speculation. After its release, however, a specimen of to have had four wings, just like the Windrunner. While the Microraptor is of course a lifeform -- this discovery shows such a body plan While the Windrunners are majestic, a much of the Great Plateau's caves. These are Silver Spiders, massive arachnids But Silver Spiders are carnivores. The seeds aren't for them. They're for a small, shy form of rodent. The amusingly named Poggle. While the hamster-like Poggles themselves me more existential dread during my childhood The documentary imagines the Poggles are, species on earth. And while the Silver Spiders allow them to Spiders are farming the Poggles. In moderation, the spiders attack one Poggle... It's a terrifying fate for the last mammal, across the globe. Thankfully, it's probably one of the less Mammals are highly adaptable -- having already likely to be outcompeted so thoroughly in million years. But a world without mammals is an interesting is part of the idea behind 'The Future is 200 million years into the future, we've Wild,' which the scientists imagine is home This version of Planet Earth now features ocean -- much like the bygone era of Pangea. This is indeed where our tectonic plates are truly extreme environments. On the edge of the coast, what seem like birds But upon closer inspection, these aren't amusingly calls 'Flish.' The Flish are the icon of the franchise in the gliding flying fish of today. In 200 million years, such a lifeform evolving isn't so improbable a hypothetical after And the air is one of the safer places to sharks are still patrolling. This bioluminescent species is a Sharkopath Sharks surviving this far into the future complete sense, as they've been stalking with few changes. But the introduction of bioluminescent signals pack hunters -- using their flashes to keep But while the Sharkopaths are deadly, they Ocean. That distinction goes to the colossal Rainbow These highly intelligent lifeforms are another ability to change color to ward off predators. Displays like this are also present in the Chromatophores. These are pigment filled sacs in the skin and patterns in response to signals from the But the Rainbow Squid's Chromatophores are the creature virtually invisible by matching Rainbow Squid in a dazzling display to others A squid offshoot one day conquering the sea But on land, 'The Future is Wild' has This perpetually damp rainforest is located supercontinent. And lumbering through the forest is a sixteen-foot, This is a Megasquid -- one of the most famous Wild.' Like the Swampus, it's a cephalopod that the swampus, is now fully terrestrial. Even in 200 million years, a squid becoming skeleton seems improbable. The documentary claims the squid supports muscles that act as a pseudoskeleton. And according to calculations done by McNeill worked on the project, the math actually checks So, the Megasquid, while extremely speculative, Which is a preferable outcome -- because is amazing. And in the branches above the Megasquid, the is waiting. This is a Squibbon: another type of terrestrial branches of the forest canopy. And if that isn't strange enough, the documentary forest has made these creatures highly intelligent. Indeed, this 200-million-year journey ends reemerging through the Squibbon. It's a speculative concept that is certainly While humans are gone forever in this future, intelligent squids will replace us . . . is I could explore this world forever, and while lifeform -- I hope I've shown why 'The There wasn't anything like it on TV at the quite like it since. Hearing top scientists get excited about the wholesome. And I hope they know how much the world they I hear there have been plans to revive the I think that's a shame. I feel like a modern remake or sequel with really be successful in the age of the internet. Maybe one day we'll get more of The Future incredible original, which has stood the test As always, thanks for watching. If you enjoyed this entry, please lend your the notification icon to stay up to date on See you in the next video.