These Hard/soft breakfast biscuits are a great way to kich off your day while getting the maximum amount of sugar and Carbs into your body which can only be delivered by these cakey cookie bread bun rock croissant snack clumps *Intro* First off, we are making the American Style scone Not the traditional scottish scone, which is where scones were originally born Whoops! These are the Scottish style scones, also know as British scones. The main difference is that the Scottish scone is meant to have jam and clotted cream spread on it. Whereas the American scones has all the flavor build inside it, so you don't have to be fumbling with the pot of jam while you are trying to eat your breakfast when you're hunting wild boar. Also I have been pronouncing it wrong, it's actually &quot;scon&quot; not &quot;sconn&quot; Unless you pronounce it &quot;scohn&quot;, in which case it is &quot;scohn&quot; not &quot;scon&quot;. It all depends on where you come from. But in the UK the &quot;sconners&quot; outnumber the &quot;scohnners&quot; and everyone thinks everyone else is wrong. Guys look, don't get involved. This is a battle that has been waged for millennia. Unless you are from there, in which case, fight on my brothers and sisters. So we're gonna start with the ingredients for basic baking cement. Two cups of flour, Three tablespoons of sugar, and a tablespoon of baking powder. Combine this with water and you can use it lay bricks. In fact, let's see if we can cement those stones together. *beautiful whistling* I always thought brick laying looked really satisfying, but now that I'm doing it I have to say I was right. Remember we're using baking powder, which is a white powder that contains sodium acid pyrophosphate, which reacts with sodium bicarbonate once it's wet and hot. Unlike baking soda, which is a cold refreshing drink to help you get through the baking process when your un-do is on fourhundo on a hot summery day. *slurping* Ahh. Fun fact: Scones were often smuggled into Ireland as crumbly potatoes because pastries are illegal there. Gonna wangjangle the baking cement together, and then we're gonna take three quarters of a cold stick of butter and we're gonna chop that up. *fast chopping* You want little chunks of butter, not warm butter that will blend in perfectly. Nobody knows why and nobody cares. So, I'm trying to spread those in. Get those coated by the flour. Some of them are gonna smush together and become bigger chunks and that's when you know it's time to go chunk hunting. *gun cocking sound* You take your fork and just smash those chunks apart a bit.. Or you can do the old Peter knife hands. Just do your best to get them smaller than a Skittle. *chuckle* I meant this as a joke but it actually works perfect. Do you see any Skittles? I don't. Okay, maybe one. Now you wanna get it some lemon zest. I would go with around a tablespoon. Let's call it what it is: exterior lemon skin scrapings. I'm gonna put in around one and a half cups of blueberries. This is a non-cautious amount of blueberries. Gonna wangjangle these a little bit. So now we're gonna just form a little liquid volcano pocket cavity chamber impression. And we'll pour in one cup of cream. If you wanna go more cakey go with half a cup of cream and two eggs. And now you wanna exercise... some restraint. You just wanna barely work the dough together. Don't overwork it. More like glueberry scones, Am I right? Roboto's voice: No, you're not right. It was just a joke, calm down. Roboto: I am calm. Okay, well stay that way then. Roboto: I will. Okay, see ya. Roboto: Goodbye. Fun fact: scones are legal currency in Scotland. The current trading rate is one scone for seventeen shekels or 4 doubloons. So I'm gonna lightly flour my cutting board and I'm gonna get the dough on here. If you have a few leftover crumbles, don't force them into the dough. Collect them in the corner of your bowl and say: Look. You weren't good enough, fast enough, or sticky enough or whatever enough, and you missed your chance. There's nothing you can do about it now. There's no second chances with scones. You'll never be a scone. But at least someone told you the truth. You're welcome, goodbye. *thud* *slam* Just knead it ever so slightly with common decency. Then get this into a rectangular or square-like shape. If you are wondering about how thick to go, just think: if I were to punch this I wouldn't break my wrist. I'd only severely sprain it. About an inch-ish. I'm gonna cut this in half. Then we will go halfsies again. Based on the strongest geometric shape: the scalene triangle. And then we are going to transfer these to a parchment papered pan. Don't be a hero and think you can cut these on the parchment paper. Believe me, I tried. Learn from my mistakes. Or you know what? Maybe you're better than me. Prove me wrong. Whoops! Give them space to express themselves, cause change is inevitable. Un-do's on fourhundo. Now this is gonna go in the un-do for about twenty minutes, but we're gonna trust the browning more than the timing. Watch with your eyes, not with your ears. (knowledge) *ping* So, there you have it. American style lemon blueberry scone. Easy to hold. All the flavors build in. This is a real American scone. *paper crackling* I mean, this is a real American scone. This one is easily eaten while driving your pickup truck to the outlet mall to buy a monster truck. This is a real 'Merican scone. I also tried to make an ice-cream scone, but it kinda just drooped over. It became a scone-u-copia. You could like... hollow that out and put in a mini pumpkin and like a whole buffet. It'd be great for thanksgiving. And I tried to make a scone-nut for the kids, but it turned into more of a scagle. And I tried to make a scuffin, cause where do you draw the line between all these pastries? Like what's what? And I made a croisscone, for the French inside us all. Au revoir. (Goodbye in english) *music starts* Put down your phone, it's time to hone your ability to make a scone. Pick up some blueberries, scrape the skin of a lemon and you're good to go. Cause you're wasting your life on the internet. So get into the kitchen with some oven mitts. Now wangjangle that backing cement. It's a rewarding activity you won't regret. Making scones, your friends will be blown away by the awesomeness, they'll start to moan. They'll wonder why you didn't do it before and they'll all be impressed by the greatness you've shown. This is the magic of scones. The magic of Scotland, the land we call home. Unless we're not from there, in which case it's just a real faraway place we'd one day like to go. Scones! Hey guys, WNC here, and go subscribe to YSAC! He makes amazing videos and I totally recommend him.