Hi guys, thanks for tuning in to another I'm Ian McCollum, and today we are going to take a look at a British L96A1 sniper. This is the first ... military sniper rifle produced by Accuracy International and it's a really cool kind of a pioneer in modern sniper rifle development. So first off, this video is being done courtesy of British sniper rifles. So if you'd like to know more 1915 through basically 2018, definitely check it out. It is called &quot;The British Sniper A Century Of Evolution&quot;, and we'll have a link where you can So back to the rifle itself here. When Accuracy International got its start in the early 1980s, they were really kind of the stereotypical (I shouldn't even say British, that's kind of At any rate, they got their start manufacturing by the name of Malcolm Cooper. And it was actually and ... by 1984 Accuracy International had actually And this is relevant because they got tweaks and improvements, and things that that would serve them very well in the upcoming So in 1985 the British MOD decided to hold some The L42 was, quite literally they were updated, which had been around since literally the '40s. which was take your standard service rifle, and then mount scopes on them. And the British, you know, these rifles were However, they weren't really expecting a fundamentally Anyway, AI gets this option to submit a rifle to MOD this wasn't like their big goal. They were a it appears that actually the mindset was well, but it'd be interesting to see our rifle go through a You know, this is something that we ... haven't really done Well, it turns out what actually There were a number of other entrants: SIG was and then the major competitor that they had was Parker And ultimately it came down to a very close and the Accuracy International Although there were Parker Hale And what made this rifle different is So what you see here looks a little bit unorthodox, and Instead of the classic traditional approach of and you put a trigger group on it, and you bed it very nicely, This instead has, basically, the receiver as the main element So when we take these stock sides you'll see it's basically one big metal strut in here. The barrel is free floated by nature of the furniture of the rifle. There's no need to bed And when it comes to military use this was very everything on the rifle was modular and that could go wrong that you couldn't fix new functional part. As opposed to one of the damaged too badly, the whole thing So it was that modularity, I think, ... the winning entrant in this competition. So in 1985 Accuracy International wins this trial, much ... It was a couple of guys in a shed, they didn't have any industrial capability that they were they might be disqualified from it simply for not apparently there's this, I think, a really funny not directly but indirectly, who was one of the and I believe this is going to be in a book that he is in but apparently having won the contract, the to take a look at ... Accuracy International's And so the guys at AI rented a little and kind of threw together a bunch of work benches, gun parts around to kind of make it sort And they took these two MOD officers and brought like, &quot;Yeah, there's that and that and that and that, and let's go get lunch now&quot;. And dragged them out of the place over to anything particularly expensive for lunch, or the money to provide much more Fortunately, that's all these guys ended up wanting actually commented that, you know, &quot;Yeah, it looked to make sure you weren't just two guys in a shed.&quot; So, eventually this came to light AI got a contract to make 1,112 of these rifles. They had been, by the way, designated the Accuracy And AI continued to sell the PM on the commercial When the British military adopted So the two are actually identical rifles, Because AI didn't have an actual factory to do this for it to a company called Pylon Engineering, story of this rifle and in its So the first hundred rifles, the first hundred on his lathe in his garage, and that's actually one of We'll take a close look at it in a minute. After that, it went to Pylon because they they had tools, they had production facilities. and they decided to take some liberties with some of the far beyond what we need, and it's pretty There are a couple of, say, bolt holes in the back of well, threading blind holes is problematic, so let's just drill them all the They made a couple of changes like that, and was their change to the material Because just as these rifles were the firing pin started breaking. And they which is a particularly bad place with this rifle's was now pushing the firing pin forward, and not catching, you know, that when you closed but it was no longer connected to the front of the firing pin would contact the cartridge, the and the cartridge would detonate out And a number of British troops were injured by and it became an immediate and huge problem. In fact, for about six weeks there was how do we go back and modernise the L42 now, it's gonna be gone. Do we still have some Let's make some brackets and What ended up happening was Accuracy International of the production of the rifles. Pylon ended up And AI was able to fix the problem, In fact the rifles were retrofitted with (and later So you could see if there was And within six weeks or so the rifles were actually back So looking at this from a mechanical which I promise we'll take off in just a minute, It is a kind of typical turn bolt system. We have Pull the bolt out. Got a three lug rotating bolt there. Note that the cocking piece extends this product improvement after Originally, on the very first guns, this was These are all chambered for the 7.62 NATO sniping cartridge. That's what the This has a double stack, This has a number of features both for a military on a civilian competition rifle. so you can adjust your length of There's a sling swivel back here, but there loosen this thumb screw that will come out. So not all that long, but you have a little bit there. on a three point fixed rest on your It is spring-loaded. And this is an element that was improved in later The trigger is a two-stage trigger with a fantastic Nothing at all like what you get on an L42. This is much Again, like you would see on a match rifle, you have that can be adjusted for position, or And a nice robust bipod at the front of the The legs can extend out, like so. And if you don't want the bipod on, you can rotate However, while we're talking about cool modern is not threaded, doesn't have a flash hider. It But it was not threaded, which is something Remember, this is basically the first of and so the idea of adding a suppressor wasn't really something people were thinking about. They did go ahead and put an iron sight on it, quite effectively. That's your backup sight. In order to get to the rear iron That's held in place by two thumb screws here. This just pops off. So there's a rail milled and we have an oval hole right That's what gives you your repeatable line it up so that that peg is in place. so you push it to the [front], And then tighten it down and you do actually A lot of people think that a repeatable you know, requires all sorts of extra levers and controls In reality, a repeatable zero is gotten based on And one of the things that AI did was level of precision to a Here's our rear backup iron sight, You could actually, I suspect, shoot this So it lifts up of course, and then it is adjustable for elevation. It is an aperture sight and we have our adjustment dial right there. Now that we have the scope off, I can The company name, Accuracy International, England Above that we have what is basically a part and then Rifle 7.62 mm L96A1. This is one of the very early guns. In fact, once production really got into the swing of things, the markings would improve, they'd You can see that this looks a little more however, they have now added And this one is actually a police issued rifle. This was used by the Bedfordshire police and prefix and that is that Precision Marksman, And this one is serial number 0576. So that's one of the places you'll see a difference between Now, of course, optics are as The original L96A1 optic was a Schmidt &amp; Bender, They're painted green to match the [rifle]. And, in fact, you can tell this is kind of early production If we look on the bottom of the rear so this one is not actually matching to the in the mounting and the fabrication of these At times you could conceivably even re-zero, or with an absolutely swapping scopes around On the elevation dial of the scope The top number, in basically So that is your ... distance in hundreds Or you can use the yellow numbers at the bottom So you have ... one minute clicks on this, which is another interesting aspect of being the first of the modern sniper rifles. We would think today of And you know people are expecting quarter minute, But 1985 this is what was being done, You'll see that the windage knob is similarly marked. We also have one minute of angle The L96 remained in British service for quite some of the British snipers who the 6x power scope really wasn't And so right about that time, the guns process, and they replaced the optics So they now have a 3x to 12x by 50. A magnification for a greater field of view double the magnification at the high end if you The original scopes had been designated L13 this was the L17A1, and this Accuracy International Arctic Warfare rifles, ... some parts of the British military by that time. So this And so it uses a slightly different mount. But it can drop onto the L96 rifle and this was a By this point we no longer have minutes of angle and however, you'll notice that while we have mils on So you can now adjust this in one tenth of a The windage is also now set in tenth of a mil clicks. You have a focal range adjustment, and this scope would actually have a mil dot So as you adjust the magnification of the scope here, your reticle shifts with it, so that your There's also a range finding element The idea is a man-sized object, a human being, will go from the waist at the bottom line And those those four different increments and those also shift as you adjust the magnification Over time the reticle was actually developed, And this is the 6x power fixed scope, And then here is the L17 reticle, mil dot with the range finders. And by the way, in order to mount this you because it's just a longer scope base. the iron sights were not considered as necessary, Alright, I promised I would show you what this looks This is actually our police sniper here, a stock that the receiver drops into, you basically strut, or chassis, into which So the receiver is bolted on here, trigger The side panels of the stock (it's almost a little odd to you've got two of these guys. One goes on each These two sides simply mate up with each other, eight screws that hold these onto the they go through it and the screw So, you can't over-tighten this and because ... these holes are oversized you're not going to mess up Incidentally, one of the issues with these is when you It's not an issue when they're bolted on, because there's and when removed, are quite delicate. That was the Arctic Warfare series, that There's a bit of a close-up of I guess the one piece that is sort of integral because it's just a hole in the chassis with One of the other weak points in the gun is this joint at the back which is a welded joint, fabrication in this area. Because aluminum is they had overall length issues with forming after they got done with the military contract, they So that you didn't have any issues of, you know, the weld melting more or less The block at the front end for holding the bipod. And you can see quite clearly how the So the thing is free floated automatically, doesn't require any fancy I didn't mention the safety earlier This is the fire position, and that's we have a flat surface there that allows the striker to go past, and a higher surface there that prevents it from going past. Simplicity ... is the goal in a rifle like this. One of the cool facts, little anecdotes, to me that the L96, over what had previously just is that with the L42 the rifle was considered 600 metres, and a harassing And with this rifle, firing the same cartridge, those ranges were increased out to ... 900 metres just because the rifle was so much At the same time the Royal Marines, who had for all of the British military units, they didn't change their sniper training it didn't really occur to anyone that there was a reason the number of students in the class skyrocketed with the adoption of this rifle. with this compared to the old L42 Enfields, Along the same lines, that highlighted some Things like the spotting scopes that were issued and the snipers began to complain that, basically, beyond where their spotters were able to be effective. And sort of ... every aspect of the British sniping just to keep up with the capabilities of their new rifle. For the record, the police rifle that you see there This is the original police barrel. So instead of having a front sight, or a rear sight by British police agencies had this kind of So in total 1,247 of these rifles were built and supplied They would become known by the British military as the And would have a fantastically successful service life. They would serve actively in pretty much every Their replacement was actually adopted a few years We will touch on the replacement for this rifle in a future video. In addition to the military rifle, of course, there Not very many, and basically the same gun, And the scopes were a little bit different as well, but the functional bits, the gun itself, was the same. When these went out of service they and then the ultimate fate of the L96s, they were cut up into pieces and then The British Ministry of Defence was apparently very So there are only a very small number of guns like this various circuitous routes. This one I believe had and so had kind of gotten its way out of and was disposed of onto the civilian provenanced L96s that survive in private hands today. There are a couple others in various you know, different organisations under But outside of the British military these weren't but there was not a widespread international use of the L96. Now this rifle ... would end up being basically the rifle developed for Sweden (we'll touch on that in a international use and it's a lot more common. So, like I said at the beginning, definitely take a look at Steve Houghton's book There's ... a lot more discussion of this the transit cases, the spotting scopes, [Thanks for watching.]