We are in a boat in a fjord surrounded, and you can probably hear them, these and I can see straight ahead of me the Greenland ice sheet, one edge of which and chunks of that are clearly coming I'm Marnie Chesterton and you're listening special from Greenland, which has the the world's melting ice and sea level question 'How long before all the ice melts?' We think the feature of the Greenland ice sheet so there are going to be more melting ice surfaces We found that no matter what future trajectory there is, high or low emission 27 centimetres of sea level rise. That sea level And as the water gets warmer it expands and that was actually our primary contributor to sea level rise so far. That process will also continue over many the heat in the atmosphere to work its way down The icebergs that I can touch with my hand right decades, they are melting and that's been worrying I remember growing up, I went to the kindergarten there and we always had the food prepared at the kindergarten and there was always fish or seal or whale. So you were born in Greenland. A long time ago, yeah. And where do you live now? I live in Slagelse in Denmark. And what's your question for CrowdScience? My question was 'Where do we go to live when the Is that something that you're particularly concerned about? Not on my behalf actually but on my children's behalf and on their children's behalf. So the next generations. I mean I don't see us reaching our goals anytime soon and all science points to that if we don't reach our goal I think by 2030 we've reached point of no return right. I have to say Johan it's not looking great. So just want to check Johan you're in Denmark. There's a lot of coast in Denmark. How high above sea level are you? Not much because I live like three kilometres from the beach, so... Oh you're potentially in danger zone. Do you have any idea about where we should move to when the seas get too high? Have you thought this? Maybe some of the completely dried out or mountain ranges. Maybe what we actually CrowdScience has already covered the space. You can find those in our extensive back planet we evolved on. However parts of places Netherlands are already going underwater. As we with Antarctica and all the little glaciers around completely this would lead to about 70 metres of In fact it would take a minimum of 1,000 years we're currently on course for a metre of sea Before we start hunting down new homes, it's how scientists work out who will be affected saying sea level is going to rise by a metre and Sea levels do not rise equally. Ruth Mottram, scientist for the Danish Meteorological Institute I think this is one of the most important insights that we've had in the last couple of decades. The sea level doesn't rise evenly all around the world. It really is coming from. So I live in Denmark, we're in the sea level rise is coming from Greenland because not it's coming from Antarctica and it's coming There are a number of reasons why it isn't distributed kind of big block of ice sitting on land or just attraction, it's like a magnet. So the water moves smaller and smaller there's not such a strong water kind of sloshes back to the other side of really important, if you live within a few metres sea level rise coming from, how quickly are the That's bonkers to think that if a lot of the sea level that's actually going to have more of an effect on Yes so the Greenland ice sheet melt is really going to affect Asia, especially Chinese seaports, India, those areas are really going to be affected by Greenland be very affected by the melt from Antarctica. So to change quite fast, I think we have to really So I mean when you think of water levels going and it all stays at the same level. So around the Well on average it does but of course we also have many other processes, so it's not just gravity which is a really big one, we expect to see changes in ocean the way that sea levels rise. One of the things the average sea level rise that's important, we can good weather forecasts and good ocean forecasts Well considering Johan is already so an idea that might make him feel at home. Maybe Some nations threatened by rising seas have as others go underwater. But what would life building up your home to stay above the waves? so I have a network of colleagues around Rafael Rojas from BBC Mundo is based in Miami, of investigating manmade island living. So let's We're working on this episode of CrowdScience ice melts. Rafael where did you go for us. Well I'm from Colombia and there is one place that might be of interest in a world with way too much water. It's an artificial island, a place where people have really learned how to live with water. OK sell it to me. I want a proper sense of what life is like. Welcome to Santa Cruz del Islote, off Colombia's northern coast. Just one hour away from the quaint and sleepy town of Tolu by boat, it is easy to forget your sorrows The small island is covered in brightly painted Legend goes that in the 1870s, native fishermen the night there. They decided to build because as there were no marshes or beaches, they Some 50 years ago, before cement and steel, we use the same seashells they managed to used to use dry sticks, even garbage that the That was the way they managed to That's Alexander Atencio, or Prophet Alex as he's the local school where kids can actually attend When you build your own island there roughly the size of a football pitch, so it's are no cars, no motorcycles, so you don't have all Miami or London. There are a few small snags to but if you're resourceful enough to build your When we use the water we install gutters, which run down from the roofs of the houses and fill the tanks with rain water. Every time it rains here it's a moment of joy, People have here a nice custom so they can save resources. It's a beautiful Electricity is also a bit scarce here. Locals from 6.30 pm to 7 am and the reason it that electricity is powered by the sun in the We have 240 solar panels and a 150 kilowatt to five hours a day because the Sebastian Martinez, another relying on each other is pivotal No one needs anything here because the community, no matter our differences. So come embrace the warm waters of the Close-knit communities are the key to successful island living no matter where that island is, but this particular corner of paradise still comes with challenges Well it's not that climate change is not going to be an issue here. Waters around the island are warming and they're becoming more acidic as the CO2 dissolves into the oceans. This means with hard shells are having a difficult Remember that those shells they use as filling and community that is very comfortable with the ocean, even this manmade island that's been The good news for residents is that they're well someday this is what Miami will have to become. To get away from all this unwelcome water, I reckon we need some serious height and on Earth Time to get some help from a reporter considerably Is there anywhere local that she reckons Come with me to Ladakh, a region in Northern in the world at 3,000 metres above sea level. I am standing on a rocky hill outside a 17th bustling with tourists. Far in the distance Historically a cold desert region, but that's not such a bad thing considering celsius and in some parts people and their cattle In the last couple of years, the temperatures mercury breached 30 degree celsius, Here people farm in the deep valleys and high plains. The change in temperature means that the access to improved farming technology like the opportunity to grow more food here The change in temperature also means that able to grow in the Ladakh now, as compared He has been running an organisation in Ladakh sustainable development and health hygiene and We never used to grow these apples which you grow in Kashmir which is growing so well. Not only apples, there are other fruits, cherries, strawberries, these all have come. Din also told me that the people are much happier as the winters have become less extreme Ladakh is also opening up to a lot of development become a clean energy source for the rest of are also experimenting with resource efficient making efficiently designed houses that do not seasons. All this awaits you in Ladakh. Right Furkan you've made it sound like a really good option. There is one problem I can think of - that glistening glacier that you mentioned. I feel like climate change might cause Absolutely, this region has relied on glaciers for water in the past to feed its lakes and its lush green fields but much of that ice is melting now at an alarming rate already doesn't receive much rain or snow, just rate more than one third of the Himalayan glaciers to irrigate their new found crops and even to Wherever a village has been established, normally these are established in the lap of a mountain, just above in the mountain there's a glacier. This of the village is determined by the size of the climate change these glaciers are melting. A The problem is when short bursts of tendency to turn into flash floods and landslides In 2010, we had a very severe cloudburst and then we really lost hundreds of people here in flood it covered their whole agricultural land. As if this wasn't enough Marnie the only city in the region Leh has started facing further water shortages because of the region being a popular tourist So does that mean that there's anything they Small farming communities and the local villages conserve water by freezing the winter water in they are making newer banks further down the off and it stays in the same place long enough I have to ask you Furkan, would you move to Leh in Ladakh? I don't think it's a good idea for the future. It is looking really good now but 10-15 years down the line it might be too hot and just not enough water there. Where are you moving to out of interest? Canada. Lots of space, lots of water. So it seems. You're listening to CrowdScience from the I'm on a boat just outside Narsarsuaq, a little In front of me is the most stunning sight. I've off the Greenland ice sheet, one edge of which So some of these small chunks will be melted by will make their way out into the fjord beyond absolutely extraordinary. So there's white bottom, has been squashed so much that it squashed and so you just get these Oh that's us hitting another iceberg, sure it's of icebergs, our boat captain Lars has gone fishing That is the sound of bubbles from atmosphere 5,000 years ago. Towering 75 metres high and reaching 400 metres underwater in front of us, this glacier is just one edge of 1.7 million of melting. This frozen wall of water could impact people in the coming decades. All right back world. What about North America? Loads of room up work trying to find somewhere that's not too hot, becoming a desert. If only someone had done all the I am Matt Fitzpatrick. I am professor and Laboratory, which is part of the University of what you would call a conservation biogeographer. So biogeography is basically the study of the distribution of life on Earth. So I'm curious about in particular how climate change might rearrange And as part of that you made a map didn't you. That's right so the map I made was basically a tool that answers the question 'What will my hometown or the city that change in the year about 2080 or so?' So we're calling you from Greenland right now and we're trying to figure out where one of our listeners the world's ice melts. So according to your map, So you know based on our analyses I would say the best bets are moving towards the poles. You know Canada is known for its cooler climates, it's known for its abundant fresh that we might worry about increasing with climate but all that said no place is going to escape All right so I've got this map open and we'll link to it on the CrowdScience page so listeners can check it out too/ Now I'm quite fond of Chicago, so I'm just emissions Chicago's climate in 2080 will feel most typical summer in Lansing, Kansas is three degrees So I don't know, is that good? So I guess you know we should clarify here what the the map is doing is answering the question 'If I stay in Chicago to feel like?' Well the place today in current times in 2080 in Chicago is Lansing, Kansas. And then on your map you've got a high emission scenario or the path we're on now and there's a reduced emission scenario. So for the high emissions the difference between kind of current climates and future climates is a shift of about 850 kilometres for the reduced emission scenarios it's about half OK I'm going south and I'm going to go New Orleans For high emissions New Orleans climate in 2080 Westchase, Florida but I couldn't help but notice that by 2080 both of those places are going to be Yeah and so the analyses that I did did not factor in sea level rise and yeah so if you're in New Orleans you should be worried about sea level rise and the same certainly goes for most And could you lay a sea level rise on top in a later iteration? We certainly could, that's something we've considered doing. You know the goal here was to communicate to people the magnitude We hear often the Earth is expected to warm three when it's presented in those sorts of numbers OK what's the big deal if it's a few degrees what this app does is it translates that into say wow changing from Chicago to the the deep southeastern United States that's really And do you want kind of municipal just have a look at how people in those different maybe there are things that they can take that I would hope that city planners and the like would look at this and say wow you know Chicago's climate is expected to change by a lot, it's expected to and all of the sort of building standards and and cooling units were all written up and put in Chicago anymore and so the question is how do we climates that are going to be warmer, there's going that the existing infrastructure is going to be Now you research how species move and migrate. What, other than humans, might be moving into Canada and the upper midwest? Broadly speaking, what we see is up in elevation in mountainous regions. Often these pests or they're things like mosquitoes that can organisms that can fly are showing very pronounced So if we suggest that our listener moves to Canada, he should probably pack some bug spray. Yeah I guess Canada is already known for its insects. The difference here is that as things warm up those biting insects could be more likely to carry and transmit tropical If people from other parts of the world want to We are working on getting a new set of analyses out that are global. The first set were just in North America So some of these locations on the like but instead they say 'novel climate'. Well some places, especially those near the equator and places that are already known to be very is no place currently on Earth that has the That sounds way worse than the novel You know we try not to be alarmist, we're trying to use terminology that is descriptive and accurate, but I agree with you. We've seen this recently in places like you know these are places where millions or that they're going to become near uninhabitable that we have to deal with as a society. Where does it all make you want to go before 2080? You know I'm a guy that likes long cold winters make those things a thing of the past. So if it would probably be my choice. I would definitely New England's probably easier. Well exactly, I mean we haven't even touched on the politics of how people in Canada might feel about the Though I joke about an influx of Canadian already being discussed in that country, there's a realm of our science programme. Luckily for Johan wouldn't even need to get a new passport Greenland. The ice here is retreating after away something called post-glacial rebound up because it's no longer under the weight of northern regions of Europe and North America that someday here in Greenland. So that's one thing As the ice sheet here melts it also exposes more mining or just living space. So could Johan He did tell us one thing that's changed I remember you know we're very dependent on ships coming into the harbour and delivering goods. So all winter we didn't have fresh greens and vegetables, fruits. because the harbour was actually frozen over. Last that didn't happen anymore. The harbour just didn't So we're crossing over to an even more remote community, most of whom are sheep farmers. Let's find out what the locals Fiederickson to see how all these things So I'm hoping this is our farm. You So this is the end of the road and I can see Hey are you Ellen? Hey I'm Now this is a place that gets so cold in the So I'd think that some warmer for Ellen and her husband Carl. You'll He said when the climate started to change almost died because of no rain and it was in to be here in summer. It didn't rain in three A place like this has water everywhere - melting off the ice sheet in the distance, looming in the clouds, bobbing past as icebergs in the fjord but there's actually farmers like Ellen and Carl have to import Sometimes they also have to bring water up In this place that Norseman settled 1,000 years ago things are now uncertain. And there's another challenge here too. The fjord used to freeze but now after 2006 the weather has changed completely. These years there more extreme high speed so it totally broke the the fjord used to freeze so we can use it for ATVs or cars if the ice is safe enough. Then we it's easier to move around but now it's more our speed boats to go around and the ice is not we just can't get anywhere in winter. The ice is no longer useful as a winter road for locals here. So what today's trip around the globe shows change every place in some way and but as the climate scientists we spoke greenhouse gases we're emitting today means less International and national policies, like conference in Egypt right now, will help determine As Ruth Mottram told us last week: I think the biggest uncertainty is really burning of fossil fuels and carbon dioxide emissions, so the faster you can things that contribute to climate change, then the about a metre in some high-end scenarios. It might end scenarios. And half a metre's difference could mean a lot of homes and lives saved. If you missed the show last week on how fast episodes on BBC Sounds or wherever you check out The Climate Question, a podcast all about Now there's just one thing left to do for this That's it from this edition of CrowdScience. Today's have a question about climate change, the future get in touch with the CrowdScience team was produced by Sam Baker and presented