Narrator: Hundreds of miners work inside an active volcano here in Indonesia, battling toxic fumes all day long. They're mining sulfur, which locals call &quot;devil's gold.&quot; Working conditions here are so dangerous, many miners don't live past 50 years old. Narrator: Miners like Mistar carry up to 200 pounds of sulfur on their backs up and down these steep cliffs. And Mistar has been doing it for 30 years. Narrator: The sulfur is used in everything from matches and rubber It's even what makes our sugar white. Narrator: But most of the world's sulfur comes from oil and gas refining, making volcanic mines like Yet these miners are still working, earning about $12 to $17 a day. Because in this remote part of Indonesia, it's one of the better paying jobs. Narrator: So why is this form of and what makes this such a risky business? Narrator: This is as far as There are no roads to the crater, so he has to walk the rest of the way. It's a 2-mile hike up to He takes only his basket and a crowbar down into the 1,000-foot-deep crater. Narrator: Here, he faces the The air can reach over And he works near one of the world's most toxic volcano lakes. Narrator: And there's the smoke. Narrator: He battles two The first comes from and is channeled through these pipes. Narrator: While mining owns a license to run the mine, the miners are freelance contractors, so they have to pay for their own gear. And many can't afford gas masks. Instead, they use handkerchiefs or towels dipped in water to keep the sulfur powder from sticking. The second type of smoke It comes from the volcanic and it can be deadly. So if miners see big clouds of thin, white smoke coming from the lake, they have to evacuate. Narrator: That's why Mistar The winds pick up through the day, pulling more white smoke Both types of smoke have Narrator: But the smoke is crucial for sulfur production. This is how it works. When the superhot smoke it condenses liquid Narrator: As it solidifies and cools, the sulfur will turn yellow, and miners can begin chipping off blocks. It's the sulfur's two colors that give it the name devil's gold. Miners use their bare Although touching solid sulfur frequently can cause rashes and blisters, Mistar says that as long the sulfur is fine to touch. Narrator: Pre-pandemic, the miners but since 2020, they've been to socially distance. That's lowered the miners' capacity to only 10 tons of sulfur a day. Once he fills his baskets, Mistar hoists them up on But that sulfur is not a light load. Narrator: That's about 154 pounds. Mistar himself weighs just 132. Narrator: Some of the younger miners can carry up to 200 pounds in one load. Narrator: They have to haul it Narrator: Some do the Narrator: Once he reaches Mistar can transfer the and begin the 2 miles back. And he'll do this trip Narrator: PT Candi Ngrimbi, also owns this weighing station and the factory where the sulfur ends up. At the factory, workers boil the sulfur and run it through a series of filters. They have to remove any contaminants like sand or dirt. Then they pour it out onto The sulfur is loaded into sacks and sent to sugar factories nearby. It's processed into sulfuric acid, the world's most commonly used chemical. It's used in everything from matches, fireworks, and gunpowder to detergent, paper, and batteries. It's what makes sugar white. And it's an essential ingredient in rubber products and even winemaking. But 98% of the world's sulfur comes from oil and gas refining. It's a byproduct of refining, and oil companies are required by law to process it safely. What's created is a lot of pure sulfur -- a purity that's necessary for making products like fertilizer. Today, the sulfur is worth almost $13 billion and is expected to keep growing. And it's left natural mines especially since mined It can be acidic or contain sand. Yet Ijen is one of the only where people still mine sulfur this way. So why do they do it, despite the danger? For the mining company, to get sulfur from Ijen. For the sulfur miners, than other jobs on the Narrator: The mining company pays They get about 9 cents per kilo. With two loads, Mistar can make $17 a day. The mining company did not respond to our request for comment on why the miners are paid so little for what's considered one of the most dangerous Another possible reason Tourism. At night, visitors flock here to see the blue flame from the sulfur gas. During the day, tourists hike up to take in the vistas. Protected with their gas masks, they watch miners work Some miners are now becoming tour guides or making sulfur souvenirs, but most keep working as they always have. Narrator: At the end of the to eat dinner with his family and rest. Ijen loons over them, a symbol of how Mistar provides while it slowly takes his. A heavy weight to carry on his shoulders.