My Cool School project is all about villains. Villains are people in stories and movies who behave badly. I refuse to clean my rooom! Not like deciding NOT to clean up your toys, or having a tantrum in the frozen food aisle. Villains are REALLY bad! Like, they make up plans to rule EVERYTHING. Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha! Uh oh-- Villains also like to fight against superheroes --like Ultron vs. The Avengers-- just to make their evil plans happen. Villains are also know as The Lord of Evil, like Hunson Abadeer. The archenemy, like Spiderman's Green Goblin. The ultimate mischief maker, like Bowser from Super Mario. Or, just plain ol' bad guys. Is everybody ready to be bad?? Yep, if you need any kind of mayhem or destruction, you can count on a villain to do the job. Most villains are lacking in the good looks department. Some villains are part creature, and part human, like Ursula from The Little Mermaid. And some villains have big, sharp teeth, like Scar or the Big Bad Wolf. Some of them are just strange-looking and have weird costumes. Yeah... SUPER weird... And this villain has TWO faces! That's just double weird! A lot of villains have super-human powers to fight off the good guys, like Megatron and Sandman, who change into other shapes. Also known as shapeshifting. Others have telepathy, which means they can use their thoughts to communicate without moving their lips. Take out the trash! Never mind. I will do it myself. Not all villains have super-human powers. Some are just super-duper rich and can buy lots of powerful gadgets AND hire a bunch of minions to do their dirty work. And then, there are bad guys who are just so smart. They can invent things to help them take over the world! And some villains, like wizards and witches, don't need any fancy powers at all. They can cast evil spells using their magic wands and good ol' cauldrons. He he he! Alakadabra! Alakazam! Make this cat grumpy, just like I am! He he he! ...Meow... I think my favorite villain is Vector from Despicable Me! He's odd-looking, has a private lair with pet sharks, and he's SO smart. He steals the moon! He pretty much has all the characteristics that make a good villain. So who's YOUR favorite villain? Tell us in the comments below! My Cool School project is all about superheroes! Superheroes are awesome for, like, a million reasons! But mostly because they have super powers. Some have super strength. Some can fly, or go invisible, or read minds Some superheroes are super fast. And some superheroes are just super-duper smart. So, where do they get their powers from? Well, some superheroes come from other planets, like Guardians of the Galaxy. Some are mutants like X-men. Some are radioactive like spiderman Some are built, like Baymax and Iron Man. And some get their powers from their parents, like The Incredibles. Whole families of superheroes! A lot of people know superheroes because they're famous and in movies and stuff. But they're also really easy to spot because they wear costumes! Superhero costumes usually have a cape or a symbol. Or they have underwear on the outside of their pants. I don't know what's so super about that... A lot of superheroes have a secret identity or special disguise, so no one knows their superhero secret. Sometimes my grandpa wears glasses when he's reading. But the rest of the time, he doesn't need them. Maybe HE'S a secret superhero! Up, up, and away! Oh, my back. One thing every superhero needs is an arch-nemesis. That means major enemy. Superman vs. Lex Luther, Spiderman vs. The Green Goblin, and Batman vs. The Joker. Sometimes superheroes team up and fight the bad guys together. Pow! Wham! Crush! Maybe instead of fighting, they should just talk to each other. Hey! I like your costume! Thanks! Superheroes are the good guys, but sometimes they have a bad day. Sometimes real-life people are heroes. Even kids can be heroes! I think just doing something nice for someone makes you a hero. To sum it up, superheroes are super cool and I want to be one when I grow up! My super power would be invisibility. I can sneak into the kitchen and take cookies whenever I want. Or maybe super speed. So I can run in really fast and take them and run away. Flying would be cool, too. Then I could just fly around taking cookies whenever I wanted them! So, who's your favorite superhero? Tell us in the comments! It's the Itsy Bitsy Spiderman! He's on patrol, looking for people who need help. First, he's visiting Humpty Dumpty SPIDERMAN: That's weird, he's usually sitting on this wall... NARRATOR: Hm, Let's go see the old woman who lives in the shoe! SPIDERMAN: Her shoe-house is all boarded up! NARRATOR: Mrs. Shoe, are you in there? Nothing... Mysterious day in Nursey Rhyme Land. Let's check out Little Boy Blue. I don't see him! SPIDERMAN: I can't find Humpty Dumpty! I can't find the old woman who lives in the shoe! I can't even find Little Boy Blue!! Where IS everyone? NARRATOR: This is a VERY strange day, indeed. Something must be wrong! My Spidey Senses are tingling... NARRATOR: Wait! That haystack is shaking... Go away! It's just me! Itsy Bitsy Spiderman! Oh! Okay then. NARRATOR: Little Boy Blue, what's going on here?? Everyone in Nursery Rhyme Land is missing! It's Peter Peter! He's having a tantrum! NARRATOR: Oh, dear... NARRATOR: Oh, dear... BOY BLUE: Peter Peter pumpkin eater, had a wife and couldn't keep her! NARRATOR: Yes, yes! We know that part! BOY BLUE: When he got home, his wife was gone! And, well, he got upset because he couldn't find her! And then he started flying around on a leaf, throwing pumpkins at everyone... NARRATOR: Ohhh! Is THAT what all this orange goo is?? Yes! Yuck! AH! Watch out! Here comes the pumpkin! NARRATOR: Help! Somebody help! Look! It's the Itsy Bitsy Spiderman! What have you done with my wife?? How should I know? Whoa! Close one. Looks like your crust is about to crumble! That's not even that funny. NARRATOR: So then, Itsy Bitsy Spiderman pointed past the goblin, Peter Peter Pumpkin Eater and said: Hey! There's your wife right now! Peter Peter looked over his shoudler, turned his back to the Itsy Bitsy Spiderman, which gave Spidey JUST enough time to spin a web around his feet and string him up in a tree! Safe and sound. Your pumpkin-throwing days are OVER! NARRATOR: And just then, from around the side of the tree, came Peter Peter Pumpkin Eater's wife! See? I told you not to worry... Where've you been? I've been looking all over for you! I told you, I was having lunch with Bo Peep! As I do every Saturday Oh yeah... NARRATOR: To sum it all up in a rhyming fashion, He spun him up into a tree just in time for his wife to see. So, at the end of the day, Peter Peter went back to being just a pumpkin eater. And Itsy Bitsy Spiderman saved the day. So all of Nursey Rhyme Land could laugh and play. After cleaning up all the pumpkin muck, of course... which took a great few hours. Oh... I've got some in my beard! Hm. Doesn't taste half bad, you know... Delicious.