Remember when computers were old and lame and you needed to put your data on some sort of removable optical disc like a lame and old person? I sure do. That was a fun process! Sessions. Burning. What do you want to do with this disc? Tables of contents. [ sound of disc drive spinning up ] Finalizing. Disc write failed. Oh the memories... (and cor cor cor corrupted ones!) orrupted ones!) [dial-up modem sounds in background] the use of discs in PCs is essentially over. But there was a time when you had oh so many could buy by the spindle. You've got your ol' reliable compact disc because really who needs more than 700 megabytes how could you possibly And for those weirdos who might want to write so you can write more things later you've But in the late '90s, there was this new The DVD. Yeah, I know, 4.7 gigabytes? It's absurd! Anyway, eventually your precious CD burner because there's DVD burners now you absolute dweeb! Get with it! But for a short while, choosing a DVD burner Because, thanks to the fact that format wars there were two competing versions of writable DVD. Because... that's what this video is If you remember seeing DVD+R next to DVD-R, you might have wondered what the heck that was all about. Was there really a difference between them? Well, to the user, not really much at all, but the two were technically very different (and thus incompatible) because they were That's right, somehow, within the very format there was a format war! Ugh. Humans. Before we get too far I'd like to point the objectively way cooler DVD-RAM which is and way more capable when it comes to data You can find it through that clicky thing But possibly thanks to wanting to make DVDs a DVD player, the much less cool write-once dominate the landscape. And their re-writable versions, of course. Oh, and also, lots of people apparently misremember but that's some Mandela effect stuff going Just... so you know. Alright. Quick recap of the history of optical discs. In the beginning, there was Laserdisc. Then there was the Compact Disc. Then there were also weird one-offs. And then there was the DVD. The end. OK but really here's the thing you gotta The leap from Laserdisc to CD was significant for the first time. Most formats after that, though, were simply revisions or improvements to the same fundamental technology. Maybe we'll change the color of the laser. Maybe we'll use dyes instead of pits. And maybe we'll harness the and stick a second translucent data layer below the reflective one. But in every single optical disc format, it's based upon how that laser gets reflected back all blinky blinky. So, given that each new format was just building Why, with intellectual property. And in the land of intellectual property, Why, with meticulously documented format specifications and licensing, of course! We're not gonna let you stick our precious and pay us money. And of course, with all the various electronics chance of licensing revenue, but especially Sony, there was potentially gonna be a problem with this next generation of optical disc. Without some sort of agreement between all there could be a slew of proprietary nonsense going on and we do not want that. In fact, in the years leading up to DVD, there The Super Density disc. Which, as we explored in this video, lives not-at-all forced Secure Digital format because if there's one thing Toshiba is good at it's gettin' their money's worth from Anyway, as we explored in that video we have to adopt the next generation of optical disc So, in 1996, the DVD Consortium was formed to all do the same thing. And they came up with the technical specifications and this was also where DVD-RAM came from. And everything was good with the world all the way until decided they'd like to do their own thing Yes, in 1997 Sony (along with Philips and Thomson, so yes it's not fair to say this was Sony's idea ... but let's be real it probably was) created the DVD+RW Alliance. Their mission was to be a thorn in the sides I'm kidding, of course. Their mission was to create a better writable And they did it by using what they at least Just as a quick recap, commercially made discs and lands on their inside reflective surface, reflected light to come back at two different caused by the depth of the pit. This change in intensity can then be decoded With a recordable disc, the effect of the a field of heat-sensitive dye. The spots that get heated by the writing laser And this means that when read back, the dark spots producing the same effect as a pit in a commercially But a blank recordable DVD (or really any For a whole bunch of reasons you can't simply dye and expect a DVD burner to produce a usable All optical media formats, regardless of whether sort of tracking from the laser. Usually the laser's objective lens is sort assembly will move it up and down as well the stream of pits and lands flying past it. You see the disc being read isn't ever truly Neither is the hole in the middle perfectly And even if it were, the spindle holding onto the disc sure ain't manufactured well enough for that to matter. Therefore, to follow a stream of microscopic a flexible cheaply-made plastic disc, ya gotta get a little wiggly. This was the basis by which the original PlayStation's out more about in this older video of mine. That's the third plug this video, must be And so on a blank disc, you'll find a pre-made The disc may be blank but the disc drive needs to burn the data correctly. This target is a microgroove molded into the length from beginning to end. And this groove is wobbly. Some might say wiggly. To ensure the disc is spinning at the correct a fixed rate relative to the rotation of the And it turns out that this wiggling is the DVD-Rs use a wobbling frequency of 140.6 kilohertz, That's way more hertz. But in addition to being objectively wobblier, DVD+R changed how the addresses on the disc are pre-recorded. Or rather, it used a suspiciously similar In a CD-R, that wobbling is frequency modulated and target but also encodes at what point This is called the Absolute Time in Pre-groove On a DVD+R or RW, the same general method although it is called Address in Pre-groove or ADIP (to make it less obvious and the address information is bi-phase modulated rather than frequency modulated. Knowing where you are along the discs's being recorded in the right place, and not This is especially helpful for when you want But the original flavor DVD-R as envisioned Its wobble was constant with no modulation For positional information, a series of so-called groove at various points. So, rather than getting a constant positional gives absolute references periodically, and the wobbles between the land pre-pits to maintain Now, that worked! But Sony and Philips apparently felt that By going with the ADIP, which again is the in the CD-R which ... Oh! Look at that... the DVD+R and DVD+RW allowed a drive writing to it Which... to the end user meant... not a lot. There were some very small differences to varieties needed more of a buffer between sessions... but really that's probably the only If you even do. If this sounds like Sony and Philips felt had come up with for the DVD-R wasn't and decided that a much better method would be CD-R in 1988, that's because that's probably At least, to my ears. It seems more than a little suspicious to +RW Alliance happened to be the same two Orange Book about a decade before. But perhaps I'm being a little too conspiratorial. Now it may not seem like it, but this created At least... briefly. It took The Alliance a pretty long while to release it didn't come out until 2002. But these discs had no compatibility with Because DVD+ discs didn't have land pre-pits, a drive designed for DVD-R wouldn't know what to do with one and thus couldn't burn to it. And since a DVD-R disc had a constant wobble, a drive made for DVD+R would have the same lack of direction and couldn't burn to it. A frustrating problem. But also a very easy to solve problem because There was no reason a drive couldn't write It just needed to know how to handle both The actual burning process is the same, and so is the finished disc to any DVD player or other drive. It's just a slight technical difference but since we're dealing with licensing, that makes all the difference. For a rather brief time, you might have come DVD Consortium (now the DVD Forum, by the way) but not to Sony and Philips and their so-called Alliance. You couldn't use this amazing DVD+ media And maybe you bought a drive from Sony that, (and perhaps their own financial incentives) didn't support DVD- media and you were stuck with the plus. But this was stupid and everybody knew that on the market which just went ahead and paid write to both. As early as 2004, just two years after you pretty much didn't need to care if you were using DVD- media or DVD+ media. Yet, both were still available (and still are!) Why? Well because anything made before 2002 can't And because the Alliance apparently did a had its pluses so it became fairly popular. One plus that plus may have legitimately had This could have been the entire reason Sony to form their Alliance. Looking through some older articles on whether (as was often incorrectly called) it seems that plus discs And this kinda makes sense. The ADIP was molded into the plastic, just so really a DVD+R is the same exact thing as a CD-R but with different dyes and construction. The land pre-pits on a DVD-R were likely They are really, really tiny. It seems they are much smaller than a pit to be so small as to essentially be invisible They would only be the faintest of blips, It may have been the case that these tiny the discs were more expensive to produce than But, at least today, the pricing between the Whether or not manufacturing cost was the reason Sony and Philips went and threw the Orange Book at Pioneer, it's clear that this was mainly a format war of spite. The DVD Forum refused to accept DVD Plus as And this led the DVD+RW alliance to make their this one. And the geniuses over there decided to make So, these DVD+R discs from Philips, which nevertheless contain this RW badge on them. That's not confusing at all. But in January of 2008, the Forum gave So I guess at that point the format war was This really was the dumbest format war because It was all just technicalities. Aside from really early adopters, it didn't Now, DVD Plus is claimed to have a number One of which is that you don't have to keep you see this. Really, we should just be calling them &quot;DVD R&quot; but But whether those actually mattered to anybody For instance, one limitation of DVD- media is that it only had the space for 7,088 unique power calibration events, meaning you could only record to a single Is my sarcasm coming through strong enough? DVD Plus increased that to a cool 32,768 times. Yeah. Real good. Real factor-of-two. And thanks to the more-precise ADIP (and a it is possible that DVD+ might be on the whole But it's hard to know which of Sony's -er the Alliance's - various claims regarding its betterness are objectively true and which jaunty music these words aren't important right now yes let's get back to it Because, and here's the thing I want to the two formats can be found when the disc Once the data has been laid down, the ADIP And that means that some of plus's claimed For instance, say you're using your computer of your home movies to watch in a DVD player. Those discs will be burned in one fell swoop, in a DVD+ really don't apply. If you're using a disc like a flash drive a DVD+R might have been a better choice. But honestly, it's hard for me to say that I mean, at this point it's not like it DVD+ was more reliable would be to compare with those of DVD-. If you were doing that back in the day, let us know in the comments and we'll see if there really was a difference. But as far as practical differences to for the most part there weren't any! There really wasn't anything plus could It was all down to technical minutia. But since there was a time when you could only worked with one or the other, both remained of us with multi-compatible drives. And giving Sony yet another licensing income Presumably. Maybe not... But they are Sony. Well, thanks for watching! Since this is a video about media types and prefer one over the other, I'm sure the For what it's worth, for many years I used DVD copies of VHS tapes for my family and At least for that application, DVD-R But maybe this is some sort of outlier. And really this is why this whole format war This is from 2004, and it supports Plus, Dash, Given that there wasn't anything unique a little frustrating. Perhaps it was more reliable, and articles somebody did some sort of study comparing difference was marginal at best. And again, the technical differences only Once the data is on there the ADIP or the Unless of course you've designed some sort a disc to determine if it wasn't original. Which was a thing. Maybe I should make a video about that... confusingly smooth jazz Hi! [clears throat] Before we get too ff... before we get too Mmhm... bleh... ...and their rewritable formats of cou ... AHH! Versions. Oooh. Then there were also weird one-offs. Then there was the dbdb... ahhh ...we will harness the THIRD dimension and stick a second translucent data... de.. uehhhhh. Just as a [weird noise] just.. [laughs] It seems more than a little suspicious to me that the two founding... blergh! Two of the... Tiny pits and lands on their inside reflective surface. When you shine a la... That wasn't the end of the sentence. Not gonna lie, the bloopers weren't that great this time, were they? I mean, it's nice for MY benefit when there aren't a lot, but it sure makes the end less fun. Note to self: bwaaaaaaaa do do do doo