- This can be the greatest comeback in the history of the restaurant industry. - [Heather] This is Damola Adamolekun, - Let's do it. After decades of declining sales and a promotion that was - [Advertiser 1] Ultimate with a limited time. - [Advertiser 2] Flavor drop. - [Heather] the 35-year-old was hired by private to lead Red Lobster out of- - Bankruptcy. - More than a billion dollars in debt and a serious financial pinch. - And back to profitability. It's worked before. He revitalized PF Chang's during COVID. Fortress hopes he can do the same for America's oldest seafood chain. I spoke to the new CEO at to learn what it will take to (dramatic music) So, I actually had dinner here last night. - Oh, did you? one of the things I first noticed was the banner outside basically like, we're open. America, we are open. Are you doing that throughout your fleet of restaurants basically to - That was done before I took over. The signs are still there. You're correct. I think at some point, you want to address the but you want to do it in a of why they wanna come to - The elephant in the room When Red Lobster filed, it and had to close over a Now, with $70 million from Fortress, Adamolekun has a lot to do. What's your to-do list look like? - Well, number one was to To run a great business, - [Heather] Over the past few years, Red Lobster has cycled I asked an expert in casual dining why that's such a problem. - When your leadership consistently changes over and over again, it's very hard to get strategic direction. What ends up happening is that you get a sort to the restaurant managers - Adamolekun hopes that to restaurants with an Before diving into the nuts and bolts, - Sure. your favorite thing to order? - I would've said the Snow Crab, but I tried that Bairdi Crab recently, - Mm. on the Snow Crab, and that - [Heather] He says that other favorites aren't prominently displayed on the menu and bestselling items like are buried on page three. - [Damola] If you were to say, where's the value in this - [Heather] Mm-hmm. - So, there's things of reducing the number of items, but also just the layout, the - Adamolekun says that it needs a new environment. Old Red Lobsters like this aging decor, and separated bar areas. How ambitious do you think - So, it's gonna come in stages. The first stage is things that should have been fixed whether it's roofing or kitchen equipment or furniture. As a next step, you'll think about how do you inject energy but I wanna start with a For example, it doesn't cost Dimming lights has no cost to it. And then, the third stage We remodel the entire fleet at PF Chang's. - [Heather] The Red Lobster is one of the three updated restaurants, and it's going to act as a jumping off point for future designs. - I think it can be powerful, I think if you're just doing that, you're sort of putting and you're not really addressing - Any sense of how much that might cost? - Well, when I did a PF Chang's, it cost us about three, between 300 and 400,000 per restaurant. Now, it lifted sales between that we did remodels in. But Red Lobster isn't inside its restaurants. Bankruptcies from Red Lobster and chains like TGI Fridays, and Tijuana Flats mean that to have the highest level of bankruptcies in decades, besides 2020. - Coming out of the pandemic, It was doing really well and and probably since about mid-2022, we've started to see traffic that has really declined - It's not an easy environment right now. You're coming in - at a tough time. - It's a challenged industry. But I took over PF Chang's during COVID. I'm used to entering at a tough time. - Part of the reason these times are tough are because they're shrimp, of the restaurant's most popular specials. - [Advertiser 3] Enjoy it all, because Red Lobster's one and - How much do you think commodity costs, kind of looking back again, could have played into some particularly when you're - When food costs are high, your cost of goods gets out of whack. And what that does to the rest it really throws it off. - If a family of four comes in and they ordered lobster, but that's what they come to us for, can you have affordable pastas and salads and bowls to round out the table? - [Heather] Rising prices have to increase to keep - It's difficult because Even within the same city, you'll have different segments of the city where wages are totally different. So, you need to be watching it constantly. - Prior to the bankruptcy, some restaurants that didn't - You guys can follow me on display. - What was the staffing - Decisions were made that there wouldn't be a dedicated host. So, as you come in as a guest, you come in and there's no host, that can be a very negative - [Heather] He says he which experts say is not easy to do while keeping prices low. - The average restaurant and that's driven those menu prices up, which is also just caused a lot of the other inflation The wage situation, the that go into creating a satisfied worker are extremely important as - With casual dining, are some of its challenges demographic? - I think part of the challenge is that it needs to figure to the millenial consumer, The younger consumers to a counter service, order first, fast casual - I think there's always for the connection that you can get between - Okay, I'll get that started for you all. - People want that personalized service. They wanna sit down, have a great meal in a great environment. This is a brand that's 98% of Americans know Red Lobster. It's one of the strongest - Awareness is great, but if you're still not going to the restaurant. And so, the challenge is twofold. It's creating more awareness, but then being effective enough in turning that awareness into a visit. - [Heather] If you can turn and draw in new, younger customers, Adamolekun may successfully turn the page for this 56-year-old chain. - That chapter, no pun intended, but that chapter is complete and we're entering a new chapter that's gonna be about (soft upbeat music)