OOH. Oh, my goodness. Two possibilities of straight flushes. Let's go. Queen of hearts. I am back at Dania Beach Casino trying to redeem myself in Three Card Poker. The buying for the session is $500. Let's get it. I will be betting $25 on the ante, $10 on the pair plus and $5 on the six card bonus. And our first hand, we have an eight of hearts, queen of diamonds. And that's all I want to see. I don't want to see anymore. And we are already a winner because the dealer does not qualify and we don't have a pair. So we're only going to win the $25 on the ante. But the first hand is a win. Now I am going to play this session half blind. So every blue deck, I am going to play it blind. I'm not going to look at the cards and I'm just going to play it blind. Let's see what the dealer has. The dealer does not qualify. Dealer has jack high. They're going to push the play. We're already a winner. And we have king high. So first hand blind goes to us. All right, Ada, diamonds for clubs. We need an eight or a four. Okay. Ace high. We'll play ace high every day. And let's see what you got, dealer. Dealer has queen high. So this is perfect. This is best case scenario. When the dealer does qualify, they pay us on the ante and on the play. When we win again, we're going on the blind hand. We're playing absolutely blind on the blue deck. And the dealer does qualify with queen ten. So we do have to beat the dealer and we don't. Five, six, a spades. We were one card from a straight flush. No bueno. They don't pay us for almost getting a straight flush. Three of clubs, five of spades. We need to squeeze in a four. I like to make space for the four and it didn't happen, so I'm going to fold it. Let's see if it was a good fold because in this game here, you actually don't need to hit to beat the dealer. And no dealer did qualify, so it was a good fold. All right, back to the blind hand. The dealer has a six high, so this is perfect. They do not qualify. We are free rolling. And again, we're not hitting pairs, but we're winning, so we'll take it. Every win is going to stack up our chips, even if it's little by little. Nine of spades. K nine. Okay. K nine. I love that. K nine. We're going to play king nine. And the dealer has a nine, so hopefully we have another nine. Let's go, dealer. Find another nine in the back and no. Okay, but we still get paid on the ante. We're not getting paid on the pair plus and the six card bonus, but we are making a little bit of money. Now, this is the blue deck. And I accidentally looked at the card. But you know what, guys? With that little swish of the hand, it never happened. I am going to play it blind. We'll pretend we never saw anything, and we have to beat a pair of sixes. Oh, my goodness. There's a three there. Oh, okay, we need a king. Another king would be great. Dealer, find that king. And no good. All right, so at least we got a pair of three. So the dealer did not just take away all of our chips. We're going to get $10. But, I mean, let's be honest, we lost the majority of the money, but at least we got a little bit of compensation, and that's always good. Jack of spades. OOH. Queen of hearts. And I definitely don't need to see much to let the dealer do the last flipping for me. The dealer has a pair of seven, so we need a jack, queen, king, ten, and we get absolutely nothing. A six. No bueno. Dealer, no good. All right, we're back to the blind hand. Let's see what you got, dealer. Yes. It'd be easier if I guess I was live streaming. You guys would remind me. All right, so we do have to beat an ace high. Dealer does qualify, so nice. The ace got beat by the deuces. So we finally hit a pair, and it came in a great time because the dealer had an ace, so we needed to hit deuce of hearts, jack of diamonds, and okay, so queen high. We're playing queen jack. Let's see what you got. Dealer and the dealers got the k nines this time, but this time, they got the pair nine. So no good for us. We're going to have to make an adjustment soon. All right, let's see if this blind hand works out to be a little bit better. And the dealer does not qualify, so we are free. Rolling. And wow. Okay, so we got a lot of good cards there. We are one card away from a straight, one card away from a flush, and my goodness, we're just one card away from having a great hand. OOH, ace of clubs. Say less. Let's go. And the dealer has a pair of four, so we do need to hit something. Oh, ace deuce. We need a three. And no. So we had a lot of potential, but we didn't hit anything. Now, three card poker is a game that I normally play for fun, but I don't really have an optimized betting strategy for the game. So if you have suggestions, please write them down in the chat. I need some help. All right, I decided to go two handed. I'm going to play the first position by looking at in the second position blind. So we're still half blind. Dealer, find another club so we can have a flush on the first position. I did drop the bet as well, and perfect. We are free rolling. Dealer is not going to play. Let's see what we got on the second position. On the blind position. Okay, so we have a pair of five, so we hit a pair plus and we get paid on the ante as well. We do need a club or a four for a six card bonus. And no, we just get a deuce So there we just get paid on the ante. Eight of diamonds. Jack of spades. We need a jack. Okay, so jack, ten, eight. So since I saw these cards, I'm not going to play it. I'm going to let it go. Even though, potentially, if you played it blind, it wouldn't really make a difference because it's all dependent on if the dealer qualifies. And the dealer, did they qualify ever? They do have a straight, so it was a good fold. And we need a miracle in this hand. And, oh, if that would have been an eight instead of a three, we would have hit the six card and we would have beat the dealer with a straight as well. But it wasn't meant to be. We just lost on both hands. We doubled up on the losses. All right, we're trying it again. Nine of spades. Dealer. Dealer. Let's go. I'm going to squeeze it in. Oh, I was trying to squeeze it in, but we do have a flush, which is great. Let's go, dealer. OOH, they're all black, which is amazing. Let's go. Two spades back there. Two spades. Let's go. What do we got? There six of spades. We need that four to be a spade. Yes. Oh, we got a five card flush bonus. That is amazing. That is great. And the dealer does not qualify, so they're going to push back the play on both of them. Let's give us something good on that second hand. And whoa. Wow. We were close to two flushes, but we do get paid on the ante. And here we do have a flush and we have a six card bonus as well. Now, definitely know your payouts. I don't know the payouts too well on three card poker, so I have to remind myself. But on a flush, we get paid three to one and on the six card bonus, the flush pays 15 to one. But definitely learn the games because that is extremely important. Nine of diamonds. Four diamonds. Oh, we need one more diamond. Dealer. Should I play this, yes or no? And the dealer says no and I'm going to get rid of it. All right. Sometimes I like to have the dealer keep me in suspense, and I told the dealer, if I do have a monster, you have to keep your poker face. Don't give out any information. Dealer does not qualify, so they are going to push back the play and I am going to get paid because the dealer doesn't qualify. So we just get paid on the ante and on the first hand, I did not even get anything. No six card bonus either. All right, so we keep it going, and we have an eight of hearts. Seven of hearts. Okay, here we go. Dealer, let me know. Keep your poker face. Dealer says play it. So we're going to play it. And now we're hoping that we got either the six or the nine of hearts so we can complete the straight flush. Okay. They're still in play. The cards are still in play. The dealer doesn't qualify. We're going to win both hands. But how good is the win going to be? That's up to you, dealer. Let's go. Six of hearts. Nine of hearts. Oh, you just missed us. Wow. We have a flush, which is amazing. We do get a flush, which, again, pays three to one on the pair plus. But if that would have been a straight flush, we would have been rolling on a 40 to one on the pair plus and an extra five to one on the ante bonus. All right, Dealer still time to get a straight flush. We're not going anywhere anytime soon. OOH ace of spade. Yes. Let's go. We're going to play. I would love three card poker so much more. If we had the option of two xing, three xing, or four xing that play, that would be amazing based on the amount of cards you see. And wow, look at that. Again, dealer, you were one card away from a straight flush. You can be a hero this session if you find a straight flush. Let's go. All right, so we got an ace of spades. Oh, deuce. Oh, nice. One, two, three. Unsuited all around, but we'll definitely take it now in this game here, a straight actually pays more than a flush. The straight pays six to one on the pair plus, and you get an extra bonus on the ante. That's one to one. All right, we are rolling now. Let's go. Let's keep it going. We did pick up our bets. We have OOH, eight, seven, and again. Dealer, one time you have a chance to find another straight flush. Dealer says to play it. I hope your poker face is good and that we have a straight flush. And the dealer has oh, dealer has one of our outs. A nine of hearts. That's no good. Oh, my goodness. Two possibilities of straight flushes. Let's go. Queen of hearts. It looks like it has a curve to it. It has a curve. Oh, it's a nine. Yes. And you have the nine of hearts, dealer, so you got the nine of diamonds. There no good. We lose the hand. We had so much potential there. And let's see, throw that nine of hearts my way real quick. Dealer, let's exchange cards and oh, okay. Okay. We got a four of hearts. We can't be complaining because we were running slim to winning this hand. We had to hit the flush and we did again. We're going to get paid three to one on the pair plus, and we're getting paid on the ante and the play because the dealer did qualify, so the hand turned out to be pretty good and exciting. All right, ten of diamonds, ten of clubs. We need one more ten. Let's go. I'm going to slide it in the back there. Dealer, you do the rest. We want to have trips. Let's get our first Trips in three card poker, and the dealer does not qualify. So we're ready. Free rolling on both hands. Let's go. What we got? Oh, there's one of our tens. But you know what? There's still a fourth ten out there. If I would have played one handed on this hand, I would have hit Trips on the six card bonus. But we do still win on the second hand. Let's go find that fourth ten. There's still one more ten out there. And oh, no, it's a king. It's a king. But we did get a pair on the pair plus, and we get paid on the ante. So the good thing is that we're getting great potential hands. We're just not completing it, but we're having a good time here at Daniel Beach Casino. The dealers are great. Seven of spades. OOH, 77. Let's go. Let's find the last seven, dealer, this time complete it. Let's get trips. All right. And the dealer has a six and ace. Okay, so they do qualify. We're already winning on the first position, guaranteed. But we need to find another seven. And on the second position, we need an ace or a queen or three. And no again, we missed a straight flush there by one card, but let's go, dealer, find the last seven. There are still two sevens in the deck and no. So we got two pairs on the six card bonus, but unfortunately, they don't pay two pairs. You have to start at Trips. We are going to get paid on the pair plus the ante and the play. So it's kind of like we broke even from both hands. No discounts, dealer, I do have 15 on each position. Thank you. We are playing blind on the second position still. This session is going to be called half blind. Oh, we need to squeeze a queen. Let's go, dealer, find that queen. Doesn't matter what queen it is, because we don't have it suited. So just find a queen and the dealer has one of our outs. But there's still three queens out there. Dealer does qualify. We do have to beat the dealer on the second position. We already won on the first. And, oh, we need to squeeze a three. Three king or ace? Three king. Okay. Four works as well. Oh, and nice. We finally broke the six card bonus seal. On the second position. We have trips. Trips do pay seven to one on the six card bonus. We do get paid the pair, the ante, and on the play. So this is a hand that we pretty much got paid all around on the first position. We cannot get paid on the six card bonus unless we have a jack. Let's get that jack in there. And no, we got a deuce. I love you, deuce, but I didn't need you at this time. We needed a jack. A queen would have been great, too, for the pair, plus for the six to one. All right, for those of you guys watching, I am considering just doing my sessions live from now on or without the editing. Let me know what you guys think about that. Or do you still want the editing? Oh, nice deuce, ace. We need to find that three. Dealer, let's get us another straight. We matched up to 25. Let's see what you got. All right. And perfect dealer does not qualify, so we're guaranteed to free roll this hand. All right, we owe 710. We need an eight and no. So we just missed out on the six card bonus, but perfect. We didn't qualify. If we would have seen that hand, we would have folded it. And that's why I like playing this game sometimes blind as well, because that's a hand that we won that we would have lost. And the fives no good. No good. So we just win on the ante on both hands. Nothing spectacular. Seven of spades, nine of clubs. All right, make space for the eight. OOH. Okay, but we got a pair of nines. Now we need you dealer to have the other two nines with the lower kicker so we can get some quads. And perfect dealer does qualify. We win on the first hand, but we need to beat king high on the second hand. So we got a nine. Nine of diamonds. Eight. Okay. Seven or 810. Seven or ten. Seven, eight, nine or ten. We got a lot of outs and just missed us with the six of diamonds. You know what, dealer? If you leave it like that, it looks like we have an eight, and we potentially could have won that hand. I'm just kidding. We don't want to get in trouble here, but we at least won the first hand, and that's great. We got a pair, and the pair beats the king high. So, again, this is almost like another push, because we win on the first hand but we lose on the second. We are trying to redeem ourselves from the first time that we played three card poker. Six of spades. OOH. Ace of spades. And let's go, dealer, find the last spade. Make it a good one. Oh, no, dealer, I said make it a good one, but not for you. You gave us we can't win on the first position. We know that. We need a miracle to win on the second position, because to beat a straight is very difficult. It could be done. We have an eight. No it can't be done. Not for us. It can't be done. And okay, so we got a pair eight. So that's a strong hand. Any pair in this game is a strong hand. It's just unfortunate that we're going up against a straight and let's go. At least dealer give us a flush. A flush doesn't beat a straight in this game, but at least we could get some compensation. And oh, no, dealer, you gave us bullets. Now, this is a bad beat on both sides because we have a pair of aces and we had a pair of eight. Those are two strong hands that usually hold up. Big shout out to the dealers for making this an enjoyable experience. I love the way that they fan out the cards. Ace of spades. Let's go. Let's get back in business. All right, dealer, give us some good hands now, but this time our way, not your way. All right, we got oh. Dealer don't do it. Don't do anything crazy. What are you doing? Yeah. Dealer don't do it. Don't do it. And oh, my goodness. All right, so we're winning on the first position. I thought for sure we were a goner. Hopefully we could have runner run on the first position and get the big one, the royal flush. We need some help. Eight, seven, five is not going to cut it. So the second position is no good. But you know what? We got it in the first. That's where we need it. We need it in the first position. Dealer oh, we got a brick. All right, another three. This oh. Ace, 23123. Nice. That's awesome. We got a straight. I was hoping for a three to get the six card bonus, but you know what? We'll take the straight and we get paid on the ante, the play, and we get the pair plus again, we're going to get six to one on the pair plus, and we get an extra bet on the bonus. It would be better, dealer, if you could allow us to win the second position as well. No discounts. Dealer we do need that extra bet on the ante. Thank you so much. We're going to make sure that you guys pay your dues. All right, we got a six of clubs, ten of hearts. Not a great combination. Okay, jack, ten, six. Nope. Not gonna play it. Since I saw it. I can't do it. Gonna let that one go. And the dealer has a nine, seven, five. Give me back my money. Dealer I want to play it now after seeing your cards. All right, so dealer doesn't qualify. King, six, queen. Okay, so no pair. So we just got paid on the ante. So hands like this make me wonder, should I just play the entirety of the game blind? Or even if I see the card, should I just play the hand? Let me know, because I am trying to figure out what the best strategy for this game is king high. It is king five. All right. And the dealer has us beat in the first hand because they have a king jack. So we need to beat king jack. We have a deuce, a queen. We need a king, ace, queen, deuce, and let's go, dealer, squeeze it out of there. Squeeze it out. And we have a ten. Okay, so at least you spared us. I do see 910, jack, queen, king. So we do hit on the six card bonus. We'll take that all day. And the five card straight pays ten to one. So there's $50. It could have been a lot worse. I know the dealer is trying to find a way to pay me on the pair plus, but dealer, I don't have a straight. I only have a straight with your cards. So there's nothing we can do there. We lost everywhere else, but we did win the $50, and I am very grateful that we at least got a little bit of compensation. And on the first hand, you just destroyed us. So take everything away like you're a vacuum cleaner. Just vacuum up our chips. But you know what, dealer? We're going to win today. We're trying to get revenge, so we're not worried. We did pick up the bet again. Jack of clubs, five of clubs. We need one more club. Oh, and now I'm getting now I'm getting aggressive. I want the dealer to flip it. Let's see if you can finish it off, dealer. And the dealer is already beating us with the queen ten. So we do need some help on the first position, but the dealer is going to make it happen. Hold on. Three, five. Squeeze in. That four of spades. One time. Oh, wow. Okay, awesome. You gave us a straight, but wow, if that would have been the four of spades, it would have been amazing. But we definitely won on the second hand. Now let's see if you can do a two hand special. Dealer, make sure we also win on the first hand. We do get paid that extra bet on the ante, and we're going to get $60 for the pair plus bonus. Let's go find a club. Make it a double header. And yes. Rub it nice. And let's go. Oh, no, there's that deuce again. Deuces, I love you, but you're coming in on the wrong time. You're not coming in on queue. All right, but we're getting close. We're getting close to monster hands. We've had a lot of close straight flush opportunities. We have a four diamonds, seven of clubs. We need some help. And oh, again, you see, we missed a straight flush again by one card. We're going to let that one go. The good thing about those cards is that there's a good potential to get us straight with them. So let's see if we can get a straight. Give us a six card bonus on the second on the first hand. And we have okay, so king high. We do have to beat a king high. OOH, jack. Hold on. Again, another straight flush opportunity. Finish it dealer. Tap it in, tap it in, tap it in. Let's go. Oh, no, a four. Oh, my goodness. So many possible straight flush hands. I'm starting to like this game just on the fact that I get so excited every time I almost get one of these monster hands. Let's be real. Three card poker is pretty exciting. Three of spades, ace of clubs. Let's go. Squeeze in a deuce. Put it right in the middle, right where it belongs. And again, the dealer does an amazing job. No, hold on, dealer, slow it down. I just said you do an amazing job. Okay, this is beatable. For a second there I got scared. Okay, so we beat you. We need a ten. A ten, ace or queen so we could get paid on the pair. Okay, so we got a pair plus we got paid on a pair plus ante and on the play. And we're going to win a double header. Finally, we do also win on the first position. Let's see, squeeze in a deuce. Squeeze in a deuce. Where's that deuce? Here's your timing, deuce, and no, you just missed your cue. When we need the deuce, the deuce is nowhere to be found. But I still love my deuces because the deuces never loses. All right, four of diamonds. Oh, five of diamonds. My goodness. And again, I'm going to get aggressive. I'm going to let the dealer flip it. I'm putting it on the three of diamond slot because I think if I'm going to get it, it's going to be the three of diamonds. Let's see if I am right. And the dealer has a nine of spades. Five of spades. Okay, so king high. This is beatable. We could beat both hands. I have a good feeling about this hand. And we have a jack of clubs dues. Okay, so yes, we won on the second hand with the king jack. That's perfect. We win $50 on the back, lose on the bonus. But this is the hand right here. Dealer, let's go. Three of diamonds. Three of diamonds. Three of diamonds. And no, I was completely wrong. What was I thinking? You just think that after so many potential straight flushes, you're going to get one. You're due, right? I feel like I'm due a long time ago. Jack of clubs. Oh, my goodness. Again, you can't even make this up. We're due ten of clubs. It has to come this time. If you do the probability and how many times you have two to the straight flush, we're due this time. All right, dealer has an eight of diamonds. Okay, we're free. Rolling. They don't qualify. Eight high. All right, we are due on the first position. Let's go. All right, let's see what we got on the second position. Six of spades. Three of spade. Okay, we need another spade for a flush. And no, we didn't get anything. We are going to get paid on the ante. But the first position hand, that's the one that we want. We want the ten of clubs. Find a dealer. Let's go. Sprinkle. A little bit of luck in there. Ten of clubs. One time. One time. Dealer and no three. All right, but I'm going to be honest, I am enjoying this session very much. We've had a lot of potential, a lot of good monster hands, but we just can't finish the deal four of clubs. Ace of diamonds. We're going to play ace high. Let's see. Let's see if we can win two hands and start bringing some momentum our way. So yes. So we already won on the first position for sure. Jack of hearts, 94. Okay, so no good on the second position. We missed the flush, and we missed the six card straight as well, so no good. All right, best case scenario is just a pair. Okay? Ace, king, four. So we win the $50.05 of clubs. Eight of diamonds. OOH, nice. We got a pair of eight. Great. So we're going to play this for sure. Let's see what we got. Dealer okay, dealer has a queen high. This is beatable. Come on. We could beat a queen high. This is bare minimum. All right, we already got a queen. We're not going to lose to a five. Let's see what we got. Dealer okay, queen, six. OOH again. You see, we're getting close. The straight flush cards are so close. We got the king, queen of hearts, and we just missed on the third one. And on the first position, we also get paid on the pair. Plus, I don't think I've ever played this game where I've had so many opportunities for a straight flush. Three of diamonds. Ten of diamonds. We need another diamond. OOH. Okay, but we'll take a ten. That's nice. We got a pair of ten. Strong hand. Strong hand every day. And the dealers got king, 89. Okay, so we're winning on the first position. Let's see what we got. Okay, so we have an eight. Oh, hold on. One more eight. We already got trips. We need an eight, nine or king. Eight, nine or king. Find that eight. Last eight. Let's go. Squeeze it in. Squeeze it in. Oh, no, look at this. Look at this. We need to do a three way switch. We need to throw the ten to the right, the three up and the eight down. If we do that triangular switch, I get two trip hands, and that would have been amazing. That would have been also a nice dream. But at least the cards were in play. Dealer I did get a six card bonus. I finally hit trips there. So don't short change us. We get the extra $35 on top. We do have a pair. On the first hand, so we get paid on the pair plus the ante and on the play. But the awesome part about this hand is that all the cards were in play. They were just in the wrong position. OOH, king of clubs. That's all I got to see. Let's go. Surprise us, dealer, surprise us. All right. Ten, five, four. Perfect. Dealer does not qualify. I mean, when you want to maximize your money, you want the dealer to qualify, but you need to beat the dealer. OOH, spade it out. No. 2345. No. So we missed the six card bonus, we missed the flush, but we are getting paid on the ante. All right, let's go. Some kings. Find some kings. Okay, so he wanted me to flip a card. I flipped the six of hearts. He flipped the three of hearts. 3456. So we missed the six card bonus as well. Didn't matter whether he flipped it or I flipped it, it just wasn't meant to be. Couldn't improve the hand. All right, five of hearts, eight of clubs. Eight again. We've got an eight a couple of times this session. Let's go find two more eight. Dealer, let's see what you got. Ace of spades. Okay, ace, king, ten. So this is a strong hand. We need a pair in the second position to win, so we could have a clean sweep. Let's go, Deeter, find some deuces. Where are the deuces when we need them? Okay, three or six? Three or six. Ace, four, five. So, no, we were close, but no cigar, like they say. But at least we won. We split again. We win one, we lose one. And that's how this session has been. It's been back and forth, and nobody has really been able to take the advantage. We are going to end the session there. Make sure you guys always tip the dealers, because they do an amazing job. And in this session, we are going to cash out $625, a profit of $125. Let's go over the session stats. In this session, I saw 33 hands. I won 21 and lost twelve of those hands. I got twelve pair plus bonuses and one six card bonus on the blind hands. I saw 32 hands. I won 19 hands and lost 13. I got seven pair bonuses on the blind hands and two six card bonuses. There didn't seem to be any difference in the stats between playing blind or playing while looking at the cards. Let me know what you think about the half blind session in the comments, and if you enjoyed it, smash that that like and subscribe button, and I'll see you on the next session. Thank you.