[MUSIC PLAYING] I'm James LaPlante. I'm President of We're an animation studio and I'm down here on to meet with some I love to talk to scientists passionate about and then try to that to someone like myself. To someone who's but doesn't have a degree. Hello, I'm Richard. Hi. James. Welcome to MIT. Nice to meet you, Richard. Yeah. Hi, I'm Rick. Hi, Rick. Nice to meet you. Nice to meet you. I'm Rolf. Oh, hi, Rolf. Hi. Nice to meet you as well. You get the prime spot. All right. [LAUGHTER] Thank you. We're trying to come up will convey to an with a non-technical background and how it comes about I mean, usually what I like is your story, share your and I will absorb The things that go over my with some questions. First, we knew there was what is that made out of? And eventually got the atoms. And atoms are made out And nuclei are made up Although we know those we don't quite know So that's essentially where-- what we're trying to understand. So first of all, it's tiny. Right? Sure. And then the things are actually So there are at least is not like any experience The reference image that is in and I have no idea I see little balls with and squiggly lines. And you probably look understand what those but to me I look at it and, I'm confused. I get a sense that To me, that's the How can we portray these and make it visually that we can explain to the And I just don't know where This is one of the difficulties like this, because it's a with three things in it. Yeah. In a certain way. But it's also a thing with of not things at the same time. And those lots and though, are the same thing Sort of. OK. Is that making any sense or-- I mean, do you get the-- ? I do. I'm still trying to No, no, it's-- --what's going on. I think it's a marriage with a really important effectively, about a profound So what do you think? Run for the door? No, I'm up for the is like bending my brain. Quantum physics goes down a and I think it's so much than other things are. So you guys have given There's a lot going on here. It's really early. I can't tell you I would start with this yet. I think it's just a it a bit more clearly. After I had a chance to meet down in Boston, I came to the shop, realized so much I spent an inordinate on the web going down is theoretical quantum The math is the hardest thing are some papers that and it just looks like The proton is absolutely of the physical universe. And it is poorly understood. We thought about this for and have become that animation is the the extreme motion and the occur in the proton. As an artist who does this kind is I try to do something easy, It's a rough sketch of an idea. It's meant to fail, it's and get me information I put that together, and then just waited. And there's always you're worried a 10-page dissertation that was wrong about it. I've created the three and I've given them each and I've set it up so they the whole time. Even here, it's a to try and figure Yeah. And then the proton shell is behind it. Rolf and I have and we think it's really an And so what today I'd like to And I think what we want to do-- we could spend time I don't think we want I think what we want to three dials, knobs. All right. A lot of what came that Richard was talking about. So this camera analogy where or focus, but depending on we're going to see the But for this purpose, So for long-- and And towards 1 is what But as you go to low with just a lot more OK. If you could dial that, of what we want to get OK. I do consider myself using artist's tools and I around things, but unlike I'm maybe not trying to hang a instills a certain sense I'm trying to present that people can look at what's going on. The second dial is the OK. Which is how well you OK. So it's really resolution Yeah, spatial to the size of the objects. We'll never be able to we'll never be able I'll never be able to see one is largely in the but it's imagination based And then I'm trying to So this is iteration I'm trying to deal with happening. So in this frame, you can and then we've got the void. As we're bringing more detail into a sharper view, we're of things popping into each other. Are they doing kind of between the quarks? Like would we see action taking quarks in this space here, in here? That's a very interesting This is a question we've been I think James has some I know. That's what I'm hoping for. Oh yeah. [LAUGHTER] I've got two pieces of So here, I've got the animation over time. So at low x, it's all and we're seeing the sea quarks. And when we get down it resolves into the three Cool. Now this is really nice. I think scientifically it's Rolf, isn't it? What you've animated a lot of the essence This is the essence. And the other piece have is just really adding And toward the end of this one, view because the obviously it really just from that side view. And then I've got this It took me several that I could use to indicate because in a black get any sense this Oh man, this is-- --wonderful. Yeah. Great progress. When Richard and me start we get excited start visualizing how other pieces of our science. I just updated this this the colors for the and I increased So in this mid-range, and then we to the three valence quarks. What I like is changes so much from the dial. When you start, more or and in the end, you see some structure appear. It's very good. It's really maturing. I think another I think we're there. Yep. I wanted to create a of the proton. As an artist, I want What can I do to make it And one of the challenges was move around it to give So I froze the proton in or change from frame to frame. And then I flew the in a three-dimensional way and in there to give it this So there's two issues there. One is that at the moment you change time. But the second problem you have what we have here is because the data we have up to What I was creating was where they were like, there's And that's the to iterate this and but stay true to the data and Which means it's going to stay To make something like this, I but it's not informed Of course, you can do things and you can pretend but it wouldn't be My husband got tickets So it's date night. So what we will see of the result of a sustained, There's no one answer of how best to visualize depends on how you look at it. We use mathematical have plots with data but really, frankly, what These pictures want to understand the are very hard to extract What the team has done is put together an animation the dominant physics. The two elements that are, first of all, And in terms of capturing And the quarks come We have red, blue, and green, colors, in visible light. And in this reference is pancaked in the direction So what you see on the left is And if you could it's basically in the round. To visualize the proton, It's even a contradiction to at all, which is invisible inaccessible to the I'm working off of like a of physics, so bear with me. I remember learning that have a color, and so I'm just And B, if so, how are the within the proton? I come from the same I do not have a particle And they don't have color. They're described by physicists - wait, QCD. So quantum color dynamics-- chromodynamics, sorry. My brain is still melting So the chromodynamics is it's just a language use to describe the So I worked with that I was doing to help But there's no actual color. A lot of what is on What we're doing is new it's not pure art, and it gives us a perspective, that we feel is valuable Thank you very much. [APPLAUSE] [MUSIC PLAYING]