BEAR: Deserts. Scorched, desolate, hostile. But, alive. One million hungry bats forced to leave the safety of The sun is so powerful here, there's barely anything to eat. The bats can only catch enough But, in daylight, they're Hawks wait for them. In the desert, Get it wrong and The sun governs the And the animals that are at the mercy of its power. (theme music plays). Above me is a nuclear reactor Every second, the sun spits have used in all our history. And nowhere is its power more Amazingly, there are animals in this scorching heat. But now the hottest places on And even the most resilient like never before. The sun's rule begins. From now on, survival Nubian ibex make their steepest corners A daunting place (bleating). But, their greatest In the last few decades, heatwaves have They need water, but it (bleating). (bleating). It's a perilous journey for But, their soft soled hooves And, they appear (bleating). Little grows on these All that's underfoot (bleating). Driven downward by the sun, the family's journey But now, they no longer of the high cliffs. (bleating). An Arabian wolf. He outweighs an In this desert, he's the By keeping her family up slope, she has a slender advantage. But falling rocks (bleating). (bleating). The kids have but lack experience. (bleating). There's nothing Now, she will focus all and providing for Deep in the canyon, it's a different world. This is what they've The desert's most A lifeline. But a costly one. As the sun climbs higher tightening its In some places, that anything can survive. The temperature here is than the global average. This mining town was Some believe these But whatever's stalking is very much alive. BEAR: In Africa's A brown hyena has set Her pups are hungry. And, finding food in seems impossible. Yet, less than a mile away, richest seas in the world. The Atlantic brings Thousands of cape fur seals. Pups could be an easy target. 15 pound balls of blubber, totally unsuited to desert life. Black backed jackals (seal calls). But, the pups have (growling). In a colony this size, there are plenty of (growling). A placenta from With three pups of the hyena needs a bigger meal. (seal calls). As the land heats up, Armed with sharp teeth, even a lone pup can (squeaky growling). (squeaky growling). It's easier to wait until Disoriented by this pup strays (squeaking, crying). (squeaking, crying). She timed her Now it's time to relax Even now, with not all animals These meerkat pups are They still have a lot to It's a dry season. Rain is six months away. And the closest river Finding food is the Most of it's hiding With adults on guard Ready to sound the alarm. it's safe for the First, digging. Harder than it looks. An adult can dig its own But, for a pup, (barking). (chattering). Why not let the But, not all handouts A scorpion. The adult has already but its pincers are Learning how to deal is a vital desert skill. All too soon, it's They need to find But, lessons aren't over yet. (hissing). BEAR: In Africa's a young meerkat is face One on one, he's But when his family (squealing). they race to the rescue. (hissing). This will be one of the How to handle a (hissing, chattering). If they can't see the the entire family (hissing, chattering). (hissing, chattering). The pups now know, their secret to living in teamwork. Midday is approaching. School's over and it's For the next few hours, the Very few animals can This is the It's existed for at And now the temperature An extra degree or two a But where creatures are it could be fatal. At midday, the sand is hot The shovel snouted lizard avoids burning its The buck spoor spider can than any other spider. Up to 120 Fahrenheit. But it's gonna get She must work fast, to cover the entrance where she escapes the heat. Now, the sand Yet, for hotrod ants, it's Alone on the dunes, they Long legs are a lifesaver. Just a fifth of an inch And, the hotrods running so fast they When it gets too much, they By pushing the limits the ants can be active when But, even they must get Before they boil to death. The ants' struggles Vibrations travel to an underground lair. Sometimes, the spoor spider It will emerge later to Across the world's deserts, temperature peak in With barely a trace of life, these landscapes look From space, the full beauty In Africa, the eye of the A collapsed dome of rock Landscapes like this will continue to expand Right now, the closest we is Australia. The driest of all A brutal drought has California and Montana combined. In places, under an inch of Right now, survival Unlike smaller animals, red kangaroos can't Instead, they have evolved of all desert creatures. But at 115 degrees, even This mother and her joey They must find BEAR: In Australia, a are dangerously overheating. They have one Shade cuts the But latecomers In the full force of the sun, this mother must draw on Digging offers a Just five inches underground, the soil can be As a last resort, she uses Evaporating saliva cools beneath her skin. But the heat keeps rising. Australia receives than any other landmass. They barely have And, with almost they're all slowly starving. In the most severe droughts, Their bodies quickly mummify Yet, a few of the very somehow manage to survive. When the rains finally repopulate the outback. Not all deserts are Saguaro cacti can tower over Just one of over 2,000 In this green, spiky desert. A young Harris (cawing). There are lots of (cawing). (cawing). It forces Harris hawks to In a pack. And, now the sun's dropping. It's cool enough to As the youngest family member, his job is to flush the Above, his mother The rest of the family ready for the chase. A dive signals The three chasers (screaming). After a miss, Finally, it's the (screaming). Beating his wings he accelerates to (cawing). By working as a team, the hawks more than double A smart hunting strategy in a desert with so The Sonoran is the in the United States. But, the monsoonal also spawn monsters. BEAR: On summer afternoons the sun whips up winds into the desert. Storms bring life to the land. (thunder, lightning). But, sometimes the Moving at 50 miles an hour. A dust storm can engulf the animals in its path. An unstoppable manifestation By late afternoon, deserts Conditions are The perfect time for a hunter. It may be the end of the day, but this caracal is The prey she's after are all Hundreds of sociable weaver enormous communal nest. (chirping). (chirping). (chirping). Muscular legs And, with claws splayed she'll try to catch any (chirping). She can leap 11 (chirping). This could be her last (chirping). Deserts seldom give up But, the caracal will continue She's just one of many survival strategy Timing their lives to It's only at night that the true magic of These fennec foxes have waiting for darkness. Just to catch a glimpse Let alone to see two pups. They've emerged into a adapted to a nocturnal life in Dense fur insulates the A reflective retina And, enormous ears (owl hoots). The fact that such a diversity a landscape that at is remarkable. Yet, for all nocturnal life is a race against time. Soon enough, the With each new day, life As global temperatures our deserts are 50,000 square miles every year. So, perhaps the ingenious and the desert might In Australia, desert life to bounce back. Creatures like the red countless generations to cope They thrive in a landscape And are able to raise a that would kill us. We don't know exactly what But, whatever happens, you can never give up without a fight. Captioned by Cotter