All right, it's time for competitive Mario Kart at least for me, this is a free-for-all instead because everyone decided to vote for there's actually four different formats, So now I don't have to worry about a teammate, and hopefully that means I can relax a whenever I want. People... okay, I can see chaotic already. People are throwing their items have to worry about accidentally hitting your not that it ended up mattering, but I think my what ended up happening was, uh, my teammate was my fault. Okay, so I--I did not see that blue everyone else is Japanese, and I'm the one lagging forgot to go for the purple mini turbo. Okay, I'm gonna slow down. All right, they didn't I think, like, no one dodged, so whoever Nice, grew first--ooh, get out of the way. Oh, know I didn't have to slow down, and I got hit and it ended up being not safe. Mushroom, please. before a mushroom. Oh, wow. Eleventh. I feel like surroundings, I just got a bit unlucky. You know heart--Diddy Kong and Inkling Girl at the bottom. stat away from Yoshi, but slightly worse. But it's guaranteed a mushroom right here if I'm in ninth but uh, I'm using this to get to the shortcut, and then I can just run. Just got to be careful What? [laughs] Oh, I hit a bit of the wall. did not expect to get a trick. I mean, I knew you it to actually be up because I just saw it go I'm not in danger. Trail that Yoshi--no. All right, blue shelled, I'm in first. I'm the real villain! I'm already at nine. There's a red shell--you know there may not be a blue shell for the rest of against that one red shell. You know what? enough. I don't think I can react if they throw the way. Take first. What? They tried to end me. even on the left--that was just lag. Whoa no item. Okay, blue shell. I don't think that's gonna hit. Okay, I still got fifth. I think I actually would horned. What? I beat the Inkling Girl? [laughs] I have not been performing too well. If there's Oh, look, I'm in first. Great, I got a coin. to get on this track. Oh, that's bad. Let's go that item? Okay, Diddy Kong's handling is a little right now. Maybe not here, though, for charging actually turn less when you're charging a mini mini-map for a blue shell, but also my lead is a Oh no. Terrible. If I get red shelled now, it's my take slightly safer lines. My lead is big enough, I just have to do the normal stuff and not bit. [Music] Not gonna go up for the fifth so I didn't need to worry about trailing it. the whole race. There it is. [laughs] It's not in this. First place gets so many points. Wow, is done. [laughs] Someone in chat actually called not catch up to the Diddy Kong. No, you could and that gives me a speed boost. I feel like when I'm just myself, like in a free-for-all and I to having a teammate yet, you know? Like, having a lot more like my worldwides, right now. Okay, All right, um, I'm in seventh, I'm in eighth, I'm glad this happened early, though. Yeah, I'm now instead of later when it's gonna be at to catch up yet. So, if you get destroyed on a relatively early. Oh. Okay, I'm just gonna use What? I landed on--I land on this boost everyone's paying for that. I should have hopped. disaster right now. I have no coins now. I did just completely lose my spot. Okay, so we take two More mushrooms. Okay, at least I randomly ran and I accidentally used too much of my okay, I'm gonna burn the mushroom right here and do last time. What are we getting? Seventh. Okay, know what I was doing on lap two. I just fell off can't rely on a teammate; I have to actually play my speed stat is really low. I don't know why Yoshi, but I'm trying not to be part of the Yoshi difference between Diddy Kong and Yoshi, but and so he's just Yoshi but worse. But he has like, more handling, but that doesn't really matter. The it's not a huge deal. Look, I'm in first. [Music] you're probably better than them with Diddy Kong. it's gonna make a big difference. Okay, let's one of the longest tracks in the game. Can gotten blue-shelled. Like, not just seen three blue-shelled three times in the same race, which be this long when there's a 30-second cooldown on years long. Okay, why are you red-shelling have no item for a while. Nice timing for the Okay, this race is not over by any means. There's don't think anyone close by dodged, though, so panels, so that's actually a really good shock holding the blue shell and it just got shocked out only speculate what's going on back there. Look I'll be getting the double item anyway. I'm just mushroom boost at the end of--oh, I'm getting horn. A little to late. What are these items? I blue-shelled and comboed once. I'm in seventh. think I got anyone. Okay, we hope they kill each could do damage to somebody. Oh! Oh! Nice! I saw this. [laughs] To be fair, though, they had less Let's go! DK Jungle! This is Diddy Kong Jungle. get bumped too bad. Smart steering. Okay, well, go around for coins. This frog doesn't get in the these coins right now. I mean, if I'm trying use that, but I just kind of want to chain items. know this off-road right there at the edge of the I think I'll just chain these. This fire might right now. Okay, there's no item for a long time There we go. Nice. Okay, see, if you get shocked long time, so it's so advantageous to use it there plant in first. I can't dodge a red shell. Uh, blue shell and use this to speed up if a red shell I don't need a shortcut. I'm just going to-- I There's a blue shell. Good thing I saved it. Oh we go around. We don't risk it. I don't know the shortcut. Oh, what a good race. So, I but that's a really good spot to chain because and that's risk management that I learned from and I'm in second overall. I need to play just you know, hope the person in first plays very good player. Okay, I forgot to go to the We are bagging. So compared to the other people that I'm starting with, like, no coins, and I'm glad I can make this decision to start thrown that away. Oh. No! Is that my own banana? decide which coins I wanted to take, and in forward here. I don't want to wait too long. Get me away. Okay, that's fine, that's fine. Um, I'm not good at using a crazy eight here. at this moment? Okay, I think it's gone. Bullet. it. What are you doing? [laughs] Use it earlier hate you. [laughs] What? I think I'm falling need a mini turbo hop. You can't--what? Okay, I beat fruitsalad actually. Did I? I think I beat creep up on us, but I am catching fruitsalad very, bad at this track. I swear I just always get Mario it to happen that fast. Now this mushroom is and of course, the same thing happened to one then they stopped. What is this? Okay, I need please, please leave some. Thank you. Wow. I'm just gonna use this. I'm gonna get hit. I barely lost invincibility there. Of course this you s--that was the smartest banana of all time. I to use this, stay safe. Wow, even though I was in that it pushed me. I think I--are you kidding me? I think, I think unless? Alright, got someone. but not good enough, I don't think. I don't think track is so annoying. [laughs] What am I doing to step it up right now. [Music] At least I'll get far behind that I could get triple mushrooms, but this is my number one best track, so let's so bad. This fire in the distance. Okay, I don't that. [Music] Whoa, I'm in second? Nice. [laughs] into victory. Oh nice one. Yeah, that was my I almost got that mushroom boost, but yeah, the is actually five coins. What? Okay, I thought What? How are you bumping me that well? There's That was a terrible spot to use a mushroom. nice. Someone passed them so the red shell playing terrible right now. Please still I'm trying to remember what happened that so I'm happy with fourth. Fruitsalad got Fourteen-point difference. Villain's gonna know what? I don't need to catch a villain. I Alright, no item. Didn't get bumped off, and up for coins now. Hopefully, I'm still on a good didn't get the item, and I'm still on zero coins. here we go, here we go. I didn't get a trick. Still gonna get this item, end that well. Got him. Lag sniped. I'm one with the nice. Got villain's mushroom. Oh! The that saves so much time. Wow, that shock was everyone from that shock. Okay, got to make off. Why is someone bulleting in first with what are you supposed to do to that? Oh, okay. Oh. gonna get last place if I fell off there. Okay, I my second place breakaway a little bit. Alright, Oh, the bumps. Draft. Nice. [Music] I just and that fact is starting to scare me. Oh, I think I'll just hold these. I don't want to enough lead that a blue shell doesn't matter too track. And a lot of people don't know how to play long as the blue shell comes relatively late and Nice trick. [Music] Somehow took an amazing line despite the blooper. red shell protections. I'm not even--I'm like just no blue shell. That's crazy. [laughs] I'm feels a little bit random sometimes with the I know I can do well. Okay, one more race to beat Ice World. We got Koopa Cape, which is a really don't have control over what happens at the start. Um, I was gonna say because of the mushroom but now I'm just in the back. It's okay. I am my control sometimes what actually happens. Oh, up for coins. Not about the items, just about the I need. [Music] Just don't want to get bumped I guess I was at eight coins, that's good, unable to pull a dodge for a lot of that, and the but I'm in fifth. This is good, this is good! I'm I'm still gonna get red shelled, unless I can pass I guess. No mushrooms, this is bad. Scary lines. slow down, and that's Villain. Villain's gonna right play. It's the only way I pass villain, second--I mean, seventh. I think that still puts me I was just trying to hit Villain at the end. their green shells back at the end. I don't know think I was not gonna pass him anyway. Okay, good. If you divide it into six groups, I basically