Electric lawn mowers are great. Quieter, and far less maintenance than a gas mower. electric lawn mower game and that's with the market. Autonomous mowers that use proximity centimeter global positioning systems are model that's out on the market now, and this year because I have a tech addiction problem ... I even in its current configuration. It's a yard robot forward to testing out next winter. When I said just meant at my house. But seriously, how I'm Matt Ferrell ... welcome to Undecided. This video is brought to you by Cars have had autonomous driver Add to that autonomous robot vacuums point (I'm sure many of you have one ... my this tech is starting to take on our yards, I'm all for sustainable technology, so is pretty straightforward. Electric also has which I've detailed in the past when I've Why an Autonomous Mower? What I have here are the Segway Navimow 3000H. As I already mentioned, I I was a beta tester last year, but I my opinions are my own and neither company I'm assuming the appeal of a robot mower time mowing your lawn. For those of you The problem with previous generations of robot wire. You were supposed to tack down or which would define the boundaries of the consuming and can easily be broken by These new models can use a combination and RTK global positioning systems for hyper that's the game changer. The way it works is that which can receive the GPS signals. GPS antenna, which means it's using two narrow down the precise location As for the computer vision systems, it's not a Tesla, Rivian, or Ford. The mower uses machine trees, bushes, etc. in order to either stop for additional safety features like proximity so the mower knows if it's bumped into or if someone has touched the mower and is trying off the blades to avoid any injury. These Speaking of the experience ... how's the setup? While you don't have to bury a wire there's still some setup work here.. This is in robot mower reviews. It can be tricky station's RTK antenna and the mower's charging and Luba 2. The antennas and charging station of the sky. Depending on where your outside surrounding situation looks like, if you have For the Navimow, you only need one power plug the RTK antenna. The reason? The RTK antenna charging station. While it's nice that you only to string the wire to the antenna across That means stretching a wire right along the the previous generation of robot mowers with or damaged. Or in my case last year when I was a Thankfully, in my case I have an which makes it easy to keep the wires off the come with some kind of pole you can use and Navimow I was able to attach the antenna to a what you'd want to do. It keeps it out of the This is where the Luba 2 actually Before I get into what that advantage is, I need really help in your daily digital life and that's easy to use VPN full of incredible features of devices with one account. Most of the time yourself security as you travel around the you can make it look like your IP address it unlocks geofencing blocks on content, like shopping services will sometimes gate prices based to make sure you're getting the best prices. unlock things like Surfshark Alert, which will like passwords, have been leaked online in special deal ... use my code UNDECIDED to get up to 30-day money-back guarantee, so there's been using Surfshark for years and love it. Surfshark and to all of you for supporting the The base station RTK antenna doesn't charging station. Instead it communicates which is a form of long range wireless own power outlet to plug into. Mammotion is place this thing anywhere in the yard without the but am still waiting for it. In my book this the antenna on the complete opposite side of of sight to the sky. That's exactly what I mounting it to the house, or the fence with Once you have a good location figured out, you'll need to run through the setup process it detected the mower via bluetooth right away, and also to activate a cellular connection. Cell but it does give some additional security backyard. You'll be able to track down where it away with your mower, they won't be able The Luba 2 was a little trickier in my initial and the base station RTK antenna, which wasn't of the mower itself was virtually identical to and then install your own SIM card), but I kept yard due to a poor GPS location. That's when I RTK antenna to my WiFi. Once I did that everything Mapping for both is pretty straightforward, walk your robot around the yard. It's quite the robot for a walk ... nothing to see here. You drive lawn you want it to mow. You're supposed to keep obstacles where it could get caught up on. The it's not really intuitive how to make corrections for creating sections, pathways, and editing 2 it was very easy to create a zone for the side pathway between the two across the driveway. haven't selected an object to edit when trying map boundary you want to edit is selected What about the features? I'm not but here's a quick high level comparison As a former UX designer, I'm not big on the spec tell the story of what it's like to actually use the Luba 2 has a shorter runtime compared to easily handle slopes and rougher terrain than the From my experience with both of these units, you'll most likely be running these when you're or really care. They'll wander back to their dock Where the feature set differences do matter and slopes. The Navimow is virtually silent when quiet) whirring sound as it makes its way around you want without worrying about bothering your The Navimow at my old house got stuck easily in slopes slightly past what it could easily handle. so it's handling it like a champ. However, wedged against the rock beds along part it doesn't have enough power and traction to get the AWD Luba 2 is a little powerhouse. types of rock beds if it gets For me, the mowing height is the biggest you ideally want to cut the grass to a height this is going to vary a lot by what your turf looks like. Taller grass will have a more watering is needed. That's my biggest problem in (60mm). While good enough, I'd prefer to cut my can go between 1-2.75 inches (20-75mm) in (for height) variant that goes all the way up So what's the user experience like actually awesome. I have a lawn that looks like have to do every week or so is go out the robot mowers can't get to. You're week or two trimming the lawn versus a Both mowers have a scheduling function where but how it will mow the yard (ie. changing etc.). The Navimow has a bit of an edge on alternates the mowing direction with each it cuts diagonally to the right, and then on helps to keep any ruts from forming and also the course of a week. The Luba 2 doesn't but you can program in specific cutting patterns can manually get to a somewhat similar place ... but Probably the coolest feature, and one I'm is the FPV mode for the Luba 2. You can from the mower as it mows your yard. It's dubious feature. You feel a bit like Honey I As Paul Hibbert would say, now we have you've ever used a robot vacuum cleaner, you'll While they do remove the chore of mowing the vast minor fiddliness. You may have to rescue it from stuck). You'll have to hose it down from time keep the sensors and cameras clean, so it can the elephant in the room ... it's the cost. These at $1,899 and goes up to $2,599 at the time of you get a mower that's capable of handling at $2,099 and goes all the way up to $4,099. crazy expensive this may make sense for someone or for someone that has a hectic schedule and Or in my case, you could hate mowing lawns with you don't fall into one of those buckets, then lawn mower and doing it yourself. You can pick up but ... if I've got to be honest, I Which one is better? They're equal as far but I'd give the edge to the Navimow for overall feature set, power, and yard or lots of slopes/hills, the Luba 2 is So what do you think? Do you welcome our to do this kind of work yourself? Jump into listen to my follow up podcast Still TBD where always to my patrons for your continued