So, this is it! This... this is a quantum computer? This is a quantum computer! Here I am seeing a real life quantum my friend and king of tech YouTube Marques quantum computers are such a big deal. &quot;Quantum computers...&quot; &quot;Quantum technology...&quot; &quot;What on earth is a quantum computer?&quot; &quot;Bits! Qubits!&quot; &quot;Try all the codes at once!&quot; &quot;Whichever nation first develops a will have a tremendous advantage...&quot; &quot;Quantum Supremacy...&quot; I see a lot of news about quantum computers &quot;That was really well done and But also it's often wrong. Quantum computers aren't super of what we use now. They're something totally key to understanding why they're such a big deal, out to build them the fastest. Quantum computers build and how we understand the world. They're think you really understand how they work... you're probably wrong. At least, I didn't. Marques and I both realized that we really didn't understand. So we decided to quantum computers - what they can really do and you on that adventure with us, to show you what we you how these crazy computers might ...and sooner than you think. It's a very niche skill we to hear when a quantum computer is working. What does it sound like? Sh-pp-sh-ppp-sh-ppp-sh... [Confused sounds] So it works, it's not broken. I swear The only function of this screen is to So we're going to visit IBM's quantum computer. they're letting us see this computer because it is to my knowledge the largest quantum confidence like I know what that means... I was gonna say, what is &quot;biggest&quot; because like super computers, they're massive rooms when someone says &quot;we have the biggest that. The largest quantum computer... I imagine the golden octopus... You know that Biden looked at like [confused]... The press images, yeah. And I know that in order to see that they took some real logistics on their part This is the real deal. What is most interesting to you about It's definitely on the edge of my when it's actually going to touch like regular at some point in the future quantum computing will will have like a device that they can buy where into its creation at least. When are we One thing I think is think is this is a different kind of explainer. You're just coming with us as we figure this out. Exploratory explainer! Exactly. A whole new genre. Cody and Nicole. Nicole is an associate studying quantum communication for her PhD. And Thank god they're both here. So when I started doing this episode, physicist. He was really frustrated at the way that was like, okay, how do you Okay, here's the analogy that helps me understand Imagine that you're on a video game map and how you get around depends on (You may not want to play this So first there were no computers. So you have your little pencil and paper and you're It was slow and there were lots of areas that computational ability. But then we developed early sets and answer problems that had previously new areas on our mathematical map. Instead of can get farther faster and we can access areas still parts of the map that our computers couldn't and they allowed us to solve more and more complex transformed: We have roads and cars and we're just Better computers mean traveling across this map said was really important to understand is that BOATS. A boat is not necessarily better than a car, So with our new quantum computers, we're beginning problems and discovering areas that traditional What's in the water? Oh wow... Like, what are the oceans to explore with our quantum computer-boats? I love this. I'm an analogy person, This is why I think a quantum computer this is a better thing to offer the audience, computers or just another exciting computer.&quot; I guess what people are probably thinking in their head is, &quot;well is there pocket?&quot; And I guess that would be, You know, is the tech ever I just want to say I really appreciate I love it. I love the analogy. Guys, we have arrived. ... where we have arrived to... This does not look like there's a quantum computer here. IBM Research Division... Here we go. Alright... Let's go! Let's go see a quantum computer. We made it, we're here. Here we go. Do you want to introduce yourself first? Hi! I'm Olivia Lanes. I'm a researcher at IBM and the community team. We're gonna What's goin' on here? This is our Watson setup... no please go ahead... and it competed on Jeopardy with Ken Jennings... &quot;Watson?&quot; &quot;What is shoe?&quot; &quot;You are right!&quot; This is Brent. It's Brent's lab, Great to meet you. Thanks for having us! So this is the lab... That's a quantum computer? Yeah. Actually, this is a dilution refrigerator. This whole thing is basically constructed to 15 millikelvin. It's the coldest thing basically So inside that is 15 millikelvin? Yep. [That is very cold] So here, let me show you the one This is it... This... this is a quantum computer. This is a quantum computer. [Ohhhh yeahhhh] The quantum computer is a chip keeps the quantum computer working at insanely cold temperatures like we talked about. So this is all refrigerator technology? All of these cables that you see down through the fridge into the processor and then they do their their quantum stuff and it comes electronics and they turn it into things That is a quantum computer. Oh my god... So I think it's really funny that when people generally talk about like the difference between &quot;okay well you know how a classical computer nobody knows that. A simplification [BITS] and bits are made out of pieces of silicon and of them in your computer. And they can either be in or the excited state. And everything that you type colors, get translated into computer speech. But on qubits. Qubits aren't like bits. They aren't a like a wave: A qubit could be really likely to be be really likely to be one which means a higher being each. When a quantum computer is working, And they add constructively or destructively just like waves would if you You know how when you explain and they just keep going &quot;why?&quot; and you have to is: As the controller of the computer, Basically, you are altering the probabilities It's a common misconception that quantum This is simplified but it's more like a quantum it watches how all of those waves interact and then finds the most likely answer. If this is know is that quantum computers calculate things that makes them good at different things. Quantum computers are not going than a classical computer. Like, it's not good for phone is perfectly good at that. But the things structure in tons of data. And if you're interested Absolutely. Put us to work. Let's go back to our virtual map: So we have our boats, and we're floating around first new areas of interest is &quot;simulating nature.&quot; Simulation of nature seems really interesting. Why is nature one of the things? So nature fundamentally is quantum We just don't normally see it but if you structure of molecules, everything has to follow to calculate what a material or what an atom is it just can't do it. But if you're interested in new materials that have you know long chains of This is why people are so excited! Think of the we could make if we could better predict the There you go! Boom. Okay so simulating nature is could be amazing at but we're also getting one that people and governments &quot;Completely new encryption algorithms&quot; &quot;Break encryption...&quot; &quot;Quantum resistant encryption...&quot; &quot;A fully functional quantum computer could be built with code breaking capabilities that could Okay now this is the one that why is everybody so obsessed with talking about So the first major algorithm that was developed for Peter Shore, super nice guy. He invented an algorithm really large numbers. Why does anyone care about which is basically how all transactions on the that all of our encryption schemes today work that that with a brute force classical algorithm. years. But a quantum computer could do that way So this global race now makes a quantum computer to actually do But we haven't done that yet. a million qubits or more to do, So we're not going to be using quantum computers Today, we're at 433 qubits, the record set by IBM. 400 to a million qubits is a big difference but Olivia In the next five or even over to quantum safe So RSA goes away and Probably. Not all at once do it. We're progressing at an incredibly fast even begin to know how to crack two years ago. But that we say we do, we do. Nothing mathematically says it's allowed, the engineers will find a way. That's sick. I'm picturing that - I'm adjusting the analogy slightly that it's a &quot;submarine&quot; because Yeah, we are just skimming the surface. upon this technology every single year and applications that we haven't even considered yet. It's a bottomless ocean... It's a bottomless ocean! The tour was amazing and as Awesome. Let me just get on the highway Quantum computers do look exactly like I But something about being understand that this is a fundamentally different I'm really glad I got to finish exploring that analogy a little bit to like a really encapsulate at about quantum computers, in that there is an are specialized and really good at certain things. Okay so what is your summary of the analogy now? I think we can keep almost all of it which is that our exploration of other fields of mathematics steadily advancing forms of transportation I like adjusting to &quot;submarine&quot; because there are that we're just going to keep going! The tech It just continues to improve. Here's how Olivia put the dream of It's beautiful because like of course want to develop technology that's going to better things. But it's also beautiful because want to learn what we are and like learn The world is quantum mechanical. There you have it! Thanks for coming. Peace! This episode was so much fun to make. Huge If True is a genuinely finding ways to use technology to make the world the best thing that you can do to support us is definitely should subscribe because Marques and you subscribe leave a comment and let me know. (thank you &lt;3)