Hello. My name I'm here today with author and founder Dr. Ralph W. Moss. Good morning, Dad. Good morning, Ben. I am really looking forward You told me something and encouraging, and I really can't And that has to do with a study around Can you tell us a little bit And and we'll get into the details Yes, the study came out in 2022 and it showed basically that people had far less cancer than people Oh, you said far less. What does that mean exactly? Is there a number associated with that? There are. There are a couple of numbers. So, they broke it down by major types of a 27% reduction in in colon cancer, 26% reduction in cancers of the head in head and mouth and the esophagus, an amazing 52% reduction in urinary tract cancers. And overall olive oil consumption was associated with an overall reduction Of, get this, 31%. Just that one that one factor could reduce the risk of cancer Wait, you're saying that they did a study and in this study, people who had a certain amount of olive oil Correct. Overall, that there were 30% or more fewer incidents of cancer Correct. Well, that's a huge deal. I mean, that we're talking Millions, 3 million or something per - astounding my absolute Yeah. So when you talk about a study, can we elaborate a little bit Basically, and you give people questionnaires and you make they consumed in the course of a day, And that's typical. That's there's nothing Of course it has. It has its limitations, like any study, any kind of study but no more relating to the population, Much of our knowledge of smoke, of tobacco These kinds of studies. So there's nothing wrong about it It's completely legitimate. I think there's we do encourage a like all scientists, we we believe in friendly that we think that you should always look And this this claim would alter people's and certain people would benefit So you have a reason Let me see if I can hit you Go 'head. Try. How do we know that a study has integrity as the skeptic, I tend to not believe Where you saying that there's 30% across the board So can you tell us more about the specific and how many people were involved, that you determine This is a study, So a meta analysis aggregates the results of high quality It's not an ordinary study in itself. They didn't go out in the field and ask people questions Other people did that and. How they took how many people in all of these studies Almost 1 million. Wow. An extraordinarily high number they only had 13 or 1400 people. This was the follow up to a study And they were they're at the University of Athens in in Greece. And the paper was published in a top top drawer of a medical journal, PLoS One, PLoS One. Highly regarded journal. And that hospital that they work at, it partners So it gives us even more reason to believe in the accuracy of their findings. And there really are no red flags, as you find with a lot of papers they're under underpowered or they're taking money from the industry. These people are not. The industry could even write the paper. There's a lot of phony studies out there. This isn't one of them. This is a very. It passes all the tests, the smell test scientific contribution And would you consider yourself an expert of studies to determine Well, I've had about 50 years of I don't know if that makes me I'm not Doing years is enough. I mean, you had and analyzing them for this very thing, or not, for the better part of 50 years, Almost my entire life. Right. And I know I've been around them, quite gets a picture of I tell. Them now that you have been Years. But there's another thing, I was an appointed advisor So I don't think the NIH would have chosen me and kept kept going with me for almost, you know, ten years of getting my input. And we were involved in the what's now the the National Center for Complementary We were involved in helping to design So I feel I feel very comfortable. So, yes, you're an expert at being able whether you feel like validity scientifically. Right. And you think that this one does? Yes, I do. I think it's I think it's extraordinary. In fact, I think it's an extraordinarily The reason I brought it up with you, Ben, is that I was blown away by it. Actually. Sometimes I find something. Because I look at thousands and thousands And so I you know, because if you see a small effect juice or something, then it's like you But it's not going to make much But the the the origin of the study, the fact that it came out the fact that there were almost You mentioned it had been published And a good. One. Yeah, PLoS One. PLoS One. Okay. Yeah, I'm not. From the but very famous journal, by But the numbers are staggering, right. In such a large study, They may have or may not or a small study You know, you still have to feel like, What's going to happen when they when they look at the big picture, and still it was the We could talk about what that is is is a 30%, 31% reduction And and this added to the other health So I think this is And I'm I'm waiting for the other shoe that I want to see pick this up and realize Can we be confident that the substance that they actually were getting Yes, because the quality is high in Spain, Italy, Greece, Morocco. They they take their olive oil seriously. Is that where they have the polling of Yes, most of these studies were came Let's talk about how it's actually beneficial to our audience. So, for example, if I had an active cancer is that going to actually have an Or is it more of just something trying to prevent it in that way, I'd say overwhelmingly it's about prevention. Overwhelmingly, that doesn't mean that it wouldn't But these are two different questions and I am unaware of any studies in a cancer patient population Now, it could be olive oil, could be is contained It's in fact the most conspicuous component within the Mediterranean diet. But and there are some some studies done and cancer, but I don't think it's I don't think we're there yet in terms of what would be the effect in people Where it would be particularly relevant would be to people who are trying or who are at a higher risk of of cancer. I think it's it's very relevant. How how could we know that they eat in their diet, versus just this compound It's a good question. There was this so-called predi med Now, this was not a meta analysis This was it was and is its own you have an intervention compared What does that mean? Well, in other words, ages 60 to 80, and they randomly assigned them to receive by courier, either a mediterranean diet olive oil that they sent them got a mediterranean diet Another item that may have some benefit in terms of health or a control group getting any of that that benefit there were 68% fewer breast cancer cases in people receiving the Mediterranean diet. That was supplement with olive oil versus This was published in 2015. So there is there is a actual wow. Clinical trial comparison between the the Mediterranean diet the Mediterranean diet, plus nuts as strong as the Mediterranean diet, And I think we can assume, in the Mediterranean countries, that a lot of those people Right. But even so, the nuts, some mixed nuts, Yeah. It didn't have the same punch And they were receiving high quality olive oil from the government or from the the university that was doing the study. The interesting thing, a little bit, there was a a survey, another survey done adjusting for all other lifestyle factors, a survey, olive oil consumption, and was associated with a lower risk of dying and of cancer deaths in particular. And Cardiovasc ocular disease, benefit of olive oil, cardiovascular This is well known and discussed whereas the cancer connection But here's the point. Yeah, this is a 2022 survey that if you got up to one tablespoon a day of olive oil that was associated with a 9% lower risk of dying from any cause, two or more tablespoons. Wait. what? Yeah. Wait, so you take some olive oil? Yeah, 1 tablespoon. likely to die, correct? Correct! Okay. But that's pretty good. But get this, Ben. I mean, listen, I'm listening. Two, it's two or more tablespoons... reduce the death rate by 31%. Two or more tablespoons a day. A day. Reduce, extra virgin olive oil. Right. Has to be extra virgin right? It does correct. All right. Okay, so we got that There's one more. But here's one more fact. If we just look at cardio deaths, two or more tables you're going to be. Oh, yeah. Well obviously. You're not just making this up? Right. Okay. I could couldn't make this stuff Last two or more tablespoons per day is associated with - wait for it. 51% lower risk of cardiovascular and cancer deaths. 51. So, I mean, these numbers are so high that it boggles the mind. You would think that the world I want to tell you. I appreciate that. And I think our audience, they can probably hear that And thunder moment, of numbers and their health impact. Yes. So so that's the amount you didn't ask me, how much do you need to get every day? It's probably between one and a half I mean, that's manageable. It's manageable because... nobody's done this in in anything other We're not talking about that's being injected or some other way Nope. It's just eating it. Correct. Okay, that's it. So we're just talking about what It shouldn't be plain. It shouldn't be old, as it should be as pure and as as close to the way olive oil until the mid 20th century as possible, meaning it should be crushed and kept at a cool temperature just slightly filtered and put in a bottle It's been it's been harvested. And I mean, it's a good it's I mean I love olive oil. I love it. I love it. You know, once benefits this is, yeah, I always knew it. But, you know, I cheated a little bit because I'd go have avocado oil, But the why was I do it? Because I was under the impression Low flash. Point or what they call It's not true, though. It's not true. You can actually you will lose about about half of the antioxidants in the oil In olive oil? So it's better. In olive oil Taken just in its raw state. I always try. Everything or as a dressing or, Every day I try to have both. I try to have some raw olive oil and and on days when I if I cook with it, are still going to try Yeah. And it's a it's a for about 8000 years, olive oil. And now it's that we're realizing what a fantastic food Yeah. Does there appear to be something specific inside of olive oil as a compound? There's two, two candidates One would be the oil, you know, the the mono unsaturated oils. And if you substitute which are considered to be less healthy, that would probably But my focus maybe this is my prejudice, but I'm more focused on the polyphenols, I wrote a book in, I think the year 2000 And there was a fair amount of skepticism about, why are you isolating supplements Well, more advocating the use through food. But here's I mean we can measure in olive oil. I wouldn't want to tell people and just buy any old olive and expect Just because, amazingly, some of the olive oils on the shelf in the supermarket contain Those would be the light. The ones that were labeled light, the antioxidants, But you can actually buy olive oil, with no beneficial compounds. And I would imagine I mean, yes, the the the kind of oil that's in the olive oil But if you cook with a light olive oil, you're getting virtue and there's So you're getting virtually no benefit. It would be it would be a tremendous Is there a way, compounds or molecules could be extracted in the way that we tend to do here I think in the case of olive oil, for the antioxidants, I think. No, I wouldn't say that about resveratrol, polyphenols The plant compounds, within the plant and they have to be taken take them as supplements. But the olive oil can contain as much as 1200 milligrams per kilogram of oil of polyphenols, And yes, the polyphenols. The antioxidants. Okay. So that is a specific is one particular. It's a group of molecules? Yeah, It is a group of them. Okay. Some of them seem to have more effect on cancer than they do Cardiovascular. Was this study that was done in Greece No, just on olive oil. I see. No, I don't think I don't think I doubt where we. I don't think we need to The oil the olive oil is so powerful that if it's going to have an effect, But I think you have to have a good, reliable source of olive oil with a relatively high polyphenol content. Now, luckily for us, California, are as good as the Europe, And that's wonderful. So and doesn't require, in Naples Harbor, So it's so we're not without and South and some of the other countries that produce good olive oil. It doesn't really matter It does. And there are many varieties of olives you see, the thing is polyphenol the, the characteristic sharpness of the olive oil. You can tell pretty well there is in the olive oil And we could have a whole video but it by and large, it won't in the back of the throat that doesn't have polyphenols I can tell I'm just an olive oil lover. I'm not an olive oil expert. I know a little bit But I can tell from tasting olive oil put a pretty accurate number in terms kilogram of polyphenols are in that oil, And when you get that tickle. Yeah, hard to describe, It's almost it's almost a sharp-ness I find it very pleasant. But that's what makes for a high That's the one you're you're looking for. And I have on my shelf I have olive oils Typically, if you if you're in the range of three But I don't need to take as much olive oil as I would with somebody who was taking Can you reliably just eat olives? Yeah. As a way of getting these olive oil. So if I'm trying to get two tablespoons does that mean you know would eating 3, No, it won't be enough. And besides, olives to take away the extreme I see. in the olives. So they and So as you're getting yes. You're getting some of the polyphenols quality ones, but you're also getting There is a dose response curve And the amount and the protection And these other may be Alzheimer's. A really good amount of this stuff. Yeah. You need a couple of tablespoons a day, Now I drink it. Yeah. I drink it. If I don't Yeah I like it really good. Oh yeah. I put it in I mean I like it Oh, I do too. But I've gotten used to. I've never had it I guess I'll have to try that Maybe I'll make a little video Of myself Let me put it this way. It's an acquired taste. All right, well, we'll give it a try. So then I had another question, about what you were saying Yeah. So they're an antioxidant you've written in your book Antioxidants in your opinion, seem And some of the supplements and so forth that you've written certainly point to them having value. So is it then So you said that about polyphenols as a substance, And so we know that polyphenols exist But the but did the people who did this study draw any conclusions about the relationship between these Or is that your conclusion Right. I'm putting a couple of things together Okay. Something is enormously protective against cancer. What could that be? Well, it's a couple of candidates here. And we know from other from laboratory studies kill kill cancer And and what gets me particularly excited studies showing that components of olive This brings us full circle which is CSCs cancer stem cells. Right. If the polyphenols are the substance in olive oil have this anti-cancer property, then how do we know whether the olive oil in the United States, for example, Is there any real way to tell? And I mean, I'm assuming that you're saying then eating the olive oil wouldn't Not probably not. So let's divide it the supermarket, olive oils and the specialty olive oils. So the supermarket olive oils, almost none of them, if I haven't seen any that list the nor nor generally nor do the websites We know from independent testing that are in the supermarket These would be the light, the so-called light olive oils, There's very little cancer, anti-cancer from eating those olive oils. However, the only brand, the only company that markets... the supermarket olive oils, in terms of polyphenols, is the California Olive Branch. Oh, okay. And I, I emailed them. They were extremely cooperative. Once I once I sent them an email for the polyphenol content And the lady there sent me back And how many polyphenols. And polyphenols are measured That's a tiny amount within a, bottle or bag of olive oil, milligrams Got it. hundredths of the total amount. But that's enough. That relatively small amount in terms of health So what I found by doing that, and then going to the store Well, there's two ways to go. One is that they they make the familiar square bottle, California Olive Branch. They have about And then they also own Lucini. Lucini, Italian or olive oil. So you could go one of two ways. The Lucini is their higher end brand. It's a little bit more expensive. It's about $25 a bottle, that much more in the way of polyphenols. Than this one, is called California Olive Ranch, robust, bold and peppery, extra virgin olive oil. It's a bargain. It's something like $7 for this bottle. So it's cheep, cheep, cheep. And it comes from a global blend from Argentina, Portugal, Chile and 10% California. I see. So this in shopping for olive oil, from a unique location, estate or from a region They always tell, you know, this is how And as a general rule, this is true. You don't want to get something that's been sitting in sludge You want to get something that comes from It's a little bit like wine, Olive oil, by the way, that they've excavated ships from the bottom of the Mediterranean And in them, they always assumed but they found residue of olive oil So the trade in olive oil and wine And there's a lot of similarities But there's a couple of things is that it's the opposite of wine in that you don't want aged olive oil, Olive oil is like juice, That's one thing. And another one and they'll show you the certificate which tells you how many polyphenols I see. So you wouldn't find that. You wouldn't find that on Amazon. You'd have to go to actual website It usually or sometimes. Not on the label you're saying. it's not on the label, they'll give a number they'll back it up with a report showing to the 10th of a of a milligram. How much polyphenols there are. I see. But does olive oil have a freshness date on it? I mean, how do we know You're saying it's better if it's fresher? How do we know versus when it was bottled Or how how do we know about the freshness? It's a great question the best by date, consume by date, which is kind of meaningless how long they they think you can keep I say the longer it sits on the shelf, are disappearing. Yeah, exposure to light Exposure to oxygen One would assume a darker Absolutely and should be stored in a cool, dark environment. Now, in this one brand that They say harvest date 2021 to 2022. So I this being 2023, I'm looking for a 2022 harvest. It says best by October 4th, 2024. So they're giving themselves for this to still be good on the shelf. For more than a year. You feel it still has the good properties? Within a year But I'm always this being in the springtime, I'm looking for fresh olive oil on the shelves that really in my area, the reason label has to do with the fact that it's coming from Argentina and Chile their seasons are opposite So therefore their 2022 would be like So it isn't, it isn't as fresh as you would want it to be. Now, if you want a really fresh olive oil, which is as Novello on the label. Novello Italian reserve came from Trader No, no, I'm not sponsored, right? Not a sponsor. But anyway, you can see I've gone through most of that So this was the first pressing This happens to be from from Italy. And that's good because that means the best olive oils are going to be And they tend to be stronger than the later pressings, but there's a special quality I mean, would. It be fair to say that olive oils, that costs a lot of money that has that Novello label on that. That's likely going to contain More than the ordinary would. I mean. Even if you didn't On. The website or what have you, if it looks I mean, is That one was in a clear bottle, They want you to see the color of it. So if you can see the color, does Can can you sort of tell by looking at it? A little bit, but not enough to make In what way, like Well, there's so many varieties of olives But but the green olives, olives when they're green and haven't been allowed to turn black, just means they're riper. But the concentrated polyphenols Now I also got this, which because this has a best by date of 2023. But the great thing about this and they own the owners of the local Greek owned like 200 olive trees in Sparta. And they're pressing their own olives in Sparta So, I mean, It's very tasteful, I can tell. But because I've referred before taste in the back of your mouth, It's like just like the art of wine There's an art of of olive oil tasting, But there is a characteristic feeling along the sides of the mouth and the back of the throat that you get This is mid-range, I'd say, very inexpensive, very tasty. And I know the folks who you know, I had It's not super relevant to our audience because they're not going to be able But but I was. Yeah, I was. Excuse me. I was in Providence, Rhode Island once And we stopped in at a Greek restaurant And they in the back, they were doing olive oil tastings because there's so many farm, And it is and the mill takes like 8% of the oil I see. The olives come in and... correct. And then you. If you have a farm with maybe 100 trees, So I wouldn't say it's impossible to establish the same kind of relationship But I wouldn't Yeah. I see. What I do. I get specialty oils over the Internet the certificate that I'm getting the high quality because these are phenomenal. So we have a couple of that you want to mention in particular The life extension. It's a good flavored, nice tasting oil, but the main reason is because it has over 600 milligrams And I say. So that's good. And do you know where their olive oil hails from in terms of the olives Yes, it comes from a single ranch Yeah. It's a rare a rare entry into the quality sweepstakes, But they have some relationship And it comes in at about last year milligrams per kilogram, And the price is reasonable. It's like 25 bucks. Yeah. That's great. I think that for the sake of freshness, through the bureaucracy Yeah. And the importing process on a ship and so forth that an olive Some people might prefer to buy In any case, there are those. There have been such scandals. There've been such scandals that it makes you hesitate Yeah, Well, we like life extension as a company. We feel like the people who are doing the buying for them are very quality And I guess in this case You said it's about $25 500 Milliliters, half a liter. And is that of polyphenols So what else is out there? Well, I bought So this one it's it's called Entimio intenso Italiano extra virgin 250 milliliters and I don't know this was And does it list polyphemnols? It's the 2022 harvest. Okay so there we're right on the spot. There are companies like this They know there's a smaller market olive oils people are taking for health I mean, Very mild, I would say, as compared to the robust, you know, California Olive Branch, but high, I forget the exact number It's up there. And then the one that is this one. They don't make any. I see that. Wow. What is it say Polyphenol rich. They're right in front of this. They know so many people are looking for it now Yeah. Yeah. And this one says harvest 2022, 2023, best by 20 February 28th, 2025, which. And it's in a light proof of a Glass metal right ox that keeps the oxygen air out. It doesn't affect the taste. The metal. It's coated with something, right. It's called olive from soleil chez or pardon my pronunciation. Where'd you. Get it? Internet. I think Amazon. It wasn't terribly expensive. All right, we'll. Look it up and print. I think this is 1400 So that's going to be maybe five times the what So I have a question, though. You've said that there have been scandals in the olive oil industry relating to purity and the how long it sits and so forth. I guess my question is, how do I know that olive oil in that can there they come up How do we know that and who's going to hold them accountable and it doesn't mean anything? I agree. It means a lot the number. But this particular one. I was just looking at this and last night there's this certificate of authenticity or of analysis I then went, I took the name and I could see that exists in this little And it there's no red flags about it, you know, the usual thing No, it's it's plus the company They're based in the US. They're in Yonkers New York. Yeah. You know, they're a little bit of faith involved in this, this. It's a real certificate of authenticity Now, there are different ways you know, the amount of polyphenols, is actually more rigorous And then the the taste factor, So in a good sense. So I think flavor Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. And I as I as I said earlier, I've gotten to this weird habit of sometimes just drinking the olive oil I'm going to try it. I want to try it. But I cook, of course I cook with it. But if you I don't cook with these high end expensive ones, a Spanish food store in my town. And I got this, Ten bucks in ten bucks. And this is the Spanish. Spanish oils have a distinctive flavor. And I might use this in cooking I cooked some okra I like and I cook it I can get the some of the benefit. But you're only getting about half Because the cooking process just helps break down those molecules. You don't get them all. So better to include it either, as a supplement or to put it as a dressing where you're eating it If I if I ate bread, I could sop it up with some bread. Or.. Go ahead. I'm sorry. or some other food or like for instance Belgian endive is very good for scooping up some oil you know you feel like a complete geek Well, I actually, no because the Caprese salad That's kind of as close as I get, just sort of this natural state, off the plate when it's been mixed Makes it a little more palatable I mean, it is a delicious product and I also enjoy cooking with it Well, I think the next step for me incredibly valuable information to put it into more actionable things, and try to find some in the grocery store and maybe that'll be part of this video, in a in an adventure But great. Thanks very much for providing us and all the background about the study and the value and the properties the best ones that are going to have You're welcome. For The Moss Report. I'm Ben Moss. How are you healing today?