"Goblins." "Goblins!" "Goblins!" "Goblins --" "Do you think you could beat a Goblin in a fight?" "No." "Probably not?" "Oh yeah, I'd kick the @$#% hole recently. "93% of those that voted in the thing -- one wouldn't expect an imaginary little relevance in modern society. And yet: "Goblin!" 'goblin mode.'" So what is it about these freaky culture... and what does it say about the human problem is a lack of data. Traditional folkloric fairly well documented. But to understand modern have to ask some strange questions. "What color green." "Like a light green." "For some reason goblin questions, I interviewed other YouTube a collective mental portrait of the contemporary of tricksters," "goofy little guys," "tiny little about Yoda." And pretty quickly, an unexpected very strong opinions on what goblins are and goblins can have fur." Which is interesting, something everyone I interviewed agreed on, so in our minds? What seemingly vital role are they you ghoulish goblin!" "Spiderman!" Conventional 'monster' -- and anthropologically speaking, nearly Here's the problem: the question of 'would you mixed responses. "I think both yes and no?" "Sort I'm terrified of... @$#%ing monkeys." It does entity with malicious intent -- and even the looser "Have some gremlin dust!" But unlike there's also seemingly a sense that when it comes asked if people thought they could defeat a 'no's' turned into 'maybes' upon reflection. punches in," "can you catch it?" "If they're in but if it's in my house then I'm @$#% kicking it terror-instilling model of monster-hood. So, are they? Time to dig deeper. "Down, down in 1937 Tolkien dropped a banger called 'The they're most often depicted today. In conjunction found concepts like how goblins are evil's most how they come from the mud and slime. "The goblin "That's pretty neat." However, Tolkien's goblins surprise you to hear that the original books those were just two names for the same entity. decided to treat them as two distinct creatures easily-dispatched cannon fodder that they're now returning your stupid goblin card -- he's weak." the level-1 enemies of fantasy, has been further of the joke, the easiest thing to kill, whatever." most obvious archetype to slot Goblins into is goblins of medieval Europe were often depicted bad deals. Some of this is historically linked to in folklore spring from broader sources than these tell of creatures that could be classified as before assigning the term 'goblin' to disparate devious little mischief-makers are a cultural goblins fail to be as frightening as a traditional people as a traditional trickster. "Would you course not." "All of these types of creatures random human on the street was like 'If you get of gold,' I'd probably be like 'N-no?'" And this various tales, goblins in folklore rarely honestly have more in common with the villains of of mythology. They seem less the coyote of of a roadrunner short. "Hold your ground!" So if what role are they serving? Well, at this point in a long history of house sprites -- often labeled as objects so often go missing. "Trolls exist! what's with that?" These sorts of legends more exciting -- so I figured maybe that idea still behind an object disappearing?" "I'd be kind of "That -- that would ruin my life. How would you on that explanation. I needed to change tactics. I definition for 'Goblin' was skewing my results. a catch-all -- there was no clear division between devised a test to see if that's still the case, goblin!" "Definitely could be a goblin," "that's "that's gotta be a fairy," "oh wait no, I didn't number 2 is a garden gnome," "this is a goblin" fairy." So yeah, everyone knew what a goblin the least goblin-looking goblin I could think of? Bowie," - still didn't work: "he was the goblin Power of hoodoo." Clearly, everyone interviewed no closer to figuring out why goblins are so this. ...I had to. "Can I ask what... made you want not a recent development. In fact, what inspired used to spring on people when I was younger, for you're walking with a friend late at night, and a stole your ear. "What's your immediate reaction?" "So, I'd be standing there with blood coming shake my understanding of how the entire pretty deranged -- and yet I've kept asking it, think my first impulse would be to interrogate my would be to confront it or chase after it." Silly extremely thoroughly -- there is something about like my entire life is a lie." "Do I get my ear magic? is a big one." I accept that this question always enjoyed asking it, always delighted in the going goblin mode. "Why do people enter goblin the answers have been staring you in the face as 'the rejection of societal expectations Dictionary's word of the year. At the time, I the creatures be somewhat validated -- but it I considered the significance of this trend. see goblins as aspirational, to seek to emulate one can tell me no!" In a way it seems bewildering it seems completely logical. "It's a response to makeup all the time, making things look so good." it's that goblins are folklorically destined to failed trickers. But wouldn't that take the to be a protagonist but some unimportant, skulking more than ever, there is pressure on humans the fact that we, at our core, are creatures. In to accept one's own visceral oddities, has become find philosophical solace in those iconic so they're going 'Goblin Mode!'" I have to wonder made the goblin archetype so enduring -- the and thinking to yourself *'that would be nice?'* when ancient people looked at depictions of the Id -- maybe they looked at goblins, and just a reserved person in my personal life, who would one comes. So where did I find the energy to ask questions? Was that my inner goblin manifesting, And seeing how everyone I interviewed had fun, one's inner goblin? I've been wondering, lately, the rabbit hole of research, I discovered the was not filled with images of tiny gremlins, but surprising, was that it was a community of over a out, is defined as 'a subculture inspired by the of natural ecosystems not typically considered with the concept, as was the case with 'goblin significance. In the same way the more goblin-ish we have a habit of undervaluing certain parts slimy. The reality of nature, as a creeping, historically had trouble confronting. In this of this trend. Aside from possessing a certain je talking about -- in the Middle Ages, fungus with rings of mushrooms considered the gathering play in breaking down dead matter and their understandable that such lifeforms would be the like most aspects of the natural world, are a critical role in the health of most ecosystems. but the unpleasantries of nature are no less pedestal. As our culture has reevaluated the value should be no surprise that depictions of goblins From D&amp;D to video games, more sympathetic if you're familiar with the arc most historical surprise. I've discussed before how the longer the more likely it is that creative works perspective. This is probably the natural result depictions of a non-human entity, the more likely I... actually remember the very moment this happened but maggoty bread for three stinking days." So, of goblins -- in this version 'orcs,' are debating hobbits. It's a pretty freaky sequence, and not social-complexities of the monsters involved. But and the lead Uruk-hai beheads him, and boys!" Okay, I know it sounds trivial, orcs have menus? They understand the concept of It just brought up so many questions. Are there middle earth? Do they have a tipping culture? And there's orc literacy? Is there a market in Mordor the potential intricacies of orc-culture is not all the orcs straight-up eat the dead one. But natural byproduct of how much time the films spend orc argues with Saruman over realistic production armed and ready to march within two weeks." we don't have the means." And I think it's telling this scene is -- I obviously don't approve of is not irrelevant to us. Even though new cultural to emerge, I wasn't entirely sure what those I "Do you think a goblin could be friendly?" "The like, weirder to me." "I could imagine could imagine befriending a soot sprite out of a for a really long time and I was like 'could 'Yeah I'll be there I promise,' I would like more complex portraits of goblins have entered notable that people object to goblin depictions a goblin and left it in a glass of water for a river smoothed stone of goblins." Ultimately, I is part of what makes them special -- even as we tales or lifestyle inspiration. Goblins can -- and meditating and doing yoga. Now I can &quot;see&quot; with my that lives in each of our heads. A feral being, content to be a creature. And maybe that's to accept that sometimes what one really needs is be able to appreciate the unusual, untraditional authentic joy out of collecting objects of All these are paths towards accepting one's goblins are so widespread. Perhaps... there are 8.2 that mean the absolute world to me, this channel truly cannot believe. I still run the channel how unbelievably grateful I am to everyone who has seriously cannot thank all of you enough, and in this video -- Tale Foundry, Quinn's Ideas, The and thoughtful and everyone should go check their Also, thank you to my friends and family for And as always, thanks for watching. If you enjoyed subscribing, and hitting the notification icon to I've got a lot of exciting things planned