We are going to begin tonight with a potential break and one of the greatest mysteries in all of American history. I'm talking about the hunt for the true identity of D.B. Cooper. That he is the infamous airplane hijacker who jumped out of a plane back in 1971 with 200,000 bucks in cash, never to be seen again. The identity is a mystery to this very day, but tonight, my next guest says that he has found that parachute that D.B. Cooper used, and it could actually end the mystery once and for all of the campaign. We just solved it. Literally, literally. This this is this is the rig. Because they know what rig he used when he jumped at night. Now he says it belonged to a man named Richard McCoy Jr. I look at the side by side comparison. The parachute was found on the McCoy family property about two years ago, and he has always been a rumored long time suspect and was killed in 1974 after pulling off a similar heist. But there's never been any proof linking him. Now, bits of money have been recovered in the past, and there have been literally hundreds of tips and leads over the years that have gone exactly nowhere. But according to my next guest, his discovery of the parachute caught the attention of the FBI, who then visited the home and took the parachute into custody. Now, we asked the FBI about this and they wouldn't confirm nor deny Hmhm. They would only point us to a 2016 statement that basically says they've stopped wasting resources on this because they've got nowhere. But they say something very interesting at the end of that 2016 statement, quote. Although the FBI will no longer actively investigate this case, should specific physical evidence emerge related specifically to the parachutes or the money taken by the hijacker, individuals with those materials are asked to contact their local FBI field office. Well, joining me now is the man who helped uncover the parachute, Dan Grider. He is a retired pilot, a YouTuber, and a D.B. Cooper sleuth. Dan, great to have you here tonight. Tell me about how you found that piece of evidence and why you believe that that belonged to D.B. Cooper, who you believe is actually Richard McCoy Jr. That's correct. Hi, Lauren. Thanks for having me on. Yes, we found that parachute. It was the description of the parachute that was used that night was very, very specific in that it was modified. So all these years, for 20 years, I've been looking for this green military, highly modified parachute. And when we stumbled upon it by accident, I pulled it out and I took one look at it and I could instantly see the modifications. But what were these modifications? How could you recognize, say, one parachute from another? Well, it's in the parachuting world. It's very easy to tell. you take one look at one of the ripcord housing is and all the modifications that were done to the front so that I knew. I knew what I was looking for. When I pull that out of there. And it was it matched exactly. On first glance. I already knew this. This is it. It was found in McCoy's mother's possessions, in deep in her storage, with all of her prized possessions. She was a grandmother, not related to aviation or skydiving. And she had the parachute, the canopy, his logbook. She had all that stuff tucked away in her private possessions that hadn't been seen for 53 years. That's unbelievable to think about. And the modifications, I would assume, would have facilitated the ability to do the very highest that people are would fascinated with. But you also say that the FBI asked for a DNA sample from one of McCoy's children. What are they going to do with that? Yes. Well, you know, I've been tracking this thing for almost 20 years. And over that 20 years, the McCoy children have never come out. They've never spoken to me. I tried like crazy to get these kids to talk to me. And they would not talk to me until both their mother and their grandmother died. Their mother, Karen McCoy, was an accomplice in both hijackings. And what most people don't know is that there was actually two hijackings. There was the first one, the D.B. Cooper one, and then the same guy, Richard Floyd McCoy. He went back and did the exact same thing five months later, April of 72. It's the same guy, but none of the kids would ever talk to me about this until they were both dead. And then they felt relieved that their mother was no longer in danger of going to prison. As an accomplice in the D.B. Cooper heist. That's incredible to think about that they may have gotten to. You believe that their family was somehow connected to any of this. There was not a charge for the mother. I understand, but you say in McCoy's family, they also found a logbook. What was in that? The logbook was a parachute jump logbook. It showed 39 previous military static line jumps accomplished by McCoy in the military. He served two terms in Vietnam. He was a helicopter pilot, a fixed wing pilot, and a military trained jumper. But the logbook showed eight practice jumps leading up to the D.B. Cooper jump and then nothing. This was his first freefall parachute jump. Civilian's style logbook, so he logged 39 previous static line jumps and then eight practice freefall jumps in in anticipation of doing this hijacking, and then nothing until right before April of 72. He went back and did one more practice jump prior to his April 72nd parachute jump, and he logged that one. All those jumps are in there. They're they're signed. They're in his ink. There's they're symmetrical. Everything matches Larry Patterson's logbook matches Richard Floyd McCoy's logbook. They're a perfect match. Wow. And what would have given the children an indication that either of their parents, they believed to have been involved in this? Well, they knew they grew up with this deep family secret. This is one thing that the kids will tell you. They're not giving any interviews right now. But but they they if they could, they would tell you they're not they're not talking. And they've lived a lifetime of knowing that they can not talk about this, that that was their family mantra. They could not talk about what their mom and dad did. Their mom and dad were both complicit in both hijackings and they knew it. Wow. I mean, you say that the FBI contacted you after really? After you released your evidence video on YouTube. I got to know what that was like talking to them and the fact that they were leaning in and intrigued by what you found after all these years. Well, the FBI did call. you know, it's interesting we've never contacted any media, we've never contacted any authority, and we have never contacted any FBI in any way. The FBI contacted us after watching my two YouTube videos. They were convinced and they wanted to see what I had found. They knew specifically exactly what they were looking for, and they told us up front, we're going to look at it. We're going to meet with you. We'll meet with you at your location under your specifications. If it's not what we're looking for, we'll give it back in seven days because we know exactly what we're looking for. That's been a year ago. So I'm led to believe that perhaps they are going to keep it in custody because they believe that you're on to something, maybe thing they're keeping it in custody because of the DNA. The FBI cannot build by circumstantial evidence. They're going to go by a DNA link, and they're trying. They're trying their hardest to make a solid DNA link between all the artifacts that will tie Richard Floyd McCoy. That's the only way they can close it is with a solid DNA lock. They're going to keep this. Everything that I found is at Quantico, the FBI laboratory. Everything I found is is in one storage location at Quantico, right now. And their efforts are purely DNA related.