You went to, you attended your reason there was to [Bob] Yeah. My experience has been especially self-development They wanna know, what is so that I can be more successful? That wasn't your motivation? No, no, oddly enough. And, I think probably you're right. I think that's what most I think they're looking for an answer outside of themself and I think by this time I realized I met a man here in Toronto. He was the one that in studying this, Ray Stanford. And, he told me if I didn't in my life, that I was because they were my results. And, he said, if you're gonna change you, you're gonna have to find And, that seemed to make sense. I don't think it was an It wouldn't give anybody a brain hernia, but it made a hell of So, I started to study myself. I found most people They really don't. What do you mean? I mean, I know my name, I know What else is there-- That's just it. If you ask the average they'll give you their name. They'll say I'm Bob Proctor, but I'm not. Bob and Proctor are two words. My parents gave them to me. They're called names but Then somebody'll say well this is me, but this isn't me either, it's my body. Like you never phone and say, &quot;Body won't be [Tom] (chuckling) Okay. You know we don't say am hand or am leg. We say my hand, my leg, my body, my name. Who am I? Well that's an interesting question. And I believe if a person and look for the answer, they'll find it. See, I think we live simultaneously on three planes of understanding. We're spiritual creatures, and we live in physical bodies. Okay. But, because we lack of who we are, we're totally locked into a physical world and we let things outside of us control us. 95% of the population are reacting to life they're not really living at all. [Tom] Okay, and would you call that one of the barriers to success? Oh there's no question about it. I think there's two barriers. Success is a funny word. Nightingale had a great definition for it. He said, &quot;A person's successful and they know where they're going, &quot;nd they're progressively He said that success was &quot;of a worthy ideal.&quot; Anyone that has a goal and they're successful. Most people think that you're successful if you have a lot of money. Quite often you have a lot of but it isn't, I wouldn't say Mother Teresa has a lot of money, you know, but she's a pretty successful lady. So, it's-- So, that barrier to success is reacting-- a couple them. I think there's two barriers. One is our conditioning, the conditioning that takes place in our subconscious mind from the time we're infants. All we can do is act and talk That's why we learn the language we learn. If there was 10 languages we'd learn 10 languages There's usually one and that's and we grow older and we think, oh I couldn't learn another language. We could learn 100 if we wanted to. You can do anything. But, I think we're conditioned. We have a real strong conditioning usually with not some very good ideas. And, then that's the The one that's outside We have a tendency to act And, if you think about this, it doesn't make a lot of sense. Because if you study live their entire life they want to live. Did you know that 95% of the let's say in North America. Okay. The richest continent in They all work productively, of their 65 years. Okay. And, they all end up Well there's gotta be something wrong. So, there's not much-- About 5% of the people end up financially comfortable or independent. Are you trying to depress us, Bob? 'Cause that's-- No, actually I think because you see the idea can win, anyone at all. But, if we start studying I think we'll arrive at the conclusion, geez, I better start thinking for myself rather than follow everybody. Most people they get a they see how everybody and they start doing it the same way. They should stop and think, I know what they're doing? You know, is there a better way to do it? But, don't we have a need to fit in? I mean, we don't wanna stand out, we don't wanna get fired, Exactly, exactly, just fall into line, you know, take a number, You know, that'd be great but human beings aren't I think we should make a few waves. We should maybe stand out, be different. Not for the sake of being different. [Tom] Okay. But, because we are different. We all think different thoughts and I believe we should start to think and build images in our and then set out and do it. Okay let me-- Emerson did that, Edison Samuel Morris did that. Buckminister Fuller did that. We could go on and on and on and on. [Tom] Okay. They were different, they stood out, they made a few waves. Okay, you started with you say, you started with a search for yourself, to try to find our more about yourself. And, you were somewhat Well, I didn't start it I started that I wanted I figured if I had cure all my problems. I found that that wasn't true. I earned a fair amount and I seemed to have more problems. But, I, after working at this for a few years I decided is get to know yourself a little better. [Tom] Okay. And, I don't think you have to go off in the Himalayas and Okay, what did you do You said you went around to I attended seminars. I went and listened to different speakers who taught something about the mind. I think the answer's in our mind. If we all start studying and trying to understand our mind. Okay let me get back to you if I can. What did you learn about Bob Well, I learned that you'll never see. It's non-physical. And, what you see here is nothing but the physical manifestation of the higher side of my personality. And, of course that's true with you and Nancy that's on the camera. It's true of everyone. And, what we have to study, I think, is how does this non-physical What happens when I think? Where do thoughts come from? How was this chair built? Somebody had to think. Thoughts are everywhere. And, we pull thoughts into or images in our mind. [Tom] Okay. What we want to understand side of ourself that's doing that. If I can build an image I'm quite capable of of it in my world. So, if I build an image of me I can live like that. If I build an image of I can become prosperous. So, if we think rich, we will be rich. Absolutely. We're already rich, just short of money. (both men chuckle) [Tom] Okay, those of us that and/or happiness or those of us that wanna we've set for our selves, We do it first by... Well, the first thing you what you want. If it's money you want, how much money? [Tom] Lots of money. Well, nobody knows how much lots of is. So, you've gotta be specific. [Tom] Okay. You write down on a card And, you carry that card Now this is what I learned in this book Think and Grow Rich and it's I'll teach people how to set goals. But, you decide exactly what you want. And, then you start to think. Now you're gonna have of why you can't get it. You have the ability to reject that idea, Thinking of why you can't do something is never gonna do you any good. And, keep thinking until you of how you can do it. And, the way will be shown to you. It comes in the form Think of how you can Okay so our first step is to set some goals. Think about how we can go Exactly. And, just think of how you can. Now, I would say even you should get a good book Select a person who is that you'd like to do, Go to the experts for advice. Don't ask the person father, brother, or the Because they don't necessarily know. There's no point in asking a lot of money if they're They don't know. If they knew they'd [Tom] I think that's fair. It's like don't go to a sick doctor if you wanna get healthy. [Tom] Okay. So, you find someone that get a real good book, and start to study it. Like, I've got this one that But, this is Napoleon Hill's I've been reading this I'll probably read it I get another good book that It's called The Power of I'm not getting a The author's dead now. He's been gone for a couple of years, but Dr. Joseph Murphy wrote this book, The Power of Your Subconscious Mind. And that's probably one of the best books that you're ever gonna find because you're gonna learn something about your mind when you read this book. [Tom] Okay. Now I read a lot of books. I've got probably 1000 books in my library but the one that I carry, I carry it everywhere I go is Think and Grow Rich. I never stop reading it. Where's the value for read it again, I mean, you I think I could probably But, the secret is I once read in a book where it said, when you the second time, you that you didn't see before. You see something in yourself You see when I read this, I Let me just read you one [Tom] Okay. Hill said, &quot;The missing link known to civilization today of educational institutions how to organize and use He went on to say that, that we should understand of the word educated.&quot; It's not going to a for 25 years. That's gathering information. You'll probably develop your memory, but I would question how And, I'm not against my children to go to school as we know it. Now, he said, &quot;The word &quot;educo,&quot; and he says, &quot;it's derived &quot;from the Latin word to draw out, or to develop from within. An educated person is not an abundance of general An educated person who's the faculties of their anything they want or its equivalent without violating the rights of others.&quot; An educated person is the and get what they want out of life. Without being selfish. [Tom] Oh in sense a knows what they're looking for and knows how to go about finding that. I think we should forever because learning is a lifelong process. You never stop learning. Education means to draw out from within. We're drawing on an infinite source. We've got deep reservoirs of We can learn to do anything. We have phenomenal powers. If we used our body like we used our mind, we'd probably just move our little finger. Okay, we don't exercise our mind enough. Oh no, no. But, we're not taught to. Kids in school should be taught before the school year They should be given a blank report card and get them to visualize the marks they want to get and write This is before school And, then the teacher just to concentrate and I don't want you to And, I want you to form the attitude that you're going to get it.&quot; Now some people say that's That's being very realistic. That's following the success principles that go back 6,000 years That's how everything was accomplished. And, that's not engaging In wishful thinking? In daydreaming we talk about. No, no. Well that's where all Greatness comes from fantasy. I would imagine that when he was fantasizing. But, he kept fantasizing a theory and then he and then he built it into a fact. I mean, when I was kid, it was a fantasy to think of going to the moon. We've been up there Okay, you mentioned in attitude, this business of attitude. Attitude, attitude, it and the way you feel, and the way you act. I'd have a difficult time right just in a conversation. I use a board in the seminar. And, well I did an attitude We spent three hours dealing you know, so to do it I haven't, I can do it, I let's put it that way. [Tom] Okay, I recognize it's difficult because we talked-- You have to have a winning Okay, in human relations we with managing people, the is their attitude. That's right. That it's almost impossible to change another person's-- where management falls down. We can't change people's attitudes. Well, nobody can change and the only attitude we But, you see, if management have the idea it's their attitude and we then they're not gonna But, if management yes it is attitude and something about attitude. Let's teach them something about themself. Let's make them realize that that they're valuable, they're the greatest resource we've got. Companies spend about 65% of goes back out on employees, And, yet management knows than anything else. They know more about the than they do about the people. Okay so you're a winning attitude. Absolutely. [Tom] Can you define What is a winning attitude? Well, if we could understand, The whole universe operates by laws and there's a law of opposites. It's called the law of polarity. Everything has its opposite. There's a right and a left side. There's a front and a a hot and a cold, positive and a negative, yin, the yang, you know. Well, you can think negative but you can't think both at the same time. You're only gonna think And, we have to train our mind to think or look for the positive There's good in everything. There's no such thing as no good. [Tom] Car broke down on There's something good about it. Now, you may have to look [Tom] Okay. But, there's something There has to be a positive and a negative for anything to exist. There's a law of gender that decrees that science understands it, [Tom] Okay. Well, once we understand that there's this law of opposites, there's negative thoughts As the thought energy flows into our mind, we decide what we're gonna think. Person's out of work, I can't find a job, but they If they're thinking I'm going to find one, then they'll start attracting figuring out how to find it. You really have to and your subconscious mind works in relation to your body to understand attitude. Attitude should be taught ahead of reading, writing, arithmetic, or anything else. Because it's a person's the marks they get. Okay, maybe part of attitude is this business of self-image Yeah, well that would, about success principles and I was saying you gotta get the winning attitude, you've gotta set a goal. Then you have to work on self-image. Now, when we think we Dr. Maxwell Maltz discovered as we know it today in 1960 And, he realized, he he may removed a, you know, and he'd notice sometimes maybe did a nose job on them or something, there was a great in the person. Where they may have been introverted, they started to become very And, he postulated that that we have. An exterior image and we also And, he started to study this and he wrote a magnificent book on it In Psycho-Cybernetics, cybernetics being the science of control and communication. And, he goes into this and he explains how every one of us has of ourself and it's called a self-image. Too many people don't and so they don't have a very And, you'll often notice that they won't look you in the they'll look up. They'll never try to do anything because they don't think they can. They have a poor self-image. Okay, part of that is we're told about what we don't do well. We failed here, we had low grades. Or you only got 60% or whatever. I think there's been a with the IQ test in that respect when you're bringing out school. Binet, the Frenchman back invented the IQ test and from Stanford over here. And we'll test a person's intellect and then we'll brand them and that's not true. We can change IQs by changing self-images. But, yes if we're told &quot;You're just like your dad,&quot; you know. &quot;You're a bum, you're &quot;You didn't go to school, you can't win.&quot; [Tom] Okay. Well that's all false. We can do anything. And we should be encouraging a child. Give 'em a pat on the Okay, what can we do, right now that, most of us of a self-image, is that fair to say? We all have a self-image. [Tom] Okay, would you say most of us have a negative self-image to some degree? Well, let's say we can I don't care how good your [Tom] Okay, how can we improve it? Something specific, how our self-image more positive? Well, again, you know, a whole day seminar. If I could give you If a person would sit down totally relax and then start see themselves the way they Which may take a good not sure at first. I mean in terms of how Maybe we don't know how we wanna-- Relate it to something specific. [Tom] Somebody we admire maybe? Possibly. [Tom] Somewhere we'd like Yeah, see how you'd See yourself living it that way. [Tom] Okay. Now understand that that's When you pick up a book, but a picture that an Van Gogh, the great how he did such beautiful work. He said, &quot;I dream my painting To get the picture in the mind and then paint it on the Well, if we would relax in our mind of how we'd how we'd like to see relating to other people, our social life. See ourself in the position we hold or how we make our sales presentations if we happen to be in And, then take that write it out in the present tense. &quot;I am so happy now that I see myself&quot; and write it out. Now a lot of people will &quot;That doesn't make any sense.&quot; It makes a lot of sense. They can't tell you why it doesn't. I could spend hours and I could explain it in such detail that everyone would understand it. But, write out a description of how you'd like to see yourself. Start to read it and read it and read it and read it every day. Carry it around and keep reading it. The one point that all the great teachers all down through history they've been in complete we become what we think about. Now it may be fantasy at first, as being a lie, but if you'll start to believe it. And, when William James said, &quot;will create the fact,&quot; you will see the person's personality change. I watch people in the right in front of my eyes. And, all they're doing is starting to see themselves differently. They're starting to So, our thoughts control our actions? Oh there's no question control our feelings. [Tom] Okay. Our feelings control our actions. All right, and we control our thoughts. Absolutely. our thoughts. We can control our thoughts, yes. Generally though on one of our problems maybe to what other people tell get the negative thoughts and and that affects our behavior. That's right, that's We read the newspaper, We just accept it. Doom and gloom doesn't have to be coming. You know there's always been I grew up with the idea in the '30s. They didn't, some made millions. I thought everybody went out of business. They didn't, some people There's always a and there's always good times for others. Let's ask ourself when we do I wanna get emotionally If it's a negative idea, I don't wanna get emotionally involved with it. I don't read the paper that often. I do, but I don't dwell on it. You don't get emotionally involved when you see other news. comes into your mind, whether or whether you read it in the paper, we should reason with it, ask ourself will that idea help me If it won't, reject the idea. Okay, all right, Bob I appreciate it. Our half hour's gone by already. [Bob] Went fast. Very quickly. Those that are interested your philosophy of success very specific tips in what they can do to become more successful are welcome to attend your seminars. Absolutely, tell 'em (gentle electric piano music) We run seminars all the time. [Tom] Terrific, okay, I appreciate it. Thank you much for joining us. My pleasure Tom, glad to be here.