- The Saints Rose Series of the only franchises that could compete with Grand Theft Auto to literally killing its parent company. What went wrong and how did one developer to one failed game? Well, the story begins in the was only one open world game that dominated the And of course, it was Grand Theft Auto. The series seemed completely untouchable. That is until two young to introduce a worthy The first Saints Row game and published by THQ way back in 2006. The game was a bit buggy and unpolished, but it was embraced by It was brimming with personality and scratched a unique itch that gamers didn't even know they had. Volition was incredibly to create a competitor to GTA. They knew that they couldn't game, and if they tried to publish a typical gritty their project would be The only way to compete to bring something new to It was the fact that the seriously, where Grant Theft Saints Row was about fun, and this starts with the characters who were exaggerated stereotypes that was packed with fun, not so serious. One-liners. The story as you helped your fellow gang the city of Stillwater. And while this first installment its successors, it still compared to GTA. The writing was balanced, while also allowing one with the main protagonists. There were some deeper where you have to rag all to collect insurance money. It was the perfect balance and the quirkiness of the game was held up by legitimately solid and engaging gunplay centered War, saints Rose and unique humor quickly healthy fan base. By the end of the year, it had sold more than a million copies. Volition had the start of a It was clear that Saints so both THQ and Volition knew that they with their next moves regarding to turn their smash hit into an empire that could truly challenge And at least in the early stages, they would do exactly this. Within two years, volition Saints Row two was built that was established by the original. The story is set a few and keeps the core characters and action and expands on it. And because of this, saints Row of the entire franchise. They really knocked it out of the park. So of course they followed The third game in the series and leans even more into Saints four three feels like entirely focused on allowing and cause massive amounts of chaos. And this is also the title where the finally left Grant Theft, Auto's Shadow and establish itself as its own unique ip. And part of this reason is because they continue to drift tones in the previous two games and focus more on outlandish And as you probably know, this is what Saints Row became known for. To give you a glimpse into the edgy and hilarious themes that the let's introduce Johnny Gat. This fan favorite character who always shoots first and Cares nothing about and is extremely self-obsessed. He says things that he that he shouldn't do, and his edginess, his wife fans, loved him. Fans also love the insane array of hilarious weapons like the Shark Matic, which shoots shark guts at enemies. The APO fist, which are that splatter civilians and the penetrator, which The character customization, Everything about Saints Row and it all had a lot of charm. Volition used this quirky humor as a key differentiating factor to play Saints Row over Grand Theft Auto. And this is a big part of as a franchise. The Saints Row series and amassed support from fans but could this momentum last forever? Volition was in the process for Saints Row three called But as work was being THQ Volition's publisher went bankrupt. This was bad and it meant that and all future Saints This could have very easily that killed Saints Row, but Deep Silver saved the day the bidding for both Saints Row and volition, meaning that of the entire studio and would publish future Saints Row games. This was great news for volition because it likely saved the canceled altogether. They now had the backing and to work on the series. And that Little Saints Row the potential to be turned a full game. And with Deep Silver being known for publishing other outlandish they were likely much with the increasingly quirky and bizarre direction that It was the perfect partner Row four was on the horizon. In 2013, the game launched instead of the usual semi grounded gang battles. The protagonist in this game became the president, and needed to fend off an invading alien race. It was by far the funniest and it seemed like volition and many of its fans had fully The game was great. Well, for most, despite the of the sequel was a mixed bag. Some fans felt that it had and lost itself as much as the early games didn't They still had respect for the characters and the narrative that they were spinning. Abandoning the core tension of Grounded Wars seemed like Many fans wanted the game and ironically, deep Silver And like I said, as we all know, it failed and these fans were even more Volition developed another Gat Out of Hell. This was again, supposed but somehow turned into yet And well, the reception wasn't great. Fans of the original Grounded even more than Saints Row four. And people who actually enjoyed should have just been a Across the board, GAT Out as something that simply And coming out only two years after Saints Row four fans that Deep Silver was going to milk and potentially ruin this franchise. And oh boy, were they right Now. Real quick, I was gonna dive of Agents of Mayhem, which was set in the Saints Row universe and was supposed to be but the story of this game So let me know in the comments if that's something you wanna see. Long story short, volition to sell copies of this new And everything about this game and disappointing. This combined with the uninspired and pointless release of Get Out of Hell really made fans And people had genuine concerns to absolutely kill the If the series were to survive, they would need something amazing. And it sucks when a developer days, we don't even own our games anymore. And if a developer or a that they wanted to remove they have the ability to do that. In fact, most games these days have DRM, which basically means that really yours. You can use them as long as the developer allows And this is something that I'm I feel like gamers should actually be able to own their games and not of money hungry developers. And to be honest, that's why I buy most of my games from where you can buy games You can download the actual files and store them wherever you want and use them however you want. The games are truly yours. And unlike Steam and Epic and all these other places that prevent you from owning the games that you spend your hard earned money on, you can play them wherever and however you want without or be connected to the internet. So if you wanna actually consider purchasing them from GOG using my link in the description. I am a part of their affiliate program, so I will get a small and it's a great way to and this channel if you're interested. Now, back to what I was saying. So after four years of near Silence, deep Silverwood announce the series at Gamescom 2021. Interestingly, the new of the franchise rather Because of the absurdity and the even more absurd that they had written themselves by Jim Boone, the Chief Even though we love the mechanics there isn't a whole lot It's why it was a pretty to our roots and do something This reboot was supposed take the series back to its And the chance to recapture new and old fans alike, for why this was a good idea. I mean, saints Row four and gaming had come a Although the franchisees sequels small ways, each game still that was now almost two decades old. The reality is that many fans to end by the third game, and even more thought it should have stopped at the fourth game. People had liked Saints Row, but they were beginning to getting milked for money. The deaths needed to prove interesting ideas for those sequels and that they were more And although there were there were also a lot of downsides. Reboots have gotten a pretty Fans are tired of childhood by cynical companies looking And that was part of the when they realized that none of the old characters were Instead, we were getting an And the writing changes to new characters, but The edgy humor that had with the franchise was gone. Instead, the devs had attempted that was meant to appeal I say attempt because the writers completely dropped the ball. Every word of dialogue in as trite and cringey. A game series that was known for its unique humor was lines like this. Get the fuck Away from my friends. Saints Rose's main characters of the traditional gangster. By contrast, the new series with a squad of scrawny millennials to be cool and just weren't. I mean, just take a look at the comments on the Reveal trailer. The reboot was supposed to be yet Saints Row had never Row right off the back. The game was met with a Trailers are supposed to be to put their best foot and somehow this trailer had from buying the game, and things were only going to get worse. Almost right after the it was revealed that Mike had passed away. Watson had been one of the Saints Row community. He was responsible not just for some of the best mods in the community, but also for working on an to fix many of the issues with the pc. Port Watson had been but that hadn't stopped and soul into the community. And some fans felt that the to his legacy. Others felt that the studio to finish the patch that before his death to ensure that the project was finally completed. Regardless of the quality it's undeniable that Min at and were genuinely A lot of the insults and digs and employees were However, it was also a how much Saints Row fans In many ways, Mike acted as a bridge between the company and fans. His loss ensured that the divide between them was only gonna grow wider, the game hadn't even dropped, and Volition was facing a fan base that was more against them But it was too late to cancel the game or make any big changes. All they could do now was release it and pray that the full experience trailer led people to believe. Saints Row was released with all the grace of a car crash. Somehow the game was even Even critics who usually give were trashing the game. It was buggy to the point The graphics were dated and lifeless, and it wasn't just the but the entire design of the to go back to its roots, saints and bringing back outdated design choices that modern games have avoided for years. The game is packed full of that are tedious more than anything else. Practically every side quest boiled down to stealing something or shooting someone. There are annoying stealth sections, which as we all know, people hate. The AI for enemies is incredibly stupid, and you can't even interact There are bicycles you can't And much more in the modern era where open world games like and Breath of the Wild have 2022 was Laughably Outclassed, but the real disaster with the new release was the and corporatized, lifeless All the raunchy and edgy jokes of past games were actively sanitized to the point in which nobody really understood who it appealed to. The games characters came off as sitcom teenagers rather There was no depth to these characters and no attempt to get us to like them. They were all basically to do nothing but spout quirky, one-liners that weren't even funny. And you could feel volition's with the kids oozing through the screen. But more importantly, the game There could have been You have a bunch of loser as wannabe gangsters. If volition leaned into this, there maybe could have of actually good jokes and something like this would be somewhat different from the past. Saints Rose sequels, but Volition made their cast boring and tried to toss in every and it came off as a to seem modern and the poor writing poisoned Some of the other design choices the game at least made So in the end, we were left with a game with dated mechanics writing and so many bugs that it It should be obvious how of the worst reviewed games of 2022. It was Unef Defendable Saints corporate perspective as well. Volitions parent company entered panic mode. The CEO released statements and disappointment at the because they should have seen this coming. Saints Row was in a because volition had burned so much goodwill from the fan base that it was unclear if they Frankly, a good amount of series for Good and another And all of these factors led Embracer to make a pretty tragic decision. They shut down volition. The studio was merged of Gearbox Entertainment by Take Two Interactive. So now there are so many that volition is pretty much of things, and that at least there is little to no hope and redeeming itself. And there's something but a lot of people may So is Saints Row dead for good? Maybe the rights to the game They may choose to bring the series back, but it's more likely that the especially since they and they only own the rights to the ip. Honestly, the whole reason because Deep Silver's franchise for all it had. And because of this, that the game is finally done for good. Would you guys want another Saints Row or do you think that the How do you feel about the Did you ever play the old ones? Let me know your thoughts on this whole situation in the comments. I would love to see what you think. If you enjoyed this and subscribe to the channel and I will see you guys next time. Peace.