You must have heard that chess is 10% strategy While strategy is your long-term plan in a quick win like a material or a positional In this video, I will show you all the major chess puzzle to test your understanding of So stay tuned till the end and keep watching I will be showing you 24 tactics and in each Let's start with one of the most common tactics A fork happens when a single piece makes two In most cases, two pieces are threatened, a double attack. Let's look at this game. White plays rook to c7 placing a double attack Since black can only save one of them, white a fork. Remember, you can fork with all your pieces for such positions. This is an example of a fork with the knight, with the queen, this is how you can fork with a pawn. A pin occurs when a piece is held in place piece behind it. In this game, white plays queen to h8 pinning Black cannot move his bishop since the king this bishop. There are 2 types of pins - an absolute pin When a piece is pinned to the King, it is The pinned piece just cannot move in this It would be illegal if he tries to move his On the other hand, a relative pin is when value, and not the King. In this case, the knight is pinned to the So eventhough black can legally move his knight, would then lose his queen. Hence, it's a relative pin. Remember, you can pin only with 3 pieces - the The next tactic we are going to look at is A Skewer is an attack on two pieces that are The first piece is the more valuable piece. When it moves out of the way, the less valuable In this case, when the king moves, the queen In fact, you can think of a Skewer as an opposite In a pin, the less valuable piece is in the Whereas, in a Skewer, the more valuable piece Just like the pin, you can skewer only with Now let's look at discovered attacks. A Discovered Attack occurs when one piece In this game, white moves his bishop &amp; by a discovered attack on this knight. We can also call this a discovered double with his bishop. Since black cannot save both of them in one advantage. A very effective form of Discovered Attack This occurs when the uncovered piece checks In this game, white moves his rook and uncovers Once the king moves, white can capture this Another powerful form of the discovered check A Double check is more dangerous because with king, but also the piece that moves. Have a look at this game. White plays knight to f5 and its a double Not only is the queen attacking the enemy Whenever its a double check, the enemy king In this game, since there is no safe square Next on our list is a tactic called Windmill. It's a rare tactic in which a repeated discovered capturing multiple enemy pieces. Let's take a look. In this game, white first sacrifices his queen He then begins a series of checks which are This leads to a series of captures as you huge material advantage. The next tactic we are going to look at is In chess, interference occurs when the line is interrupted by interposing a piece. In this game, as you can see, both these rooks White plays the smart move knight c6 check. This knight is now interfering between these Whatever move black plays, white will gain On no.7 is overloading. As the name suggests, overloading is when pieces, squares or threats at the same time. When this happens, we refer to that piece Let's understand from this example how we of its protecting tasks. If you analyze, this bishop is defending 2 this pawn. Since this bishop is overloaded, white can Black cannot take this bishop because of this of material. The next tactic you need to know is the deflection The idea here is to chase away or to deflect In this game for example, we can see that If white can move this king away from this So can you find a move to achieve that? Yes, white can simply play bishop h7 check square. And after the king moves, white can capture Now let's look at decoy. It's a tactic where you set up a trap for It's kind of related to deflection. In deflection, we force the opponent away we force him to move his piece to a particular Such a square where we want to get him to So basically, we play a move that forces the In this game, black is completely dominating. One more move &amp; white will be gone. Can you think of any way for white to win See white can give checks, but black can escape Had this black king been here, rook to c8 Thinking on these lines, we need to get this we do that? Yes, it's queen f8 check. If king moves to h7, then queen g7 is a checkmate. And if king takes the queen, then rook to Okay, we are almost half way through. And if you have reached this far and liked Thumbs up button right now. Okay, now lets look at a tactic called X-ray Its an indirect attack on an enemy piece or To understand, let's look at this game. As you can see, the bishop on f3 is attacking At the same time, its indirectly attacking By using the x-ray tactic, we can take this bishop captures our knight, we can recapture a pawn. Let's look at another example. Here white plays queen to e8 check. Eventhough there is no direct defender for each other through this enemy rook. Its like an x-ray defense. Since it is a check &amp; the black king cannot queen. And finally, after rook captures, its a checkmate. Next, we have Zugzwang, which is a German and all your moves are bad!&quot; This is a situation where every move a player &amp; at times, even cause him to lose the game. Let's take a look. In this game, white plays the waiting move, Black's only move loses the game immediately. Since there is no option to &quot;skip a move&quot; &amp; then its game over. Tactic no 12 is Zwischenzug. This is a German word meaning an intermediate It is a chess tactic in which a player inserts forcing sequence of moves. Let's see how it works. In this game, white first takes this pawn Black is forced to take this rook. And now comes the in-between move. Instead of recapturing the rook, the knight And after the knight reaches a safe square, advantage. The next tactic we need to know is undermining It basically involves attacking or capturing material advantage or even checkmate your In this game, white takes this knight with The main idea being to remove the knight on So after the rook takes, queen g7 would be Another tactic you can use is that of forcing position. In this game, as you can see, white is clearly A draw will be good for white. In order to achieve this, he starts off with Black plays the only legal move, king to b3. Now the white king has no square to go. Therefore, white plays the cunning move, rook of the King's stalemate position. Even if black moves his rook away, white can in a draw. Okay, now let's look at another way of achieving that is by way of perpetual checks or by the Draw by perpetual checks is a situation where but cannot checkmate it. When perpetual check happens, the players position is repeated three times, it results In this game, since white is down a significant sacrifice his rook. After king takes, he continues to check with This is how you can use this rule to your Okay, now let's talk about Underpromotion Underpromotion means promoting a pawn to a a pawn to a Knight, Rook or Bishop. There could be many reasons for underpromoting. It could be to stop an opponent's threat, a stalemate or to achieve something even better In this game, for example, white played this to a knight, he managed to come out on top. So whenever one of your pawns is approaching to underpromote &amp; gain an advantage. Okay, now let's look at some tactical sacrifices. The most common sacrifice is a Queen Sacrifice. In this game, white's queen is being attacked. However, he ignores it to achieve something First, he plays knight e8 exposing this bishop Now when black takes this queen, then Rook There isn't a better feeling than winning Anyways, another form of a sacrifice is an to the sacrifice of a Rook for a minor piece In this game, white takes the knight &amp; sacrifices He goes down on exchange. However, just a move later, he can apply the win the game. Another type of sacrifice is the clearance As the name suggests, it is a sacrifice which Imagine that you're in the middle of a tough You notice that you can make a strong capture pieces is in the way. That's where a clearance sacrifice comes We sacrifice one of our own pieces to clear Here's an example. In this game, white plays Rook to f8. The important idea behind this move is to rook. After black captures, white can make use of game with this forced sequence of moves. Okay, now the next tactic I'll show you is Hanging pieces are undefended pieces. In this game, both knights are hanging. However, white plays a brilliant two move First, he forces black's bishop to an unprotected black pieces are left hanging. Black is unable to defend both in one move The next tactic is something you might be It's trapping a piece. A trapped piece is one that finds itself with to go. In this game, white realises that the knight can be eliminated from protecting the c4 square. So first, he takes this knight with his bishop. And after black recaptures, he attacks the it has no safe squares to go. Now lets look at some essential Checkmate Lets start with the support mate. A support mate is a basic checkmate that occurs receiving support from one other piece. In this game, the white queen checkmates the Another popular mating pattern is the smothered It is a checkmate by a Knight against an enemy escape squares are blocked by its own pieces. Here's a classical example. White gives a check, king moves, now its a If king moves here, then queen f7 is a mate. But if king moves back to the corner, then First queen g8 check, then rook takes on g8 to f7 is a smothered checkmate as the black by his own pieces. Okay, now another popular mating pattern is Such a mate happens when either the Rook or enemy King is trapped on the back rank by Here's an example. First, white takes the bishop with his queen, a checkmate on the back rank since these pawns Okay, so here's an interesting puzzle for In this position, you need to find the best Share your answers in the comments and also All the Best guys. Lets see how many of you can solve this! Well, don't forget to Like this video &amp; if now. Thanks for watching &amp; I shall see you in my