Translator: Helene Vernet Thank you. I love nutritional science. I've had a passion about nutrition I remember that my father suffered conditions the medical profession and he searched for answers. Finally, he changed his diet, In the process of seeing him I found excitement and developed He'd brought 50 nutritional books Then, in the early 1970s, I was on the United States and I got hurt, and I couldn't I spent some time in a natural health, in a kind of natural health retreat watching people get well and I got excited about what I saw. I remember at my sister's I met an attractive young woman who told me she applied And I debated with her. I said, &quot;What do you want go Doctors mostly prescribe that are a result of the toxic diet It's like hitting yourself and giving your hand a big smash; Then you go to a doctor and the next day you take It's the toxic American lifestyle that's resulting in all these diseases The toxic foods we're eating You don't want to go to a doctor if you've breathing problems and he gives you a drug and you still continue to smoke; So this young woman said to me, &quot;If you're so passionate why don't you go to medical school? Why don't you change things? I obviously thought about that and said, I quit my job as an executive I went back to the postgraduate at Columbia after college. I went to medical school, about the excitement, and to give you a taste of the things I want to show you six representative cases to show you the power But before I do, let me give you maybe a two-minute overview because a nutriterian diet to be rich in nutrients and full It's a diet style with a high Your healthy life expectancy is determined on the foods You have to get sufficient nutrient But you know, when you do so, when you flood your body it doesn't just make you healthy it stops food addictions normalizes your appetite, and makes your body gravitate It's the secret for most of what ails us. A nutriterian diet, sure, with an adequate amount but it is also very different from the style Americans Americans are eating a diet that's dramatically Americans are eating a diet with 55% of calories that don't contain vitamins, and 30% of animal products. A diet with less than 5% of calories and natural, nutrient-rich produce we're only eating about 5% couldn't be better designed like heart attacks, strokes, had it be designed by Al-Qaeda. (Laughter) Besides the fact of what it's lacking, a &quot;nutritarian&quot; diet is also designed to be low in those hormones hormones like excessive amounts of insulin that's Insulin-like Growth factor-1, like breast cancer and prostate cancer. I say, &quot;The whiter the bread, (Laughter) because the more you eat the more it promotes And I say, &quot;The more you eat green, because if you eat more greens it lowers IGF-1, which stops and doesn't promote and cancer-cell proliferation. We have a unique opportunity with the exponential advances that have given us the power, G-B-O-M-B-S - these foods I call our greens, beans, onions, these foods that inhibit foods that prevent cancer, The details of that is not my message These people are. Let me show you the power Here's Robert. I never met Robert; Robert was in a wheelchair. Today, not only is he not in a wheelchair, Robert had rheumatoid arthritis to reduce his pain Today, he has no rheumatoid arthritis. He no longer has diabetes, He's off those medications too. The main story here is not merely the story is that Robert He no longer has rheumatoid arthritis The point here is you don't have and be tied to medications Take Heather. Heather is another person She suffered with terrible, horrible She even took pills that cost $100 and she still had headaches all day long. She suffered of course with allergies and was also on multiple medications. Heather lost 75 pounds. She wrote me a letter, &quot;You know, I'm all better. It's the greatest feeling in the world, I don't have insomnia; I don't need pills I'm well. I don't have menstrual pain.&quot; She said, &quot;The wonderful thing everything gets taken care of It makes you think of all the people they have to be on medication for the rest Then, there's Donna from Kentucky. Stories like this, She was in so much pain, she couldn't When she was diagnosed with fibromyalgia, that she'd have to take these medications Of course, Donna Depp got well. She is feeling well, to take the drive from Kentucky where I was having one she came up specifically to meet me It is so rewarding, wonderful and warm to meet these people She said to me, &quot;I was a food addict. You know, for 20 years and I knew I was in a downward spiral Her life was unhappy and she felt She said she felt like &quot;Donna, you're not a failure. It's the information you were given With the right information, to take control of your life, It's wonderful to meet these people. You see their happiness Sometimes, you can almost feel when you hear some of these stories. Here is Ronnie from Texas, Ronnie had a heart disease and had a bypass surgery Within four years his vessels clogged up again Then he proceeded to have angioplasty. Within a few months after angioplasty, and now he all couldn't walk, was on multiple medications; I'd never met Ronnie either. He read my books and he communicated Ronnie lost 140 pounds in one year, The story is that he's now fit, healthy, He doesn't have high cholesterol He has normal blood pressure. He's not on three medications but on no blood pressure medications. His weight is normal. He is feeling well. He achieved these numbers without the use of medications, He truly reversed his condition The message here that angioplasty and bypass surgery Those who go through those procedures with the same degree of disease. They don't prevent future heart attacks, to make people feel better Why aren't people told this? Why doesn't everyone know they don't have to have strokes, that these diseases Ronnie was set free. Jodie from nearby here, Jodie suffered with psoriasis Actually, she suffered which is like a mixture of psoriasis that could involve itchy rash By the time Jodie was 50 years old, including an itchy rash She was on multiple medications, including to try to suppress Autoimmune diseases like this The most prevalent one is psoriasis, which affects more Jodie has been well for the last 12 years. She doesn't have psoriatic arthritis By the time she first got diagnosed soon after, she got diagnosed and eventually, the joint pain After being in pain being on medications she found out how she could I remember we have these health getaways where I take a lot of people We eat healthy and teach Jodie came with us to Utah We took a bunch of people, We got to the top, to see the beautiful countryside Jodi got to the highest point of that peak like a &quot;V&quot; for Victory, and she said, I said to Jodie, &quot;You know Jodie, but it's not a medical miracle. It's the inherent protective self-healing machine when it is fed optimally. Your body takes care of itself, It's the health that you that was taken away from you.&quot; And number six, the last person And I bring him up, John from New Jersey, because my office I saw him as a patient more than He too had triple vessel and chest pain where he couldn't walk He actually had worked and the cardiologist set him up a cardiac catheterization, and he was scheduled for angioplasty I pleaded with him and I convinced him. I said, &quot;John, give me to show you that you can get back because once you put those stents in, It's going to be a source of inflammation, it's going to promote more stenosis Let's get rid of it, here's our chance! In 12 weeks time, he lost 40 pounds; he didn't have high blood pressure He went back to see his cardiologist. The cardiologist says to him, I've never seen anybody reverse and have it melt away like this, Can you imagine a cardiologist, who does nothing except never once ever saw a patient reverse When that's all I see: every patient You know ... What's the story The story is, now, 20 years later, Over the years, he's gotten He doesn't have any heart disease now. He chops wood. He climbs up He enjoys his life. He doesn't take medications in his 90's You follow that? He has normal blood He's earned these things. My point is that water runs off Then after 20,000 years, But the rock didn't age. It got hit by water When you develop the problems you get those problems you've put stresses on your tissues from eating the wrong foods from living a diet style that impact you negatively This is not the natural Heart attacks, strokes and dementia We don't have to have heart disease. All of us could be free of that As a matter of fact, lawyers, electricians and plumbers! (Laughter) Nevertheless, here's the point. My message to you today is that, sure, nutritional science has made I love nutritional science - but the point is it's not just preventive. Sure, we don't have we don't have to have strokes And yes, we can win the war on cancer: in the studies that show We can make these choices than ever before possible And my point for today is that nutritional excellence, is therapeutically more effective for almost every medical condition, and the results can literally And that's my message for today. And you know? That woman, that pretty young woman who spurred me on to go Well, I married her. (Laughter) Now, I am married for 32 years. I've four wonderful children. And I am on a mission to share So I'm wishing you all you reach and have much happiness because it can be yours. Thank you. (Applause)