Hello everyone, on the air of Dasha Technik and on this channel, I talk about military and not so technology, show unique footage of technology in motion, talk about it. Today we will talk about another legendary domestic tank - the T-62. The logical development of the T-55 tank . You will see how the tank maneuvers, shoots, and of course I will tell you why the T-62 tank was needed. For the first time, the general public saw the new Soviet tanks on November 7, 1967 during a parade on Red Square, and their &quot;baptism of fire&quot; took place after the entry of a military contingent into Czechoslovakia a year later. In general, the machine proved to be reliable, spacious, convenient and easy to maintain, and only the Afghan campaign revealed some of its shortcomings.In the late 50s, the USSR leadership received information about the development and adoption of new 105 mm tank guns by NATO countries , which made more vulnerable the most massive Soviet tanks T-54 and T-55. In addition, the 100-mm rifled gun of the T-55 tank could not penetrate the frontal armor of the American M48 Patton III tank, and the Americans had the M60 Patton IV under development , in the event of a confrontation with which the T-55 was in a losing position ... The development of the T-62 tank began in 1957, by the design bureau of plant number 183 under the leadership of Leonid Nikolaevich Kartsev, chief designer of the Ural Carriage Works. The prototype was manufactured in 1959, in 1960-1961 its experimental tests were carried out. The T-62 tank was a further development of the T-55 tank , it had the same layout, and it used the same components and assemblies as on the T-55 tank. The tank was put into service on August 12, 1961. Serial production of the T-62 was carried out in the USSR from 1962 to 1973 with the release of about 20,000 units. The tank has been shipped abroad since the early 1970s. The layout of the tank was classic: the command compartment was located in front , the fighting compartment was behind it, and the engine-transmission compartment was located in the rear of the tank . On the left side of the control compartment was the driver's seat, who got on him through a hatch located directly above the seat in the turret armor plate. A spare escape hatch was located behind the seat in the bottom. To monitor the road, the driver's seat was provided with two prismatic observation devices with pneumatic liquid cleaning. At night, the left device was replaced with a TNV-2 night vision device, which allowed the driver to see the road at a distance of 60 m in front of the tank. The infrared headlamp was located next to a conventional headlamp on the right side of the upper frontal armor plate. Under water, the tank was controlled using a heading indicator. Due to the large weight of the charges, the loader had to have remarkable strength. To solve this problem , an experienced Acorn automatic loader was tested on Object 166, the predecessor of the T62, but the tank went into production without it, and the Acorn served as a prototype for the automatic loader of the legendary T-72 tank. As the power plant of the tank, a 12-cylinder four-stroke V-55V diesel engine with a power of 580 hp was chosen perpendicular to the hull . The power plant was located in the engine compartment of the tank. The cruising range on the highway was 450-650 km. The tank was equipped with an anti - radiation protection system that could operate in both automatic and semi-automatic modes. In the automatic mode, the squibs were triggered as soon as the sensors detected an excess of the radiation norm - as a result, the shutters sealing the tank closed, the exhaust fan and air blower were automatically turned off , and the filter ventilation unit was turned on, removing radiation dust, bacteria and toxic substances from the incoming air . In these shots, you can see how the tank's weapon stabilizer works. Yes, the T-62 tanks already had weapon stabilizers. The body of the tank maneuvers, and the barrel remains exactly in place. Since the new tank gun was too heavy for the existing gun stabilizers , they were replaced with a specially designed Meteor stabilizer. The turret swivel mechanism was reinforced, its shoulder strap and the turret shoulder strap of the hull actually formed one large radial thrust ball bearing. The swing mechanism was a planetary gearbox with an electromechanical drive. To protect the turret swivel system from hits from small arms, the clearance between the turret and the tank hull along the perimeter was armored by welding an armor ring with a section of 10 x 30 mm to the hull . Attention shot. I want to note that I have heard many tank shots in my life, but only in peacetime during demonstration races, and I want to say that the T-62 smooth-bore tank gun sounds loudest . This is all due to the smooth barrel and the speed of the projectile coming out of the cannon is much higher than that of rifled cannons. With the help of a blower-separator, an excess pressure was created in the tank , which did not allow poisonous substances to penetrate into the machine in case of depressurization. In the semi-automatic mode, when the sensors were triggered , the alarm was turned on, and the initiation of the squibs was carried out by pressing a button by the driver or the tank commander. The tank was equipped with an automatic fire extinguishing system . Fire-fighting equipment extinguished fires in the corresponding compartment with a mixture of ethyl bromide, carbon dioxide and compressed air. It could also work in both automatic and semi-automatic modes. Among other things, the T-62 was equipped with equipment for setting up a smoke screen - diesel fuel from the fuel tank was used as a reagent . The tank set up a smoke screen, injecting fuel into the exhaust system . In this case, the consumption of diesel fuel was 10 l / min, and one smoke outlet could last for 10 minutes. The stability of the smoke was 2-4 minutes, the length of the smoke screen was 200-400 meters. For the first time, the general public saw the new Soviet tanks only on November 7, 1967, during a parade on Red Square, and their &quot;baptism of fire&quot; took place after the entry of a military contingent into Czechoslovakia a year later. But then large-scale clashes were avoided, so in fact the T 62 did not participate in hostilities. For the first time, these tanks had to really fight on March 2 , 1969, during the Soviet-Chinese conflict on Damansky Island. A platoon of three T-62 tried to help the border guards defending the island by crossing the Ussuri river arm that separated them on the ice. However, the Chinese managed to knock out the lead tank. The rest of the tanks and border guards retreated to the Soviet coast. The car drowned, but the Chinese eventually managed to pull it to their shore. Chinese designers carefully researched the T 62 and used the Soviet technical solutions found in it when designing their Type 69 model. Today, a captured Soviet tank is exhibited at the observation deck of the Military Revolutionary Museum in Beijing. They were transferred to the T-62 and units of the Afghan government, friendly to the USSR . Some of these tanks are still in service with the Afghan army. After the collapse of the USSR, the T-62 was used by the Russian government against Chechen militants in the First and Second Chechen campaigns, as well as during the war in South Ossetia in 2008 against the troops of the Georgian army. Outside the USSR, tanks were used by the Syrian and Egyptian armies during the Yom Kippur War in 1973 against Israel. However, due to the mistakes of the command and the lack of professionalism of the crews as a whole, they were used ineffectively. As a result of clashes in 1973, the Israeli army managed to capture about 200 Arab T-62s, which, after minor changes, were adopted by the Israeli army under the designation Tiran 6. Now these machines are in reserve military depots. The Iraqi army actively used the T-62 during the Iran-Iraq war of 1980-88, during the attack on Kuwait and during the defense during the 1991 Gulf War. In 2003, the obsolete Iraqi T-62 tried to resist the latest technology from the United States and its allies during Operation Iraqi Freedom, and now the T-62 is actively involved in the civil war in Syria. T-62s were used by Libyan troops during the invasion of Chad by Muammar Gaddafi's troops in November 1986, as well as during the joint French-American operation &quot;Dawn of the Odyssey&quot; in 2011 against him . Overall, the car proved to be reliable, spacious, comfortable and easy to maintain, but the Afghan campaign revealed some of its shortcomings. The fighting in the mountains showed that the maximum aiming angle of + 16 deg is insufficient for such conditions. In addition, there were problems with the operation of the tank in highly dusty areas. Serial production of the T-62 in the USSR was completed in 1972. In Czechoslovakia, which received a license to produce the T-62, it lasted longer - until 1978. The T-62 tanks being built in Czechoslovakia were intended for mainly for export to third countries. The Soviet Union satisfied its needs for these tanks on its own, and the T-62 was adopted by the Warsaw Pact countries only in Bulgaria. There is information that North Korea also received a license to build the T-62, but it is not known about the production of the T-62 in this country. In 2011, the Ministry of Defense of the Russian Federation announced that the army would undertake a large-scale disposal of obsolete combat vehicles. It was planned to start up at least 15,000 T-62, T-64, T-72 and T-80B tanks for scrap metal . It was planned that the outdated armored vehicles will be replaced by the latest models, and the total number of combat vehicles will be sharply reduced. They were going to leave only 2,000 units, and the Armata was to become the basis of the tank fleet . However , making a promise is much easier than keeping your promise. In August 2018, large-scale military exercises were held in Russia, at which, among other armored vehicles, T-62 tanks , which had been removed from service and had long been intended for disposal , were noticed . According to official reports, by the beginning of 2014, only 900 T-62 units were in conservation, which were also planned to be disposed of. However, in 2018 the situation changed dramatically. After a long debate, it was decided to return to service about 6,000 units of &quot;obsolete&quot; armored vehicles. The surviving T-62s were also subject to return . Of course, the appearance of the T-62 looks rather strange, especially when compared with the Armata. However, the cost of one copy of &quot;Armata&quot; is about a quarter of a billion rubles, in any case this amount was announced by the official representative of &quot;Uralvagonzavod&quot;. At the same time, the de-mothballing of outdated, but combat-ready equipment costs many, many times less. And they do not have time to build &quot;Armata&quot; in the planned quantity. This is the story of this iconic tank for the national tank building industry. Thank you for your interest in the history of Russian tank building. Subscribe to the channel, also subscribe to the Dasha models channel, where I collect models of the techniques I studied on a scale. Bye Bye.