In the 1950s the US began the most of it is still classified. The goal: destroy all of human civilization. Conceived in Sundial had the energy equivalent of explosives thirteen times taller than the than all the bombs dropped during World destroyed Hiroshima every minute, it would How was it even possible for us to Everything is Different Forever Let's set the stage. If you you were you had been born in 1905 - back only 3% of homes in the US had electricity, cities planes had just flown. Less than a hundred Imagine growing up in this world and up with. By 1945, 24 million soldiers two world wars. And suddenly jet planes and ... nuclear bombs. They kind of Overnight, nowhere from the edge of space to us today to understand the level The implications were wild. Without stand no chance in future conflicts. trampled by those that did have it, There was one brief moment where it could all Baruch Plan and promised to get rid of their world and set up an international authority again. But the military advantage of Just three years later the Soviet bomb. This caught everyone by complete behind American technology Shock turned into fear. And fear makes people was and how it would be won was overturned could fly over your soldiers and vaporise your arsenal that could strike faster and harder. were just 9 nuclear bombs in the world. In 1950 In a way the nuclear arms race was pretty daft. and detonate it. And then the other side would and this would continue endlessly. A dirty horror that seemed totally reasonable at have thousands of the most intelligent people Fear had to be met with much greater horrors, But What if We Destroy Humanity Even HARDER? Edward Teller was a brilliant Hungarian first people to realize that the fission chain helped to build it. But for Teller, He was ready to pay any price for security. he urged that larger bombs were the pretty hot take and many scientists were bit and incessantly lobbied scared politicians And lucky for him, his timing was just right. Soviet Union, he got a blank cheque from the to life. It took him only a few years to A hydrogen bomb is so powerful that it needs It is basically a nuke, the first stage, next encased by dense materials like lead. it releases stupendousungodly amounts of The capsule's surface explodes, the fusion fuel so violently that for When this bomb was first tested pacific island from the map. Two years 1,000 times more powerful than the Hiroshima bomb. powerful war stopped being about winning and Teller celebrated. In just two years warheads a hundred times more powerful. gods and awoken cosmic horrors but he His dream was to have a bomb of almost unlimited great. When the Soviet Union detonated its own This is where we get the The bomb to make all The Final Bomb Teller skipped right to the end. The end of the destroyer. Something so breathtakingly that it made no sense to continue playing. but what we do know about it is terrifying. Work Sundial wouldn't be some warhead loaded up onto a backyard bomb. After all, if a bomb can all? No need to bring it close to your enemies, Maybe it would have actually been maybe it would have been put on a we don't know what the actual insane this weapon was and that Teller knew the rationale was the ultimate deterrence - If you On a technical level his concept was not kind of nuclear matryoshka doll. The itself and that he actually attempted Sundial would have weighed at least 2000 tons, It would explode with the power of at least 10 mean anything anymore. So let's make this a One wild thing about it is that humanity so this is the best speculation we For a brief moment a fireball of pure energy than the visible horizon. It radiates blistering km is instantly set on fire - every tree, house, the explosion is so big that the Earth's horizon into a field of glass. Then comes the blast wave. shot into space, a magnitude 9 earthquake the blast reverberates around the world. North bomb's radioactive fallout to create toxic death Sundial is like a nuclear war happening all at or an asteroid striking, than a nuclear war. winter, where global temperatures suddenly drop by crops would fail everywhere. Most people in the Good News! Wait no, Bad News! The good news is that Sundial was never But we know that scientists reacted with informed responded with disbelief. was a bit much. In the insane world of building it considered a crime against A single apocalypse weapon leaves you no wiggle crossed a distant country's borders or attacked if your rival overthrew a friendly government? kill them too? The elephant in the room is that kind of did build it. At the peak of the Even today we still have about 12,000 nuclear Instead of a single world burner, the nuclear weapons of all types and sizes. Hidden And this sounds so much more reasonable, more credible threat. Because if people feel might actually get launched. And we don't know So in reality the difference between even that big. Humanity didn't build a Today the world may be on the verge of another a trillion dollars on nuclear modernization and might have more than 1000 nuclear far we've escaped the existential threat these it might ask us if we are ok and need species if we really want to be ready to Phew, that was a lot. Science is never sense of curiosity and exploration for something the kids in your life from early on, This is one of their science all the ingredients for a science Let's explore: There is a wooden wires...some marbles and...googly eyes?! kids about the intersection of mechanics This crate is part of the new KiwiCo Labs along on a learning journey for young scientists and strengthen problem-solving skills on things There are also different programs available on all with their own high-quality crates This holiday season, a KiwiCo subscription could your kids or any niece, nephew, godchild or other arriving every month. We like KiwiCo because with a mindset of making learning something that's If you want to try out the new KiwiCo or use the code KURZGESAGT to get 50% off your It's time to reveal our darkest secret. This is not actually run by birbs... but by humans. So many people spending writing and animating the kurzgesagt Well, the answer is simple: it's Our products are a piece of kurzgesagt that Just like our videos, they are a vital part of our Our carefully researched infographic posters teaching them about Evolution, While our Gratitude Journal A special thank you goes out to everyone Every kurzgesagt product you buy get to spend working on our videos - and you Thank you so much for being a part channel possible. The birb-humans of