(rain pattering) (plane engines roaring) (somber music) - [Petter] It took just over four minutes and fall nearly 38,000 feet. That's roughly the same time What were the crucial details Stay tuned. The crew who were going arrived in Rio de Janeiro They were scheduled in Rio before the We know very little about during this layover but who was later going had brought his wife Given that, it's unlikely before the flight resting that this might also apply Flight 447 was scheduled Rio time, that would And that meant that the crew through the night on the way home with a scheduled landing time in Paris around midday on the 1st of June. This would mean that the pilots throughout the window of circadian low, a time of night during for the human body Because of this and the fact to last 12 hours and 45 minutes, with an extra pilot to allow during the flight back. This meant that there were three pilots one captain and two first officers. The captain was 58 years old of 11,000 hours, as a pilot-in-command The first officer was 32 years old. He was the least experienced and 800 on the type. He had done his type rating the year before the flight. The third pilot which I will refer to, was a 37-year-old first officer. He had a total time of 6,500 hours on the type with 4,500 hours flown on it. He had flown very little before the flight as a management pilot in Air France. Prior to operating the flight, the planning documentation including weather, The weather was fine for the departure and in Paris but the enroute weather Since the flight would be crossing an area over the Atlantic known or the ITCZ. In this zone, the easterly trade winds from the northern and southern hemisphere will converge and can force of the sea upwards. This can cause powerful thunderstorms that can reach as high as 60,000 feet which is much higher This also means that the aircraft might be subject to flying between of these storm clouds. The storms who are formed can sometimes than the storms that form over land, making them harder to see so pilots needs to be very careful since they could still be quite severe. The pilots likely discussed this risk and carried a bit of extra fuel of navigate around The pilots also briefed about the possibility of turbulence on their service. Before we leave the discussion we need to talk a little bit that can be found inside Most people are familiar hail that typically come but as you look higher up things can become a bit more complicated. Because of the very strong currents inside of the cloud, upwards into very cold air This means that but as soon as they hit surface of some sort, they will instantly Sometimes, these super cooled droplets can collide with snowflakes a type of soft ice crystals as hard as hail when it hits the aircraft This type of precipitation doesn't create the type of heavy airframe icing but it has significant volume and overwhelm sensors especially the pitot probes More than nine different occurrences to Air France flights during 2008 and 2009. And these reports, together with how had been published in safety bulletins during the year The aircraft that the pilots was a reasonably new Airbus A330-203. It had been delivered to Air France working order on Prior to arriving to the aircraft, to be loaded and together they walked out to the aircraft Now it will be impossible to explain without also explaining a few details about flying in general. Pilots need a way to accurately measure the amount of air because that's what really determines To do this, they utilize a type of probe These probes are often situated below the cockpit and they look And they have a hole in the front where the air enters is then measured inside of the tube. They are electrically heated on the Airbus A330. But in order to accurately measure must also be measured from the total pressure This static pressure is measured a static port and that static pressure is then used both for calculating also the altitude of the aircraft. These different pressures called Air Data Modules or ADMs. The ADMs will calculate but another thing in this story is that the static pressure depending on how fast That's because the air flows surrounding the static port localized pressure differences These corrections are done automatically and altitude are critical values, of probes and computers Now because of the problems had reported of ice crystals clogging up the pitot probes, Airbus had started to look into the problem. A newer type of pitot probe in preventing these problems had been issued suggesting Air France had just started upgrading their first Airbus A330 to the departure of Flight 447. And the accident aircraft to have its probes changed after the flight. But why was the change of these pitot probes Why wasn't it mandatory? Well, that's because the temporary loss of air speed due to this issue it only lasted for a maximum and there was a defined procedure which the pilots were supposed In Air France, this procedure was known in this story as unreliable air speed. Because this problem had been reported in the recurrent training scenario for all Air France Crews The training had included but only at low altitude. That's because that was seen because of the closeness of the aircraft was also much better Air speed unreliable to diagnose because the failure on what caused it and how severe it is. During the exercises the autopilot did not disconnect in the cockpit when the failure occurred. Now the air speed unreliable procedure meaning safety critical items from memory of the pilots. But using them was optional depending on the situation and that if the aircraft was close to the ground. Also important for this story had received any recent training on how to deal with an especially at high altitude. The latest stall training was done during their type rating on the Airbus A320 which they And that initial training was all done at low altitude on the use of thrust and power it out of the stall, Decreasing the pitch was Now this idea that the engines out of an extreme high angle of attack is also going to become very important. Once the 216 passengers were ready, the pilots asked from their gate at time 22:09 UTC, The first officer was pilot flying in the cockpit as they were taxiing out. At time 22:29, the aircraft started and performed a completely normal takeoff. They climbed away along which led them up through following the coastline of Brazil. At some point, the relief pilot left the cockpit which would last about three hours. He went back which consisted of two bunk beds and we don't know exactly because the cockpit voice recordings from the cockpit voice recorder doesn't start until In any case, the two remaining pilots to their initial cruise altitude and once they were established in cruise, from Brasilia FIR and then later, And it was Recife Control to have radar contact with the flight because in that control area, but once they passed into the next FIR, from radar coverage oceanic traffic separation procedures. Now flights over oceanic areas and aircraft equipment. Since the curvature of the earth aircraft are equipped These radios use layers in the ionosphere to bounce the signals off from and can therefore reach As the aircraft passed an RNAV point with Atlantico Control that they had been given. The pilots then tried to log in at the time in the area called ADS-C. This system would use automatic reports to update the position thus showing where it was Another cool thing that was that it would immediately send a report if an aircraft deviated that it had assigned. But, unfortunately, in the flight plan that had been filed the pilots were unable and therefore, as soon as the aircraft it would not be able something that would come The Airbus A330 is a fly-by-wire aircraft and that means that the inputs and rudders will be by a computer and then sent to the hydraulic flight This type of controls comes it makes the aircraft substantially lighter but mainly, it allows the aircraft and make sure that those Parameters like excessive bank as well as safeguarding and a whole load Now detractors of the system have the final word of the pilots Only maneuvers which are really extreme and ultimately dangerous but the fly-by-wire system who operates them really understand actually work and don't. This is true for all aircraft And why is that? Well, in order for these protections who monitor them needs that they are using If that is not the case, and take away those protections, aren't really sure what's going on. These computers receive their inputs like the pitot probes, the inertial reference units, They combine all of this data who together form the As long as all three or, at least, the aircraft control computers are happy and it can continue to operate Normal Law means that all protections is basically impossible to stall But if two or more ADRs a couple of things will quickly happen. First of all, these inconsistencies like the autopilot that controls the aircraft, the autothrottle governing the engines and the flight directors That's quite logical, The aircraft will not try to navigate about what's going on. It will leave that up And following up on that same logic, will degrade from Normal Law or Alternate Law 2, depending The difference between Normal Law become relevant in this flight that the aircraft normally have or stall protection This will be shown by the removal like the barber's pole as well as yellow crosses would normally be shown. The other difference is that In Normal Law and Alternate Law 1, will command a specific If the pilot inputs a specific roll rate and gust disturbances It will basically be very stable But in Alternate Law 2, to the ailerons and spoilers a specific roll rate. This means no bank protections This will also make the aircraft at higher altitudes where there's less aerodynamic damping Another major difference and an Airbus fly-by-wire aircraft If you're flying manually the yoke controls and the trim has to be done In an Airbus, the side stick input for a specific roll rate horizontally When the pilot sets a specific pitch, and the massive horizontal stabilizer to continue maintaining that pitch This also means that from the stick if the aircraft due to low speed for example, on another aircraft like the 737 In Normal Law, that's not an issue the aircraft from getting close to an angle of attack but that's not the case in Alternate Law. Now these differences to know about but even more crucially, and they need to be able when things are starting to go wrong. Now before we get into of this video, I just wanna share who makes it possible This is really quite cool! Are you looking for ways to save or online shopping spree? Well, did you know that you can get or even car services in a different country? By shopping online you can find the best deals where you're shopping from actually change on, when connected from a different country. I have no idea why that is you can potentially save Nord have over 5,500 in 59 different countries So whether you want to watch protect your personal information or save money with a VPN NordVPN have you covered. Start browsing the internet freely if you go to NordVPN.com/pilot, And you don't really have anything a full 30-day money-back guarantee. Thank you NordVPN. As Flight 447 now proceeded from their company, reported thunderstorm The first officer changed the scale and started talking about some buildups that he could see ahead of them. The pilots then started discussing that these clouds would bring. And the first officer indicated about the storm clouds At time 01:46, the first officer dimmed the cockpit lights in order and confirmed that the aircraft It was pitch black outside and light turbulence The crew discussed if it would be possible to climb higher as it looked of the clouds at flight level 350. But when the first officer they could climb to, and they both decided to sit at maximum altitude Now, this is probably a good opportunity to discuss another thing As an aircraft climbs higher, the air will become thinner And because of that, depending as well as the outside temperature will be limited from continuing just won't be able to produce This also means that the engines to deal with any non-normals up there and because of that, and quite conservative with how The only way that an aircraft can climb higher than would be to exchange kinetic energy, their speed, for potential energy, altitude. But doing so, would dramatically At higher altitudes, meaning the angle where the aircraft will stall if it's exceeded, is also less from flying closer to the speed of sound. So in short, the aircraft will stall earlier and will have less available It will also be more sensitive providing aerodynamic damping. After the aircraft had entered commenting on the This is a sure sign close to an aircraft, that they were getting Around this time, the captain pressed which activated the call bell This was the sign to the relief pilot to the cockpit and take over could go back to the bunk The relief pilot knocked to show that he had heard the bell. Now the Air France at the time stipulated who was pilot flying would take on when the captain left for rest And in this case, this was exactly arrived to the cockpit at time 01:59, and listened into the briefing that the first officer gave This briefing included that they were currently flying in cloud and that they couldn't climb The captain didn't leave about how the two first officers Instead he left Now we can only speculate to why he didn't give Like I mentioned before, were used to this type of weather So it is likely that he found of dealing with it. When the captain left, that the much more senior relief pilot, now took on the role of pilot monitoring in the left seat and the first officer pilot-in-command. The two pilots now started discussing And the first officer mentioned But at this stage, there was no discussion about trying to avoid Instead, the first officer asked to sleep anything and the relief pilot The relief pilot then asked This discussion could be interpreted a bit fatigued at this point. The captain had also made The relief pilot also left his pilot chair in the aft position into the piloting position That would likely have given him could put his feet up if he suddenly needed which he soon would need to do. At time 02:06:05, the cabin crew to advise them some light turbulence soon It was now around four minutes And in another four minutes, The relief pilot now started and he reached down on his weather radar to Max. This made the weather radar the weather ahead of them. He then asked the first officer to the left, indicating some discomfort The first officer asked what he meant on the screen in front of them The first officer agreed about 12 degrees to the left. This was a quite small correction they had in front of them their flight plan route to radio in this change At time 02:08:17, picked up a change in the cockpit. This noise sounded At the same time, the first officer and he asked if the relief pilot with the air conditioning. He then asked, &quot;What's that smell?&quot; The relief pilot recognized and calmed his colleague down These comments as well as the aircraft were all signs the aircraft was now flying into. The change in temperature was likely another sign of huge amount into the engines, partially overwhelming 20 seconds later, the background noise of ice crystals now hitting the cockpit. The turbulence intensified the commanded speed from Mach 0.82 to 0.8 which was the This caused the autothrottle Up until this point, the aircraft and the two pilots were relaxed and just monitoring We don't know for sure what caused it who were now pelting the aircraft outside started to overwhelm the heating elements of the pitot probes who were to the three air data modules. At time 02:10:05, the autopilot with the associated At the same moment, caused the aircraft to start The first officer called out, for his side stick. Now this sudden onset would have likely caused and the confusion But at this point, the aircraft with only this right bank developing. As the aircraft continued banking right, the indicated air speed as well as on the standby indicator, suddenly dropped a clearly erroneous indication. We don't know for sure as they weren't recorded but they likely also fell Remember what I told you compensated the pressure Well, because the speed was now indicated as much lower, the altimeter system recalculated its altitude a drop of 300 feet as well The first officer who had been suddenly now reacted instinctively to correct his altitude. This was the start of the sequence of events that would Since all three ADRs the aircraft reverted into Alternate Law which meant that the as well as the overspeed Now like I mentioned before, became about twice as sensitive, had to really concentrate to stop banking He started over-correcting with the side stick started going from right to left It is very possible that most went to this part of the handling he had also started pitching up. That pitch was now increasing, Almost instantaneously, and all of the different warnings started, a brief stall warning When the warning sounded, &quot;What is that?&quot; likely because but it could also potentially The flight directors were not disconnected by the crew as the procedure for air speed unreliable instructed disappeared anyway 11 seconds into the sequence, the pitch of the aircraft and the first officer and right side stick input, He also now called, &quot;We haven't got... We haven't got a good display!&quot; Likely referring The relief pilot who was supposed and the non-normal checklist, And, &quot;Alternate Law protection law.&quot; He then continued to read out but in a manner that was hard Here, it would have to clearly point out was in Alternate Law, and that certain protections were lost. He mentioned that the autothrust by asking, &quot;Engine lever?&quot; Showing some confusion Since the autothrottle had disconnected the thrust had gone into a mode which basically meant its previously selected value of 84%. ECAM instructed the crew to resume thrust control pushed the autothrottle disconnect button and left the thrust lever where it was And because of that, to increase into climb thrust. All of what I've said so far of this emergency. There were 10 different each of them causing On top of this, the Master Warning was illuminated in front of the pilots indicating that the aircraft This would have been and stressful environment for the pilots. And the fact that unreliable air speed this was something to figure out themselves, why they didn't start executing At time 02:10:26, had reached 12 degrees nose up. The aircraft was now climbing more than seven times higher as it passed 36,000 feet. Maintaining a rate this high meant exchanging speed for altitude. Suddenly, the flight director bars but instead of being engaged that they were before, in vertical speed mode in the middle of a climb. This meant that the flight directors the pitch needed to maintain That would definitely in this situation when the first officer was likely becoming by noise and workload. And it was precisely because of this included turning off the flight directors. The relief pilot now looked away which he had stopped reading anyway and that's when he noticed the high pitch that He called out, &quot;Watch your speed!&quot; Possibly referring to the vertical speed since the speed indication The first officer replied, and started pitching forward This only reduced the climb rate The relief pilot continued &quot;Go back down!&quot; And, &quot;According to all three, to which the first officer The pitch now momentarily reduced which still gave a climb rate They now climbed through of 37,000 feet and at time 02:10;36, but the air speed came back the correct speed of 223 knots. That meant that up until this point, of precious air speed The flight directors again flashed up and then came back again, of about 1,400 feet per minute was doing at that time. At time 02:10:47, the first officer the thrust back to around 85% N1. And this is likely a sign of situational awareness The relief pilot pushed to try and get the captain He pressed it several times, He also reached over the Air Data Selector to First Officer on 3. These are switches designed and they were not items He likely switched these in an attempt that he felt were missing Three seconds later, in the cockpit and sounded continuously for the next 45 seconds. The fact that this warning was not verbalized or even discussed by any of the pilots. Instead the first officer reacted increasing the pitch attitude similar to what you would have on takeoff. This pitch up command now also meant that the stabilizer started moving making a potential recovery even harder. The aircraft now no longer the requested climb rate. Instead it started to slowly level off, which the first officer desperately tried They were now rapidly closing in Now a stall happens when the aircraft wing has moved beyond meaning that it effectively stops and instead, the aircraft A stall can happen at any attitude. The only thing that determines And the angle of attack is the angle and the oncoming airflow. Both pilots had received initial training on how to deal with during their type ratings years ago the feeling of a fully developed stall The fact that the Airbus only has an audio warning, in front of the pilots have played a part in explaining because one of the first things is under stress is their hearing. At time 02:10:57, the aircraft and violent buffeting This type of buffeting than turbulence is So the first officer but at this altitude, above the aircraft's the engines were not able to even keep the speed, The relief pilot called out, &quot;Above all, try to touch Showing some insight into the issues but this fell on deaf ears to make max left and right inputs. The relief pilot also said, referring to the captain. The first officer now referring to the fact that have thought would be enough The aircraft still climbed until it reached its maximum and then it started falling down Now you might ask yourselves why didn't the relief pilot He was asking for corrections Well, we will never know in the fact that this It only took about one minute Also the fact that he couldn't see was making on the side stick to each other in the Airbus, what his colleague was actually doing. At time 02:11:07, inside of the pitot tubes by the heating elements and left air speed indicator The speed indicated was 183 knots, around 90 knots of air speed. The aircraft now entered with the stall warning The relief pilot called out, What's happening?&quot; And then, &quot;Do you But he got no reply. The aircraft started banking which prompted the first officer but with very little effect. The first officer also continued with the side stick and would for the next 40 seconds. Now for all of those out there for the first officer to react this way, there are a few things The first is that the human brain and we tend to revert to our training when that happens. And that brings me to my second point which is how the Airbus functions You see the best possible you can get from the aircraft continuous back pressure and TOGA thrust. That's what's used during a wind shear since the aircraft It will only pitch to maintain whilst using max thrust, But that only works in Normal Law. If you apply that logic, the actions of the becomes maybe At time 02:11:32, the first officer of the aircraft anymore, The relief pilot responded by saying, &quot;Controls to the left!&quot; And pressed the takeover button that takeover formally. He then made two brief inputs before the first officer and continued with his own inputs, aft and left, none of which was working. At this point, the aircraft descent rate had increased to around and the angle of attack meaning that the aircraft Because it was maintaining the air was now hitting at a 40 to 60-degree angle. This would have caused but also, crucially, the angle the pitot tubes and the static ports with was now so extreme that the pressure This meant that the speed indication as the computer interpreted completely impossible and unreliable. So the reason that the crew without valid speed indication from this point on. It was only due to Once the speed value the onboard computers told to disregard the angle because such a speed This made the stall warning and as the calculated speed was replaced by speed flags At this point, the first officer a bit of an insight to why He said, &quot;I have the impression It's unclear what he was basing his senses together with the increase in wind noise from outside that he was feeling. In any case, the silencing with the captain returning That was about one minute and a half and less than one minute He was faced with There was no stall warning at this point but the aircraft was descending and they were just passing 35,000 feet, when he left the cockpit. The pitch attitude was varying and nine degrees nose down and he could see 10 Master Warning lights which was shaking the aircraft. The captain asked, &quot;What are you doing?&quot; To which the relief pilot desperately Well, I don't know. The first officer also chimed in, &quot;We're losing control And the relief pilot added, We don't understand anything. The first officer now reduced the engines to idle below the wings, this finally caused the aircraft to pitch down to about 11 degrees The first officer said, &quot;I have a problem. It's that I don't have vertical speed. I have no more displays.&quot; And the relief pilot said, The vertical speed indication might have been indicating or it could indeed be missing above 20,000 feet per minute as invalid. But the fact that they were caused the speed to start increasing and the angle of attack But in a cruel twist of fate, the stall warning system again noticed that it had valid indications giving the perverse effect was pitching down but disappearing again when it was pitched back up. This must have been but fully in line with the aircraft system was ever thought to even get close that they now found themselves in. The first officer now said, that we have some crazy speed. What do you think?&quot; He then reached over and deployed to stow it again by his colleagues. Now this further indicates that the aircraft was in an overspeed that they actually were. As the pilots were now trying was descending with with the nose oscillating and 15 degrees nose up. Each time it pitched down, and when it pitched up again, The bank angle varied and it's likely that it was mostly the yaw damper which who kept the aircraft At time 02:12:10, the thrust and 20 seconds later, to the right and instead which the first officer continued The relief pilot asked the captain, What do we need to do?&quot; But the captain who had not of the initial failure in the beginning of the emergency was completely perplexed. He just answered, There it's going down.&quot; Clearly, just trying to orient himself on the different instruments. In the following seconds, from all three pilots. The first officer who was still in control was asking things like, To which the relief pilot responded, You climb there!&quot; Most likely referring not to what the aircraft At some point here, the side stick fully forward This causes a pitch down and with that, the stall warning came back and the first officer confirms This is again an indication for the stall warning. He then asked, Referring to the altimeter reading, Now this is a bit strange his altitude in front of him if the first officer had at all in front of him didn't capture it. Later examinations in the computers seems The captain muttered, &quot;It's impossible,&quot; showing that he still couldn't figure out what was going on. During the following seconds, the attitude of the aircraft and how to get the wings horizontal. The confusion is obvious The first officer explained that he is at the limit And the captain then suggested to try to stop the right bank. This actually seemed to help momentarily as the aircraft rolled over continued banking right again. The aircraft ascended and the first officer called out, We're passing level 100! At this point it was likely to save this aircraft now called out, &quot;Wait! Me! I have controls.&quot; And then started making left inputs but the first officer So the warning- - Was now heard multiple times - [Warning] Dual input. - The first officer called out, And as he was saying this, to try and reset which he did but the captain also said that it The relief pilot then started calling out, &quot;Climb! Climb! Climb!&quot; To which the first officer responded, &quot;But I've been at That last remark likely finally made and he called out, &quot;No, no, no! Don't climb!&quot; The relief pilot said, &quot;So go down!&quot; And pushed his side stick forward his side stick backwards And since the two inputs The relief pilot called out, Controls to me! Controls to me!&quot; First officer responded, We're still in TOGA.&quot; The nose was now below the horizon came back together Seven seconds later, the controls to the relief pilot, pulling back on the controls - Dual input. was also momentarily pulled back to idle and then moved forward again, any type of change to the situation. The captain called out from jump seat, &quot;Watch out! You're pitching up there! But it now seems had changed his mind about strategy because he called out, And when the captain continued he responded, &quot;Well, we need to do it. We're at 4,000 feet.&quot; The next thing that could be heard was the GPWS system calling out... - Sink rate. Pull up! This caused the captain and he called out, &quot;Go on! Pull!&quot; As the first officer chimed in, Both pilots now pulled maximum back on their side stick causing to 16 degrees above the horizon. The speed at this point but an equal heart-wrenching At time 02:14:22, the first officer, and kept it pressed, from the relief pilot. The synthetic cockpit voice recorder - Priority right. in panic back and called out, Followed by, &quot;This can't be true!&quot; And, &quot;What's happening?&quot; The captain barked out an order, while the stall and GPWS warnings - [GPWS Warning] Pull up! Pull up! Pull up! - The relief pilot now tried, but since the first officer his inputs had no effect. Even if they would have, about the situation. - At time 02:14:28, the Airbus 330 at a 45-degree angle of 10,900 feet per minute. The forces exerted on the airframe being dropped from the 46th floor It immediately shattered the aircraft people on board were immediately lost. (somber chime) Completely unaware of the horrific fate that were planned to be in contact with the flight, soon started to verify if anyone had heard anything from the aircraft. It soon became clear from the flight since time 01:35 and the crew hadn't checked in that they should have. Since the problem with HF radio contact was not uncommon in this part no one took any particular notice There continued to be several calls verifying if anything had been heard. And other aircraft flying on the same route but with no success. The same went for trying to contact them via SatCom, which is as well as EICAS messages Three hours after the accident, and a further three hours later, was sent out by Madrid in Spain and as well as from This triggered the first search towards the last known On the 2nd of June, 2009, the first floating debris and three days later, the first debris This was the beginning and rescue effort that included in the area where the aircraft The search was divided with the last one starting And on the 2nd of April that year, on a relatively flat area at the sea floor at a depth of about 12,800 feet and six and a half miles away This meant that thousands of pieces both the cockpit voice recorder miraculously, in good condition. The fact that both recorders to the final report and the details So what conclusions Why did this horrible Well, the fact was that no component but the pitot tubes were temporarily overwhelmed outside of what they This then led to a loss and that, in turn, caused system degradations, warnings that caused a severe startle The crew was expected for unreliable air speed but never did so. Instead the initial pitch up to a continuously which was discovered The subsequent corrections exiting the flight performance envelope This fact was not understood of lack of training but possibly also that the warning was erroneous of what was going on. In any case, these stall conditions by the pilots during the whole sequence. The lack of identification never initiated any This accident sent shock waves and led to several safety recommendations including the formation and recovery technique training module for all pilots out there. That included the effects of high altitude flying It also led to new memory items which are now focused and setting correct pitch to keep the aircraft flying safe The investigation also recommended to show all instrument indications around the pitot probes, black boxes, the Airbus stall warning system Several other recommendations were also made but the most need to take away from this accident the aircraft that we're flying. That means understanding if those systems are degraded might react differently versus at low altitude. And lastly, never forget If a startle happens, remember Keep the aircraft flying. And only after that, try to figure out As long as the aircraft is flying, there will be plenty As always, this story was based but due to its complexity I have also used several other sources Understanding Air France 447 in broadening my system's I highly recommend it. Now check out this video next Consider subscribing to the channel and if you wanna support then consider becoming part or buy yourself some merch. Have an absolutely fantastic day wherever you are Bye-bye.