There are 537 million people around the world living with The burden of diabetes is massive. It's a huge cost to our government health care system for And I have Type one diabetes. It's a huge, huge problem. Over the last 20 years, significant advancements in stem promising methods of creating new insulin making cells It's one of the few diseases where a single cell type is And so the idea that if you could create those cells and biology of the disease directly. Vertex Pharmaceuticals, a biotech company that works on into the diabetes space a few years ago. Its stock has been on a steady climb over the past five I've had type one diabetes for 25 years, and when I heard I had to find out more. I'm really interested to know this transition from needing Can you tell me what that was like for you? Can you imagine winning $1,000,000 lottery? Like while sitting here, somebody says, Hey, here's a Boom! Winner! That was me. Bryan Shelton is the first patient in vertex clinical trial The cells that make insulin Shelton's insulin needs are The amount of insulin he was taking has dropped by 92%. And I was like, this is this is what I've been dreaming Everything is working fine. My numbers are great. Other companies around the world, including ViaCyte and manufacturers in the world, are also working on curing the We wanted to find out why finding a cure for diabetes is so solving this problem. Before we look at why it's tough to cure, it's important to It's not known why, but the immune system attacks and as beta cells. These cells regulate glucose levels in the blood which the Without insulin, blood sugar will continue to rise. That auto immune response has really limited the ability to regenerative strategy to cure type one diabetes. Type one diabetes is different from the more common type Type one diabetics have to take insulin for the rest of Type two diabetics still make insulin, although their It can be managed with diet, exercise, medication. But some do need to take insulin. All types cause high blood sugar, which cause kidney down the road. Neither have a cure. There have been incredible advancements in diabetes smarter insulin pumps. But managing the disease is still a lot of work. People don't really necessarily realize that we're doing alive at the same time. And that can be a lot. There's so many other factors that stress, it's illness, it's food, obviously exercise, medications. And I can do things the same way each day and So even right now, I'm actually having a high blood sugar People often say, well, what's the big deal? Don't eat sugar, inject insulin and like get on with it. But there's another aspect of what I would call the So when a child gets the disease, it affects the whole The most stressful part of having diabetes for me is sleeping. If you go too low, it can cause seizures and even And while I do have insurance, it's still incredibly The Diabetes Research Foundation estimates it costs about US and more than $90 Billion a year globally. And fortunately, we're seeing research change the course of Dr. Doug Melton started researching a cure for diabetes when He received a grant from JDRF in 2000 to try to turn stem And I was extremely fortunate to work at a private us to use human embryonic stem cells. So the first challenge was to derive those cells and get And as people may know, they come from leftover material In the early 2000, there was some controversy associated Hill to the president and then through funding to for diabetes. And what was that idea? The idea is pretty simple. It's to turn a stem cell, which in theory can be any cell And that's not a one step process. Cells need to be instructed as to what to become. So what we learned over a long period of time is a six step of like the gut tube, then to become part of the pancreas, making, and then become beta cells and then become It just was a lot harder than I thought it would be. Dr. Felicia Pagliuca was a post-doc student working in They knew if the cells turned blue they were producing And one night in 2014, it finally worked. That night we were watching the plate rotate and we started And it was one of those moments that you have so rarely, I one's seen before, that no one's been able to do before. And that was a moment we knew we had cracked some really How much did all of this cost? Maybe an important way to think about the cost is how many So I would say over that period of several decades, it's 50 who dedicated themselves to join on this quest. And as many people have said, good science is hardly ever It's a team activity. But I think you're asking about how many pennies, how many I don't have an exact number. A reasonable estimate would be $50 Million. That's a lot of money. But compared to the cost of treating diabetes or the amount daresay it's a near trivial amount of money. After this breakthrough, Milton created a company called After his second child was also diagnosed with Type one. The company focused on reproducing more cells and turning In 2019, it caught the interest of Vertex, who bought the Then in 2021, Vertex received FDA approval for a clinical The first trial that we've started is a trial of a of a Patients in this trial will receive a one time infusion of standard immunosuppression drugs to protect those cells Brian Shelton has been a Type one diabetic for 44 years. He's the first patient in Vertex's clinical trial and only Within a few days, the amount of insulin he typically would of beta cells, started producing insulin again. The first human using this method to do so. Now my body does it all along its own. Took a couple of days for me to realize that things are You know that I can actually live like a regular person and it and I'm doing it pretty well. As a matter of fact, everything is working fine. My numbers are great. Before he entered the clinical trial, Shelton suffered many he could count. When we talked to Brian, it had been seven His insulin needs were still down by 92%. His average blood sugar was 146, down from 200 before the This is within good range for someone who has type one, but Regardless, the worry and stress of keeping his blood sugar Last night I had an ice cream. And when was the last time you bought an ice cream? Just. Just to eat it? Not for any special reason, you know? But I did, and it was delicious. But, you know, you stop eating all these things, and I'm to live? You know, and and it's working. The news of this great result spread quickly and was trial, Shelton only received half of the anticipated dose What was your reaction when you heard about the first Well, I guess I'm one of the lucky people in the world that then the first results in were even better than I had I can't imagine a better first patient result. Vertex's clinical trial plans to infuse 17 participants over trial and the company expects to release additional data It's demonstrated that one can make fully functional insulin That moves us to the problem of why are they killed off or Saying that Shelton is cured is complicated. His body is making its own insulin again. But there is one major caveat he has to take destroying these new cells. We need to be precise in what we talk about when we when we A cure, in most scientists view in this field, is a ultimately renders the individual completely free of being expected and long lasting without any other any kind of regular basis for that control to happen. One of the things that you'll see in the type one community there be cures for type one? And there are a variety of reasons that happens. Many of us were promised cures a long time ago. This is a major advancement. A major, major advancement. The ability to have an unlimited cell supply and to prove restore blood sugar levels in people, to me says this is I would caution as a scientist that we need more data, we We need competition, multiple companies working on this For some diabetics, trading in their insulin for I absolutely probably wouldn't. And I know that sounds wild for a lot of people because look at it underneath the surface, it's it's not right. It's another another fix and be it a great fix for some For me, I think that it's just treating one thing for It can be the case that an individual will take an over decades in response to it. But that's not necessarily predictable because each It's not just vulnerability to infection. Some forms of immunosuppression can actually impact body sensitivity and resistance and the risk for a different Shelton, who is no longer having severe swings in his blood What's it like being on immunosuppressants now? I'm loving it. It was like life started on that day, the day that I came home from the hospital when my body was years ago. If that product comes to the market with the requirement for due to hypoglycemia, that's the the recruitment criteria people who are already on immunosuppressants. Unfortunately, Type one diabetes damages people's kidneys They will benefit. But our goal at JDRF is to see everyone with type one And to do that we need to protect these cells from the The next challenge is to stop the immune system from Several companies are working on different approaches. I actually, to be honest, think that making the than developing the cells that goes into the device. Basically, it's a little bit like a tea bag. You put the cells into the tea bag and transplant them onto be protected from the immune system and you avoid needing Many of the people we are going to treat with this are effects. Novo Nordisk made over $8 billion from insulin sales in The company has been heavily criticized for high prices of I asked Petersen if the company was concerned about losing To be honest and I know I get that question a lot. It has not for a second been on our mind. Our focus has been on developing a curative treatment or insulins. Because before we have the cure, we need to possible treatments. After working in the diabetes space for over 20 years. Petersen's daughter was diagnosed with type one. I saw I kind of knew everything about the disease, about the But I thought we have really good insulins. We have good glucose monitors, you know, how bad is it? But sitting there with a four year old with type one What we need to figure out is that can we do it in a safe And I think that that will be a matter of time. The cells need the nutrients. We need to keep them, I call it keep them happy in the And that that's a challenge. What we've seen in clinical trials from a company via site seeing insulin production in these macro encapsulated levels or cure diabetes, but certainly cells living and Again, if some cells can live, we can start to then work to keep all of the cells happy. Very, very important. ViaCyte is already in clinical trials with an encapsulation Novo Nordisk says it's a few years out and Vertex says it And we plan to bring that program to what's called an IND the FDA this year. And we hope we'll be able to work with them to get a green We also have a research pipeline that we have been including things like gene editing, where we can actually things that stimulate the immune system or to add things Editing the genes could be another way to potentially I call this the Harry Potter cloak of invisibility. You know, if you can put a cloak over these cells and you into the body with minimal burden to the type one This is also what Dr. Melton is now focusing on in his lab at Harvard. I like to think of ways of trying to make the cells kind of And don't ask me how we do that, because I don't know yet. But that's why I like science. It involves discovery. You know, once you've had diabetes for this long and even Hearing these these echoes of a cure and not necessarily grain of salt. I think it's great. All the work that they've done is fantastic. It's a good step in the right direction. Despite there still not being a cure. Technology has been rapidly advancing in the diabetes There are several closed loop insulin pump systems on the Cgms are getting smaller and more accurate. There are faster insulins and some you can even inhale. Been doing pumping for a while now. Again, it's a good tool. It does help, but it's by no means perfect. The high cost of insulin is still an issue for many people. Insulin is a life sustaining drug. If I didn't have insulin, I would die. Likely within a week or so. And that is a very, very fine line. You have to be healthy when cures arrive. I'm super optimistic about where we're headed, but I want And you can't benefit if you can't have the very drug that And while it's not known how much a stem cell derived beta CGMs, closed loop systems and other technology may be more I'm fairly certain that that, coupled with ongoing efforts miniaturize all of the hardware necessary to do this, that by the time the next 3 to 5 years rolls around. And then people will just be comparing whether that seems trials aimed at a more biological, fundamental biological to some people. For diabetics who want a cure that requires no additional matter of when. So when do you think a cure is going to be? I think even from diagnosis and for a lot of people, that's And the joke is always that it's five years away. And that's what I'm hearing from a lot of these scientists So do you think we might finally be on the verge of this I am fully convinced that I will walk away from my insulin lifetime, and I would be disappointed if it wasn't in this