Today I'm going to transform this boring to give it some more structure with a This is a project I'm Brad from Fix This Build That, So the first thing to do is grab a string and find out what the actual drop is from Then we can start planning out the wall. So I came down to the other end of the bed here, and that's I've got it at 90 inches, from the porch to the other steak. So I'm just going to take this in the knot that I tied. Here is a tall Take your loose end. Do one loop under. Another loop under. Then come back over And you can just pull that tight. So now you have a line that won't slip, And it keeps tension and it doesn't move. All right. So here's the pavers It's a nice thick four inch one. And these are tumbled So we'll talk more about that later. So this is going to be the highest part And I want the stone to be about two and a half inches above the surface, So that's where I put my stake. I use this measurement to put the line two So that starts my reference line and take measurements off of Now I can use my top line and throw a little line double level on it to get level. And the stakes are all in my lines are level and now I can take and a half inches high over the sidewalk at the deepest point, So I've got 14 inches and that quickly goes to 12 inches and So to figure out how many pavers which is four inches into 14, three and a half. Now that's nice because I will and my bottom paver will be halfway So think about that. When you're rounding up, you won't have that bottom layer buried The higher your wall is going to be, some of the mark out lies But I'm also going to add three inches So I'm actually going to be digging out I'm also going to make marks and four So when I go from four stones I can measure it that way. So I've got the trench on the short side dug and then I did But somewhere in between here going to go from four bricks to 3 to 2. So I'm not exactly sure how deep I need it So what I want to do and then see how it works and the going to be a whole other thing So for right now, I think it's good. I got a late start to the day so I'll pick it up tomorrow. All right. So today has been filled I came out this morning and I was checking that nothing had moved So I readjusted everything and then looked So I scratch my head for about 15 minutes the bubble level actually is not level. So great way to check your bubble level is to level it out That level should remain And if it doesn't, then it's out. We leveled everything out So we're actually going to be doing So make sure you check your tools and equipment I've got it all leveled out now Everything's tamped back down for the three pavers and 11 inches And I do have the transition right here. But this is like the most important area. So as we go into it, I want to make sure So I did a mock up and let me show you So I made this little layout when I was a kid But this is a perfect representation of what I want it So because these stones are keystone, then they make this curve. And I want to make sure So I set this up just to kind of get a feel to make sure that the top row looked good. So I'm going to go ahead because I want to make sure before you start because once that's in, to change things like that. So running it down to the wall, I can see that I'm going to have a little less than half I just wanted to make sure that it wasn't that was going to be Now, a lot of times and work the way out, and that's But I really wanted to make sure that curve on the corner and hit that But you can really do it either way All right. The first And I'm just going to layer this and then I'll take it down I got some paper saying here, because it's just so much easier So I'm going to put it in a one inch bass and I'm going to smooth that out I'm starting in the corner here. She needs a little concrete tool to help This is where you want to start to get the high spot secreted out. It needs a smaller level because you obviously can't pick that up All right. Now, I'm And once you get these bricks going, But with these tumbling stones, it's a little difficult But you can just add If it doesn't look level, you just knock them into place I'm going to work my way around. So you see, I have about a half inch gap in between these And as you go up, and as you insert them, So in the top layer, they'll line up on the blocks below them. As bright and sunny this morning. And I need to cut this stone down on that So I'm just going to use a cold chisel I've also used tile saws, but these stones are four inches thick, So I'm going to try it by hand I'm just going to strike a line down this because it will help it split easier. Ooh. All right. That especially for a bottom layer on the top But that was a pretty straight Oh, like a glove. We've got the first row in. And just like before, I'm and then work my way back because I am and I want to make sure that it's all going to hit up properly So for these, I'm going to put them down on the gap below it. But I'm also just going to set You want the wall moving in as it goes up, and I'm just going to leave a little bit So on my next layer, right as I come around this turn, this is where that bottom stone starts But once that stone goes under the ground, to just two layers So now I've put some extra dirt in here in the sand so that when I put it will set flush on top of the last paver That's like hitting this I think it's just all an illusion I hate you guys pit stop here because I want to be honest, Understand how I can keep taking away It's the most worthless footage ever. I just need pounding That was too low. These tumbled stones look amazing, And it's just because If you're using, especially a small level you might be up here and another side So I'm really having So a four foot level is really important. But man, the tumbled stones are tough. You can go to flat Let's keep going now. We can do it. So we got the whole second row laid out up into where it's going to transition But coming around The problem is I'm working the end of the house over here And so I'm kind of and how the bricks end up angled So I'll probably have to have a gap I'll show you what I mean on the top row, but either way, we can figure a way around it and might be able to cut some things We're almost ready for the top row, the second row is still just sitting here and I want to use some construction And you want to make sure you get the one I'm going to put this down get these all in place, I'm just going to take these up and you want to make sure At least just give them It doesn't have to be perfect, that that adhesive is going to set right. When I put this down, because the bottoms of So you want it on the high spots to make I'm gonna work my way through the rest, and we'll be ready for the next layer. Now we're ready for the top layer. And again, just like I did before, You can do this or not. Honestly, I can definitely over because I am still a recovering engineer But these are stones. None of it's going to be perfect, So I'll start removing these one at a time And then we can go on the straight path, which should be the easiest part When you're putting these down, overlap on the back up and these don't have a lip So you're going to have to do that by the nice thing. The adhesive doesn't you can still kind of wiggle these around I mean, you're certainly, and then more of the adhesive All right. We're coming up And it's not laid out If I lay these in here the way that I want to start turning because this next brick, So when I start this next brick here, it's So what I'm going have to do brick right here, and I can do that again Then I should be able to make the turn and we'll try to clean it up But it shouldn't stand out that much. All right. I went didn't turn out exactly how I wanted. There's still quite a bit of gap We've got more rocks. I try it again. This one looks great. Now I can continue along with there, And this actually turned out a lot I've got the wall in and with the adhesive it is nice and solid, we need to do on the backside to make sure And part of that's going to be raising the soil in the bed So I went ahead and I removed the variety as I trimmed up these new bushes On this far side of the wall, so that's going to be great. But around the front edge, we really don't have a spot I'm going to put in, I can start putting in some stone some good support behind it We're getting close to level on the bed, but I want the top layer of soil So I'm going to be mixing in some vigorous I got this from the Home Depot, So I'm just a beginner gardener, but I've been using Figaro products and they've been giving me They've been a lot of different items to the river rocks, which I'm going to use and of course, mulch and flowers. I'm using a lot of those to make And if you're trying to build a bigger or bolder garden, They make high quality products They're available at the Home Depot. I'll have links down to all the items that I use And a big thank you to Home And right behind the wall, that's going to help give it some drainage So I cut some of this and I'm just going The fabric liner from getting all clogged up with dirt, as well as it's going to help that sand And the stones I'm using and I'm just going They're kind of a medium sized rock, but they're going to let a ton of water the ends and go through the slope I'm going to add these rocks up Now, to close this off, and then we'll cover here along the front I wasn't able to get as much so it's going to be a little bit harder I'm going to do my best and then kind of fold them over And I think that'll just help But honestly, since this wall is only two not going to matter a whole lot. It's going to be more about the drainage All right, I've got the bed pretty I'm just going to go over it Then I can transplant the Lorraine up and some vigorous mulch on top. This was a lot of hard work, I love how it turned out. We have some extra space here in the bed in the front yard. Now we're going to be If you want to check out I've got a playlist I think you're going to love I want to give a big who've been joining the FTBT Until next time, guys