I've been looking forward to this adventure for so long and now we're finally here. Come on board and join us on our journey through the south of Poland. From the smallest high mountains in the world to the largest sand desert in Europe. And back to the eventful history of the last century. Everyone is watching. Where did I end up here? A region between tradition and modernity that has everything to offer, from a city trip to a nature experience. Oh God, oh God. On our journey through the south of Poland we are on the trail of wild animals in the smallest high mountains in the world, the High Tatras. In Krakow we meet people who tell us about the country's eventful history. And we visit the largest sand desert in Europe. Our first destination, the Pieniny National Park. The Dunajec River, the border river with Slovakia, runs here. It breaks through the Pieniny Mountains. The steep rock faces rise up to 300 meters high. And we drive right through it. Are those three famous mountains up there? Yes, those are the three famous crowns. The three crowns, they say. They are always mentioned. I wonder who came up with the idea. Because I see two more. You see five. Yes, I just see five. From the left, if you look from the left. Grandma with the hunchback. And shaved grandpa. And then come three granddaughters. High Catherine. Fat Mary. And ask Barbara. Tour guide Grzegorz Musial has lived on the edge of the national park since 2005. He accompanies guests throughout Poland. But he prefers to travel through his current homeland. Things get pretty wild here, right? The raftsmen belong to the Goral ethnic group. The name comes from the Polish word for mountain, gora. The Gorals live in the mountainous regions of the Carpathians. They are considered tough because they can withstand the adverse conditions in the mountains. You can only become a raftsman here if you are a Gorale. You wouldn't allow me to drive here, would you? To do this you would have to drive to one of the five surrounding towns we have here. That's a very good idea. I would like to have been born in one of the five towns. Yes, yes, I was born here. Okay, then let's make an exception. But only later. Because it's too dangerous now? Yes, it's a little too dangerous. The waves show me that the current is now getting faster and stronger. We go faster. You can explore the Dunajet River not only on a raft, but also while rafting or Medellin. You can also explore in a canoe. And there is even more to experience in the region. What awaits us on our journey through southern Poland? When it comes to nature, not only Pienien, not only Dunaets, but Oetatra, Polish forest Carpathians, there the bears that still live freely in nature. And here too. We already have a few copies here. The other day we were warned that even from our river, maybe in three kilometers, you can meet a bear. Bears have also been spotted on the bike path along the river. But there are said to have been no unpleasant clashes so far. Music Anyone who comes here as a holidaymaker can definitely see the bears. And enjoy the beauty of the landscape. Music Well, I've driven enough now. Now you can try it if you want. Yes? Is that serious? Yes, come a step over to me. Wow, that's a real honor. We do it step by step. Do you know what this stick is called? His name is Spryska. Spryska because it splashes in the water when he submerges. OK. This is a collocation in Poland. But yes. You have to make sure that you put the Spryska into the water close to the boat. And then push yourself off at the bottom. Okay . So, into the water. You have to grab it with both hands. Close to the boat. And then push yourself away. Yeah. Reach the... Uh, hu, hu, hu. It was almost gone, the stick. As easy as it looks. Okay, it's not... The water is pretty deep, huh? So, the thing is, if you cannot reach the bottom , then you basically have to use it as a rudder. And push back. OK. So. Nice. Better. Now. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I have new sunglasses. You have new sunglasses and I have a new hat. In the past, the rafts were used to bring wood and food to the Baltic Sea coast . Today to show visitors the landscape. Raft workers like Bartek have to complete a three-year training course including an exam. This is a very good job. This is a very good job. This is a very good job. This is a very good job. This is a very good job. This is a very good job. This is a very good job. Bartek, how did your friends react when you told them that you wanted to become a raftsman? raftsman. When I told them that I was becoming a raftsman, they were speechless and shocked at first. This is quite an extraordinary thing. There are only 200 raftsmen here. And there is something special about being a raftsman. It's a tradition in my family. My father was a raftsman, my grandfather was a raftsman and today I am one. Oh, now the current is increasing. Yes, you have to move further to the left now. To the left? Yes. Ah, pretty much. OK. Perfect. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you How old is your mother-in-law? Very clean water. My mother-in-law is already 90. Really? Yes, already over 90. And she drinks this water every day? She drinks water from this spring every day. The son-in-law always has to bring her something. Thanks, you always have to bring it here. Do you drink it every day too, Jergos? No, I don't want any. Who will endure me for 100 years? To be honest, I don't want to live to be 100 years old either. But if you drink a few sips, you might get a few months. But maybe you'll be 80. And does it taste good? That's really good. Hey, it's totally fresh, clear water. Can I offer you a drink? After about two hours on the river we reach the spa town of Shavnitsa. Shortly before we dock, Bartek tells me that he is currently training to become a pilot. Jergos, thank you very much. Okay, thank you. I hope you come back. I'll definitely come back. I've now gained a bit of extra time from the water. You liked it a lot. I really liked that. I'm happy about that too. Good men. Very good men. Bartek, thank you very much. And can I ask you another question? Would it be possible to fly with you? I think so. Promised? Promised. Cool, I'm really happy. Thanks. Thanks. Thanks. Four times, first here. At latest! Much Jerry is discovered by a TV megal. He looks after them together. For the escrito, such a Wyau4. Here is the Bu Yong to jest? Until then I'll just turn on thiseraldiceuss sewnel. Lots of epic games now. Where did you get your investigation from? I would take Career Girl over there. And sometime later the training for gongjang. The whole thing is coming to fruition, will that happen too? Ah, now we see, what's going on? But would it be good to say that we are going there? We now continue to follow the Duna and then turn west towards the mountains. We discover unique buildings in the wooded region. Churches almost entirely made of wood, evidence of medieval carpentry. Our next destination, the Tatra Mountains with the smallest high mountains in the world, the High Tatras. The highest peak in the region is at 2655 meters. And at the foot of the mountains a surprise awaits us. Hello Magda, nice to meet you. Bye Ramon. Do you speak german? Yes, I can speak German. You speak a little German, how nice. Yes, sometimes I speak English, but I'll tell you when I have problems. Yes, never about your Polskiego. Oh shame. Unfortunately I can no longer speak Polish. Hey, I'm really looking forward to meeting you because you want to show me a little bit about the mountains today. Yes, now we are in Kuznice and we will go to Kasprowy Vierg by cable car. Kasprowy Vierg is a very good place. We call this mountain Holy Mountain for Polish skiers. Many people come here in winter to ski down. I'll show you my favorite running routes up in the mountains. I do skyrunning. Didn't you know that? Well, the editors told me that we were doing something crazy and that I should take different shoes. I love running in these mountains. I'm really happy. Welcome. Let's go. We'll find out later what exactly skyrunning is all about. Magda Drejinska comes from Zakopane and, in addition to her job as a psychotherapist, is also a guide in the Tatra National Park. And strict rules apply there. The path through the national park starts here. And there's a sign right here that says be careful. Exactly, we have to be careful here. It doesn't mean we have to be afraid, but we have to be aware that we are now entering wildlife territory. And this also includes brown bears, for example. And it is entirely possible that we will encounter one today. Are you serious? I mean, I read about wild animals before my trip. Wolves, bears. The lynx also lives here. And the bears. If we encounter a bear, don't panic. Don't rush and move slowly. It's not in his nature to attack you. But he is at home here and we are just visitors. Have you ever met a bear? Oh yes, very often. And is it even possible not to panic? So when I think about it, I'm afraid I don't even know what to do. Well, it's not really possible not to be afraid. But you can hide them from the bear. You need to move slowly and appear calm on the outside. The bear is not a psychotherapist and doesn't know what's going on inside you. So stay relaxed for now. And then slowly walk away. Okay, then let's start relaxing. Don't worry, Ramon. Rangers filmed these bears in the park. The Tatra National Park is doing pioneering work. The conservationists want to preserve the animals' habitat and at the same time allow tourism. A difficult balancing act because there are always injuries and even deaths. Encounters with humans can also be dangerous for bears. A man once wanted to feed and play with a young bear because the animal was so young and cute. But that's tricky. Even a young bear is already very strong. And the young bear wanted more of the food and started scratching the man with his paws. The man was also slightly injured. And finally the tourist got so scared that he pushed the little bear into the water. The little bear drowned. The man was then sentenced by a court, although only to a fine, but this was one of the first court cases in Poland in which an animal was defended by the judiciary against a human. There are many hiking trails in the national park, even for beginners. We take the cable car to the top of Casbroviviac. It operates all year round. The journey to around 2000 meters takes just under 10 minutes and offers a spectacular view. So this is the vantage point. Yes, and from over there you have one of the most beautiful views of the Tatras. Wow, hey, this view makes me really happy. Such an impressive place. Really nice. About four fifths of the Tatra Mountains lie on the Slovakian side. The smaller part belongs to Poland. There are many border stones on the mountain ridge, but Slovakia is also an EU member and the border is open. When I look over there, I don't think, oh, those aren't our mountains, those are Slovak mountains. That's nonsense. It's all just the Tatras. So, you want to skyrun with me now? Yes, I want to run to heaven with you. Skyrunning is basically like trail running, i.e. running in open terrain. The only big difference is that you run on mountains that are over 2000 meters and the gradients are more than three and a half meters. That means the term is only 30 percent. Magda, Magda, you run like a gazelle. Man, man. I've never been with a professional athlete. Sog. This is a completely different box. The mother of three is, among other things, vice world champion in ski touring and has already climbed peaks over 7,000 meters high. If you go down, then here. Yes. When running downhill, try to relax your legs. It sounds really paradoxical, but try to let your body and especially your legs relax. Imagine running like a little girl through a colorful meadow of flowers. Without worries and completely liberated. Something like that. And try to hide all the stones and rocks. This is my first important tip. Tip number one. So. I went to the country, baby, won't you go? I went to the country, baby, won't you go? I'm going to a place I've never been before. Oh yes, it works. Little girl on the meadow. A little girl on the meadow. I go where the water smells like wine. I go where the water smells like wine. I go where the water smells like wine. I go where the water smells like wine. I go where the water smells like wine. Oh, she's killing me. Magda is killing me. Heidewimme. Oh wow! Oh wow! Breathe! Breathe? Yes! Wow, what a great place. What does skyrunning mean to you? You mean for me personally? Yes, what feelings does it give you? That's a difficult question. It gives me so many feelings at the same time. Sometimes, when I'm not feeling so good, I put on my running shoes and go for a walk up here and all my worries go away immediately. Or rather they simply dissolve with these beautiful views. A lot of endorphins are released and this gives me lots of nice feelings and joy. Sometimes I feel like a little 10-year-old girl again, just coming back into the world at some point. It then reminds me of all the beautiful, carefree moments from childhood. That's not possible, Magda. Hey, how nice to meet you and my warmest congratulations. Where are you from? Magda, where is this place? This is in the middle of Poland, near our capital Warsaw. I have a question, but maybe you can ask it in Polish so that they answer it in Polish. Do you want me to marry you? Yes, I want. Dear friend at home, I'm sorry. Yes, I want. Sorry, dear husband, I'm sorry too. But we'll do that later. So the two come from the middle of Poland. For you, is there a difference in the mentality of the people back home and those from the south? Okay, czy widzicie Roznica jestescie ze srodkowej Polski? Czy widzicie Roznica mentalnosci ludzi tutaj i tam na Polnocy, as in central Poland? Yes, the Gorals. Things are usually hectic at home and a lot of things revolve around work. Things are different here with the gorals in the mountains. Silence and peace reign here. All the best to you again for your future together and a beautiful life. Stolat! And I hope there aren't too many flies in your wedding photos. Take care, you two. And what about the two of us now? On the next hike, Magda. Okay, we'll get married on the next hike. Bye Bye. Ciao. Music farewell time. Yes, unfortunately. I'll just walk the path now. Yeah, hopefully you don't hit a bear. Yeah, hopefully you don't hit a bear. Yes, it can be dangerous if you meet a mother with little bears. Yes, they look after her. Yes, like every mother. Thanks. See you next time. Yes, see you next time. Ciao, ciao. Music Magda has to get back to her family quickly and takes the cable car down. But we stay in the mountains and sleep in a hut that we can only reach on foot. Music Music Music Music We don't meet any people on the way, but we still don't seem to be alone. Music I'm no wilderness expert, but this looks like a little bear track to me. So 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. A small one. Music Music Maybe Magda wasn't just trying to scare after all. I think it's time to run to the hut. Music The hut is open all year round and offers food and drinks as well as overnight accommodation. Music cheers! Crazy day. We'll leave it here as a team now. Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music The destination is the well-known winter sports resort of Sakopane at the foot of the Tatra Mountains. Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music The colleagues are sitting up there in the stands. Music They're pretty loud. Leskind Yes, it's pretty loud. It's really a unique experience, not just on TV, but here in person, where you can experience the whole atmosphere. Music Ski jumping is a national sport in Poland, just like football Music Since the end of the 1990s, football pitasi vniz has been taking place here every winter. YouZe indo pum Falst Ot Ski Jumping World Cup station. Visitors can look behind the scenes of this legendary ski jump all year round . Enjoy the view and don't look down. The ski jumpers take exactly this lift to the jump. A very special experience, and not just for them . We are now going to the so-called coachnest. Ah, that's where the coaches always stand. This is a special place. From here you can see how your jumpers jump off from the take-off table. And from here the trainers always give this starting signal to their jumpers, right? Yes, exactly, you can see them waving their little flag on TV . And wave the jumpers off. That's what's happening right here. And if you look to the left you can see them landing. The jumpers fly from the take-off table towards the crowd of spectators. The hill record is 142 meters. Here you have to be careful and pay attention with every step because the way down is very long. That's amazing and what a great view. Such a beautiful view. Yes, the view is really impressive. And it gives you a sense of how big it all is. Now you can imagine how you feel as you fly over it all. And when they jump off, they are incredibly high. Yes, very high. And now you have to imagine the stadium with 40,000 people all watching you. Hey, I only knew this from TV, but in reality it's much more impressive. Yes, then come to a sprinkler. Between June and September you can even slide down the hill on rubber tires. At up to 140 kilometers per hour. Instead of going downhill, things are now going uphill for us. Don't forget to breathe. Yes, yes, I'm there. Are you exhausted? No, no, I was just thinking how fit the ski jumpers are. I just thought how fit the ski jumpers are. How fit the ski jumpers have to be. They must be. Now turn around and enjoy the view. That's crazy. But I could never imagine throwing myself down here on skis. Have you ever done this before? No, that's not for me. But now we meet a man who doesn't mind at all. Kamil Stoch. One of the most successful ski jumpers of all time. Among other things, he won the four hills three times. In the last tour he... It's gold for Kamil Stoch. And has won a total of three Olympic gold medals. When I prepare for my jump here, I look at the place where I grew up and where I went to school. I went to high school at the lower end of Zakopane. The gallery with my trophy collection is also down there. Only about 300 meters from here. So I see a lot of familiar places from up here. Kamil Stoch was born in Zakopane. He also sees a reason for his success in his Goral origins. The Gorals don't just have to do with the harsh winters. You have to see this in nature too. They have to fight all year round. It is difficult for mountain farmers to maintain the soil. Therefore, they are inherently more robust. And that's why a lot of coaches that I work with tell me, oh, you have the personality of a mountain man. You get it done and never give up. And I believe that this is an important and encouraging quality in sport. That you can do something like this Hurikos more than you can. That is already necessary. In this gorgeous vegetarian pong, Ch Simon nails the stage. The career of magicians explicitly receives as much as three million researchers. Quite a few have been contracted and that's what you're looking for. Had a helmet that was too big. I had to share the helmet with two or three other jumpers . We had to take turns. And when it was my turn, the helmet slipped forward over my eyes as I jumped off. And I didn't see anything. And only when I landed did the helmet slip back. And I could see again. So I can't remember the time in the air or how long I was up there. But it was still worth it. So, Ramon, enjoy the view again. And then focus on the next steps. Do you have your scissors with you? Yes, unfortunately I forgot that below. That's really a shame. Because the conditions for a jump are perfect. Then sit next to me. Oh, it's pretty slippery here. Yes that's it. So be careful. Hey, that's a great feeling. So sure, it's a little scary and I'm shaking a little, but it feels really great. Kamil has good experience with the jump. He also dabbled in jumping. And another excursion tip for us away from the mountains. There are really many beautiful places to discover here. But have you already been to Krakow? Yes, we still want to go there. Krakow is my absolute favorite place in Poland. I studied and lived there for a few years. And that was really a great time. Krakow is about two hours drive from Zakopane. The city with its medieval core is considered the cultural capital of Poland. We not only get to know the well-known sights, but also real insider tips. So we're leaving the mountains for now, but we'll come back later. Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music We meet Krakow woman who wants to show us her favorite places in the city. Bye Monika I'm really looking forward to taking a city tour with you. I'm happy too. I come from the mountains, the Tatras. And I was told that Krakow should be a completely different experience. Of course, it's less nature, but more city. Even a big city. But what I want to show you today is Krakow as an old city. With old architecture, some of which is over 600, even 900 years old. We're meeting here now, right in front of the statue of Pope John Paul II. You're kind of very proud of him, aren't you? Of course, he is a great national hero for the Poles. He was Pope for us and very important as Pope. But also a national hero, known for the fight for freedom during the communist era. The monument is not there without reason. We are not only here at the monument, but also at the Krakow Cathedral. And before John Paul II comes, when he moved to Rome, he was archbishop here in Krakow. And that was his church. Karol Wojtyla, the future Pope John Paul II, worked in Krakow for more than 20 years. From 1964 to 1978 he was archbishop of the Wawel Cathedral in Krakow. Then he was elected pope. To this day, the majority of people in southern Poland are Catholic. Right next to the cathedral is the Wawel Castle, which is one of the most culturally important places in Poland. At the foot of Wawel Hill, one of the oldest and most picturesque streets in the city begins in this square. Oh, wow! A nice view. Yes, totally. And an explanation why Krakow sometimes has a little Rome. Two churches close together. Often you even see three. There used to be a church where the column stands. The church on the right is called St. Andrew's Church. And it is the oldest church in Krakow. A church and a fortress at the same time. And right next to it is the Peter and Paul Church. I think it looks incredibly beautiful. It is also the oldest baroque church in Poland. And it's also the biggest. And it's also the biggest. The church is now known for concerts. Concerts take place there every evening. And we always think it's the smallest church in Krakow because even the apostles have to stand outside. These twelve gentlemen outside. Yes, and here we have our local specialty. These are the Krakow pretzels. Pretzel? Oh, we call them pretzels. Oh, we call them Obwazanki in Polish. But also sometimes pretzels. But they are round. Pretzel, yes, like rings actually. It's white bread. They're not sweet. They are sold with poppy sesame or salt. I've now seen them in other cities too. But there they are also called the Krakow pretzel. And you can't get them everywhere. And here really on every corner. Obwazanki. Obwazanki, yes. Czesc. Czesc. What do you mean, can we have two of them in Polish? Poprosche, two. Poprosche, two Obwazanki. Gladly. The Obwazanki have been around for many, many years. When I remember my childhood, I also think of Obwazanki. These are baked by the oldest bakery in town. They're not as fresh as they were this morning, but still very good. That's good, it's a little sweet. Has a sesame flavor. For me, as a Swabian, it has nothing to do with a pretzel. Yes, it is also Obwazanek. Krakow pretzel. The Rinek Glowni is arranged in a square. Two beef pretzels, two beef pretzels. And two beef pretzels. That's a little sweet. It is arranged in a square. 200 meters long and wide. In the Middle Ages, fabrics were sold in the market hall. Today mainly souvenirs and local handicraft products. But we have to move on quickly. Because every hour on the hour a very special event takes place here. It is played in four different directions from four different windows. When he starts, he plays from a window above us. That's why we stop here for a moment and we hear the trumpet. First the bells. Now we can hear the bells, exactly. And then the trumpet. Krzysztof Krawczyk is one of only seven so-called Hejnaliszczi who play from the 82 meter high tower of St. Mary's Church. I keep thinking that there's no way I can be late. And a Hejnalista's biggest nightmare is when you just take a nap, even at home. And then wakes up and thinks that you overslept the 12 o'clock shift. Because this is the most important hour of the day for us, because our playing is broadcast on the radio all over Poland. The tradition has been around since the 14th century. The Hejnaliszczi take turns playing in 24-hour shifts. Being able to play up here fills me with pride and satisfaction. For me it is the fulfillment of my biggest dream. When I learned to play the trumpet, one of the first melodies was the Hejnau Marijacki. And I would never have thought it possible to play this piece up here today. Really a great honor. The hourly trumpet signal Hejnau Marijacki is intended to commemorate the heroic defense of Krakow against the Tartars in 1241. Almost all Poles have known the melody since childhood. My father commented on the melody. My father sometimes wanted me to play the Hejnal from the balcony of our house in the evenings when dusk fell . And we lived in a hilly region, so my Hejnal Marijacki could be heard throughout the village. Today's trumpet players all work for the Krakow Fire Department. Anyone who wants to play up here has to be a Polish citizen and pass a fear of heights and fitness test. By the way, the abrupt ending is not a mistake when playing. It commemorates the attack of the Tartars, in which, according to legend, the trumpeter was hit by an arrow from the attackers. Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music We feel comfortable even in the center of the city. That's why you see not only tourists here on the market square, but also many locals. What is the mentality of Krakow residents? Well, as I said, we are big local patriots. To become a real Krakow native, you have to live in Krakow for 150 years. So these are generations, yes. Yes, the others probably don't like us. Many say that we are arrogant. The others live. Yes, which of course is not true at all. And in Krakow they make everything Pomau, Pomau. Pomau? I was once in Croatia, where they also have Pomalo, they always said, in Deimazia. Yes, Pomau, Pomau means slowly, slowly. Simply comfortable. Nice Pomau. And all of Pomau, Monika takes us to one of her favorite restaurants. There you can find Polish specialties, interpreted in a modern way. Mamaje serdusko, zanowam bagu... Dziekuje. Thank you so much. Thank you. Pierogi. Yes, the Polish dumplings. They remind me a bit of my childhood. I used to have a good Polish friend and his parents sometimes had pierogi at home. Really? Mmm. But they are here, they look special. That's probably the beetroot, right? Yes, I suppose. I don't know at all what's in it. Ah, it's a surprise for you too. Yes, it's a surprise for me too. There are three traditional varieties, but here I see more, so I assume the filling is of different types. What are the traditional varieties? The traditional ones are with meat. Pig probably. Yes, yes. With sauerkraut or cabbage and mushrooms. OK. And the third variety with cottage cheese, boiled potatoes and onions. Every summer, Krakow hosts the Pierogi Festival, where restaurants from all over the country compete. This restaurant has won several times. The owners are always coming up with new fillings for the dumplings. It reminds me a bit of our Swabian national dish. Do you know it? Yes, Maultaschen. The Maultaschen, exactly. Of course, yes. Oh, it's very good. Yes? Mmm. Simply very balanced, the taste. I'll try a red winning pierogi here. Definitely, yes, it is beetroot. So beetroot, yes. Yes. She's great. Really? Mmm. You have to try them. The main course is Bigos. A hearty mix of sauerkraut, fresh cabbage, various meats and spices. Good. Mmm. Yes. And then with bread too. Bigos is cooked for a long time. Yes, really. You need a lot of time. And a lot of patience. The reason for Krakow's former prosperity has one main reason. It is located about 13 kilometers southeast of the city. Music Music Music Music Music Music Music hearts. Music Okay. Can you please, I'll get him in, please? Oh, it's okay. Me first? Yes, guests first. Would you like a photo too? Phone. Phone. Yes. That's how it is for our days. And it returns 4 meters per second. How fast? Yes, so quickly. 4 meters per second. 4 meters per second. OK. Kornelia Puzdrowska shows us the salt mine, which is over 700 years old. A lot of money was made from the salt trade and the work underground was hard. Various paths lead through the mine, such as the miner's route and the pilgrim route. We take the most popular route, the so-called tourist route. Wieliczka is well known in Poland. Very well known, very popular. And there is also a song associated with salt and Wieliczka. I think everyone in Poland knows where Wieliczka is and that salt is mined here. Can you sing the song? Or is it no longer? Pienioschki, kto maten jedzie do Wieliczki, a kto Pienioschkow never maten palcem do Solniczki. And what does it mean? This means that anyone who is rich goes to Wieliczka. If you don't have any money, you stick your finger in the salt at home. The work here was dangerous. Faith in God gave the miners hope and strength. Wait, I have to turn on a light. Please wait. In total there are over 50 places of worship and small chapels in the mine. All built from salt by the miners. Music Please look, this is what the walls look like. The walls look dark because there is no light from outside. As I said, these are pieces of earth. And when it's lit up, it looks like this. It is very light and transparent. That's an average of 95% sodium chloride in the walls. Wow. Yes, looks nice. Looks great. As a visitor, you quickly lose the sense of how deep and where you are. We are 64 meters underground. With these stairs we go to the second level, up to 90 meters deep. Music The workers' shifts lasted up to 12 hours. And underground work had to be continuous. Music The mining of salt released methane gas, which is why there was a constant risk of explosions. Music The crawlers on the ground, on the long sticks, have the torch and are trying to burn out methane. Daily. The other workers always came in and cleaned the methane from the chambers. The more often they come in, the better. But still, it happened that they came in and it's more than 5%. And then it explodes. During the explosion the temperature rises to 2000 degrees, there is no oxygen in the air. They have no chance there. Music Oh wow. Many people died in the mine. There are no exact numbers. This is also why the miners built underground chapels. To ask for protection. Music It took the miners almost 70 years to build this chapel in honor of their patron saint, Saint Kinga. Music The mill is made of salt rock. Music I was just thinking about the first chapel, that's a special place. No, this is here. It's really phenomenal here. And look at all the figures here. All the figures, everything is made of salt. This floor too, you just need this pattern, this tracking. There was salt here and they prepared it. It was a normal came, they fed salt here for 40 years. That was in the 19th century, everything was handmade. And then there was this room, so big in this shape. And then the miners came up with the idea of setting up a chapel here. And it took almost 70 years until it was mostly finished. But they were incredibly talented miners who did it. Music Every year, well over a million visitors come to the mine. Music And for early risers there is a very special way to protect this space in peace. Music Every Sunday there is a service, it is very early in the morning at 7 a.m. At 7am? At 7 a.m., you have to get up early, you have to report up there before 7 a.m. because you have to get down here. And then the church service. When the tourists come, it's already over, the chairs have already been put away. Have you already attended the church services here? Yes, I was, a few times, once at 7am. How does that feel? Well, maybe, some people used to believe that people could hear people better these days. Maybe the connection with the god is better, among the days, who knows. Music Mining has left its mark not only underground but also above ground. Music The groundwater has lowered here and, among other things, the only desert in Central Europe was created. Music It never gets as hot here as in the Sahara, but in summer the sand can heat up to 60 degrees. Music We return to Krakow and want to discover the city a little off the usual tourist path. Music A Ostalgie tour of a slightly different kind awaits us. Music Hey, where are you going? First time in Krakow? Yes, first time in Krakow. No, I don't need anything. 35, 35, that's 50, Prada, original. Do you sell things here? I have films, I have films, I have Bruce Lee and... music ... and German erotic movies, yes? Music ... and tonight. Music Come on, they're tourists. Let's go behind the grains. Music People should... Music Let's see what else he has in his luggage. Music What is this now? Music You left a kiss inside, yes? Music The idiots, yes? They left pillows in the morning. Music Music Music Music If you're ever invited to a strange party, then you should accept the invitation, right? Music You mean really? Go in. Music Yes. OK. Let's go for a relief. Music Music Thomas is a self-proclaimed Crazy Guide. Music In his role, he wants to bring visitors closer to what Krakow felt like for him in his childhood. Music And he does it in his own unique way. Music Music Everyone is watching. Music Where did I end up here? Music I'll take you to El Dorado, the Nowa Huta district. Music music Thomas grew up in Nowa Huta. Music A district of Krakow that, with its Soviet architecture, is reminiscent of Poland's communist era. Music Nowa Huta could be seen as a positive side effect of communism. Music The entire district was centrally planned. Music The Communist Organization was a good solution for people. Music I call these philanthropic extras. Music You had neighborhood schools, kindergartens, playgrounds and medical care centers and of course air raid shelters. Music for all occasions. Music In case our damn imperialists from America wanted to attack us. Music Music Thomas was born in 1978 and lived here in the neighborhood during the Cold War. Music For a long time the image of the district was rather dark, dirty and uninteresting. Music He wants to change that through his tours. Music Welcome to El Dorado. Music to Gangsters Paradise. Music Gangsters Paradise. Music Gangsters Paradise. Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Thus I gotta beat'em with a hood team. rD from Horde 2 This is what's left... The emergency exit of the bomb shelter... To this day the door is open and is connected to the cellars of the surrounding houses. Aha The tunnel is built in a curve so that the shock wave of the bomb can be slowed down. After a possible bombing and education joint after a possible bombing possible bombing, this would be the only exit here. But let's move on and look at something nicer. Large parts of Krakow were destroyed after the Second World War. Nowa Huta was built in just ten years in 1953. With the aim of promoting industrial production and socialist values. I remember Lenin, of course. There was a huge statue of him on this green space in front of you. Ah, this statue was in front here. Ten meters tall and his stomach had a real six-pack. But that was all fake, because he was actually really skinny and small. And at the bottom it said in big letters that Nowa Huta was the work of Lenin. Another piece of propaganda nonsense. When the Soviet Union collapsed, I was eleven years old. And when they tore down the statue, it was hanging on a crane. And you can see in the picture how tall she was. And the next morning I came here in the morning and put a piece of the base from the statue on my back. And I'll be here later. And I ran home. That part was really heavy. And we lived two kilometers away from here, on the ninth block. The apartment was on the fourth floor and I climbed the stairs. My mother was already standing in the doorway and watching me struggle to get up. When I got to the top she basically said, have you gone crazy? What are you carrying around with you? And I, Mommy, have a piece of the Lenin statue as a souvenir. And then she thanked me and said with a smile on her face that she has been thinking of such a beautiful gift all her life. And I, Mommy, have a piece of the Lenin statue as a souvenir. And she told me that I had a nice present waiting for me. Then she banished it to the balcony. But a short time later she started using the stone to express the sauerkraut. What Tomasz presents here in a humorous way naturally has a historical background. Because Nowa Huta was one of the central places for resistance against the communist regime at the end of the 80s. The protests also came from workers at the former Lenin steelworks. The steelworks experienced its greatest boom in the 1970s. Up to 7 million tons of steel were produced here. And more than in all of Australia combined. And that per year. Completely crazy. Only in this factory? Only here. 40,000 people worked here. My mom also worked here. As a computer programmer, she later earned her doctorate in engineering. This made her even more important than others for the Soviet system. And that's why she got an apartment here at the time. My father was an independent lawyer at the time. Of course that was unimportant in the communist system. But at that point you were better off breastfeeding when you worked here. After the end of communism, Nowa Huta was considered a hotspot district for a long time. Tomasz also parodies this in his role as Crazy Guy. He is a very good man. He fell in love with the backdrop for the backdrop in the backdrop at the time. And he also fell in love with the setting during the period. At the end of the tour he takes us to a hip trendy bar where hardly anything has changed to this day. Here we meet Tomasz's colleague and founder of Crazy Guides, Crazy Mike. We didn't feel poor back then. Sure, we somehow knew that things were more colorful in the West. But we weren't sad. But to give you an example of how different life was back then. At Christmas, relatives from the West didn't send us any gifts, just catalogs from toy manufacturers with pictures and prices printed on them. And just looking at the catalog we were like, oh my God, they have 25 different Lego sets, oh my God, 20 different dolls. And your friends came to visit you just to look at the catalog with you. Oh my God. To view the catalog. Let's have the Polish Espresso. Three cups. For the benefit. Cheers and thank you for this exciting trip. I like the taste of vodka in the afternoon. The tour with the Crazy Guides, a cool experience. Krakow is completely different. Welcome the Outsteppers. Murderer, I'm the lyrical gangster. Murderer, she's coming to Kronekteria. Murderer, still not be guided. Murderer. We leave Krakow behind us for now and travel again towards the Tatra Mountains. There we explore crystal-clear mountain lakes and get to know a culinary specialty of the Gorals. Music Music Music We want to discover the mountain lakes of the Tatra Mountains. But our hiking guide Jacek Zirbajesinski fears a thunderstorm. Here in the Tatra mountains we are completely dependent on the weather. We live in the rhythm of nature. Whether we want it or not. And thunderstorms and storms are the most dangerous things that can happen to the mountains. Because, as you know, lightning always seeks out the highest places, like the tops of mountains. But let's wait another 10 to 20 minutes. Maybe the storm will have stopped by then. The thunderstorm is not the only danger. It can always snow in the Tatras, even in summer. There is no month of the year where it snows for over 1000 people a year. Even in summer? Sometimes people die here because they get caught in a snowstorm in the middle of summer. After about half an hour the storm passed. Jacek was born in Sakopane and knows the mountains very well. As a guide in the Tatra National Park, he knows why the mountains are so popular. Everything is very close to each other. Here you can see what the flap can look like. Here you can see a classic alpine mountain landscape. The same as in the Alps, only much smaller. The last glacier melted 10, 12,000 years ago and formed the valley. You could take all the mountains of the Tatra Mountains and put them in a valley in the Alps. And no one would notice. At its narrowest point, the Tatra is less than 9 kilometers wide. So you can theoretically cross the entire Tatras in half a day without getting tired. The same landscape, the same history as the Alps, just a little smaller. After about an hour we reach the first lake. After about an hour we reach the first lake. After about an hour we reach the first lake. After about an hour we reach the first lake. After about an hour we reach the first lake. Wow! Bye! Bye! So beautiful! That's freedom, Jacek! If the wind comes from the right direction, waves like those at the sea can even form here. And also the corresponding noise. There are no limits to your imagination. There are no limits to your imagination. Swimming is prohibited in the lakes of the national park. The sensitive ecosystem should be protected. The sensitive ecosystem should be protected. We have several so-called black lakes in the Tatras. The lake is called the Black Lake. The lake is called the Black Lake. Yes, that's because of very small creatures in the water that are black. Yes, that's because of very small creatures in the water that are black. You can also see them on the shore. And therefore the light does not reflect. And therefore the light does not reflect. But the water is totally clear. But the water is totally clear. And you can see up to 12 meters deep. And you can see up to 12 meters deep. Because there are neither fish nor plants in the water here. Because there are neither fish nor plants in the water here. It's crystal clear. It's crystal clear. Of course, that was also the almost high condition for the awakening in the Alps. Sic more humor. propaple The stream Singh It puts us in the sea of heavenly The stars The stars The stars This is such a black light that pushes me. This is such a black light that haunts me. But Nucleisch But Nucleisch But Nucleisch Since Houston only inaischen multimeter automatically for You1 in theAmerican These are the clouds now, Jacek. Yes. Look, they're coming real quick. Yes, that's also the end of the beautiful view over the lake. We were really lucky and had a small weather window to admire the lake. It's good that we still started running and can see it now. This is the best proof of what I told you before. The weather can change completely all of a sudden. Look at the cloud over the water. The Meerauge is located in the neighboring valley. This will become the largest lake in the world. It is called the Tatra Mountains. A very popular destination for tourists and locals in summer. On our way back to the valley we meet many sheep. They provide the most important ingredient for another Polish specialty. It is made by the Goral mountain farmers. I don't know Polish. Do you speak English? A little, yes. What do you produce here? We're making cheese right now. From sheep's milk. We still produce the cheese in the traditional way. If you want, you are welcome to support us. Yes, if I may, gladly. Sure, of course. I'd be happy to show you. I'm really happy about that, but I can't get through this. I'll open the door for you. I'll open the door for you. Thanks. Thanks. Thanks. Stanislav and his colleague Henrik are the so-called Baltic Sea buyers. The Baltic Sea cheese. Based on a centuries-old Goral recipe. The traditionally smoked sheep's cheese is typical of the region and is cooked in salt water. You take the cheese in your hand like this and then try to imitate this. Don't press too hard. Very carefully. The Baltic Sea cheese is known not only for its taste, but also for its special shape. Put the body in the mold. Something like this? Just as. And then you put this inside. Aha. Like this. Now put the ring. The ring over the wooden bowl. And then squeeze together. No no no. Only the cheese that is sticking out now needs to be pushed in. OK. It's like this. Uh. Do you see? See. The cheesemakers spend the summer up here in the mountains. During this time they usually sleep in the pasture with their sheep to protect them from attacks by bears or wolves. My family has been making cheese for 150 years. My father is the fourth generation to do it. And I have it in the fifth. We never stopped. When I was a child, the work was even harder than it is now. We used to have to bring the cheese into town. And today people also come to us. Just like you. In the end it looks like this. That looks good though. Hendrik? Is that a good thing? Yes. OK. Three. Is he honest with me? No, that's really good. That was your first time. And it turned out really, really well. Now the cheese goes into cold salt water for twelve hours. After it is dried, it is smoked. It's really smoky here. It really burns your eyes. Yes, but I don't think there will be any more cheese. The boys don't mind. Are your eyes okay? Yes, they're used to it. Thanks for helping me. Now the Ozipec comes up here to be smoked. Ah, okay. And he'll probably stay up here for two to three days. And every day we have to turn it two or three times. Ah, I see. So that each side gets enough smoke. Yes, exactly. And then he's done. The cheeses sell their product directly from the hut. We'll now try the raw sheep's cheese first and then the classic smoked one. Is it good? Is it good? Yummy. Yummy? Yummy. Yummy. It actually tastes like milk, like goat's milk. It's good, right? Mmm. And how does it taste? Very good. Very good. So really, really good. Very strong taste, salty, natural, smoky. Incredibly delicious cheese. It's very strong, very powerful, smoky, very salty. Thank you for showing us. Thank you too, Hendrik. Thanks. I'll carry on with that. Nice experience. We return to Krakow and visit the Jewish quarter of Kazimierz. Today back to Krakow, where the Emperor's Sister is close to the Emperor's Sister . Today it attracts visitors from all over the world. With its lively atmosphere, charming cafes and trendy bars. The district was destroyed after the Second World War and was neglected for a long time. Steven Spielberg's Oscar-winning film Schindler's List, filmed here in the 1990s , brought new life to the area. And he made Krakow's Jewish heritage and history known worldwide. The film tells the true story of Oskar Schindler, a German industrialist who saved over 1,100 Jewish people from death in concentration camps during the Holocaust in Krakow . He employed them as indispensable workers in his enamel factory in Krakow. In this way he saved her from being deported to a concentration camp. A museum provides an impressive reminder of this history. Today Kazimierz is a place where people of Jewish faith can openly live their culture again. Like Maria Hershowa. We are here in Kazimierz, the Jewish quarter. This beautiful building used to be a synagogue. And there were plenty of them in this neighborhood. Before the Second World War, over 60,000 Jews lived here. Maria Hershowa comes from Ukraine and Boazaj Tatarek from Poland. They work for the Jewish student organization Hilel and want to show us their neighborhood. Behind every corner there is a building with a Jewish past. Schools, a butcher shop or a synagogue. People spent their everyday Jewish life here. That's the case again today. But of course people live here according to the deeds. Of course, after the Holocaust there are no longer as many Jews living here as there were back then. But there are still a few thousand. Your Jewish identity is also visible through the fact that you wear a kippah. You wear them with pride, right? In any case. This is part of my identity and my culture. I researched my last names and looked for relatives in Germany. After the concentration camps were liberated, a branch of the family went to Australia. And to the USA. I contacted them. And step by step I found out that my mother's family was Jewish. So you grew up Christian as a little boy? Yes, exactly. And you only found out about your Jewish origins later? Exactly that. Boagay speaks publicly for the first time about his family's origins. After the Holocaust, many Jewish families hid their identities. For fear of oppression. As children, we wanted to know who we were from our parents. What origin we come from and what culture we belong to. But for many people, especially after the Holocaust and the Soviet Union, their own history has not been dealt with. The parents hid them as best they could. My grandfather also always closed the doors in front of my father when he spoke Jewish, so that my father wouldn't know any words. And the consequence of that is that we have to google ourselves. What does it mean to be Jewish? This sounds crazy, but this is the only way we can find out who we are. Again. For Maria and Boagay, Krakow is now a safe place to openly show their Jewish origins. And so the story continues. And so the story continues. And so the story continues. And so the story continues. And so the story continues. And so the story continues. And so today more and more people are coming to the city to find out more about their Jewish roots. And so today more and more people are coming to the city to find out more about their Jewish roots. Hi Kichas. Hi, I'm Ramon. Nice to meet you. Hi, I'm Ramon. Nice to meet you. Nice to meet you. I see you're wearing a Star of David necklace. The two of them just told me that they live together with the Star of David. The two of them just told me that they live together. that this neighborhood here in Krakow has developed into a kind of safe place for Jews. Do you feel that way too? Yes, and I think the reason why that is has to do with history. Before the Holocaust, Jews lived here for a thousand years, which is why there is a long relationship between Poles and Jews. I feel there is a great exchange of culture and shared history. I think it's great to see how people are interested in the past. Everyone come here and find out more. The district has been forgotten for a long time and Schindler's List changed that. It's nice that you're here today. We would also like to invite you to a concert this evening where young Jews from Krakow will sing in Yiddish. Tonight? Yes, exactly, tonight. Well, thank you. I'd love to come there. Great, we're happy. Since 2001, the Jewish community has held the Jewish Cultural Festival every year. Concerts, readings and other cultural activities take place throughout the city. Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Applause Applause Music Music Applause akcept Jewish Life . This is also what Krakow stands for today. But that wasn't always the case. We meet Holocaust survivor Sofia Radzikowska. Sofia,lled. Sofia, it's so nice to meet you. The joy is all mine. Sofia Radzik is disciplined. Sofia Radzikowska was born in Krakow in 1935. She tells her incredible story. I remember that I was about to go for a walk with my mother when suddenly the air raid alarm sounded. And my mother said that we can't leave the house. A short time later a strange man stood at our door. I didn't see him, but my father told me later that it was a German SS officer. was. And he told us that we have to leave the apartment immediately. We only had two weeks because all the houses were confiscated by the German army. And then some strangers came and just took all of our things and then we had to leave too. In 1939, the city's Jewish residents were expropriated and forced to do forced labor by the Nazis. But Sophia's mother had an idea. We went to a small village near Krakow. Today the village is also part of the city, but back then it was an outskirts. Then I was all alone with my mother. My father was taken to the ghetto. The only reason we didn't have to go there was because we had so-called good looks. That means we didn't look Jewish. And we pretended to be Polish Catholics. But my father couldn't do that because, like all the other Jews in Krakow, he was circumcised. In 1941 the Krakow Ghetto was established and my father was transported there. It was thanks to my mother that neither of us went to the ghetto. But we always had to pretend we weren't Jews. That was very dangerous. But my mother just knew that we would have fallen into the trap in the ghetto. And just the idea of us going to the ghetto was very dangerous. In the Krakow Ghetto, the Jewish population was isolated and ultimately deported to concentration camps. After the war ended, my childhood understanding was that fathers returned home after the war. My mother waited too. But in the last few years, when I was in the Krakow ghetto, I was able to behave. But later people came to us and told her that my father was killed in Auschwitz. And that there is no one left for her to wait for. But imagine that today, at the age of 88, I am singing as a tenor in the choir. Isn't that a miracle? Music helps for a good spirit, right? Absolutely. The music helps with everything. I couldn't imagine life without music anymore. And for all Israel. And for all Israel. Many thanks. Thanks. Many thanks. Thanks. Thanks. Thanks. Thanks. Thanks. At the end of our trip, the young raftsman Bartek keeps his promise. I'm so excited. I've never sat in such a small plane. But I think Bartek can be trusted. We want to experience the south of Poland from above. Bartek is currently training to become a pilot. Today he is already allowed to offer tours in smaller aircraft. Wow! That's what we want. Craziness! That's crazy. We fly straight towards the mountains. Craziness! Zakopane is down there. Bartek, I met you on the raft at the beginning of the trip. You were wearing this traditional costume and looked very proud. And now I experience you in a completely different environment. Yes, that's the other side of me. I have many pages. But the raft is the other side of me. Flying is my greatest love and passion. Whether in such machines or gliders or something else. I prefer to be in the air. This is my best place. I'm so grateful right now that I get to experience this up here with you. I mean, I got to know southern Poland from so many different perspectives. While hiking, skyrunning and with you from the water. And now again from above, that's something completely different. And you learned how to steer a raft. And now you can try to control the plane. Honest? Put your hands on the control stick. Okay, I'll take it. OK. If you do this, you will fly higher. This is how you go down. This is how it goes to the left. And so it goes to the right. So, Ramon. Nobody but you is piloting the plane now. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Ready? Ready? You can handle it. You can do it. OK. Okay, take care. OK. Yup. You can take it. You can do it. You're doing great!