Hello friends I'm Tai Now? I'm from Wenxing Village, Daluchao Township, Suiyang County On this side of Tongdawo, on the top of a mountain, ha Then here, I found two families. And this highway also leads to the door of this house. The environment of this location is very good Altitude at 1200 meters Especially suitable for summer Up there, we see smoke. It is estimated that an old man is at home. What about this place? What I saw was two wooden houses. This wooden house is uninhabited. A house like this lives in the forest. That is, there are several pieces of land around it, which are planted with them. So basically the whole house is surrounded by this forest. You can't see this house from anywhere outside. Although the highway has led to this, his house is at the door. But these roads are not into the navigation system. Which means you're navigating I can't see this highway into the Lord. Must be the way to ask for directions You were able to get here, huh You can't find it here by navigating. Everyone should remember this, huh If you don't believe it, your family name is Zou's hometown, Zhou Well, what's your name? My surname is Wang Wang Ha Er, you oh Here as you dry This is our home No one at home, huh It's my boss. I died in two hours. I was born outside. The baby works outside. Both of you passed away. Oh, we are nameless ah life ha ha Yes. The old man is lonely and can't carry it home. Should we build a good house? To produce and process the material oh Wait until your family. Wait here. There are several high-level ones near my home, and there are also 15. More than ten families built this road. The three of us invested 20000 yuan. Some give ten thousand dollars to invest. It took him 20000 dollars to get through a road. Give birth to a child and be the one who makes money as a worker. The third was a year. Delay, this mountain has to bear 13,000 catties of rice. Is to make money when the dog, do first Feel the upper beam ha, upper beam You are Shenzhen. This house has not been decorated. No, alas, alas It's really a sister of the Mid-Autumn Festival It's not good for you to find him. She's not looking for anything to do. I'm getting married again. You're going to run out of money The one who got married, he Anyway, his mother remarried You give me two dolls That doll is all money to earn me money to forget me Then I'm lonely and trust you anyway. What about your wife? I think the man he was six years old 83 years old adult After 36 years and 201 years of writing, I suffered three serious injuries. One year equals three months. After three or three is equal to one year, he will be seriously injured from one year. Then I will be here and can be located in your 15 deep water. Where is it now? Birthday money. I can't call out which one is in Guangdong I can't call any phone. There are a few things. 222 villages, two villages Full marks for one shot, oh Both are in Guangdong. Is there one When you were 22, you went to Longkou for work. You're not working in Oops. My old man and old people corps production team eat chicken on time to eat weight He said he hit nobody The one who said I was eight He said the old man was old and looking for Fengzi to live. Finally, I said that my expert should apply for an expert. You and you quit in the agricultural science institute again, turn around I have applied, and I have to apply before I can transfer it. I applied for it and turned my head around. This one is produced. He doesn't have a few people at your construction site. On the fifth day of the month, the two heads picked up and got up, which was the 18th change of the 99 palace. It turned out to be too much to live now. Living 80 years old, you are Taiwan and China I have seen for half a year. Tomorrow, I, an old Communist, will not be an old party member or an old party member. Did you participate in the Cultural Revolution? experts. That's when I was in agronomy school All to eight districts and counties Eight districts, 350 members Waiting for me to work under my 13 party members to work under my staff Eight Reasons for Work She can't grow up in the studio. Change with others. I can't even do it anymore No one recognized the old man. He's old, huh You're old I just can't do the tape that you don't earn now. If you do a workshop, you won't pay for it. He has thought about it, which economy will be taken It is equivalent to doing filial piety. Put all the good work into this. Have you settled the old man, eh? Do it slowly Because of the dream Old and gone. This is not a disability and go, just sent my hall of fame Uh-huh. On the mountainside of a big mountain at the mouth of Chongqing We found another family living here. We can see the mountain behind this family. It's a long mountain range. Then live in this position Is a branch down, eh Right on the mountainside There is a particularly flat and empty land The house is built Here, the whole house of the surrounding land And farming. So, there must be people left to live on this. Today, let's go up and visit our friends. Hello, everyone. Now, I am in the middle of the road from Wuxi to Chengkou in Chongqing. Come here, the scenery is very beautiful Let's have a look Today, let's continue to visit the mountains. I feel that their side is quite humane, huh There's also a public toilet. I parked my car here Let me show you the scenery here. There's a dot in front here that says it's two doors. What about his two doors? That's what I'm talking about. The blade mountain above is very beautiful. Let's take a look, it's beautiful. It's really beautiful If you look at it from the air It's really this feeling of being as thin as a blade. So here, it's a river. What if we all travel by ourselves I still suggest you take this line. This line is beautiful. What about this highway? It is down the river So the whole scene is very beautiful I think in the winter time ah We can walk around these canyons a little more, eh. First of all, the first one is not too cold The second one, this low, low, low place This green plant will be more abundant. In summer, we can go to the mountains to play. It's cool in the mountains, isn't it? Now? I'm at the foot of a mountain Our car came in through that canyon. In this place, there is no road. Then here, we have to climb the mountain straight. On the mountainside of this mountain in front of me There is another family living there. Look at this road. No one left. Then in winter, the leaves are yellow and fall down. The whole trail is covered with leaves. In this way, everyone should be able to see it. This slope is actually very steep What about their trails? They're all bends back and forth. It's like the shape of that 72-turn highway. Because you go straight, it's too steep to climb. Especially when you have to memorize things, it is even more troublesome. So this straight line distance For example, from the lower side of the road. The straight distance to their home may be 12km. But what about through these bends After stretching, there is almost 34km of road. So? Walking up is uphill It may take an hour to walk. Almost 40 or 50 minutes an hour People used to complain that I didn't bring anything to the mountains. How do you say this road I need to carry a bag myself I want to shoot this again. So I really can't bring it This is in winter These leaves on the mountain are almost gone. The trees, too, look bare. I feel some vicissitudes of life If we compare summer and winter. What kind of weather do you prefer? Here is a small mountain beam So where do we go Go to the top of our lens The tip of the mountain And then there's a large open area up there. That's where the family lives. So you see, we're climbing up here now. I still have to go for half an hour. climb straight to take a break Today is mainly hot weather Who would have thought that winter can make people sweat profusely, right? When the family moved here It's very possible. It's because there's a large area of this land. Can be cultivated in this mid-mountain location Relatively not as steep as the top and bottom But I found this land ah It's probably not a special discharge. There's a lot of this stone slag in this land. including this soil layer It should not be particularly thick around this land They all used this fence to stop them. This is very likely, is engaged in farming Or in the mountains There could be all kinds of beasts or something to prevent the beasts from attacking the crops. You see, they also dig the land by hand. You see, this side has been dug, but there is no digging over there. Standing here, my vision is very wide. Look at the whole opposite, surrounded by mountains. But also feel quite lonely Opposite such a big mountain You can't see where people live, can you? Grandma didn't come outside for dinner. Come from outside I said, have you eaten yet? Eat you a person at home Oh, man in the house You're alone in the house, hey Is there anyone else? They, uh-huh. They and I always think of money as their own. Oh oh oh oh oh oh Let's have a look. This house is still a mud wall house. And now here it is There are two other families, besides this grandmother. There's another family. They should all be together You can see this There are a lot of beehives in the back. It's all beekeeping here. Is it comfortable to live in the mountains? The whole area is very open. Just now, the old man also told me that there are still two younger ones here. It is equivalent to that they are now two families. Should be the old man's son Here to keep sheep, then here to keep bees Now, I 've gone to the mountain to cut kudzu vine. I don't think I'll be back until four or five this afternoon. Because we work in the mountains, we are from the countryside. I know better Once you go out to work, you basically have to work until it's getting dark before you come back. So I can't wait here But what about the general situation here? I can tell you a little bit about This terrain is quite good. What about the hill behind this house It's a whole mountain range. A whole mountain range over there is a peak. And then here, just after this branch came down There's a flat area over here. That's right. They live here. When I was in Xiamen just now I also asked the uncle who lives under the valley. He said here Now it's two ladies and a grandmother in her 80 s and 90 s. Then there are two other people who are farming here. Then here, there is also a talent ha Listen to the uncle said, is a graduate student of Wuhan University Now I'm working in this county. So you see, this terrain is talented This old man is almost 90 years old. From this we can infer What about their family? move to live in this mountain At least for more than a hundred years. Because we see this house, or this earth wall. Words like this form of earth wall I estimate it should be over a hundred years Hey. Some of the sheep are back. This is the sheep. There are four sheep. Ah. I'm leaving, walking to er When you're gone, they'll be there. Not anymore, not anymore Gone, I'm too lazy to wait Too lazy to the whole ah ah ah ah I think he wants to come back. I'll find a stool to sit on. Don't do it, don't do it I'm leaving I'm leaving Grandma, I just came to play. I came to play and left Now, Grandma is home alone. Then I communicated with her, and the language was not smooth either. Its ears don't seem to be very good either. Then what if I were still there to watch It's going to turn around and say, &quot;Look, uh.&quot; Are the young people here? So I'm afraid he's walking and wrestling. So I just left It saves him from wandering around in front of and behind the house. It's not good to fall down. Let me guess. Why did this family on the mountain move here a hundred years ago? You know the people who live in the mountains. It must have been in that era to avoid bandits or something like that. Wait a minute. Another reason is to live in a rare place. It avoids talking to people, right What's more, it's a large piece of Mitsubishi. all belong to his family Let me tell you. Most of the time this feng shui takes turns, right Living in the mountains a hundred years ago A lot of people are pretty good. For example, the landlords A lot of him lives in a place like this in the mountains. What about the recent 20 or 30 years of development? I think it is very inconvenient in the mountain, right Many places are on the road. In the mountain, there is no communication But you know what? Just because a single family lives in the mountains. So the surrounding mountains and forests are all family. Even those who live in such deep mountains, I don't have to ask His family's mountain forest land is at least 200 or 300 mu or more You guysDo you believe? So you see oh At this stage, people living in the mountains are actually good. For example, you really have hundreds of acres of thousands of acres, this mountain forest You have a lot of money for this forest subsidy every year. So many things, there is no absolute good or bad It's all this time and that time. You lived in a place like this 70 or 80 years ago. You are going to us in the past 20 or 30 years. It's not good for you to live in a place like this. Because of bad development And then the road won't get through If you go down from now on Living in a place like this is starting to get better again. A hundred years is a lot of things are going around I'm slowly going down now, my friends. This issue of the video, to tell you here I'll see you next time Bye-bye Friends, hello Now I'm deep in the mountains of Fenggang County, Zunyi Along this 3-meter-wide road in front of me How many kilometers to drive inside I found that there are several families there who look at the shape of this road. It seems that very few people have passed through here. How many families inside I don't know if there is anyone living there. Let's go in and visit together today. What about the terrain of this place is very hidden To reverse a few bends How many canyons? Will come here, oh It's like waiting here for the two of you. Hey. A little let bask in and play video games, you know Ha ha ha If there is such a thing, call the child. He came, huh Because when I came in, I saw that I didn't do it all the way. In some places, the car used to be brushed. Old 103 is what I have I have already gone As soon as I cross the road, it's just one road. When I get old, I won't be able to pass. Well, it's just a long way to go. Then they come and do it again. Well, uh Three kids, right? There are three boys There are three girls, there are six You have a younger sister under you. Three boys and three girls Wow, you're lucky Gas good hey hey hey hey For the words here now There are a lot of family One family plus two brothers plus two brothers Two is seven. The three Saigasa across the street are equal to the ten families. Now only you two old people here ah Ganning I am half here, your younger ones should all work outside. There are two jobs oh There are two working in regular units Ah, there is a job here This is expensive Are you 80 years old? 78 years later, three catties 80mm-hmm, you are all counties We're all here. Like your house, did you repair it? It was repaired by the previous generation This baby oh my god, there are roots This is where my old man went. These two from the past. Never thought, this stilted building was also built when you were young. It's been decades It's been decades Yeah. You 've wasted a lot of effort in building this house. Full cost repair, all in the artificial ha I was 35 years old. You fixed it when you were 35 Now wait for you two old people here Hey hey hey It's all me My share has been done for me to exercise kung fu, oh You all moved to Fenggang. Customers came to you. You are a quadrangle here. Come in and have a look. You still have a house in here. Go in and see Thia. This old man, their group There are a total of ten households Now, just the two of them are still here. He's very big inside, huh Let's take a look at this wing. This side is all on the second floor. There is also a large water source. Plum this water we give how much Our water keeps drying oh, it keeps drying The key one has done the work and there is no moisture everywhere. We're here. Well, this place is still fine. You don't want to go, live with them. My, I, I, I can't do it I, I'll just have two dollars I can't do it in the county. In my county, I can't do it They call you too. You're not used to living As soon as he calls you to go, I won't go. I am red. I said I drink white wine Ha, ha, ha, woman, she has She said I had money, but instead I went home. You need to be healthy to live here, right Still walking down the mountain If you want to work, do some work, uh-huh Did you eat Eat, eat, go Ha, ha, ha, this paragraph is really difficult This year is what I saw in my hometown. My two sons came to see me this year. Neither of them has made a living. Waiting for him is tantamount to cutting some roads, ha, call them to see Also did not do activities You really never did farm work No reading or something When I was only seven years old, I didn't find a job in the village. That's more than 20, at least Read more money 20, 29 oh He only read five or six when he was in high school. Uh-huh. Then it seems that you still have talents here. Hey hey hey hey This is not the old generation is which life which generation has done ha Your generation has come to your home, er, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey Many older people he would rather do it himself, ah If you are ill, you cannot lift it. They came to pull the car is you wasted a fart, ha ha Doctor, you still have bee candy for you. Well, I won't eat this fragrance either This old man wants to make some honey for me to eat. We just got it last night. Is he going to break it at noon? Which one is bad Then take a look at this honey just made last night. I'm helping you keep out the wind and bridge the bridge. I love you very much. Very comfortable It's very kind of the old man The somebody else can, can It's very kind If you lose early, you lose, you lose, and then pour some water. Pour some more water, add some water Otherwise, it's too sweet, hey hey hey In the past, there were many people living in the countryside. Everyone's land is not appropriate to buy a car. Because it is easy to pull, this is normal People go out. It's good to have fewer people here, the whole thing Lao tze eat you still eat don't eat don't eat you eat stuffy just dream to play I haven't even finished eating Eat the wind and waves, eh I'm so drunk Er, um, I know You 've been haunted for a 1000. He went to rework and gave him the money ticket directly. Haven't eaten yet, eat too much mouth You're drunk and annoyed than drunk. Hey hey hey hey hey Because we have changed a lot. I don't have to think about it. Go up to the crops and mountains to collect herbs and flowers. Right. It must be this, and it needs to be planted with medicine flowers. Well, our name is Huangling. We eat Coptis chinensis here. The so-called coptis money Then the value of your sugar seal is high, right Uh-huh Right over here, this house. Just our old house, his old city of 25. There are six in his family. Where does he sit? You sit son head There are three girls and three children in your family, and six children in her family. Ha ha, you guys are really sending money again and again. Over there, that house over there. It's all his over there, huh All right, drive more. Take a seat here. Ha, ah This is their homestead here. It's pretty good. Several brothers are from Xiamen, and there are many people. I didn't pay attention to the terrain just now. This terrain is really good, oh Moved here, moved to Hubei It should have moved here before to shoot hundreds of warheads. I don't know if I started it again. It is equivalent to a few hundred words when moving here. It is a single cover. Oh, my liver, I almost didn't get it. Ha ha As soon as I got back, I started again. I started to send it later. It's another one. And then he's rich again, huh? Under your back, there are several seven or eight seven or eight in your hometown, oh Ha ha, that's no wonder people really Doha He's a farmer. But it's from the long-term diagonal. On the road to the military school He's getting the military academy in Luoxi. Right, right. It's in this house of yours. Go here. This lion, ah, ah This is an official Hey. Our beans are no longer small. It seems that one of his is passing on that one again. It is better for him to go out. Well, hey Just kick it open. The foundation remains at this point. People can't go out here. There is a crease here, a crease there You can't hide or use it, naturally. If you want to stay, novices are not allowed here. He's just you fuck me, I fuck you You can't fix what I got Or also do, can't play right He's moved out, I'll just move out. He's a pig in the court. He's not having a good time. He thinks we're stupid Yes, yes, yes. He is forced to Liangshan, hum You have to know this truth In Liangshan 108 to play mahjong, he was forced to move up the road. Because it's hard He called us stupid. He's stupid. Go out. He's enough. Yes, yes, yes, it is you, you are reasonable I don't have much for this gastrodia elata. Only with a little bit. I want to make a sample. So just give them a few Then just give him a bottle of wine This old man also drinks, look You guys are gone, too. No electricity missing, missing ha Removable not unremovable, unremovable Can only eat, can only eat not pick Hey, you can just stew some ribs and those dishes. Go not go, don't go not go I'm leaving. I'm leaving. I want, I want, I want I'm going out. I don't want to go Don't go, don't go, don't go, don't get No, don't eat Don't eat I'm leaving, I'm leaving I'll come back and play with you guys. Hey, hey, hey Hey. It's okay, it's okay, it's okay Good good good Well, here, I talked to this old man for a while. I don't know how you feel during the chat, huh This old man is actually quite good. He knows a lot of things better. So what about our conversation The old man also said that this place is good. But the place is too small to open. So you see, many people leave this place Go developed outside Including those who work in the government, right Some have done better in the business world. So it's all pretty good. It's just that they don't come here now. What about now? Only the two old people stay here They also like this kind of environment. It happens to be here. The highway is also open. So they stay here to live This air is good. It's also cooler in summer. Like older people They 've been dealing with this land since they were young. Including these around the grass and trees Including land, mountains and forests, etc. They have a certain emotional link to this For them, this land. Where's the mountain forest Is their lifeblood, son So say They might really prefer to hold on to this place. I think most of them have these ideas No matter how well the children are out there. Wind and water, how good At least there's a place to retreat They're here with you All right, friends. This is the end of the video. Let's see you next time. Bye Among the mountains of Jinzhongshan, Zheng'an County, Guizhou We found a single family Who is still living in this isolated place? Today we will go to find out Hello, everyone. Now I'm in the middle of this mountain Come down from the Golden Bell Mountain There's a gross road But I can't get through the road. Can only be walking I have so far Has been walking for more than half an hour Now it's time to start taking the path. The trail is probably an hour away. Let's go. Can see oh Just like this ancient road There were a lot of people who used to go. Times have changed People in the mountains have moved out. So, it looks a little bit more desolate now. Now in this forest I feel like I'm alone There is no other movement There is a lot of vegetation in Jinzhong Mountain, a mountain forest. You can see that there are so many square bamboos, wild grapes. Kiwi Including all kinds of rare plants Including a lot of that kind of national precious animals What does it feel like to walk in this silent forest? You can hear the wind clearly. Timid friends really don't dare to come and go. I really admire these bamboo shoots Carrying bamboo shoots to stroll in the mountains for an hour or two You see, these places are all shells left by picking bamboo shoots. Let's have a look walk down from this place The place where we have seen an abandoned house There's some, uh, green tin down there. Should it be beekeeping or what This house, right here We can see here ha The surrounding area is covered by this small class three. This place is a special hidden place If we don't find out from the air I didn't even know anyone lived here. Here is a very wide piece of flat land You can have a look, we don't feel it in the air. But after you came here You will find that this is a very flat place. The whole flat area may have dozens of acres of land. And then we can see it all the way down from here. That's the cliff over there. It's here, so you look at the mountains on both sides. The mountains on several sides are all wrapped, very good And just in time, just one family lives here. Probably beforeHe has more than one family. So, uh... Because of this, a lot of people have moved away, right Like the back, there is also an abandoned house. including this mountain We also saw an abandoned house. Then I saw whether these stones were all covered with this green leather. What is this This is a bee. raised a lot We can probably see it, huh What about this family? Here they are, beekeeping. It is mainly beekeeping. I don't know if there is any other breeding. And then because there's a large area of this land that's unplanted. It's all deserted here. So, it's not growing crops here. It is estimated that I will stay here and do some breeding or something. Hey, we saw an old man up ahead, huh Go talk to him I didn't get to eat, I said you didn't get it You didn't eat We wash now, I eat I ate yours too. I'm all, woof woof woof hurry up Let me go to where to go Is there only two of you left here? Ah. It's our mother's family that has no son, it's your mother and mother. Uh-huh. And then this old man I don't quite understand what he's talking about There used to be five or six households I'm guessing there must be five or six families here. So now? Only the two of them live here, huh Then the main purpose should be to keep bees here The whole place looks really comfortable. Like this old man, he said he was 90 years old, huh I don't think he's ever been out of the mountains. So his speech is still a little different from ours. I don't quite understand What I want to focus on with you is that this geographical environment is really very beautiful. It used to feel like living in that rich place. The whole mountain here is very well surrounded. He's like a chair And then here is a fork in the road. Just can see Just when I was about to leave, I met my uncle and came back. Just talk to him a few words What about this place? Originally, there were five or six families here. Later, all of them moved away one after another. I asked him How long have they lived in this place He can't say for sure It's been generations anyway. So he's here now Just keep bees with about 100 barrels. Raising more than 20 sheep honey You can charge hundreds of kilos when you are poor. If under normal circumstances You can collect thousands of pounds of honey every year, wow. You calculate, this annual lowest income should be more than 100000 Many people say they can't make money living in the mountains. You see, uncle, mother and son, right Living in seclusion in this deep mountain Beekeeping and vegetables are self-sufficient Actually every year There is still a balance of 100000 yuan. Living such a hermit's life Can also earn money Speaking of which, many of my friends may not be able to hold back. Are you guys moving Also want to live in seclusion in the mountains Hello, everyone. Today, Artest came to Yingshang Guzhai in Zhijin County, Guizhou Province. This is an ancient village with more than 100 years. As we can see, this village Built on a boulder with three cliffs and one backing on the other. Flowers and birds Picturesque Like a fairyland on earth Xanadu Camp on the ancient village, also known as the village on the back of the elephant. We look like an elephant from a distance. This village is built right on the back of this elephant. So ah Also known as the ancient village on the back of the elephant, very strange It's even more peculiar. At the bottom of this village, there is a cave. There's a family living in this cave. It adds to this ancient mystery. Now, I came to the bottom of this ancient village road The family in that cave It seems that I live in this location. Let's go up and visit When we got here, we already felt the taste of this quaint Including this road, it's all paved with bluestone slabs. There is a trail in this position. Go up there I arrived in this cave. They have built a very high stone wall here. Including this hole, it is also a very high stone wall. Why build such a stone wall? Let's go up Ask the host family Wow, walk here As if entering this tunnel of time and space, that kind of feeling ha All these stones. very beautiful let's go inside and have a look, ah Come to this door It is an arch How was this built in the first place? Some people are not at home. oh, yes You live here Wow, it's cool in here It's all in here, ha, ha, ha Fire cup of tea ha Yes, yes, thank you. Thank you Uh-huh Hello here, oh thank you thank you It's really a little hot These two days, um, hey, hey, hey This is my voice You just say ha Come on, yeah to get It's really cool in here Are you in the whole material? Then there is food now Eat all day. I'm a little hungry You alone How do I eat alone You can do whatever you have. Did you fry a dish yesterday Stir-fried dishes to eat I'm in the hole now Do you see if this place looks like a paradise? I'm a little hungry, huh Let this host's elder sister Get me something to eat first. Have you eaten? Let's take you to know more about it. The wife of shop-owner here brought me all the steamed rice. I'm afraid I don't have enough to eat Look at me big Now, I have eaten my meal. We see this hole here, blue sky and white clouds. very beautiful Here, there's seven, there's a wall. See? And then, um... This house is built right in the middle. underneath one of this pierced hole What about the top of the house? Let's have a look. The cover is still thatched. In summer, it's this wooden structure. A look at this house shows that it is very old. Should be many, many years On this floor, you can see this kind of slate inlaid. Uh... Everywhere, it's a very simple feeling. You like this place? It seems that there is still a karst cave to go in. I don't know how far I can get in. I take a little two steps to see Wow. Here, there are some of their own farm tools. There seems to be quite a lot, some sundries Should go in not far Maybe it's such a small space. The host's house piled up some debris or something. And here, there's a pool This pool is like a natural feeling. There are some whales here. Let's look at this water. I don't know if there is water coming out of this place. Or did the host family connect the water from the outside to the inside? I don't know, I'll ask later. What I want to tell you is that This place is really warm in winter and cool in summer Because I just got here It's just a cool breeze Uh, you can see On both sides, there is light. All can be passed through What about this house? It's built right under the center of this pierced hole. Well, and the location is very precise. Right in the middle of this, very, very beautiful Like this side, there is a small puncture Right? There's a small cave It can be seen Elder sister, how many years have you lived here How many years have you lived It seems to be more than 100 years, more than 100 years I'm not sure, they say I remember you You, you don't remember much It would have been more than ten years since you came. Like him, this side of the wall Why did he build such a high wall? You know what the reason is It used to be anti-bandits Anti-bandit ah And jackals, tigers and leopards, oh The main thing is to build both sides. This wall is to prevent bandits. Prevent this jackal, tiger and leopard Is there often a lot of animals like that here? Oh, no wonder he's lived here for over 100 years They are many, many generations Then you are from here, and you probably don't know the situation here. I can't say for sure Anyway, this is the piece. They must have been the first to come. What's their last name? What's your last name My surname is Yang He, uh... Lord your husband, where are they? His surname is Wu Is it a house that holds people? Ah. This surname is very few. But we have a lot here, a lot here Just now, with this host's elder sister Just a few words She's not very clear about the history of this cave. This host's surname is Wu She didn't have long to marry here. Maybe he really doesn't know Grandma is so old Seventy-six, 76, yeah Look at you. You're in good health. Ha ha You have been in this stockade for many years. There are quadrangles in this village, ah-oh 200 years at the most. You know, you know, the family in this hole down there, they 've been waiting for you for a long time. A, nails are not good. Not in this fingernail hundreds of people oh Nails are longer than yours. He pointed to Wang's parents. They are Wu His house is a whole house You said his house might have come earlier than yours. Uh-huh. It should be 200 or 300 years, huh You have been working here for 100 or 200 200 years. He may have been off duty for 200 or 300 years. What about the family living in the cave? It's really the whole stockade, and the surroundings. The first family came here. is to live in a cave What about the ancient village above It has a history of more than 100 years Then we can speculate on the history of this cave Should be more than 200 years According to this elder sister What about their ancestors? Also moved from this Jiangxi and then spend some time in Nayun I went straight to this cave. That is, the family living in the cave He came to this place alone to open up the land. Maybe when it came These places are very barren So, so? on either side of this pierced hole built a high wall First, to prevent bandits. The second one, in order to prevent wild animals Because the whole surrounding area is virgin forest. Cliff So at night There will also be this patronage of wild animals. If not enough of this wall Then look at this wall. It's actually two floors. Not just one layer. is very thick, uh add up to a meter thick So it's good for your general bandits to come Or it's better for the beast to come. You're also the one who can't get in. It was really too comfortable to stay here for a while. A little don't want to leave feeling If it were you, would you like to stay in such a place? Wow. I really found this pine tree. Such a thick pine tree grows on the cliff It's incredible. We see him as a pine in Huangshan. But in a certain temperament may be more Friends, hello Today, Artest came to the high slope of Yunding in Huaxi, Guiyang. This place is very beautiful The altitude is more than 1500 meters. very cool So today, I came to Guiyang to do something. I got up early in the morning and got up at more than five o'clock. Originally, I wanted to go to Genting High Slope to watch the sunrise. I didn't think of it I showed the sunrise on the highway. You say no to anger Of course. Apart from watching the sunrise This place is very beautiful We have this life in the clouds in the clouds of the Miao village You see, this is the last time I took a beautiful picture, isn't it What about this place? Occasional bullfights I'll show you this video I shot last time. Originally, this video was to be released last time. What about the results? They brought some cows to this place. The whole two or three hours There is still no acne, so I didn't send a video to watch this scene at that time. This high slope of the cloud top, everyone can camp here Can have a chance to see them bullfight What's more, you can see this large sea of purple flowers, which is very beautiful. These are not the focus of my I came to Genting High Slope today One is to watch the sunrise The second is to look for a pine tree that grows on a cliff. This section of Mao Road is quite difficult to walk. It took me a long time to find it. To finish the Yunding Miao Village Then there is this rotten road on the left, and it's right to go up the mountain. Then follow, about 23km Look, this car is parked here now. Where is the Yunding Miao Village? It's over there. This rotten road is coming, just to this position There are a lot of windmills here Some of them shot that sunrise right there. This is the opposite mountain Where can I see it? Where can I see the welcome pine here? I can't see it at all. First make a phone call to ask about the specific location. I just made a phone call Are you sure this is the position? Is there a windmill in front of it? And then back up, there's an arc here. This location should beThis is the place Then it was said that there was a burned mountain opposite. In that place ah There's a burned mountain in that place Then on the cliff is probably this mountain here. If we look at the cliff. It's not very clear here either. There's a little cliff here There's also a cliff here. I guess it's a little bit more like the terrain here. Hey. You said so far here You can't see it with your eyes. Only drones can see Let's fly the drone first and have a look. Wow. I finally found this tree. On this cliff It's such a thick pine tree. too rare Let's look at the shape of this pine tree. Like Huangshan Welcome Pine Look, there are no big trees all around these hills. Don't say on the cliff, where's the tree? Is growing on this steep cliff Temperament this, really is no worse than Huangshan welcome pine It's a pity He was born in the wrong place Born on the unknown cliff in the mountains of Guizhou After hundreds of years of wind and rain Still standing on this cliff That's amazing. So here comes the question Friends. Do you think we are on the cliff in Guizhou What is the ratio between this unknown welcome pine and Huangshan Mountain? By the way, finally let everyone know What about this tree? On the cliffs If there is no drone, the naked eye can't see it. So we didn't bring drones to shoot videos. Just want to see its true face, don't come Because you can't see it when you come, huh Don't come for nothing. Friends, hello I'm Tai Today, I am in the deep mountains of Ning'an County. Well, here, there's a Mao Mao road leading to the mountains inside. What about just now? We took a look with the drone There seems to be a family in there, huh Let's go visit now There is a lot of this kind of grass on both sides of this road. Do you see it It's a pity not to feed some cattle and sheep. Here planted watermelons Is this watermelon? Look, most of what we grow here is corn. He is not bad here. He has planted watermelons and corn. Then the altitude here is about 700 But he's like corn. Oh, my God. I heard the dog barking again. This all makes me a little hard, God Two dogs came all the way here. Wow. Scared to death not scary to death So many dogs. Wow, 456 a dog I wanted to go there, but I dare not Ah, my God Number of people Do you think it's scary Three, six, eight owners I just wanted to ask Five or six dogs are here, what do you say I do You can't beat it in the past Shit, just scared me I thought there were only two or three Two or three words don't scare me. This guy came down seven or eight You said I do You guys know Me I drone I saw that there is a family living by the river on the 3rd. I want to go there to play But when you walk here, you look at feeding so many dogs at home. Blocked my way. To be honest, did you see that formation just now? My legs are weak Now I'm in a stalemate with these dogs recently, and I can't get. They also do not give way You see it's in the middle of the road It also does not bite Now it won't give way You pay attention to see This pack of seven or eight dogs is tactical So there's two here blocking Oh, you finally caught it I said it was too cruel for you to have a cat and dog. Not yet. Don't do it, don't do it, don't do it God, eight or nine ducks You are too cruel to feed Longduo to me. I interrupted, what are you doing? I took the steamed fish back in China Me too, oh oh oh You move home and come back I'm saying that seeing these whole films didn't make the man panic with dirt. If you really move to make money, one is whether I, the teacher, do this or not I'm done. I'm no good to people. It's really a pity to dump the shortage. It's a pity that you didn't come back until you fell a mountain. Let's go The master fell, you can have another year. These two years I live in the fields Ha, ha, ha, you also planted a lot I see, several acres of land There are five or six more steamed buns at once This is your old house. Dig two underneath everywhere Just grab one and grab the whole little ass in this way. I'm not used to doing anything when I move here. It's not like we 've never been out of production. We, the common people, are not used to eating for less than a few days. Ha ha, still want to go home Hey, I, you did your end, you You, you moved that sooner or later five years ago I moved five years ago. After moving to the hospital, you can't bear it again. Come back to live at the dealer. Hello, banker, old age 72. You see, you are young and very early. Ha ha ha Where's my wife? Yiha is on the riverside, Hewa. These all have three sons in the river It's all by the river, and the river three suites are in the river. This product in the river has kids. I'll give it to you when I get home. Also raised two birds on the mountain to catch fun oh ha ha ha I see a lot of old people Relocated, the village is not used to living We have to turn around quickly. Well, we are doing it for a long time. Long-term production. Not yet in production. Just brush the machine, normal Can't play to say not to say The point is, it's like cooking to feed the pigs, and feeding them. Er... I said the pig head fed the pig, not to eat more It doesn't matter It doesn't matter You, you, you, you, busy, your fierce children, little children No one arrived today. I'll go down to play first, no one You get more than a dog baby Cook all the pigs well, a big pot. Ha ha ha Cook a pot to eat three meals, to feed three meals Cook a pot to feed three meals That's almost the smell of cooking Cook a pot to feed Tianlong In fact, you can take it to feed some pigs. Some ha trouble now pig in the past two years you this pig disease is big It's not enough to feed at all Not Doha. Your meat is not meat, but your own eggs to feed the dog. Your master came out to feed the dog What are you, yeah You dogs are well fed. Really live fish. Living is more than I haven't helped myself. It looks like you're feeding these dogs well. Now the treatment of the countryside. The treatment is higher than that of our former people. oh, ha, ha, ha You see, these dogs have a great life. Such a large amount of meat is cooked for dogs. Then you can feed it slowly I'll go first I walk Jiang Jiahe River Jianghe You're too busy feeding your own dog this day. Ha ha ha ha ha Then I'll go first. Ha, ah, ah, ah, ah, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no With a pack of dogs out there for so long Fortunately, the host family is back. Otherwise, you won't be able to pass the road at all. Then this old man is over 70 years old. You see, he's in great shape. And then they all moved to Jiangjie River Town five years ago. But after living for a year, he seems not used to it. What about old people in the countryside? It's all the same, that is, long-term farming. He's used to it If you let him stay in one place I 've been staying and not doing any work. He can't stand it So he's been back for four years I built a cabin here. Then I planted all these crops here. I feed so many dogs. It's too scary If he hadn't been there just now. I dare not go there at all. Hello friends Now, I'm in the mountains. Then see me here without a trail behind All the way to this front In front of it is the river of the Xiangjiang River. There should be one or two families living in it, huh Let's go in and have a look. It may be a paradise. Because I know this Xiangjiang River Behind this mountain. A very beautiful river So, on the right, this is rice. On the left is corn. Then why not plant all the corn I think the current is quite large But if you talk about this harvest. In fact, growing corn is almost the same as rice. It may be more troublesome to grow rice, huh Because everyone, look at this corn now. This wide and narrow row was planted many years ago. Well, and the species are relatively dense. What about that acre of corn? May also be able to produce more than 1000 catties But what about rice It can only produce a few hundred catties. I am now walking in the mountain path ha Everyone listen quietly Except for this, it's a little water, it's the sound of birds. And the sound of my footsteps Let's take a look. There are only two families here. One household, there are households here. Do you see this environment? Wow, just walked here There are several dogs in that family. Oh, my God. Scared to death no You see this far, you have dogs barking there. Let me have a visual inspection of three or four Right there at the door My God, there are several Scared me to death, ah I dare not go Then I'll put the drone here to see the situation. Ha ha At least two or three dogs here There are at least four over there. My eyes can see at least four. It's too scary See no friends here a family One family here, two families here. Do you feel like a paradise here But there are too many dogs in that family Oh, my God. Drones fly past so many dogs I can't even get close Then the drone flew over I found that there was no host in the room either. Then I patrolled around and saw no one. Don't dare to go over Too many dogs. I can only let you enjoy it in the air. I have to go. You see, the dog from so far away started barking with a few clangs. It's too scary Friends, hello I'm Tai Now, I am visiting the Shahe scenic spot in Bijie. Today, I'm going to take you to see a strange peak. That is, like the blade of the mountain There was a temple built on it more than 200 years ago. Then you can take a look at this side. There are many cars parked. are parked on the side of the road He's only on this, uh, holiday. This transfer vehicle is only available here. And now? That is, all cars can drive directly into the scenic spot. You see the edge of this road The left row All of these vehicles are parked. Wow, is there a cableway here Even if the cableway I just went to the fairy fish peak to play this wind and rain bridge in front of me. This is where the tickets are sold. Now we go to buy tickets I only went to the crest of the fish What glass plank road, cableway I will not do I don't think it's interesting On the ticket Buy tickets inside, right here Don't buy 3000, sweep what Uh-huh. Come and introduce me This is our BMW It's quite then, uh Everyone has one simple chance a day, maybe three pieces five, eight, ten I don't know how much the maximum is. I don't know how much is the lowest. If you buy it there 100 dollars is 100 dollars Then you can buy it from me, maybe 98,95 Or 92. But also, the last 20 years Hey. Yes, they are the tallest today. The highest one currently has eight pieces. Originally, I didn't want to sweep or sweep. The somebody else's little sister must let me sweep As a result, it saved eight dollars, didn't it Like this Xianyu Peak Scenic Area There are a lot of self-media people who come to shoot. So he's relatively famous. So now, there are basically more people, huh So the publicity effect is still very good Come from the gate of the scenic spot and take this path. Then walk for about 10 minutes Just to the fresh fish peak here But I don't know how long it will take to climb up We now climb up Wow, it's horrible down there. Abyss, the abyss below is really hum Start climbing the summit from here now Look at this super river valley. It's kind of like that Jurassic Park feeling Oh, come on, come on, come on, there are so many people here Finally reached the top Bai Lao Hui, this is the situation at the top Friends, hello I'm Tai Now, I am in Liupanshui, Guizhou, the Liangdu of China. Many friends told me about clear water. What about my recommend? I must have come to Liupanshui The current temperature in Liupanshui is between 17 and 2627 degrees. That is, it's day The highest temperature is lower than the lowest temperature in many areas. Do you think it can not cool Now we see this entire square of Liupanshui Station. You can see it here, huh Some people wear short sleeves But some people wear long sleeves, right So it is now more than eight o'clock in the morning. So the temperature at this time is about 21 degrees. The altitude of Liupanshui is about 1800 meters. So summer is very cool There is also this side Its overall consumption is not high. For example, let's go to a hotel. What about the price of many hotels? It's all 60 or 70 dollars a night. And there is air conditioning, all aspects Then there are also expensive ones There are hundreds and thousands of them. It is the price of each. This hotel, the hotel all have So you have a variety of options So if you stay in a hotel here Basically at night.do not open the air conditioning Very cool ah Most of the time, we only heard about Liupanshui, the Liangdu of China, right Don't you come and experience it yourself? You really can't feel it. I'm in Liupanshui. It's been two or three days I'm going to stay here for about three days. Because this period of time is the hottest time The temperature of our Chinese medicine also reached 21 22 to 33 34 and even 35 degrees So also a little bit hot Then I lived here for three days and my feeling was Three days in three different hotels However, the air conditioner was not blown at night. Really very cool So my advice is If you just want to spend the summer in this very hot few days Then you choose Liupanshui city is also very good Because most of the economy hotel That is, 60 or 70 yuan for one night. So the cost of living is not big. Uh... Some friends also told me that some villages and towns around Liupanshui went to live in hostels. If it is to develop some mature places In fact, the price is not cheap If you're just traveling and living. I think it's a very good choice to be in the city. So now? Many places are also the hottest time. If you really can't stand the heat Then hurry to Liupanshui spend this cool summer Hello friends I'm Tai Now? I am at the Cui Suba International Camping Base in the Oil Shahe Scenic Area of Dafang County, Bijie. I lived here last night. Now, I'm going to go to a cave basketball court in Nayong County of Bijie to play basketball. We go to experience a different basketball It's 160km from here to the basketball court, huh Go slowly. Friends. We have passed more than 160 kilometers of long-distance attack ah Finally came to the cave basketball court And then on the way, we had a rainstorm. through this forest. And then through this canyon There is also this cliff highway to come here, it is not easy to walk Let's go in and have a look. There are some children playing ball below. Let's go and fight The purpose of coming is to play ball. You can look at this cave. The whole cave is very, very high Visual inspection should be more than 50 or 60 meters. And in this, it happens to be a basketball court. I was involved, right? I hit your ball, hit your ball and go What? You feel this back ah I don't feel like surfing the Internet Well, pick it up. This basketball is not cool Heh-heh If you don't turn off the sign first, I'll keep it. Good don't play you bye Drive more than 160 kilometers to the cave to play a basketball game. This wish came true, and when I came, I met these little brothers. and then fought with them for a while Because they are high school students So, can only be played I don't dare to make my body so strong, do I They're small, they're just afraid of hitting people. After playing for a while, this sweat also broke out so much. very cool And then this basketball court, I 'd like to introduce you This basketball court is in 2016, and then construction will begin. Then it will be completed in 2018 Well, because their entire village, young and old Generations love to play basketball So in 2016 A lot of people in the whole village raise money. raised a total of more than 230000 and then built that basketball court What about after the basketball court is built? It has been quite popular Some children in the village. Junior high school students ah High school students, they all come here to play basketball. Basically, people play basketball here every day. If you sometimes engage in activities Well, there's a lot of people here. So you see us kids in remote villages Especially like to play basketball I think our national sports bureau Or should pay more attention to the development of rural sports Because the development of this sports in some of our villages is not good now. So, uh This aspect? Should pay more attention to it Maybe there are some good seedlings in a small village, right? It is possible to have a chance to enter the national team in the future, right All right. Today, I drove more than 160 kilometers to play basketball. My wish has come true Also let everyone see the first cave basketball court It's really cool to play basketball inside. It's not hot at all Although I sweat so much But as soon as I sit on the edge, it won't be hot. If everyone has a chance to come here You can come here and experience it. Playing basketball in a cave always feels different. Good. Today's video is here for everyone. See you next time, bye