Hey, Vsauce. Michael here. Why do humans play games? game or a physical game, like soccer - or football. the net to survive, and, even if I did, why Games are weird. This lead Bernard Suits to attempt to overcome unnecessary obstacles. we feel about intellectualism vs. athleticism? this game soccer while the English, and the It turns out that the word &quot;soccer&quot; doesn't the blame for the word goes to the British 1875, it has been popular to add the suffix Radcliffe Camera the &quot;Radder,&quot; We have been playing games with balls and the world. In fact, as recently as 200 years &quot;football.&quot; A lack of standardization meant and agree on what you could and couldn't do in 1863 the Football Association was founded what we most commonly mean nowadays when talking if the Oxford &quot;-er&quot; was added to Association &quot;Association-er?&quot; Well, let's take a closer hiding in there? There she is. &quot;Soccer.&quot; But we're getting ahead of ourselves because Ultimately, what is a game? Well, one of my computer game designer Chris Crawford. really fun, it's entertaining, but it's not a game. because, fundamentally, they aren't interactive. interactive, well, now we've got ourselves according to Crawford. If you can play with or objective associated with it, it's a toy. you're supposed to accomplish, well, now you're different types of challenges. If the challenge it's just you, for instance, playing alone puzzle. If, however, there are other people conflict. In a conflict, like a foot race, you aren't This is what Crawford calls a &quot;competition.&quot; and interfere with the other players and case, we are talking about a full-fledged game. So, a game is interactive, goal-oriented, people who can interfere with and influence that life is a game. I mean, real life. of &quot;game.&quot; And, in life, there are games that at sports can divide humanity into two groups. who aren't. Jocks are literally named after supported while being athletic. they get invited to all the cool parties where, things like get drunk. And who are you if &quot;drunk&quot; backwards? You are a &quot;Knurd.&quot; There's much debate about where the word comes as a slang term for &quot;lame&quot; or &quot;square&quot; in The first known use of the word in print came it may come from the word &quot;nut,&quot; which meant and, finally, &quot;nerd.&quot; It exists today as a word was popularized through its frequent use on Whether your spend your time on athletic pursuits in some form, are a part of your life. Humans, and many other animals, play. And, perhaps, &quot;play&quot; originated for life's real challenges later on. That because, in the wild, &quot;play&quot; can often lead and hardly comes close to simulating real The New York Times wrote a great article about preparing the body may be less of a priority be preparing the brain. Play is good for the years, when most of us have an instinctive urge Young rats confined to cages with adult rats, smaller, less developed brains. This has led the development of certain brain structures, But, to be clear, the evidence does not show these regions. Other methods, like exercises They might not be as fun, but this is known how vital play and games really are. give us. In the first half of the 20th century, Abraham The concept is popular in developmental psychology what motivates us to do things or to not a lower tier are fulfilled, an individual instance, achieving confidence, or satisfying to a person in fear for their life and safety. play, but as we've seen in nature, not the The thing is, lower needs tend to be pretty need, I'm done. It's not that complicated. become more complicated, so do their needs This brings us back to the fact that life a game. Arguably, life is the largest and your life usually isn't as easy as simply In life, knowing what the correct next move I don't know if the choices I made were the after I've made them, if even then. In life, the rules are complicated, the goals them are often unknown or different for every are often slow to come or non-existent. So, in the face of all of that, it's no surprise of life itself that ensure fast, easy-to-achieve Animals play too, but the complexity of rules reflect the complexity of the needs we find In life, I don't always know the right choice. How to explain something to a child. How to best help my friends or when to call my mom. But in Bomberman, I know exactly what every power-up In poker, a royal flush beats two-of-a-kind, But in my life, is an acquaintance or colleague no unknown, everyone is color-coded. Games and sports are a phenomenal way to feel of life. Even watching games and sports, merely needs. I can feel a sense of belonging by their successes can kind of become my successes. What a great way to get respect without doing In Reflected Glory. The opposite is CORF-ing: disgraced, I can easily say I was not really BIRG-ing and CORF-ing extend beyond sports. projects, celebrities, election candidates. and losing are nebulous. So, we invented simpler and more efficiently than life itself does. lead to procrastination or addiction. But don't fear. You have the potential to not always that fun. And whenever you play because you, and all of us, are able to pursue creature on Earth. And as always, thanks for watching. Oh, and if you want some soccer science, why where we investigate whether or not it's possible to kick a football but boomerangs back to the kicker. Okay, bye.