Hi, I'm Rick Steves, back with more of the know the locals like never before...we're in the Northern England is a lush land steeped in Traveling here, I'm struck by how man and how richly rewarding a visit can be. We'll hike along an ancient Roman wall, play cathedral. We'll meet the locals-and their hard hats, we'll tour an old slate mine. And, lakes, discovering waterfalls, and conquering Great Britain is dominated by England. In Hadrian's Wall and the Cumbrian Lakes District. lakes-home basing in Keswick. The Cumbrian Lake District-just 30 miles by playground. While not impressive in sheer feet-it's long been a powerful magnet for The charm of this area is, in part, the range Stumble upon a surprise lake view. Then climb a ragamuffin sheep. Find the perfect farmhouse for a memorable lunch, summit your own private tenderfeet a chance to feel rugged and outdoorsy. Here in the Lake District, William Wordsworth's land where nature rules, and humanity keeps has inspired visitors to relax, recharge, poem The Lake District is green for good reason. dress smart and don't let blustery weather suddenly gorgeous. As locals love to say, clothing.&quot; The town of Keswick is your best home base to the more commercial southern part of the But the slate and lead industries eventually the 19th century, Keswick became a resort. era- days when big city folks first learned town is well-stocked with hiking-gear shops...and The Lake District is popular with English dogs with them on vacation. Keswick's town and in local pubs, dogs are more than welcome. And we picked up a tip at the pub-a sheepdog just down the valley. Farm culture is still gritty shephards to gentleman farmers to curious While lots of fun and plenty entertaining, They go back to a time when agility and hunting According to the program: a good Fell Foxhound back, and agile hind legs to jump stone walls. The scene itself offers a fascinating glimpse tailgate party dog talk. And the main event, as explained to us by dog bringing in the sheep as quickly as possible. Farmer: The Shepherd goes out, he's given he has to direct his dog out on the right you can work with them half a mile away. They'll can work half a mile away collecting sheep, flock and bringing them in as near a straight through the hurdles there, back to the pen, and the applause... Working a Border collie is like marriage, in one another. The dog will have confidence as beautiful as that and it's lovely to work Keswick has plenty of good B&amp;Bs. We're staying a boutique hotel, but offers all the warmth rooms are tastefully furnished in native woods getting the traditional Cumbrian fry-complete a cozy and enjoyable place to relax and prepare loan maps and offer plenty of hiking advice. Just down the street is Keswick's petite marina my favorite Lake District hike-up a dramatic Derwentwater is one of Cumbria's most photographed up and dropping off walkers at peaceful landings From the dock a trail leads up along a ridge off that Cumbrian fried breakfast and offers Vigorous hikes like this are one of many reasons holiday goers. This little adventure just who tackles it with a trip highlight. Get the rest of your life you'll remember, in &quot;king of the mountain&quot; climax. After our descent, we catch the boat at the around Derwentwater. The Pheasant Inn is a Keswick favorite and us for dinner. As anywhere in Britain, a good are welcome. And, once again, in Cumbrian too. The menu offers Lake District pub classics. rump o' lamb. Rick: My image of pub grub in the old days David: No, pubs have taken a lot more interest Rick: And they're smoke free. smoking ban came in. It's much more pleasant A short drive south from Keswick takes us England's great Romantic poets. The greatest here, in Dove Cottage. Wordsworth spent his humble stone house. This is where he married, In these cramped and simple quarters, Woodsworth high thinking. The adjacent museum displays original writings, peek into the life and world of the poet. little suitcase are proof he packed light he wandered across England and through Europe Until then, almost nobody climbed a mountain He'd wander &quot;lonely as a cloud&quot; through the awe-inspiring immensity of nature. If appreciating Wordsworth was its prophet. With the advent of the industrial age, machines taming free spirits. The Romantic movement-led a reaction against this. Romanticism celebrated came here as if on a pilgrimage. And, like they'd be inspired and reflect on the meaning While Wordsworth would likely be appalled can enjoy car touring. From Keswick, a scenic Lake District charms. Newlands Valley is a majestic place. If it But it doesn't-and it isn't. The valley is times for small farms, most of the wives supplement in the valley rent rooms. I've been recommending the Keskadale farm Margaret Harryman's welcome is as warm as you really are on a working farm. Their son, he's already in charge of is shearing the sheared each summer. Rick: Why do you have to shear the sheep? for the welfare of the sheep and they're sheared for the sheep to be sheared But the fleeces are no longer the money-maker were so low farmers here just burned the wool. wool prices are higher so Sean and his dad Rick: Does it hurt the sheep? it just glides by the skin so it doesn't hurt Therapeutic? When car touring, make a point to stop and a rewarding little walk to a frisky waterfall. From here, the road descends, winding scenically its popular lakeside trail. Our loop then and weather-beaten charm. At the summit stands the Honister Slate Mine. offers tours. You'll put on a hard hat .... load about the region's slate industry from an Guide: What we describe that rock as is green today, the finest roofing slate in the world. On that rock on the far side as we looked huts that the miners used to live because world war through the history of mining; if way folks.... Narrow shafts lead deep into the evocative helmet ... standing inside the mountain, surrounded you'll learn the back-story of the stone that Guide: Imagine you're eight or ten years old a day and your job was to assist your father I think you're going to get the hang of this there's somebody at the end of this one with I don't know about you, but a tour like that in the 21st century. Rick: &quot;Freedom.......&quot; Completing our loop, we pass humble hamlets for serendipity. Coming upon an inviting gathering, we pull with Cumbrian sausage on the grill and a keg bragged their field was named England's most And this gave me yet another chance to understand Rick: So the pitcher is called a bowler. Rick: Are you a bowler, our pitcher's a bowler. Cricket Watcher: The batter. Cricket Watcher: That's a fall. Fall runs. white line in front of us here, he gets fall. confused. But I'm less confused than I was Cricket Watcher: Good. Right. Well if anybody Rick: Well, you're doing a good job. These valleys have sustained communities here of Keswick stands the Castlerigg Stone Circle. beauty, it was built over 4000 years ago to Imagine ancient people filling this clearing summer for the harvest, and in winter for by how the sun rose and set in relation to peaks. For maximum goose pimples, as they say in the mystical place is all yours. Leaving the Lake District, we drive east for parrallels my favorite ancient Roman sight Romans during the reign of Emperor Hadrian most thought-provoking sights and much loved 73 miles from coast to coast across the narrowest This was more than just a wall. It was a cleverly troops. At every mile along the wall, a small Its actual purpose is still debated. The wall, in the land, likely defined the northern edge to the south from pesky, hard-to-conquer barbarians Scotland and England still runs pretty close A particularly well-preserved segment of the forts had a standard design: a rectangular and barracks. There's little more than stone a floor to give stored grain ventilation and these desolate ruins, I can imagine the bleakness 18 centuries ago. Driving further east we reach the city of the Normans, it adds another layer to this As their empire fell in the 5th century, the After centuries of relative chaos, a central who invaded from France in 1066. Along with with them the prevailing European style of the style was named for the people who brought Before visiting the church and learning about the land. A sharp bend in its river protected sides. Today the river seems to protect the riverside path-much enjoyed by residents for cathedral as approaching medieval pilgrims The tangle of streets leading to the cathedral, lively. The city hosts the country's third vibe, Durham also feels blue collar because industry. For nearly a thousand years, pilgrims have standing like a mighty fortress. Built around bones of the great missionary monk, St. Cuthbert, look at Norman architecture. The architecture is unusually harmonious because and survives essentially unaltered. Round Norman style. Stroll down the nave to the towers in Europe. When the Normans conquered the Saxons here brought with them more than just their architecture. church, way up here in the North, was more bones. It was an unambiguous political statement further north. The Normans were here to stay. Grand medieval churches and the art that fills were the intellectual candles who helped keep Later, that knowledge strengthened the Church possible. While this fresco of the saint dates from that-in the year 687. The cathedral displays buried with him. This fine Saxon sash was this is the exquisit cross that this leader England wore. For a better understanding of the cathedral Cherry. Rick: But the cahtedral is called the Shrine Stephen: It's really remarkable that we have our custody here as it were. So what we do spirit. We bond with that deep sense of history was a man of profound spirituality but also St. Cuthbert means for me getting closer to way in which Jesus worked through the life ago... ministers like you have been serving the needs inspiration in itself. think of all those years, 500 years before Then a little hiatus and then the post-Reformation celebrating holy communion, the daily offers Rick: When you walk through the cathedral Stephen: It absolutely is vibrant and alive. who come. We're entirely committed to engaging of life. That freshmess of mission is integral As if to stress that point, the medieval Durham and from its community. This window gives And this one celebrates the church's 1000th and industry from mining to farming. I hope you've enjoyed our trip through Northern Hadrian's awe-inspiring wall, to Durham's by England's fascinating past while enjoying As we've seen here in the North of England, travel experiences. Thanks for joining us. travelin'.