We all know that billionaires have lots of money and sometimes they spend that money, on odd things. NEWSREADER: $44 billion deal to buy Twitter. But when they pass away and leave this earth, PS12 million was left to a dog. Well, as formerly the world's richest man... And the doer of silly things... We are silly billies. AUDIENCE: We are silly billies. I wanted to find out, by getting, into a billionaire's will. This is the story of how I managed to And actually convince one of them, MAX: Hello! The issue is, I still don't know what I'll be getting. Am I not going to find out what I get until he dies? [DRAMATIC THUD] Billionaires. When they die, what do they do with all that money? I want to find out, because I want to be Funny, innit. People get left weird things, in wills all the time. I found this website with, some of the more crackers PS12 million was left to a dog, someone was left a new husband. Shakespeare left behind Anne Hathaway... Not that one. His second best bed. This is a good one: someone in their will was left a subscription to Headspace, the meditation app that helps users build And I'll be telling you more about Headspace later on in the vid. But anyway, if a dog can be left $12 million, Either way, I want to get in a will, Now normally in these videos, this is the part and contact the right people, with some tippy tapping. But rich people, are very private individuals, I needed to get, on the inside. I've had an idea. Well, something's actually fallen into my lap that might help. A couple of years ago, I did some work with a finance company where I went around the world I'm in the Lithuanian countryside. And the organiser of that trip, He reach outs to me regularly, asking whether Now, I really really do want to get He's asked whether I want to give out an award I'd love to give out an award, but what I'm not going to tell him, to pitch to the various, presumably very wealthy people in the audience. I need to suit up. Now, in my line of work as a YouTuber, But if I was going to be rubbing shoulders After a warm greeting... I was in, and I started to realise the scale of these awards. This wasn't some small time thing. I was about to go up in front of, quite a lot of people. Not massively sure who I'm meant to be meeting. Not really knowing where to go for my awards giving, MAN: Hello, nice to meet you! MAX: Hello, nice to meet you! And it seems my prior naughtiness, [MAX LAUGHS] Now this venue was stuffed full, Katherine Ryan was hosting, I would get the opportunity to speak to all of them uninterrupted. And there was certainly a few billionaire-looking types So hopefully with a bit of charm, I'd be able to convince [APPLAUSE] The crowd went mild for my big moment. Hello, everyone. I think everyone over the age of 30 Yes, my name is Max Fosh, I'm a YouTuber. I technically became the world's richest man, for seven minutes. After a quick hello and five minutes of my best material... I thought it was a bit of fun, [LAUGHTER] I thought I'd shoot my shot. Just before I read out the nominees, but I thought I've got an opportunity like you lovely folk I am trying desperately to get What I'm asking for is completely arbitrary, but if you know any billionaires, or probably, Please remember, always look So, without further ado, And there you have it, I've made my case in front of some of the richest in the hope, that somebody, somewhere, in this vast room, who was frankly, up for a bit of a laugh. Weeks passed and I found myself distracted when suddenly, one day in the office, and on the other end of the phone [MAX LAUGHS] Really? It seems that word had got out and one billionaire in particular, Fantastic! I'd love to come in and see him, if that's possible. Amazing. Great, um, thank you so much, I really appreciate it. OK, OK! I think this is working, this is working! I've got 10 minutes with this billionaire, schedules can change, I'm not getting my hopes up just yet. Six weeks later I was barreling down the motorway, My meeting with my billionaire is not for another... 15 to 20 minutes, which actually, gives me, I find that my car is a bit of a safe space and Headspace really, really helps me. Headspace is a meditation app, that helps reduce stress, Because, with the videos I make, I'm always always running around the Headspace allows me and helps me to feel a bit grounded, I am a big big fan, to do their 'Breathe' section of the app, Get Headspace here with this QR code, so, start meditating now. It's super easy and actually really helpful. Thank you very much Headspace for sponsoring the vid. Now, let's do something silly. Right. Billionaire hunting time. I'd arrived at the offices with no other info We were told to be meeting his PA in 10 minutes. I don't really know what the etiquette is here. Do I go up to reception, 'Hello, I'm here to get in a will.' Here we are. Hello! Nice to meet you, how you doing? MAN: You all right? OK, great. The building I had arrived in, This place, was absolutely vast, and I was shown around the campus, All we survey, is owned. This guy, was the real deal. My billionaire's team led me through until we made it to where my dreams would Will he be in shortly? I'd only have a matter of minutes with him once he arrived, so to make sure that the Is were dotted and the Ts were crossed, I'd hired an inheritance lawyer to ensure everything went smoothly. MAX: Quite a big table. [BOB LAUGHS] As an important man, so lawyer Bob and I, had some time to kill. Our billionaire was taking his time... After a rather awkward wake with Robert, our billionaire finally arrived, but there was a problem. MAX: Hello! Our billionaire, was 31. Ben Francis, founder and CEO of sportswear brand, He'd heard about my rather bonkers idea from his team, Shall we have a seat? Yeah, let's do it. Ben. Max. Going to be- be in the will. As I was getting into this man's will, I've come too far to give up now, Anyway, I've got with me just an addendum, to the will. Now obviously, you haven't told me Do you want to keep it- keep it secret from me? I think it'll be a nice surprise, yeah. MAX: Yeah? This is obviously just you, just stating that for what you have decided. Again, I still don't know, but yeah, I think you- BOB: Just there. Just sign here. MAX: Just that one there. BEN: OK. I was desperately trying to keep my cool, but I'd done it, and with that signature, I was officially in the will, of a billionaire. That's- that's wonderful. And even though I didn't quite yet know what I was receiving, I was an official beneficiary of Mr Francis, I don't plan to, no. Just, there was a really, really great, like, skydiving school, like, just two miles down the road, we saw when we arrived. BEN: Wonderful, well, thank you very much. MAX: Thank you. No, thank you. BEN: Absolutely. Now essentially a father figure to me, and he was a lovely man and showed me But I have to say, I was a little bit distracted [MAX TAPS DOCUMENTS IN A RHYTHM] I have the goods. This has just come in the mail. It, seemingly, is from Mr Ben Francis - more importantly, Mr Ben Francis's legal team. 'Dear Mr Fosh, I'm writing to you on behalf We've received instruction to leave you, in Mr Ben Francis' last will and testament. Yada, yada, yada. What do I get? There was a lot of words on that page, I've got this, which is just a black card with a Gymshark logo on it. But, I have no idea, what this is. 'Upon instruction from Mr Ben Francis, Mr Maximilian Arthur Fosh, a Gymshark gift card, [MAX LAUGHS] Very good, Ben, very good. So I've gotten, in his will, But I can't- I'm not allowed- I can't redeem it until he dies. So I'm just going to have a Gymshark gift card for ages. But in the terms and conditions, [MAX LAUGHS] He's very much played me at my own game, is Mr Ben Francis. In the small print for the gift card that's to be left in the will, 'please be aware that this gift card Well, well done, Ben! I am in your will, but it's completely useless. But, I am in a billionaire's will,