From one country to another, In Kenya, it has a pretty green shade. For the animals, that means food. For the inhabitants of the Rift Valley, it means a good salary The rainy season We're happy because it's rained a lot. It's hard work, However, at my age, Alice collects 45 kilos of tea a day, seven hours a day, and hardly ever stops. For her, when she has and that's when the rain stops I hope it doesn't rain, so the truck can get here easily Yes, in the Rift Valley, It's both beneficial for crops The previous day's showers I skidded! The track got really bad Not just here, but all over the valley. His truck is blocking the entire road, but when life gives you lemons, Now we're being delayed by bad roads. We need leaders who can walk. We elect our leaders They only come here It's a precarious situation. You have to go under the truck Fortunately, in this agronomic area, there's everything Kenya's problem is dangerous roads. Nevertheless, this road but when it comes to infrastructure, the world's fourth-largest tea exporter Kenya is one and unlike the rest of the continent, its wealth doesn't come but from agriculture, industry, Kenya was one of the very first However, outside the major tourist areas, Go, go! Far from the cities, Those neglected by the Kenyan miracle in unimaginable places. Like this island shanty town. It has a reputation but on one condition: accept its hell! For others, it's global warming There used to be a river here, but it's dried up I have to remove all the dirty water Sometimes, we don't drink for four days. The weather has become drying out some regions with dramatic consequences The bridge disappeared a long time ago. Children used to be able The carefree days are over. I'm afraid of crocodiles. Regardless of monsters, Everyday life in Kenya demands courage. Despite being endangered by pollution Lake Victoria is still a cornucopia Adan is determined The young man has hired a truck from the Nile he has just bought, which he intends to sell It's a risky gamble, and the temperature Hey Masai, add more ice. There's not enough there. Go buy some more. The journey is long, as it's about eight If the fish is 100 kg, A lot of crises happen so the cost of transport is very high because we have no accessible, May God bless our journey. The 70 kilometers of winding road to Mbita is one of the most complicated Torrential rains have been saturating The 27-year-old is willing to build a future. My family was bankrupt. I wasn't able to pay my school fees. Here in my country, You have to pay for all the education. I have started Now I'm pursuing my bachelor's degree I want to continue my small business. That one of buying and selling fish. Buying from this place Adan hopes to put EUR200 net in his pocket. To do this, the fish has to be delivered That's no easy task. We have a lot of problems When transporting this fish you can lose a lot of fish. The ice will expire. The ice will become water. There's a lot of loss. There's a lot of business loss. You have to be very keen. If you're not careful enough, You have to concentrate. However, sometimes that's not enough. We're going to sleep here the whole day. Oh, no. Even me, I'm bored. Even two days. The rain is coming again. You can sleep here. Spend even a week here. These kids aren't at the show, no. They're waiting patiently Thirty-five degrees outside promised to earn them a bit of money. You see? The ice melted. There's no way of knowing since the fish have been ice free, but once the last piece has melted, To avoid losing the product, Put more on the small fish. Now they have to get out of there quickly. The shovel is not enough, they've got a chance. Adan pays them peanuts for their help, Let us try. Small arms, but big muscles. Peanuts are nice, Cleverly, the children surround the truck. If he wants to leave, Adan has to pay. We give them some money. Give them 40 cents I don't have 40 cents. -I've given you everything. Go on, start the truck. Bye and thank you. Yes, we'll be back. Adan and Bernard don't know it yet, but it's not the last time Money may be easy to get out of a wallet, but the hardest part At the height of the rainy season, the fishermen are looking to fill their bellies We're very lucky. It's very hard to fish at the moment. The weather is very bad. I thought we would leave with nothing, Come on, let's go back to Migingo Island. An island that and even less to do with that one. No, Migingo is like no other island It may not look like it, this shantytown-shaped piece of land Smaller than a football pitch, there are more than a thousand people heated by the sun. Not just fishermen live here. Migingo is a micro town. Daniel has lived here for four years. This is the main street, the widest. Everyone goes through here. There's a passage here and another there, There's another street, but smaller. In this alleyway, Here's a hotel with several rooms. Julius works on a boat. He rents a room here, or rather an oven for EUR60 a month, a fortune. Sometimes we sleep in twos When we can't go out to sea I share my room We don't have enough Everything on the island We sleep like this: The third is in this direction. Of course, if I find another job, but I don't know anything else. I didn't study. That's why I'm still fishing. On the shanty island, no toilets, and no electricity. An unsanitary rock where, life settles in and clings on. Why are they all moving For one reason only: money. The Nile perch, is starting to become scarce This piece of rock is located on Lake Victoria. It allows fishermen to save fuel by avoiding the round trip 15 kilometers away. The two neighboring islands but remain uninhabitable. One is protected by its legend. It is said to be occupied by demons. Only a few soldiers dare to sleep there. The other, ironically, would be too big who come at night to steal boat engines. Gathered together on Migingo, the fishermen have turned their island but one that's impossible to live in. Goods are constantly arriving to supply the small shops. The only consolation for the locals is that clothes are much cheaper. Fishermen earn a better living, so they spend money to keep Daniel runs his small business I do haircuts and phone charging. That's what I do here. I need to charge my phone. I need your battery. Daniel is the only barber on the island. With no competition, or just about. Most of the houses on Migingo who colonized the island Inevitably, the price per square meter Before I worked on the coast, business wasn't going very well, I didn't think I'd be here for long, The problem here is the rent, For example, It's very expensive. The other one opposite is 60 euros. Opposite is the pharmacy, certainly the most profitable business Kathy is not a doctor There is no shortage of illnesses She has been sick so she lost her appetite. This is to boost the appetite. It might be malaria or typhoid. We manage it like that All of Migingo You'd think they'd run away, attracted by miraculous catches. Julius sees disaster coming. Here you go. We're always well-received here. According to him, the island's waters a victim of their reputation. When there are no fish, Some months, when we don't catch anything, we don't earn enough money to buy food. Before, the island was uninhabited because nobody imagined Now that fishing is booming, It continues to attract people. For how long? Migingo is on the verge of asphyxiation. Like Lake Victoria, the human activity generated by Tanzania, which share the waters, Waste water, fertilizers, are threatening Several million people but it's not the only threat Global warming is no legend. The sun is hitting certain regions hard. Come on, hurry up with your bags. We've got to leave! Hurry up, the road is bad. We're going to get stuck. David's taxi is as densely populated Let's go to Gatamba. Twenty kilometers of dust and sweat or the matatu, as the Kenyans call it. We use the matatu to transport people It's a good job for me. I'm bringing food to isolated villages, but the problem is the road. Nine euros for the trip, but at that price, Bring these little stones Put the stones here. We wedge stones under the wheels As a result of the shaking, Check that the truck wheel -Please fasten everything securely. We transport cabbage, The wheel was damaged Now come on everybody, push. Let's go. Come on, make more of an effort. The matatu moves slowly. Ten kilometers in two hours. Its sputtering engine I've got a problem. We're too heavy, so to make it lighter, That way, my car could move. Above all, they have to push. Put a stone under the wheel. You don't want it to go backwards. The shepherds are amused by the situation. You have to admit In this sun scorched place, the drought is emptying the villages It's been three years have seen a single drop fall. I've lost 250 cows because of the drought. Sometimes you have to walk We still manage to eat, Sometimes I can go four days Before, there were goats and cows here and camels there. Over here were the houses When the drought came, He lived alone, he died of hunger. He had nothing left. No water, food, or animals. For the poorest families, day-to-day life is terrible. There are six of us living here, We're so hungry and thirsty. Yes, life is really hard. Look at her lips, they're dry. She hasn't eaten anything today. We have no more goats I had four. I also had cows, The situation has just become with the arrival The baby is asleep. Only three weeks old. Weakened by childbirth, her daughter can no longer help her mother I walk a 20-kilometer roundtrip which takes me about three hours. I do this every morning at the same time When I come back, There used to be a river here, I have to walk further and dig more holes. Although the water there's still some Each family has its own hole. No one would dare come I have to remove all the dirty water I don't know why the government Why? We're little people. I don't know Only God protects us. The government doesn't care about us. Give us water and food. The shepherds still find Water that's almost stagnant. That's barely drinkable for the animals, and yet... I drink this water as I have no choice. We all drink it together We pray to God not to fall ill, but we also use the leaves of this tree It's medicine. It soothes our stomach You have to chew it like this. This is medicine. Drink dirty water or die of thirst. The choice is quickly made On one side of the country, On the other, Adan and Bernard are among them. The track along Lake Victoria The two men have and very little ice to preserve it. It's always the same. Trouble never arrives at the right time. A descent, a climb, some mud, We've got a big problem here. It's very bad, come and see. These are the kinds of challenges There's a lot of problems. This is our vehicle. Now we are at a very high risk. Just like the first time the village children quickly arrive, ready to jump at the chance and it didn't take long. No tractor available? No, there isn't any around in the area, -How can the villagers help us? Help us collect stones and gravel. We'll give you money for it. However, Adan finds that the children and above all, and throw the stones anyway. I'll call the police! You need to collect more stones. I'll call the police We need to put in gravel and stone. This time, against the 12 tons of steel. Adan and Bernard have no choice and that's going to cost a bit more. We're negotiating. They want 300 shillings each. It's so expensive. We're not negotiating with them The village chief speaks for everyone. Let's say we can deduct, so if you can deduct, let it be two. Let me talk! You said 5,000. The total I wanted here is 6,000. We just want 250. Why do you deny us that? Fifty euros is a quarter of his profit, but when Adan sees the ice melting he has no choice. Come on, I'll give you EUR50. Now push my truck. Come on, you've got to push. It's time to get paid. Despite the hardship Adan is pragmatic. When you have a problem, It's like that. That's the problem. Come on, you've got to push. Money doesn't work miracles, and the wheels The hundreds or so kilos of fish may well start to go off In Kenya, the weather seems There are more storms, and downpours The economy of the affected regions Four million Kenyans I struggle to use my motorbike It's a real challenge for traders and it's so important for feeding people. All this water washing away the soil also has terrible health consequences. After the torrential rains such as bilharzia and malaria. These are not the only scourges. Flooding is partly due Without this green barrier to stop it, such as Lake Baringo. Since 2010, Despite the stone dams, the luxury hotels by the lake. The suffering of those locals is threefold. Their jobs have disappeared. Their village, is now under attack from the waters and an animal Check out the crocodile! A beautiful beast The children try to convince themselves that they're out of danger -I'm not afraid of them. They're used to us. Well, not really. Last year, five children were attacked and none survived. Since the waters have risen, There are school boats, but not all families George has made traditional canoes To make them, Then I tied the branches together The bridge disappeared a long time ago. Before, you could walk but the water has risen so much and the water has completely taken over. I'm scared of crocodiles. There are many here. The crossing takes 20 minutes, and although there is another danger Contrary to popular belief, the hippopotamus is far We make the journey every day. Last time, We had to take a long detour to avoid it. As for the teachers, Their meager salaries don't allow them Before, there was no water here. Nobody helps us, They take risks Its Achilles heel. If we see a crocodile, We also use pebbles to hit the water. That scares them away, Crocodiles do indeed have keen hearing. As to whether his technique works, In any case, that day, for both the teachers This morning, the majority Good morning, teacher! -How are you? Sometimes the classrooms remain empty. I'm happy because today This allows us to go a good job. For example, last week, there wasn't enough petrol It was really complicated. When we went to school, It's very important for us I love you so much, Ebenezer. Ebenezer, you're so wonderful. I love you so much, Ebenezer. Ebenezer, you're so wonderful. The bridge won't be in place but one man to appease the ferocious appetite Now, I'm going to feed them. Every afternoon, Aron feeds the crocodiles the leftover fish If I don't feed them, They can bite us. They like fresh meat. According to him, is a crocodile Well, normally. We pray to God not to be attacked. In the space of four years, Swept away by the animal. Winnie survived miraculously. She was attacked in 2020. That day, I went to fetch water, It dragged me under, My husband saw my hands sticking out. He jumped in to save me, He screamed loudly, and people came to help us. Several people strangled the animal. I couldn't understand what was going on, and it finally let go of my leg. They started by eating the goats, They love blood. It's really terrible. I can't go back to the water I can't work anymore, so I stay at home but sometimes he doesn't earn enough to buy us enough food. Until the water level drops, the crocodiles will remain Until the climate flooding and mud Come on, go! It cost him dearly. He had to promise EUR50 to get him out of the ditch. After four hours of effort, the rear wheels -Where's Jacob? Let me count it. One, two, three, four, five, six. Adan's only obsession now is to save If that's still possible. Now that we're good, we've got to move on. I'm praying to God It's okay now, we have to find ice. A further one-hour drive, and the village of Sindo This small fishing port is blessed with one of the few ice factories Please sir, we want ice. This is the place where get some cold ice. How much do you want? One hundred kilograms? Adan and Bernard, -It's all melted, but it's fine. You can see that it's still fresh. You know from the gills. The condition now is not good. -It's not good, but still fresh. The ice will preserve them but now, at the slightest stop, The local contractors are all corrupt, They keep the money for themselves. They build too fast After three years, the road deteriorates It took us nine hours but now we're back on tarmac. We're relieved. Everything is fine. I'm so glad to see a road like this. The last few kilometers We battled bad roads and weather, and despite all that, Ten hours on the road to earn EUR200 minus the 50 he gave the villagers Adan is working to pay for his studies Kenya is booming. Tea cultivation, fishing, tourism. The country is developing, It doesn't look like global warming