This aircraft carrier was stolen from Ukraine and managed to use up most of the carrier's service is not what you think. During her design phase, the newest "Soviet Union". In 1982, when she she was named "Riga". Then when launched in and when she underwent sea trials When Tbilisi was about to enter service, the There were no airgroups, no task and no air traffic control groups, without which was no infrastructure to support such a ship, doesn't exist. Even the carrier's first commanding newspaper that the Soviet Navy was not prepared You see, during the Soviet times, most funding was and not enough money was left over for As the Soviet Union was enduring its final capital ships to be named after cities that wanted Tbilisi and her sister ship Riga renamed. 1990, it was announced that Tbilisi was renamed Kuznetsov '' and the under-construction sister of a big deal, especially if you are already Bringing bananas on the ship is bad luck. it's very bad luck. Changing the name Admiral Kuznetsov is truly a misfortunate secretly plotted to steal her from The carrier's misfortunes started with the 1991, Ukraine declared independence from the USSR. do with the Black Sea fleet, since the majority of Leonid Kravchuk, proclaimed that Admiral Kuznetsov of the ship to remain docked in Ukraine. But the Ukraine did not exist as a country, yet. Because on December 1st, 1991, the very same day that 92% during the referendum, aircraft carrier Admiral Russian Northern Fleet and headed to Murmansk. One with the rest staying behind in Ukraine. Admiral Kuznetsov traveled thousands of and ended up in a port that lacked proper Despite being unfinished, on January as the flagship of the Russian Navy, for two years later, and wasn't even The carrier's first deployment began in 1995 in Her mission was to show off Russia's favorable Mediterranean weather conditions. rather than "power projection" as Admiral Russia's appearance of being a major naval fixed wing aircraft is a type of capital But Kuznetsov is more of a Potemkin Village, which purpose is to provide an external facade to look like they are doing better than they really This carrier is not the front piece of is a Russian Navy trying desperately to impressive and far-ranging Soviet Navy. While on the outside, the Kuznetsov might look embarked men were rationing water, which was only morning and 10 minutes in the evening, because the down. At one point, the US Navy was poised to help But it gets worse. Admiral Kuznetsov's pressurized boilers which are extremely including her first deployment, the carrier Even though the propulsion system could Kuznetsov had to be towed back to port. For the flagship of the Russian Navy had to be in hindsight was a good idea, because yet again, this mighty tugboat, she was towed back to port According to western sources, Russia ended up it managed to train qualified pilots. Which is during the first deployment of the Soviet aircraft Soviet aircraft carrier was ready for its first produced and embarked on the ship. So in order in front of American Intelligence services, Sailors repainted the airframe numbers in order to inflate the number of yak-38 aircraft hangars. And you gotta give it to them, because that the Kiev aircraft carrier had embarked at We should clarify that Kuznetsov is not an she does not identify as an aircraft carrier, because according to the Montreux Convention, the tones are prohibited through the Turkish Straits. designate Kuznetsov and all their other aircraft During three decades of service in six short deployments to the She spent most of her service time docked in seagoing time was around 15 days per year and she Arguably, the most memorable event from the black exhaust was attributed to many different operator error for not preheating fuel and so on. But it is becoming evident that the likely cause But how could this be? During her 30-year career, That's nowhere near enough time to There are reports emerging that four of during midlife refit as they are worn out. create these gigantic machines, and not their electricity and hot water when Kuznetsov was wearing out the power plants. As she sat quietly life of her machinery was spent providing In contrast, when Nimitz-class carriers full shore services are provided to supply reactors would then be shut down. If services up the most fuel would be shut down, while But the wearing out of the propulsion only issue. Pretty much everything else due to her age. Particularly the arresting gear. In 2016 during the deployment in Syria, two An Su-33 broke the arresting cable and rolled A few days later, three aircraft took off, That's because two of the carrier's four The pilot of the third airplane was ordered to the arresting gear. One hour later, the MIG-29K In 2017, the carrier returned back to Murmansk her service life by another 25 years. As part of time in drydock, and the only available one in But on October 30th, 2018, the floating dock As the pumps stopped pumping out the dock slowly leaned and sank. As a ended up falling on the carrier, leaving The sinking of PD-50 could have been prevented, if which it did! But how good is a generator that has that no diesel fuel had ever been purchased for because the general director of the shipyard arrested and charged for stealing $650,000 from After the sinking of the PD-50 floating 650-ft long dry docks in Murmansk shipyard Thirty years after commissioning, Russia is its one and only aircraft carrier. In a way, can be attributed to the Russian Government's Because not having an aircraft carrier is not once Kuznetsov completes her mid-life would the mighty tug boat