(tranquil music) - Welcome to my world. (upbeat music) Two escargots, pate brisee. Two green salads. - Okay, lani sauce here. - Lamb chops, steak-frites. Shouldn't you be doing something? Two smoked filets and a pepper steak. Come on, make the dessert. Chocolate tart please. As a cook, taste and and now I'm in search of new ones. So, I'm leaving New York City and hope to have a few and I'm willing to go to I am looking for extremes I'll try anything, I'll risk everything. I have nothing to lose. (light acoustic music) Our experience of Portugal was very much a step back in time, open fires, huts, fireplaces, and of course the food is very much like it was 100, 200 years ago, and they're proud of it. It's mind-boggling, you feel Here I am, finally, in Portugal. What's different about - Basically, in Portugal and then we eat a lot of pork, and one of the great with just about everything, we don't let anything go to waste. - Nose to tail. all the innards, everything. - You're scaring me. I'm going to Portugal to figure out Jose, my boss from Les Halles, Jose is a maniacal foodie, loves food, loves cooking, loves talking about and his love for his country's cuisine has only gotten stronger since he left Portugal years ago. Jose's quirky obsession is something that's always intrigued me. Knowing Jose, I suspect I'm - Prepare the stomach for lunch. (laughs) - The town of Oporto, it's an old town, it's a pretty town. How old is this city? - Maybe from the 12th - Right. so, it's a very, very old city. - We quickly discover possibly the most important of Portuguese cuisine, which is salt cod or bacalao as they call it here. Okay, this is the backbone of - Exactly. Why is that? - I guess there used to be a and the Portuguese boats, at the time nobody cares about would go to the North to fish or bacalao. - Right. - And they figured out both on the boats and because at the time there's no freezers. - [Anthony] No refrigeration. Back in the days when way before Swanson they needed a sustainable food for all those long conquering boat trips. They discovered that if and stuck it in salt, it That's a long time at sea. But what started out as survival food soon made its way onto it hasn't left since. - People started falling and it becomes the basic, if there's a national - Now I understand why you don't like that stuff that comes with no bones in it in the little plastic bag. Well, like any food-crazy country, restaurants are known for specific dishes or specific things that they do well, and apparently Portugal - Sure they left some things for us to eat while waiting for the fish to get cooked. You will see what-- - [Anthony] Oh, man, I'm ready. The first place Jose takes us is a workaday lunch joint called Redondo. Redondo is famous for merluza, particularly head of merluza. if you're not a friend of Redondo, if you don't come here often, you cannot have the head. The head is reserved for the - Fortunately, we're very special people. (Jose laughing) It should be pointed out, you don't make reservations for the night. You basically make them for life. This is your cousin's table? - Yeah, this is my he owns this table. - Okay. I know there's some elements that I already really, really like. And in fact, I've stolen and used them as my own over the years. So I'm here because I like the to really understand how You know, you respect the ingredients, that's sort of the antithesis When you think sardine in the States, this is not the same animal at all, not salty, oily, stinky These are really good, really dredged in flour and eaten whole. - [Jose] You start by the head. - This is everything I like in food. Absolutely nothing goes to waste if you've got the whole It's simple, it's straightforward, Two, three ingredients involved and it's good because it's good. You don't have to carve and you can eat the head. (laughing) - I think these days I see more and more people want simple ingredients, Oh, here it is, here is the-- - Wow, here we go. Next, merluza. Merluza is like a giant capelin, The Portuguese understand the sweeter the meat. - They cut it further down the neck so we have that little meat to it. - I got all the good stuff here, the cheek, the tongue, little - You want the eyeball too? - Yeah. I love-- - Yeah, I'd love some. It's really light, really subtle flavor, ethereal, one might say. Basically, if you like filet, the fish, you will like eyeball, you got to get past your preconceptions about chewing on eyeballs. Now, for the tongue. The tripes a la mode. I love making it. I think but it smells like a wet sheep dog to me. Jose just loves tripe. He not only loves tripe, he preferably with some and some blood sausage and some skin and some ears and some tails. That's something I probably had I come to this restaurant alone. - This is the best type of tripe, it's called the tripe brisee. See the beans, and there (speaks in foreign language) vodka. That's the the calf's - Okay. - This dish, the reason some time in history, and he did invade Portugal, and he ransacked everything but they left with the that was the tripe, and maybe some other things and the people from that was the tripes to survive, and of course then it became - Okay, where's that little feet piece? Oh, here it is. See, I would be a full-blown tripe fan if I'd been eating it - Let's go. - That was fantastic. Thank you very much. It was wonderful, an It should be pointed out, Two hours now, I've had This man is enthusiastic to a fever pitch. Some Pro Spring pants might before this trip, because I get the idea and I'm gonna be eating frequently. (light acoustic music) The city of Oporto, it's a port city. It's in northern Portugal at It's a city that grew exporting of Port wine. The grapes may come from the Douro Valley but this is Porto town. - Now you are on the Quebrantoes, it's probably the most You see all the Port wine signs, most of the familiar brands - Right, I recognize some of these names. - So, this is where it all This is the center of the - The wine came from upriver. - Yes, from upriver. - On these boats, they were fortified with brandy and then it sailed down to England. - During one of their many the shifty British turned but found they could only during shipment by adding brandy. And bingo, they invented Port wine. The result was that you and you see a number of See, if you'd poured a few you poured a few 100,000 from a little Port party and then started killing maybe you wouldn't have had this problem. - Maybe. (laughs) Well, let's go in there, it's So in the old days these and some of them still - [Anthony] The Portuguese about not having changed much at all. They seem to have decided early on, what's good, and stuck with it. - Here, you have a very Maybe on this side, maybe it'll be open. Yeah, it's open, so this is what a grocery 900 years ago, so there's This tin of the olives, the all these ingredients that people used to go - We're gonna eat some octopus now. Jose has been telling me all People come from all over What's the name of the restaurant? - It's called Aleixo, and as you know, is very well-known for it's - Joining us for octopus is Jerry Luper, a winemaker from California, who settled in Portugal here to grow grapes and to make new wine. - Sit down, everybody. Food on the table and the wine. - That's good. - This is another form of octopus. This is octopus salad, then mixed with a little vinaigrette. - Little bacalao balls, I knew I'd be eating a lot of bacalao because I just know Jose's He gets very upset if what he comes into the restaurant. He'd come in, look at it and say, &quot;Send it back, I hate it, Would it be fair to say that this is one of Porto's most beloved restaurants? - Yes, yes. - Preferred by locals. - And by foreigners and by, yes. If you really want to bring and really enjoy what is good that's the place to be. - This is it. - Jerry, you're gonna tell us what we're drinking here with this. - Quinta Nossa Reserva Branco, white wine partially fermented in a barrel and then blended with wine for freshness and butteriness of the wood, and goes very well with this kind of food. - I don't know (beep) about wine. I should not be counted on Fortunately, Jerry Luper That'll come in handy tomorrow. - Look how she cuts the - [Anthony] These guys are great. - This is the special octopus. Like 90% of the people, they (laughing) - Okay, Jose, tell me what we got here. - [Jose] This is octopus rice. They make it with the smaller - [Anthony] Right in with the rice. - Yeah. And here you have octopus filets. It's very difficult to - All right. - [Jose] First of all, that is fished locally, and second, that's what this and they've been doing this so it's very very hard to the - This is an operation, what it is they wanted to do. - Figured out what they do well and they've been doing it - Exactly, so you want a piece of risotto? - Of course. Didn't I just see one hanging - Yeah, right there. - [Anthony] Yes, looking good. Tell us about this cheese. - Sheep's milk cheese, south of Lisbon. Setubal. - Hey, guys, so this Meaning, this (mumbles) breaks, this stuff is seeking its own level. I'm frequently asked of everything that is good and decent and must be hunted down and destroyed so their genes don't pass It's because if you can't enjoy even a nice stinky runny you may as well kill yourself now. Now I have to ask you, does every Portuguese meal end with pork? - There is no wine on the table. (laughs) - It's a disaster, there's - I like Portugal, I like the food, but I'm very aware of the fact that this is not like cooking. And of course, at the end of the day I'm stuffed like an overjammed kielbasa. (speaking in foreign language) I am out of my league here. (light acoustic music) The next morning I wake up in the Douro Valley wine country in a spectacular hilltop guesthouse courtesy of my friend Jerry Luper. I'm really looking forward to soaking up the amazing but the weather has different plans. As you can see the weather's not so great. It was actually wonderful but the staff has informed that, &quot;You the Americans, you &quot;as the road no good.&quot; We'll hit the road before it washes out or we'll be living up here for That doesn't look good. What the hell is this? This isn't like my travel agent told me. This is like &quot;Escape from Witch Mountain&quot; in the R-rated version. At some point, we're gonna who sent us up to this His wine better be good. Jerry, thanks for getting There it looked touch and go for any chilling anecdotes marooned up here. - As a matter of fact, down on the main highway, a and submerged two cars so we do need to get down the hill. Just a little background on the Douro, there are 40,000 hectares, that's nearly 6,000 acres of grapes and there are 33,000 owners - [Anthony] Wow. - Down here you have the Douro River upstream all the way to Spain and the vineyards continue up the river. - [Anthony] This is hundreds and hundreds of years. - Oh, yeah. And there's evidence that the named the river, Douro, of gold. The Romans mined gold here and they stayed and made wine. That was one of the Roman ways of keeping things settled down, and they'd keep the local people happy. - Keep them liquored up. Works with my kitchen. I didn't know wine country I think you're gently rolling hills. - Here it's very steep. Routinely you'll find 45 degrees, if you look that's pretty darn steep. Okay, this vineyard is called Cartola and the vines are about 70, 80 years old and they produce the with desert. - [Jerry] After lunch. - As we can see, the water and erosion has caused a break in the wall here. We've got rock blocking the drainage. - It's a constant battle and takes a lot of work a lot of labor. - From about where we're standing to the tree line over there, how many cases of wine are - Okay, we're talking about maybe, say 35 cases per acre times five, 165 cases of wine from two hectares. That's not very much. - Still, think about that next time you tuck into a really good wine. - Well, I think we came to - Jerry's yammering on about Meanwhile, I'm hoping that and that I don't go tumbling to my death in a tangle of Land Rover This is a thin strip Safe at the bottom of the mountain, we arrived at the quinta, the main farmhouse on the vineyard. - Okay, wine is on, dry white Port. Let's see what you think of this one. And a lot of people use in the summertime with some - You know there's a called &quot;White Port &amp; Lemon Juice.&quot; I said W P boom boom L J (laughs) It's from my time. Okay, the kitchen is ready. It's nice to have these olives and wine but it's time to get into the real thing. - [Anthony] Jerry's got something special in mind for lunch, bacalao. There seems to be many It's a constant theme. - [Jerry] It's called bacalao - So it's almost like a bread casserole but (mumbles) consistency - And you know, as they say in France, there's a cheese for every day, in Portugal there's a - Yeah, we're noticing it's cod cod cod. - [Jerry] And the wine we're and hope it goes okay with the bacalao. - [Anthony] Next, a roast loin roasted, unsurprisingly, in Port wine. The French call this boulangere potatoes, meaning you cook the So you get all that fatty greasy goodness. It's beautiful. - [Jerry] Here's the secret. The mole here in the juice is-- - Okay, I'm gonna have (laughing) - And today you peel the potatoes. (speaking in foreign language) There's this thing, peeled or not peeled. - I know, it's the eternal A cook never waits anyway. (laughing) - Double starch. Potato, rice. It's a thing at the Culinary where certain precepts that you must do this this way. I guess I found out that at least 75 to 90% of those precepts are absolutely false. (laughs) - Okay, this is a Tinta Roriz and it has a good amount of tannin which really goes great with a big dish. (wine bottle popping) Now, something very special. A 40-year-old tawny port, 40 years old. This wine started its life with this color and then with time it changes - Wow! Well there must be blood and bone involved because you're looking into the spiritual sense, you know, I'm getting lifeforce here. (laughing) I'm getting drunk. - [Jerry] And remember - We passed this neighborhood - [Jerry] Those grapes - I consider myself a but if this keeps up, I'm not gonna make it out of Portugal. (light acoustic music) (dramatic music) You know, like much of I have no idea where the hell I'm going. Jose says, &quot;We're going to eat baby goat.&quot; We arrived at Quinta da I don't know why. Jose, we took some to get here. I could never find my way out. Where are we exactly? - It's an old olive oil press. As you can see, it is all made in stone. They used to put here the olives and this wheel would come So this is not working anymore and they decided transform this into a countryside restaurant. - [Anthony] They're roasted the traditional Portuguese way. - So they come here in the kitchen, and this to the original kitchen, as you can see, the old Actually, our goat is in here. - Really? Do you see this seal here? - Yeah. - You used to show this with cow manure. - I'll live with this. - This is the way people staying up over here, over and they are getting smoked. - [Anthony] This is seriously old school. Jose has a very extended family. Every 10 minutes somebody and it's, &quot;This is my &quot;this is my cousin.&quot; (laughing) - Actually this is one of my cousins. He is a very important person to meet because he actually is that fishes for bacalao. - [Anthony] We know how important that is. - So maybe some of the bacalao might have been fished by his boats. - Hello. - [Anthony] After four my little baby goat is - [Jose] Here it is. - [ Anthony] Oh, yeah. - The rice is underneath so the drippings will come over the rice, that's - The juice gets in there. - [Anthony] And gives that rice flavor. - [Jose] So now we can - Let's eat. Like so many places in We're talking real flame, - [Jose] Every single Portuguese meal, you have to start with cod fish. - I'm gathering that. Another festive casserole of bacalao! There doesn't seem to be much dilution. - Yes. Before there was restaurant which was all about friends and family. Hey, give me a little greens there. And good-luck old stuff with a long tradition attached to it. Ah, incredible. I don't fully understand but I understand why Jose The context for Jose's particular form of enthusiasm and madness. Generally, when he's it's because it comes from his childhood, and that's true of all of us. I think any dish that evokes memory, that you grew up with, has And Jose is Jose because (upbeat music)