The main purpose of these two functions is to a corresponding value back, that's sitting in the the value that you're looking up has to be on returned has to be on an adjacent column. Now, left on the right side and return a value on the left way, except that V is for vertical lookups and H is column headers, you're going to need VLOOKUP, and need HLOOKUP. So, let's have a look at an example a large set of data, and you've been told that sold, the money they got, the price they charged, create an overview agent report, where you select from this table. As a first step, we're going to add lecture on data validation. We're going to go to List and the source is our agent. So, press Control+Shift and the down arrow key. And now, we get to select our agents from here. Now, for the agent we select, we'd like to find the price. That's where our VLOOKUP formula comes in. The first argument we're we looking up. In this case, we're looking up the array, you have to remember that this is the full in and your answers are in, and it's one range. So, holding Ctrl-down and going like this, but instead, from here to here. I'm going to press again Control+Shift+down, that's my range. And keep in mind, that the key, the main thing is that, this Agent D, is the first side. Even if I don't need quantity and revenue, way, they're in the way of me getting to price entire range, even if there's stuff in there that and that basically means how much should it move. So, basically, in which column is the answer that you the fourth column, we have to put 4 in there. And you're look up value is text and not a number. If means that, an exact match is not necessary sorted in ascending order. If it's not sorted in then you're probably going to receive an error. generally, I don't want to be bothered to think is I always put false in here, meaning that, these generally, put this on false as well. Okay, so let's check this Agent D, the price here is 39, rounded 39. Now, what about the customer? I can follow the the table, I'm looking this up, is here, and my is the customer? The last one, which makes it 1-2-3-4, the fifth column and false is the last argument. Customer D, for Agent D. Customer H, 37 for Agent H. I have a very simple dynamic using VLOOKUP. You can also use VLOOKUP on their own alone, like this. So, for example, if didn't have price in my source data, I actually on this, and I could say, well, divide the revenue divide by which quantity, I will use the VLOOKUP I want the revenue first, so that's number 3. the result of the VLOOKUP formula for quantity. and that gives me my price. So, Agent H is 37. I think in C, VLOOKUP with in other formulas. Agent N is 42, Customer N. And now, let me show you the HLOOKUP version of this. So, in case your original source data is So, I'm going to copy this. We're going to move down Okay, so in case you have your data provided to you in this way, which is less likely but it's possible, and you want to do the same type of look up and to use the HLOOKUP function. So, in the same way, down. You write new formulas. So, in the same manner, if you want to find going to write HLOOKUP, the lookup value that what you're looking up here, needs to Next is the row index number, instead of the column fourth row and again, do false. The same The same with customer. I can actually copy this... paste this in here. Because this remains the same, instead of 4, what number do I need? 5. Customer N. Agent P is here right at the end. 40 is my price and Customer P is there. Okay, if instead of price, I wanted to find quantity, the only thing I need to change is my index number. and quantity is number 2. So, I get 8. That's the HLOOKUP function. To recap one major limitation of the VLOOKUP and the left. So, what if you wanted it the other way we were going to select a customer and get back classical VLOOKUP formula. We're going to need to the left hand side, because the value we're looking