Today I will be talking about 9 things that you should consider throwing away right These are items I actually got rid of, and I Simply put, they're things that give you negative In Japan, we call these objects "E iQi noWu Just getting rid of things like that will 1. Obvious Trash Take a look around your room. Is there any trash lying around? If so, get rid of it immediately. Because people tend to associate like messy, dirty or unnecessary, right? This means that every time you see trash in If you could think of trash as treasure, like I do when I pick up litter while walking I mean if you can see trash in a positive way, then maybe it's ok to have some in your room even if it's inside. But that's not the case for most people, is it? So, if trash is scattered around in your Then, your room will feel a little more positive. 2. Broken Items Do you have broken dishes, damaged If so, I recommend letting them go too. They might be fixable, but for triggering negative thoughts like Right? So that's why it's Of course you can fix them too. And the great thing about repairing the negative energy into something positive. For example, through the Japanese Here's my favorite cup that recently broke... So now, I'm in the process of By doing so, the negative association of &quot;I can't use this anymore&quot; turns into a positive Suddenly, it starts emitting positive energy. This is the power of repairing. So if you have broken items, think if you can fix it and if you can't, let them go. 3. Items Linked to Bad Memories If you have things like that, throw them out. Because every time you see them, even their presence brings back unpleasant For example: - Gifts or letters from an ex-partner. - Diaries filled with negative feelings from your youth. - Uniforms that remind you of tough or painful training. These are things I've personally let go of. Honestly, I couldn't get rid even though they held bad memories, I But every time I cleaned my room, seeing Then I thought this is enough! Finally, For me, it's easier to get rid Trust me! You'll feel a massive 4. Dirty Items Items that are dirty usually bring "This is not clean, or gross" so it's best to In my experience, these three items -1. Shoes There's a saying: "Shoes I used to wear dirty shoes without a I started trying to wear clean shoes. Not only does wearing clean shoes feel better, but I've noticed it also -2. Wallet In Japan,some people say: "Your Would you prefer to live in Of course, a clean house, right? Money feels the same--it wants it's important to keep your wallet clean and tidy. -3. Clothes A friend of mine recently "Clothes are what wrap you." When I heard of these words, I was like wow Think about gift wrapping. If the wrapping is dirty, you probably If so, you probably wouldn't want because that wouldn't feel too great. It's like a human present So, If you have these items, it's better 5. Television Sorry, I'm not criticizing there are plenty of entertaining shows out there. Naruto, One piece and any kind of But for me, It had a more For example - Lots of Ads designed that fuel desires, - Negative news, especially in Japan - Lavish celebrity lifestyles... It didn't leave me feeling good after watching. So I decided to let it go and felt almost like my life had transformed. Since I let go of my TV, I've and more importantly, I found I think getting rid of TV was one of the 6. Excessive Decorations Excessive decorations don't but they do sometimes diminish In a previous video, I talked about the Empty spaces are key to helping you relax. In other words, they are When you fill a room with too many For example, imagine covering this room with lots of decorations, Oh, this It might look cool and stylish, but Doesn't it start to feel a bit cramped? If you don't feel like you to start letting go of your 7. Withered Plants Have you ever accidentally This is an example I made, but yes, I have... Of course it's best to keep them alive, but it happens sometimes due to I get the feeling of wanting to hold on to them, even if they're withered, because But unfortunately, withered plants tend and as such, they don't carry the best energy. In feng shui, it's said that having withering So, when this happens,it's best to let it go. That said, it's still sad, so I always Thank you for living with me.&quot; 8. Old Stuffed Animals or dolls I used to have a lot of stuffed animals--like But I don't keep any stuffed animals now. If the plush is new and clean, it's totally OK. But old ones tend to get dirty In feng shui, it is believed that energy from their surroundings, I don't know about you, but creepy about old stuffed animals or dolls, right? I think that might be because of that! That's why I no longer keep But of course, they're still cute! So if I do decide to keep I place them in a clean and bright space 9 Cables Finally, let's talk about cables. Cables, like trash, tend to multiply When you see a bundle of them, what comes to mind? Spaghetti? If you're able to think of spaghetti, so maybe it's okay to keep them as they are. But in most cases, we associate tangled And looking at them doesn't usually So, if you have a lot of cables lying around, I found that clearing out the tangled mess So give it a try! Did anything come to mind If so, check out this video to make the process Jin Ri moarigatou! See you in the next video!