Welcome to another Mathologer video. Today I'd like to invite you to chase down a particularly crazy mathematical rabbit properties of the golden ratio Phi and the in some crazy facts about some mutant and the tribonacci sequence and some By the way, this is Marty giggling in the time I hope. Anyway just a reminder, the Fibonacci sequence starts with two 1s and then every previous two Fibonacci numbers. So 1 plus so on. The tribonacci sequence starts 1, 1, 2 but then every tribonacci number number is 1 plus 1 plus 2 is 4, and then I know, the first connection between the was discovered by the famous Kepler. He observed that the ratios of to phi. So this sequence of ratios here Similarly the ratios of consecutive tribonacci numbers converge to the tribonacci constant. Wonderful isn't it? Now just imagine being the first to discover these facts :) Now what if your life tribonacci number. Well, we have the first 9 adding the 7th, 8th and 9th we get by adding the 8th, 9th and 10th we get the 11th. So if we keep going we'll eventually get to the 1000 tribonacci number. But the sword of the executioner. mind-bending formula which skips all the tribonacci sequence and straightaway Whoa, and there's the tribonacci constant right at its core. (Marty) I'm not sure that this will be quick enough to stop the executioner. (Mathologer) Let's just hope it will. So the two square brackets encasing everything indicate that the 1000th inside these brackets, rounded to the a general formula just replace 1000 by n. For example, choosing n within easy brackets pans out to be this guy here. 66012. Have you ever seen a weird very impressed the first time I So, anyway my mission today is to explain famous formula that plucks the nth look at this one here. Also pretty neat, do is to give you a taste of how someone this. So I'd like to take you on a fairly us from playing with some numbers and educated guess for this Fibonacci our monstrous tribonacci counterpart finish off by talking about a few neat occurrences of the Fibonacci numbers and nature. Okay, so here we go, ratio phi. In decimals this number starts When we square this number something isn't it. The only thing this has changed is that the 1 in front has turned into a 2. interesting and that suggests to someone powers. Here are the first few. Hmm, have a closer look we discover some can see, the two yellow numbers seem to case here and here and it sure looks after. And so the sequence of numbers sequence except that its two seed squared instead of 1 and 1. But there of powers of phi. if you look further down and down there you actually notice to integers. Pretty neat isn't it. So just powers, let's do it, and we get what? As actually start out forming another integers. There in the green, right on top 4 plus 7 is 11, and so on. Just there at 2 plus 3 is 5 and not 4. To cheat a little bit. We just replace the (Mathologer) Who's gonna stop me :) Anyway the sequence actually has a name it's the Lucas after the mathematician Francois Edouard Anatole Lucas (pronounced Luca) (Marty) So they are the LUCA numbers. (Mathologer) Yeah, actually they are the LUCA numbers. but everybody seems to call them the LUCAS numbers. Anyway I'll try to call him the Luca numbers. In most important relative of the Fibonacci sequence you often find this sequence in connection in another video. I'll leave a Anyway all this number play suggest numbers (Marty) Luka!!! (Mathologer) Okay, it's gonna be bad, you don't 18 times. What you do is simply compute phi to the power of 20 which is this guy here and round to the next integer which is 15,127 and this is actually correct Really neat isn't it? We can write The nth Lucas number is phi to the integer. Well, remember, we cheated a than 1 but that's the only exception. the nth Fibonacci number that I the corner. To uncover it let's have a side by side. So we've got the Fiibonacci numbers on the left and the Lucas numbers on the right. Have a look at this: 1 plus divided by 5 is 2, 4 plus 11 is 15 quite easy to see that this will always It's very easy to prove, even you can do can be calculated by adding the n minus Lucas number and then divide the sum by formula for the Lucas numbers and so brackets get closer and closer to that from some point on we can put both Let's just do that and then with a bit into the one that I raved on about the power of n, so let's isolate this here. Take out the nth power and using here the green bit turns out to be equal let's just pull the 5 inside the much about what can possibly and that's the formula we are after, very nice! (Marty) And have we cheated? (Mathologer) Not to worry, we will get to this. So let's see how well this works. So here are the powers of the golden ratio again. Let's divide integers and spot on from the very Works even better than for the Lucas for this formula for the tribonacci a constant just like root 5. these formulas is Kepler's discovery to the golden ratio and the sequence. Maybe have a good putting convergence. So that may be your first definitely do this, so do this in the results were just based on our We still don't have any bulletproof in this super nice way. amazing than the facts themselves. So let's start at the beginning. What is phi? Well definitions but maybe the most popular rectangle is a golden rectangle if when results in a larger similar rectangle. So 90 degrees and scaling up you can get common aspect ratio of all golden ratio we start with a special rectangle side is 1 unit. So the aspect ratio of it into a golden rectangle. Now extend to aspect ratio is the length divided by the length of its short side Since both rectangles are golden these equation on both sides by phi gives a instantly explains our strange squaring Because what this equation says is that 1 to phi. Nice isn't it and to figure out quadratic equation here. Now you've all equations in school, right? (Marty) I like quadratic equations. (Mathologer) Okay I like them too. Anyway, quadratic formula, crank the handle and you get two golden ratio? Well one solution is aspect ratios are positive phi has got to And usually what people do at this solution as useless. Poor second mistake as we'll see in a minute. For the second solution. Okay be a bit of a gold mine. So let's have a example, I'll just multiply this equation these two phi squared's here and what this phi squared by phi plus 1. Let's do second equation by phi again and you get So we replace the second one by phi + 1 you can keep on going like this on the right we're definitely getting easily prove a general formula. And just last one here the exponent here is 6 and five is the fifth Fibonacci number and so in general we get what? Well, the nth power of phi is equal plus the n-1st Fibonacci number, very pretty too. Now, remember, we are after a formula for very promising. But sadly it's not quite straightaway solve for the Fs, right? And asked you not to forget comes in. The consequence of that very first identity second solutio,n let's call it phi red, what this means is that the second instead of just phi. Now this conclusion really really understand it. Okay so at equations to work with. Now we just first and that gets rid of one of the Fs solve for F and that gives us an exact denominator there again pans out to be glory. Whoa I still remember thirty years ago and I've never been it's really really pretty. This formula mathematician Jacques Philippe Marie although it was already known one is one of those sad stories... really quite amazing that you see all formula is crawling with combining into possible values of n. But it gets better. -0.618... Since the absolute value of this number is less than 1 its powers converge to look. So two, four, six. This shows that the diminishes quickly and actually explains closest integer to the nth power of phi forget about this contribution. Wonderful In fact with what I've just shown you other facts that I mentioned at the number is the integer closest to the nth powers of phi add up to the next power these facts or maybe if you are aware of that I did not get around to discussing concerted effort and we will have phi covered completely by the end of this. Now just in case you're wondering, no I did not are up next and now it's all pretty easy. this quadratic equation here the tribonacci solutions of this closely related cubic equations first got us to this and then, red we got Binet's formula. Now if we do its three solutions we get this amazing an exact solution. So those extra and t yellow are actually proper complex numbers, really a mess but anyway. And so complex in irrational numbers arranging for all n is really a little miracle. before. In any case, just like our red phi, values less than 1 which then also equation die out quickly for larger n promised you at the beginning that one really crazy. Okay I'll take a bow here, it's ratio and the Fibonacci numbers make nature. Some of these appearances have surprising counterparts for the sequence. For example, the icosahedron can be constructed by sticking three golden rectangles together at right angles and a look. A bit of an animation here, three triangles that's an icosahedron, very fairly recently that the so-called snub close relative of the icosahedron is of you will not be familiar with the shows how an ordinary cube can be the cube explodes and as its faces are bit until the gaps between them are of filled with bands of equilateral are lots of tribonacci constants and other statistics connected with the nicest tribonacci constant fact about the permutations of these tribonacci coordinates of the corners of a snub coordinates well they describe the cube. To me the way this video panned out the rabbit hole. Just like Alice notices stumble across this curious squaring it, we're tumbling head over heels into a Now speaking of rabbits, of course there first conjured up by Leonardo population growth is captured by the this right but anyway: a pair of these offspring while growing up fo a month babies every month. Starting with one how many pairs there are month after right? So the final task for you is to engineer an ideal mathematical tribonacci growth is captured by the tribonacci usual, let me know how my explanations thoughts you might have in the comments.