This is me in the capital Nicosia The only capital in the world that's divided between 2 countries. By simply crossing this line I would be in Europe, and the EU. And it's called, the Republic of Cyprus. On the other side there's the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus not recognized by any country. This green line separates them across the Island. The UN forces are stationed on this line which they call Buffer Zone. This is Cyprus right here Europe is here. This is the only area from which you can cross into Europe. However, why are they separated in the first place? What's the reason behind that? And how its population lives? Alright, guys. We're going to Northern Cyprus. It's part of Turkey, it doesn't need a Visa but, it's an international airport We're going to Northern Cyprus there's northern Cyprus and southern Cyprus there's also Britain and the UN this Island has a story. The only divided capital in the world! The story began when the Ottomans occupied Cyprus Island in 1571. They stayed there for 3 centuries until 1878 when the Ottomans passed the administration of the Island over to Britain. To stir up Britain to stand with them in their war against Russia. With the beginning of WW1 in 1914 The Ottomans stood with Germany against Britain and the Allies so, Britain decided to totally take control of the Island and occupy it. Until the independence in 1960 The Greek Cypriots didn't like the constitution provisions and they worked on changing it which led to conflicts against the Turkish Cypriots the most brutal of which is the massacre committed by the extremist organization of Eoka in December, 1963. So, do you see this house? It's on the borders. In 1974 the Greek Cypriots opened fire here, look at the house. At this beach, exactly 40 years ago the Turkish forces landed here to save the Turkish Cypriots. The Turkish forces took control of 37 percent of the Island. Well, what's the reason behind the Turkish forces' intervention? In 1974 The terrorist organization Eoka consolidated with some members of the Greek military government to execute a coup against Archbishop Makarios The president of Cyprus. It was a conspiracy to join the island to Greece. It started with ethnic cleansing operations against the Turkish Cypriots. This lead Turkey to launch an armed intervention to protect Turkish Cypriots who were minorities in the Island representing 18% of all Cypriots. In 1983 The Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus was announced The UN didn't recognize this country and called the Turkish forces to evacuate it and considered it an occupation. The green line was set to separate 2 countries spanning 180 km east to west of the Island. Efforts are ongoing to unify the Island without any advances so far. This is Northern Cyprus This is the Turkish side And this is what they call the green line. This is under the control of the UN. They are the ones who set this area called Buffer Zone demilitarized to avoid problems between them. It's a whole line you're seeing. and those are crossing borders now. She needs a Visa because I have a new passport, I can pass. This green line that's forbidden to walk in the UN took control of it but the Turkish came and took control of it and built a football field on it. the ball got out, and he ran quickly to get it back because they can't walk in this line as it's a demilitarized zone. This is is the gate that gets you into the Buffer Zone. The Turkish are the ones who built that field They're the only ones allowed to get in there. If I get in, I'll go to jail. I'll get deported right away. You get Turkish coffee here or some tea. The UN is here. These borders are so complicated by the way it may be easier for Europeans to cross here but it's hard for the Turkish. It's so strange being divided seeing the other side but can't go to it. You need a Visa to cross? I need a Schengen Visa, yes. - So, you're only in the Northern side. - You lived in it for 7 years. You couldn't cross to the south? I look at it from far away. Over there In that park there's a small cafe You can greet people some days there are concerts and get together but they say hello from far away at best. But also, there's the UN and the military A lot of them come to get fuel or go to the market they get their things and go back. They come here because it's cheaper? Of course. There they have Euro, here it's Lira. It's nice to meet you. What's your name? Walid. Walid, 7 years locked in Northern Cyprus. Welcome to Cyprus. He couldn't go the Southern Cyprus. Soon, if Allah wills. God bless you. I'm crossing to Europe now. He said this divided us. That's Cyprus, that's a street in Cyprus. Europe is there if you cross, you'll be in Europe. Even the UN is not here it's over there. Only steps away in this Island This wonderous country! The police are everywhere. Europe! Some people dream of getting into Europe. But why people can easily go from Morocco, Tunisia and Libya?! Before crossing to the Greek Cyprus we had to go deeper in this place. If the Turkish Northern Cyprus is not internationally recognized only recognized by Turkey how are most of the global brands have stores here? Why there isn't a lot of tourists coming here? there's the sea, and the nature and the markets Can you imagine that only a few people know about it and visit it?! It doesn't need a Visa if you're coming from Turkey. You should know that We're in the capital it's the only divided capital in the world. Let me tell you more. He said it's divided, northern and southern sides. The north is Turkish, and the south is Greek. They said that the Ottomans occupied this island for 3 centuries. That's why you'll find Turkish Cypriots in it. And also Greek Cypriots. You'll feel like you're in Turkey. We're here now, do you see? This is the capital This is the Turkish side, and this Cyprus. From Turkish Cyprus, and at the island's coastline Between it and Greek Cyprus there's a ghost town Guys, we're in a Miami-like beach but it's in Northern Cyprus Nobody lives there. This is a demilitarized area. Varosha begins here. It's the city with zero inhabitants. Look how it's closed. Cars are not allowed to enter it. Only small electric cars or bicycles inside. This is Varosha. Nobody lives here, zero! It's controlled by the Turkish Cypriot police. Okay, we've entered Varosha. This area is under the control of the UN A whole city, houses, hotels, resorts that you'll see by the sea. Nobody lives there. An empty city No one can live here. Like the city in Japan there was due to radiation here, because of a conflict. We can take this one. This is the only one allowed. It became a tourist attraction. This became a ghost town After Turkey came in in 1974 and it's been closed ever since for all. Until 2020. In 2020, the opened it for the public but cars are not allowed. Look, closed. You can't pass from here, even on foot. Everywhere, you'll find cafes hotels and resorts. There's a lot of Greek Cypriots now are demanding to get to their resorts and houses. But it's under the control of both UN and Turkish Cypriot police. They say that all people that left this city all have their house keys. Greek Cyprus Just like Palestine in 1948 when we got out of our homes and the keys of our grandfathers are with us. The same thing This is an ongoing case, it's not over yet. But it's not comparable with the largest case in the world the disputed case of Palestine. happening in Palestine. This is a hotel behind me. Look how the trees grew on it. For 40 years. Look how this hotel is abandoned and the trees grew by themselves. It's an empty city! nobody is here. Farewell, I'm crossing the borders now. Okay? I'll be back in 3 hours. Going to Europe, I have my passport. Not everybody can cross. We had to cross to the other side to Europe. I got in without any stamp easily. I'm considered in Europe now. It only took me 3 seconds. He only checked my passport Looked at it and said "you can pass". Now, i'm in the Republic of Cyprus Southern Cyprus, Greek Cyprus. I want to see how it's different from the Turkish Northern Cyprus. The currency here, if I withdraw It'll be euros. This is the European side, the Greek side. We crossed the borders and met with Anes. from Southern Cyprus Hello! You have a Cypriot citizenship? Yes, because my grandmother is from Cyprus. Can you speak Greek? I'm fluent, yes. My grandmother is from Cyprus I mean from the Greek and Turkish Cyprus. But my grandmother married my Palestinian grandfather. Walking around you see pictures and flags they want to reunite, they're sad about it. They want a reunion. Are these houses abandoned. This is a shop! Yes, it's abandoned. These all closed during the war. 40 years ago, they all closed 40 years ago, correct. In this side, and the Turkish side. Did I mistakenly filmed policemen? What are those people doing there? They're watching these military areas. From the European side, watching the Turkish side. Yes. This is the line that splits the map? This is the one splitting the map. It separates the two countries. People here can easily go to the other side but the others can't! It's normal, many from the Greek side go to the Turkish side they go shopping and they go to get fuel because it's cheaper. There's also Halal food. And the others can't come here? There's a difference between a Turkish Cypriot and a Turkish person. A Turkish Cypriot is from the Island Turkish and Greek Cypriots are from the Island They can go to each other normally. Now we're in the Greek Nicosia. The European side. There are Muslims here, but they're a few. Most of which are immigrants The majority are Christians But there's a mosque in the Greek side and another one by the sea. We went up a small hill where you can clearly see the two sides. You can see everything from here, right? Yes, everything. Across all line of sight. It's clear. Over there, that's the Northern Cyprus flag. At night, it's illuminated. Did you see the Northern Cyprus flag? It's drawn on the mountain while you're in the Greek side you can see the flag so big and clear on the mountain from here. It may be a little provocative. They tried to do the same thing but there isn't a similar mountain. But imagine that you'll see all this large land you can see the Turkish side and here, you're in the Greek side. Here is Europe and over there is Turkey. Even the location of the island is wonderous with 3 continents next to it Africa, Asia, and Europe. That's why it's in a strategic location. But what is Britain doing here? Britain, back in the day it occupied this place. - So, they set bases? - They stayed here? The British are always the source of conflicts - in all the countries that they left. They have to leave a footprint on this island They have to. And they did. But it's a weird feeling looking at this mountain and maybe there are people over there from the Turkish side looking over here thinking the same thing saying "why don't we reunite?". But it's a beautiful island, right? Yes, it is? Who leaves it? - Nobody. - On the contrary. We met a Turkish Cypriot family on the Greek side. How did you live before 1974, as Cypriots? Very well. The Greek and Turkish Cypriots lived together? Yes, they lived together. We lived together, there were no problems. You see? After that, Britain was the cause for all of this? Of course, Britain ruined everything. Britain because... at the time was ruling here. - Cypriots had British passports? They controlled the whole country. You see? So, your origins are from Cyprus? Yes, I am. I was born in 1948. They year of the Palestinian Nakba. Yes, the year of the Nakba. The British were in Palestine and also Jordan. Cyprus as well everywhere, there was the British. But here, they were ruling The president had to be Greek and the prime minister had to be a Turkish Muslim. That's how it used to be. Then, who cause the problem? They started removing the Turkish from their positions. So, the rulers of Cyprus used to be Greek and Turkish? Greek and Turkish. A Greek president and a Turkish prime minister. Our passports were written in English Turkish and in Greek. It had 3 languages. This is my grandmother's passport from before 1974 when they were under British occupation. After 1974, and the separation It became in Turkish Greek and in English. To Jordan, 1954 She also went to Lebanon. By the British passport. Syria. Memories. This is southern And this is northern. This gets you into all of Europe and all the world with ease. But the Turkish Cypriot one can only get you into Turkey. The majority want borders to be open. So, what is the solution in your opinion? Right now. Right now, we're living but I think it's only temporary. Is it possible that it gets resolved and you all live in a unified Island. If Allah wills. but I think that the other side won't accept living together. Why? They're afraid that what happened before happens again. There must be guarantees. Yes, there must be. Because most of the lands are for the Turkish not the Greek. I really wish that we all live together. Here. Like we used to. A huge gas reserve was discovered by the island east of the Mediterranean which provoked a conflict close to military confrontation between Greece and Turkey which sees that it has the right to share this reserve with others based on international law. The latest 2022 elections in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus resulted in the win of the candidate of the party that adopts the Turkish government vision for the solution that results in 2 independent countries that are recognized. and that there's no Island unification solution. After failed efforts for a solution most importantly The UN's request to unify the Island in 2004 which was rejected by the Greek Cypriots. So, what would the future of this Island be in your opinion?