Transcriber: Jessica Kloss We love cults, don't we? The word &quot;cult,&quot; it just sounds evil, though it wasn't always that way. In the first century, and then went on to become But still, the sinister sound of the word Yes, cults are endlessly fascinating and always something I don't think anyone leaves the house &quot;Goodbye, honey. So how is it then that cults Someone is in them. The fact of the matter is, that no one who is in a cult And while some belief systems it is a continuum. We are all subject whether we realize it or not. We are all born into a family and as we grow, we're embedded or about how life should look Also, human beings, we are wired We're tribalistic, and this is something that makes us tend We like to be around people We tend to cancel people This is most obvious but it's also the case on the internet, in social groups, really anywhere where people align Now, some might say that I was in a cult. I was raised a Jehovah's Witness. But if you had asked me back then when I believed that all of you any day now and I would be saved by God, I would have said, &quot;No way!&quot; Or if you had thought that it was crazy that I would have refused rather than save my life I would have said Now, I didn't think that I was in a cult. I just thought that I had In fact, I was so sure that I moved to mainland China I wanted to teach other people this truth. I spent years learning Mandarin so that I could bring where they hadn't heard the truth before. My intentions were good, I thought. I mean, I wanted to save them (Laughter) Ironically, it was in China that I ended up finding And I realize that this probably that something was up, because most people, do not feel more free. (Laughter) But it was different for me my life revolved around my religion. It was a very insular community, and we all believed the same things. We were busy with our In China, all of this was different because my religion was illegal in China, and that meant it couldn't So what this effectively meant I had some physical space but the byproduct was I also had from this constant indoctrination and the teachings that told me Also, I was speaking Mandarin, this language, which if anyone here but for an English speaker, it almost is like you have to excavate As I sat there across teaching them these things it started to sound like I was - it was as if I was hearing them And to be honest, some of them Venturing outside my community caused me to see things Things I had believed suddenly didn't add up. Truths that I had held dear I had a crisis of faith, It wasn't easy to leave We were taught that leaving is a worse sin than even murder or child abuse. It was the one sin God would not forgive. Also, it wasn't easy to change my life. I had only ever been a Jehovah's Witness. I hadn't done anything else. My husband was a Jehovah's Witness elder. I had only ever preached. I didn't go to college. I didn't have any kind of career You don't do these things And if that wasn't bad enough, when my friends in my religion that I was having these doubts, I was immediately shunned I was considered dangerous Now, what this effectively means to build their life around a community is that suddenly everything is gone, even family members that just disappeared. Friends I had had my whole life vanished. Now, you might wonder what kind of person overnight, over a difference of belief, or their own daughter, If you're wondering Someone like me. Someone, maybe, like you. Most of us never get the chance I had to fully grasp how much it is the way that we're raised affects the way we see everything. And that's because our own culture, or to say it another way, cult reaches to the ends My story is the rare tale of someone who had to question and therefore question everything. But it's also the bigger, of how human beings and how sometimes those beliefs can blind us to bigger, larger truths. In the 1960s, a physicist named Thomas Kuhn and he was looking at the trajectory of our understanding He noticed something strange, and that was that did not seem to match with Aristotle's In fact, by comparison, though they had been They weren't wrong in and of themselves, but what Kuhn came to see was that Newton had opened up New patterns emerged that had not We couldn't see them. Up until this time, most people as a continuous march that everything that we discovered What Kuhn saw was that in fact, that quite often, the path to finding In fact, it required changing how we saw and that could sometimes be so messy that scientific communities sometimes looked like when it came to evolving their thinking. But this is science. Surely the most rational among us And surely she's not equating No, I'm not, but we are all prone to this. Kuhn observed that two scientists and because they were proponents conclude entirely different things. They tended to discover It was the same for me in my religion. I saw evidence it was true This is because our interpretation But that wasn't the only thing. There's another parallel. Kuhn saw something in science and that was that an accepted theory could it could add up, it could seem to have integrity, and still be fundamentally flawed, wrong, and therefore the answers My old religion answered Really, any question I think this religion could answer. Why are we here? Why do we die? Everything. But as I had come to learn, and therefore so were those answers. They were meaningless. The first time that I came across Kuhn and read about these steps that took place I was stunned because point by point, step by step, they mirrored what had happened when I had changed my thinking, when I had had You see, this is not just the story This is the story of human beings. We are wired to go along with the group. When we believe something, it is really difficult for us to see In the 17th century, Galileo was tried for supporting the theory A little while later, in the 1800s, that if physicians washed their hands fewer people would die. He ended up disgraced These people were right. Nearly everyone around them was wrong. What understandings do we hold now Before a scientific breakthrough occurs, there's always a crisis in the field. Experiments give results or internal contradictions There's upheaval in the community. There's pushback. Proponents of new theories My exit from my religion, It was really hard It was embarrassing to realize Questioning truths and it is also not easy who share those same beliefs. I remember one time, I went to a cafe and I ran into He didn't talk to me I'm an apostate. But he did text me. (Laughter) And what he said was, &quot;Your eyes looked like (Audience) Oh ... It wasn't easy to be seen this way by the people I had loved but it didn't bother me And not only because he was my ex-husband, (Laughter) but also because I no longer Kuhn said that whenever and an old way of seeing was replaced the world itself seemed to change. We learned that the planets The world changed. When I held the beliefs I saw the terrible world It was full of terrible people who would hurt you I saw earthquakes and food shortages, all signs of the apocalypse. I saw a God who cared only and was going to kill all the rest. When my thinking changed, This world I encountered now was full of really good I saw disasters, yes, earthquakes, but I also saw people during these disasters, I saw a world that had problems, but had people using their lives This new world that I discovered but it was also so full of love So, can we trust all of our beliefs Our truths feel comfortable. Could that be making some of them If each of us stepped our peer group, our age group, our political party, our country, what new beliefs might we hold? What ways of seeing could we change that could in turn change the world? Thank you. (Applause)