MEHMED NEAR MEDINA Selamunaleykum. Aleykumselam, O Ayyub. Are you not ready yet? We got stuck on this rock. Is there any news from the polytheists? They're a few days away. They'll be here soon. We must hurry. O Ayyub. Everyone in the city is worried. The Messenger of Allah (PBUH) The Messenger of Allah (PBUH) O Muslims! O Muslims! O Muslims! Don't be hopeless! The Messenger of Allah (PBUH) I swear to Allah, who sent him ...that I believe in what he says. My brothers! The Messenger of Allah... ...said that everything ...to Yemen and Damascus... ...will belong to the believers! Then he gave another good news. Maybe for today, Our Effendi's good news is this. Constantinople What a great commander What a beautiful army that army is! O Ebu Ayyub! Who is the commander Allah knows. Allah knows. We're ready, my Sultan. Shall we go on the offensive, Wait. Saruca. What is that? The new magic of our young Sultan. We have other guests, too. Orhan didn't come alone. There are Byzantine knights Our spies didn't provide Science is infallible, Candarli. Judging by the equipment, these are Sahabettin. Pull the raiders back. The Janissaries will go We brought in your raider subjects That would've been the case They're a regular unit. Only the Janissaries can fight them. What about Zaganos, my Sultan? Nothing changes. He'll take action Candarli. Come with me. Hold it tightly. So it can keep you alive. Where is the Deli troop? They never come without their names The Deli Troop. What is he doing? Shame on you, Candarli. You've become the laughing stock of Being a vizier to the Ottomans isn't like We know who you came here with. Mighty vizier. That boy cannot become a Sultan. I'm here to take what's rightfully mine. You know this. But let's follow the rules. State your conditions. There are... ...no conditions. You'll take refuge in the justice You'll kiss his almighty door and consent You know best... ...how I'll die on a bowstring... ...when I surrender. Only the ones I want Your father said the same thing Kasim Celebi trusted his own ambition. Not my father. But we both know how his end was. Then may what you know And may what you don't know That Mehmed, whom you are siding with, O fighters on the path of Allah! O my heroic army! Those who couldn't stop us ...wish to stop us with Orhan, ...with an enemy of our own blood. While we're fighting for the order of the ...they want to kill us My brothers! Don't relax just because A hypocrite is equal to an infidel! Traitors are lower than the enemy. There's nothing left to say! Today is the day of ardor! Today is the day of patriotism! Today is the day of martyrdom! May Allah be with us! Allahuekber! Allahuekber! Archers! Attack! Allahuekber! Allah! Allah! Allah! Sahabettin. Now! Come on! It's battle time, Pasha! Draw your swords! O Allah! Allahuekber! That way! Hurry up! A Byzantine ship. You're wounded, my Sultan. It's just a little cut. A sword cut hurts badly. Don't let the Janissaries see it, There's a Greek village just behind us. We know the doctor there. O Pir. O Allah, O Muhammed, O Ali. It's over, Dogan Agha. I remember the first day Now, I'm burying him myself. There's martyrdom This all happened because Don't despair. Don't frown. I'd tell you The Sultan made us come forward Don't keep it from me. You-- You didn't succeed, did you? Not this time. I told you it wasn't the right time. I can't return to Constantinople anymore. Ioannis will bring me Don't worry, When the time comes, ...and I'll be the emperor of Byzantine. Captain. Crew! Set sail! Let's take precautions. I'll wait. Is Tatyos here? Zaganos Pasha? Our Sultan has a small wound, Tatyos. Forgive my confusion, my Sultan. HUNGARIAN PALACE Does the young king know the truth? He'll find out sooner or later. But when he finds out, Cardinal, No one will forgive a commander That's not important. I doubt he'll live that long anyway. Quit talking nonsense, Janos. It's too early for that. Or does the Vatican not trust me? We're on the same side for now. But the issue isn't about us. Then who is it about? What happened in Varna is very new. No one believes Even the English and the French. The English, the French, Do you think I will ignore ...because of their lack of courage? No. But first you have to prove yourself How? Despite your defeat in Varna, The Vatican will persuade ...if the Orthodox principalities So you're saying the Serbs The Serbs or Vlad. Time is passing quickly, Yanos. You must act fast. The cut is deeper than I thought. Your hand is shaking, Tatyos. The days when I was I'm too old now. My hands will shake, my eyes won't see. We need to clean it. Eleni, my dear? Take a look at the wound. I didn't know you had a daughter, Eleni isn't my own daughter. But she's no different Does she know what she's doing? She is much better Plants speak when they see her. Good. Your skin under the armor is irritated. If we don't clean it, it will fester. What's that? I read it in the book ...named Aksemsettin The book was called It says that the real cause ...are illnesses that are too small I'd like to get rid of that illness. Hang in there, my Sultan. Did it hurt? No. A little. Thank you. I would be glad if this incident As you wish, my Sultan. Serving our Sultan is priceless, Pasha. Please give that gift Don't cry, my Ahmed. Your father is working. Leave my shahzadah alone, He's just a baby. He sometimes cries I don't want him to distract you, He won't distract me. Listen to this. Sons are the heart of the father. A good son takes all worries away. To a father, a son is his equal. He's the vineyard of pleasure, It's beautiful, my Han. I wrote it for my Ahmed. And for my late Alaaddin. But I haven't been able to finish it yet. I need one more verse. Come in! A messenger has arrived Sultan Mehmed Han determinedly ...and the rebellion was suppressed. May Allah grant that our Sultan's sword Insallah. If the son prayed... ...and his prayer was accepted... ...he's the pride of the state My Mehmed One more thing, my Han. ...if Huma Hatun sent a letter My Effendi. My happiness. I was very happy to hear... ...that you were in good health... ...as you were contemplating in Bursa. I know now that my illness ...and my health is your happiness. You suppressing the rebellion made The only thing my father And I've got you. You know that he wouldn't let me ...if he didn't believe that the doctor's So stop boasting. Still, don't tell him you're better, Speaking of healing, It's just a small cut. I didn't now Zaganos was so talented. His hands are too rough The laces are very skillfully crafted. Who's the talented girl? Her name is Eleni. Since she makes you smile like this, Thank Allah. Chatting with my mother Of course I'm smiling. The door! SERBIA So the Turks finally expelled you, I've been among them for 20 years... ...but I've never seen them sell out That's not what I heard. Your husband left his throne to a boy And you came here I want to ask you a question, Why do you think I'm not cutting ...and spilling her noble blood Because I won't harm anyone That's why... ...you don't need to be afraid of me Being at odds with the Ottomans And I paid the price alone. Never again. You won't be alone this time. But you still shouldn't make But know that I won't be so friendly... ...when I visit you next time. Sultan Mehmed Han If I let you leave this place... ...it's thanks to our Sultan's mercy. Sultan Mehmed Han said... ...that if you correct your mistake ...your innocent people This is his last warning to you. Tell your Sultan-- Our Sultan won't listen He knows what you're doing I hope you continue with your mistake Thanks. Here. He's going to inspect Yeah. What an addict of progress. He loves new weapons. Excuse his excitement. It's about the province of Hungary. You talk about youth, but it's hard I wonder what he's thinking. He got rid of the trouble I think he wants to go on the Hungarian Aren't you afraid of that, Pasha? He thinks he can do anything No. There is no need to worry. I'm holding his ropes. You say that, but... ...it's not the child that Sultan Murad, He's getting more powerful each day. Power... It's tradition, custom. It's knowledge. Power... ...is not seeing beyond 100 arsins It's being where you're not and knowing Mehmed will learn this, too. Fine then, Pasha. Attention! His Excellency Sultan Mehmed Han! Do you think it'll happen this time, We finished the sketches. It'll work if we can make Why isn't it solid? We make it from forged iron, We tied everything other than Isn't there any more ore? Is iron a must? I use it so it's easier, my Sultan. Because it's lighter. That's only on paper, agha. I wanted light cannons so that we could The lightness of the cannon that cracks Why don't you try bronze? Isn't it easier to cast? It's four times more costly, It'll yield 40 times more. Use bronze. Actually, we tried it, my Sultan. But the muzzle swells That's not because of the bronze. It's because of the gunpowder you use. But these cannons are too small. They must be at least That's impossible, my Sultan. Why? It's never been done before, my Sultan. No one was able to do it. Except for one man. He's from Hungarian lands. An infidel called Urban. I heard he did it with a casting method If the infidel did it, Science is the lost property I'm grateful for Allah's blessings. I was talking about our opportunities. Keep your chin up, agha. If there is faith, there is opportunity. CONSTANTINOPLE I was almost sure I warned you, your Excellency. With such... ...a young sultan on the throne... ...we had no other choice but to try. Thanks to you, that young Sultan... ...gained a reputation Congratulations, your Excellency. I heard that Orhan escaped. Your brother Constantine... ...saved him from death He took him to Peloponnese. So, he's in Peloponnese? I'd call him spoiled... ...but I know that my mother Helena, I wish courage and talent... ...was something that could be You'd wish... ...to see him on the Byzantine throne That isn't important, your Excellency. My only fear... ...is how much more daring Forget about the Turks. Come here. Can I... ...give you some advice? My mother. Don't trust Helena this much. I am aware... ...that you both want Constantine ...when I'm gone. And... ...I won't allow it. I won't allow it. No one can predict what Do you think... ...it's right for such an unstable man Leave that decision to the emperor... ...Notaras. Not you. THE PELOPONNESE PENINSULA You know what I'm wondering? Was it worth taking such a risk Rabbit hunting again? Although we haven't seen you do Calm down. Calm down. Calm down. I'm a hunter who knows You were hunting again, weren't you? Don't poke your nose into things ...Demetrios! It's not about being over my head. I'm talking because I have a right ...Constantine. You'll never be the Byzantine Emperor! Shahzadah. You honor us with your arrival. Let them show you your room. While the Ottomans ...the heirs of the Byzantine throne Are we going to achieve unity... ...by partnering with an The salvation of our empire Him sitting at the throne in Edirne You need to understand this. Okay, but understand this, mother. The dogs of our enemies make us prey, The emperor will decide about that Don't worry. When I become the Emperor, I will Yanos, the Hungarian imperial regent In the south of Buda. But he still hasn't calmed down. The infidel was keeping quiet. What does he want? According to our spies, I think he's looking for an alliance. If we act first and ...we'll be all over him... ...before a new Catholic union After the defeat in Varna... ...it would take a few years Let him struggle. Besides the Catholics, there are also The sectarian division ...and Orthodox Christians I doubt they'll unite. The infidels care about their interest. We've seen this many times, We also saw what happened Yes, but we can't be sure. Even the Serbs alone would be I took precautions for that, too. Don't worry, Ishak Pasha. Undoubtedly. I'm sure, my Sultan. However, this is the best time The time is right. Attacking is right, too. But the direction is wrong, Pasha. Every time we turn our face ...they stab us in the back. Right? We saw it They tried to stop me with a man Could they appear again tomorrow? Is that possible? It is. Why? Because Byzantine ...right in the middle This is the obstacle... ...in front of the order of the world If we want the Ottoman Empire ...and become a supreme state... ...we should march here. To the city the messenger of Allah Our first Red Apple... ...is Constantinople! We've seen through bitter experience No one could gather an army I'll build an army so great... ...that the ancient city The wise old man called history The Avar Hans and Ottoman Hans tried. 32 times. All these states and orders couldn't Because they didn't have the cannons Moreover, the cost of this siege Pasha! ...tools, equipment, navy... Allah protect us, -Pasha! Troops want to go on a campaign Moreover, even your powerful father, ...who stopped the Crusades, Enough! I'm not Sultan Murad, Don't get me confused with my father! Because I walk with those who believe... ...not with those who are convinced. I want to conquer Constantinople Don't you be the obstacle, Pasha. I have no other goal than to achieve I'll be that glorious commander. Those great soldiers will be my soldiers! Treasurer Agha. At your service, my Sultan. Gather your clerks. Let's see what the red apple Let's see. As you command, my Sultan. I sensed that he changed. I did but... ...even I didn't expect this much, Pasha. His eyes are wide open. We broke his crutches before. This is the work They affected the Sultan You still don't know him. Do you think that Mehmed who doesn't That's what you say. You do, but... ...what about the idea How did it get so big? We were expecting I know him since childhood. I raised him. He thinks that the conquest He doesn't know that it's nothing but a O the great Sultan Murat! Come and see who you made us Come in. Dear? Give this to Karaca Bey. Let him take it to Huma hanim, As you wish, my Han. You can go, children. Don't be late for Tawabet class this time. Good for you. The children are happy. Tell me, Zaganos. Who made my son so happy? On our return from the rebellion, we There was a girl there. She seems like a talented girl. You know best, my Sultana. Did she do something you didn't like? Not at all. On the contrary... ...she was a decent enough girl ...we offered her But... ...she's from a lineage She's a medical assistant I was originally a slave concubine. What are you implying, Zaganos? Forgive me, my Sultana, That's not what I meant. Tell me. Which village does the doctor live in? My soul, my happiness, Although the doctors ...the cure to being without you The medicine for my heart I, too, heard about ...like the rest of the world. What are you waiting for? ...as soon as possible. He invites Huma here. I've had enough of being ignored. What have you done, my Sultana? What will you tell Murat Han? While Huma was reigning ...I shouldered his troubles. I was with him Get out! Out! Come in. Sahabettin Pasha is here, my Sultan. He's asking permission to enter. You asked for me, my Sultan? Sit, Lala. Go on, sit down. Don't let me feel shame Do you know what the procedure My Sultan knows better. The wise people answer this question by Ruby. The gem of courage and victory. Just like you, Lala. You put a lot of effort into me. You know your value. But I believe that your passion However... The tool whose body you'll decorate Whatever you command, my Sultan. You'll go to the Janissary Guild. What is your wish, my Sultan? Find out what they think about the seige. I see you're hesitant, Lala. You know how close the Guild What's the wisdom of your command? Using the right gem... ...with the right weapon, Pasha. My Sultan. You planted all the seedlings, Murad Han wants to see... ...a flower blooming on our Shahzadah's I did, Karaca Bey. Don't you worry. But daffodils and hyacinths, They won't come out of the soil You should see them... ...when they blossom. Murad Han is coming. Does our Bey come here often? The pain of losing a child The great Sultan Murad Han... ...left the throne after the pain Yes, he comes here often. You should already be What are you still doing here, Karaca? I don't understand, my Han. I'm talking about the note I sent you. No one gave me a note, my Han. Halime. My Sultana, there's a doctor The woman who dressed our sultan's The one in the brown cloak Ladies? I'm coming from a long way. I can see there's a line, but Since you came from the road... ...you sit and rest, I'll bring you water. Thank you, dear. Out of my way, Lina. -Come on, Eleni. We're waiting. We've been waiting all morning. Shame on you. Shouldn't we give water What about us? Don't mind them. They've been waiting for a while now. -It's fine, dear. Drink it slowly. It's very cold. Bismillahirrahmanirrahim. I came to see a doctor called Tatyos. Of course. He's like a father to me. Poor thing. How didn't I notice this? Is something the matter, dear? The machete injured its back. What are you going to do? I'm going to carry it. Thankfully, I'm strong enough. Come on. Take this. Let's go. O Allah! O Allah! O Allah! O Allah! O Allah! O Allah! What on earth happened? I can't talk about it in the open, Get to the point. Speak. It's a state affair. This is the state's office, too. The agha room isn't available, Pasha. When will it be available? Whenever Candarli Halil Pasha arrives. I'm not a crude man who doesn't know I came here Our Sultan asks about the condition of Everything is good and well, The only thing we want from our Sultan, Even if we had a problem... ...we wouldn't reveal that secret to ...we'd reveal it ...whose ancestors' blood Where's the letter I sent to the Capital, Not the Capital, How dare you stick your nose Of course I dare, my Sultan. I dare because when you lost a child ...I was the only one beside you. I... ...didn't force you to do anything. Huma, who you miss so much... ...doesn't leave her Sultan son's side. You envy her. You're being unfair. But I gave you a shahzadah to hold on to You both are mothers. That innocent woman ...without separating him When will you see me, Murad? When will you understand I'm fed up with your poisonous ways Collect your things You have no place with me anymore! You'll separate me from my shahzadah? -Attendants! Take the Shahzadah to his wet nurse. I won't leave Ahmed. I won't. Don't do this! Don't take my son away from me! Ahmed! Don't take him away! My Sultana! Please show me mercy, The late Shahzadah Alaaddin I don't want my Ahmed May this be a lesson to you. Just this once... ...for the sake of my Alaaddin... ...I forgive you. -But if this happens again-- I promise, my Sultan. Never again. I can't live without Ahmed. The door! -You bothered all this way, my Sultan. You've come a long way. How are you? I pray for your health. I received the news you sent It's nice that your father didn't make Yanos won't sit still. I know. He also visited I don't think Vlad will support him. Don't you worry about that. How was the trip? Not well until we received the news Let's keep the news ...from my father How long will you stay? A few days. Then I must go to Bursa. You know Halime Hatun. Mother will be so happy to see you. Where is she? Couldn't you put the load No. They're God's mute subjects If it hurts when we load on it, Even if I get a little tired, I won't be You're right, dear. Every soul given by Allah is precious. Rest a little. You're tired. Rosemary. Let me pick some. It's good for pain and healing wounds. Its oil will be good I tell you to rest. But you find something else to do. Masallah. You know your herbs Tatyos Efendi taught me. He says I'm good at this stuff. I can see that. You heard about Tatyos Efendi's talent? No, I mean you. I saw your skill... ...in the bandage of the brave man Excuse me, lady. ...who was here last night? Because he's my son. Forgive me, Sultana Mother. I didn't know who you were. I don't like to beat around the bush. You are a compassionate person I'd like to take you to the capital, What a compliment, my Sultana. But I owe so much to the doctor. Your offer is a great blessing. But I can't leave him and come with you. My compassionate girl, we won't leave Don't think about that. So that's the matter, Pasha. Look at the Sultan we call naive. He's trying to make Sahabettin shine. No. His intention is not Sahabettin. Then what is it? Mehmed knows that ...is nothing more than a dream What do you think, Dogan Agha? The battlefield... ...helped us learn about the species He wasn't worried or afraid. Apparently he got reassurance. I don't want to say it What? Wants to be the grand vizier. This is the Sultan's garden. Here there is only the Sultan... ...and the young Shahzadahs as men. The rest are the concubines, Everyone has a job in the Harem. Here, people are busy with something Or they learn things. Like what, my Sultana? -Pull downwards. To read as if they're chanting. Those who are honest learn the law. Those who can play the harp You'll learn the art of medicine, Midwife Vesile. Midwife Vesile. This is Eleni, who I mentioned. -Welcome, my Sultana. Welcome, dear. I can personally vouch for the skill My wish is for her to be as skilled Be her master. As you wish, my Sultana. Also, make her learn the medicine I want her to bring me my medicine She's entrusted first to Allah, My Lady? My Lady? My Lady? My Lady? My Lady? Are you alright? You haven't said a word in hours. Please say something, my Lady. I'm not okay. I'm not okay at all, Didar. Shall I call the doctor? Command it and I'll call her right away. Shall we let him know? Yes. But let Vesile know. Vesile is the cure for my troubles. Midwife Vesile is at the capital, my Lady. Let's call another doctor. Write to Vesile, Didar. They put me in this situation Now you write a letter. If Murad Han finds out, Hush. Do as I say. Tell Vesile. It's time for her to pay back Do you have an order, Pasha? I'm going to perform namaz and Bismillahirrahmanirrahim. Sultan Mehmed... ...gave me this apple... ...but I like Amasya apples better. How did you get in here? Don't throw cold water on this. What I'm going to say is crucial. Sit and listen. Amasya apples... ...are broad and has a thin skin. We ate these a lot ...at Kara Medrese. The Amasya people call them &quot;Misket&quot;. Do you know? Misket. Its flesh is crispy. And juicy. It's light. Why are you here? I came to show you that I won't Stay away from the boys at the gate. I practically raised them. Listen, dear. Two dirhams of amber... ...and two dirhams... ...of dried rose. And four miskals of sandalwood... ...and galangal. -Got it? Good for you. Masallah. Good for you. You learn fast. Look. Whether I'm here or not... ...you'll prepare Huma Hatun's And then... ...you'll mix it like this... ...and seal the top of the bottle Okay then. Take Mother Sultana's medicine. Yes, Mother Vesile. My Sultan. I'd like to give you this ring Thank you, Mara Hatun. You shouldn't have bothered. Nice. Very skillful. Sapphire is difficult to work with. It is. From where I'm from, ...is the stone of the sky and heaven, And I don't know why but You and my mother know... ...that I still haven't found a love But you keep on talking about it. We're talking about the heart, my Sultan. Only God knows the right time. Come in. Your medicine is here, my Sultana. -Here you go, Sultana Huma. My Sultan. Bring the ledgers... ...of the month of Rajab and Dhul Hijjah, Revered Grand Vizier, It seems like... ...the seige planning is difficult, There's dust and smoke all around. We even took out the ledgers that But we're almost there. What's the situation? Do you think the treasury With Allah's permission, even if it's Are you sure, Agha? We're talking It's not like trapping Orhan The accounts don't lie, Pasha. We can look together if you like. No. I won't look. Because... ...these ledgers do not record... ...the things you bought for ...and your children Not at all, Pasha. Of course it's true. The pen doesn't write everything We know everything Not where everyone can see it. I'm thinking... ...that you... ...should close this ledger. Start a new one. Start a new one... ...so I can close the old ones. But Pasha... What will we tell the Sultan? Treasurer Agha. What is the state of the treasury? Where did all the taxes My Sultan. In order to have 55 small ships... ...with 12 pulleys and 80 decks built... ...slipways must be built The total sum of these is a lot. Convey my order Let him personally undertake What else? The cannon foundries you commanded, They're expensive. However, in order for them to be ...a large number of horses, ...and many animals Under current conditions, What's the reason for this, Agha? My Sultan, ...the Janissary salaries, ...emptied the treasury to a great extent. Time is required Enough excuses, Agha! Will such excuses come between me Either give me a solution My Sultan. There are two ways to cover Tell me what they are now! The first is to increase taxes. But getting the fruits from this will take We don't have time. I can't wait that long. -The other way? ...though it may cause problems ...we could decrease Do you think it'll work? I think so, my Sultan. If we pay the salaries that are ...the remaining silver This way, the treasury will be ready If the expedition is victorious... ...the treasury will be overflowing No pain, no gain, Agha. Since it'll be fast... ...it's the way to go. Start right away. Selamunaleykum. -Aleykumselam. They are. Here you go, brave man. You can't find anything sharper Good. It's just as you said. But you need to pay two coins more. We said it was 10 coins. You're right, but these are the new coins. Coins are coins. The silver in this coin That's why it's not as valuable. Vesile Hatun, the incense burners you And I've got news from Bursa. It's time to pay your debt. From now on, you will not cure Your son and daughter-in-law ...will stay with us Their lives depend on you. Handle this as soon as possible. Then I'll consider your debt paid. -Are you okay, Vesile Hatun? I'm fine. Did something happen? It's nothing. Keep on working. And stay out of my business! I think... ...the people made the same mistake They are also incapable of What's more... Finish your sentence, Pasha. What's more, ...at the Janissary Guild. It's the doing ...what they're doing. Allah forbid... ...they're questioning your decisions. What are they saying? As you know, I went there and spoke to them. I spoke to them, but... ...they didn't listen to me either. What's the worry, Pasha? To be frank... ...I'm afraid they'll get agitated What I'm trying to say... ...is that either you... ...will conform to the Guild... ...or... ...the Guild will conform to you. As you know, Pasha. To rule means to ride on the back Everything will be fine But if we get off... ...the tiger will rip us to shreds. The Janissary is like anthrax. You shouldn't get off their backs. Bring me some of that, too. Yes, the same one. O Allah, O Muhammed! O Allah! You can speak, Agha. I've brought news He said that the Sultan won't change ...that he won't cause any difficulties... ...and that the customs There's nothing more to say. From now on, the weapons will speak. Odas! Ortas! Comrades! The Sultan... ...who deliberately and forcefully ...now ignores our troubles. While we expected a great expedition ...he's playing with the value While the Kubbealti viziers ...fills his pouch with a lot of gold... ...our comrades cannot find the coins In short, it's time for a challenge. Go out there and burn everything down! Take what's yours forcefully! Let the entire capital see Ask for your coins! Ask for your coins back! Bismillah! Allah, Allah! Let's say Allah! O dervishes among dervishes, O the We came, our heads bare, our chests We are the ones who made Yezid We shielded our breasts and saved We came here to sacrifice our lives. Let's pray for the Prophet Muhammed. For the generosity of the heroes Let's pray for Abdals Let's pray for Khorasan For the Time of Truth! Let's say Allah! Behead or stab! Behead or stab! Behead or stab! Behead or stab! Don't forget about Sahabettin! Behead or stab! Behead or stab! Attack! Burn the place down! The Janissaries are coming! Run! What's wrong, Bahadir? You miss your mother's house? I guess you tend to housework No, Pasha. She always told me not to tarnish When I saw that you were ...I had them prepare your horse, pasha. Your handkerchief is all red. Isn't this one of the handkerchiefs Yes, Pasha. It's Albanian. As you know, my mother doesn't Is there any news from your mother? I got a letter from my sister yesterday. She's not doing well, Pasha. Where's that traitor? Stop, aghas. What's going on here? Let's take you out from the back, A brave man never runs Pasha! Bahadir! Bahadir! Traitors! Scoundrels! Janissaries! You obviously want to die. We want what's ours! We want what's ours! We want our coins! We want what's ours! We want what's ours! Even if it is Sultan Mehmed, We want what's ours! We want what's ours! We want what's ours! It's up to Sultan Mehmed! If he doesn't give us what's ours... ...we'll bring the sultan Coins or heads! Coins or heads! Coins or heads! Coins... Aghas! Brave men! The loot is over. We'll give Sultan Mehmed We are retreating to Alatepe Come on, brave men! Edirne. Belgrade. Constantinople. Come in. There's an important matter, my Sultan. What's the rush, Kazim? My Sultan, the Kazan-i Serif The Janissaries rebelled and -They burnt the place down. Didn't Kurtcu or Kurtcu Dogan was the one Nowhere is safe. A fire doesn't chose which tree to burn. Since they burned down the capital... ...from now on, What are you looking for, dear? I'm going to prepare Sultana I'm looking for the jars you showed me. I just prepared it. Take this to Mother Sultana. It's color looks different. It's her medicine, dear. Come on, take it to her already. I hope there's no mistake, mother. Give it to me. I'll take it. You just got here and It may hurt a little, Pasha. O Healer. Bismillahirrahmanirrahim. I didn't think they'd go this far, Forgive me. I couldn't stop them. Don't blame yourself, Pasha. It's not your fault. But they'll see! They'll find out the price What's your command, Sultan? What do you wish to do? The decision is clear. The state will not obey the Guild, Quickly inform my raiding servants Is it right to make brothers So much blood will spill. Even if my own feet and hands ...I'd cut them off! Come in, Midwife Vesile. My Sultana. Are you okay, Vesile? I'm okay, Sultan. I wanted Eleni to prepare Where is she? I looked for her but couldn't find her, I brought your medicine You looked for Eleni but No, Mara Hatun. We know that you lied. So, tell us the truth now. What's going on, Mara? Eleni says that this medicine I think there's other things in it. I swear there's nothing in it, my Sultana. I added a few things Nothing harmful. Since it's not harmful, Please let me go. I'm innocent. Then tell us who isn't innocent. Your son and daughter-in-law is Their lives are in your hands. Forgive me, my Sultana. It's true. It is. We disagreed... ...on the Hungarian Campaign and... ...the Siege of Constantinople. I also had shortcomings and mistakes. But who knows? Maybe... ...I resented the fact that he sent Still, all this disgrace could have been But I couldn't do it. The Guild is like a child to me. I thought I knew it well. I left you... ...as regent to Mehmed Now you come here and tell me... ...that the janissaries revolted. I never wanted this to happen. But things got heated up. Our Sultan is stubborn. Especially after this he'll never If we don't stop it... ...our brothers' blood What do you want from me? Forgiveness. Even if it's not for us... ...do it for your state, ...of so many martyrs. I know the traitors among you, All the tyrants who spit at the gates ...will taste my punishment. But now I appeal You all swore to be faithful. You made your confession while Is this the right to salt! I swear to Allah, who holds ...that the whole world will know... ...what it means Now. This is your last chance. I offer mercy from the Sultan. Put down your swords I think they're going to surrender. Attention! Guardian of the world! Great Sultan! His Excellency Sultan Murad Han. Look at what you've done... ...to the state I left you. This will come at a cost. Go to Manisa. Wait for my decision. Bismillahirrahmanirrahim. Didn't we open your chest Didn't we remove the burden Didn't we raise your reputation? Surely there is a difficulty with ease. Really, there is a difficulty So, when you finish one task, Only turn to your Allah and pray. Everything is over, Akseyh! It's not over, Mehmed. Everything is just beginning.