Hi, everyone. My name is Kevin. Today, we or a tutorial of Microsoft Excel. Now, whether never used it before or even if you've used Excel advanced functionality of Excel, this video is you will know how to use Microsoft Excel, functionality. So, if I do a good job today, I'll apologize in advance. Now, one of the first is Microsoft Excel? Well, Microsoft Excel is program, what you can do is you could analyze data your data and you could also analyze trends. With content. If there's some content that you're to the timestamps at the bottom and you could just just want to watch the whole video, that'll really and trust me, if you watch this whole thing, you The first thing that we're going to start out with why don't we jump on the PC and I'll show you how came with Office pre-installed. If you already you could simply click on the Excel icon. Excel is if you don't have Office on your machine, what you click into Chrome and then navigate to the website see two different options. One is get Office, one what you're going to do is you're going to click feature-rich program. There are a few different With a subscription, not only do you get Excel, The difference between these two subscriptions, you could share it with up to six people total. one person. Once again, you get all of these apps one time, there's also an option Office Home Excel and PowerPoint and you just pay for it once Alternatively, what you can do is if you're rather use it for free, what you can do The way to do that is on my screen here, in and you're going to land on this sign in if you have an existing Microsoft account. If you could simply click on create new I already have an account, so what I'm going to and then I'm going to sign in and you type in Once you enter your password, just simply on Office.com. Within Office.com, you'll see all and I could just jump into a new spreadsheet, or you have these two options. You could get what's Windows, which I showed you before, or you could Well, in terms of kind of basic usage of Excel, to do all the basic functionality whichever one and so it doesn't have quite the same feature although Microsoft is doing a really good If you want to use Excel while you're offline, so or somewhere where you don't have internet because you're not online and so then the offline choice. So you just have to decide what are Now that we've looked at how you can get Microsoft just jump into Excel. And for this I'm going to be and click on Excel on my taskbar. I could also up as my best match, but I'm going to go ahead and that I'm using in today's video is Office 365, the this is the latest and greatest that's available. and this is called the home screen. And so on the What you'll see on this page is you have a blank to start from scratch. You also have a number You have a welcome to Excel, get more out this is a very nice sheet to walk through and You also have a number of templates that you simply click on more templates. Down below workbooks that you've been working on. And what in the list, you can also search for it. So today I could search for tutorial. And what you'll you could also search the list. What I can also on the pin icon, it will add it to my pin tab. people have shared with me. Now what I could do I could also click on new and this gives me the I have also categorized. And I could also click if I want to open it say from a OneDrive location for a file. So I have lots of different options to things is when I worked at Microsoft, I actually I hope you like it. Let me know in the comments if you think that we could improve it even more. going to do for today is we're going to click into a link in the description if you want access first worksheet called Welcome to Kevin's Excel core experience that you see when you jump into different worksheets within this workbook. And if feel free to just go through the timestamps that forward to what you care about. If instead you What we're going to do first is let's jump to jump in here. And the first question is, well, this is the orientation worksheet. What I can what I could do is I could rename a worksheet. I the color on different worksheets. So maybe I'll right here? I have all these boxes on the sheet. do I reference a cell? Well, so right here, right this is column A and then this is row 6. That's then you have rows. And so if I want to reference what I would say is I'm in cell C and then 6. So row. And you can see up here as well it says is you could have a range of cells. So here I'm reference cells. And I've included this picture think of cells, it very much reminds me of a game have your rows. It's kind of the same similar idea basics of Excel. What we're going to do next is a little bit here. What we have is some different to have some fun little questions here. So what's now when you look at this number, it's a very So how do we figure out or how do we view formatting options. So here I could apply an and that turns it into a dollar value. I could really add too much. And that is not my annual but I don't. When I scroll down the page here, And you probably noticed the theme here that is also hard to read. So instead of doing a dollar so here this added a comma to it. Here once again, And so it just makes numbers easier to read using this formatting section right up here say I have fractions. I could apply a fraction on these styles up here. And as I go down, formats that you could apply. But down here I So depending on how you want to see your number, Now, another thing that you can do too is I've know, right now all the text is in this one cell. So, I'll simply highlight that first cell that I want the text to show up in. And there's this go ahead and click on that. And what you'll notice now it shows the text across those. What I can you could wrap text. So today, you know, this I could click on wrap text. And what that'll do is So those are a few different formatting options. color. I could adjust the font color. So, there text and numbers within Microsoft Excel. The going to jump into how to adjust the cell size. and I have my columns. I have my rows. What I could expand the size of the row or I could as well. When I click in between columns, I could let's say that I have a column here and there's pull it in and make that better. But oh, maybe I can do is you could simply double click on this simply adjusts it to make sure it fits all the Here, I'm going to click into the row A quick little trick that you could do if you click up here in the top left-hand corner and and you'll notice now that all the columns same with the row and it'll adjust all the rows. What I can also do is let's say I'm working with I wanted some other value in between model and could go to insert. So, let's say I insert another could do the same where I right click and then If I wanted to say add another vehicle or maybe vehicle. So that's how I could manipulate data formatting, adjusting cells and all that, functions and formulas. So why don't we do a quick I'm going to click into this basic formula sheet just basic addition. So I'm going to click into now obviously I know what that is. And so quick and then if you look down here in the bottom about it. So, the sum is 9. I have two numbers So just kind of very quick information that But now what I want to do is I want to add these. how you create a formula. And the way you always And then what I can do is I'll simply say one way 4. So, I could do that and that'll tell me 9. But different cells. And so, I'm going to get rid of is I'll say equals and then I could simply click that's going to do now is it simply adds those Now what I could also do is instead I have a few more numbers that show up I want to take this plus this plus this. What I sum. So I'm going to type in sum and then I'm I simply highlight all the items that I want to and there it's added up all the values. Now what and I could do that across these numbers which are enter. And now it added up all these numbers. Now of a pro move. What you can do is you simply press I'm going to press alt and equals and you'll values and I could hit enter. If you're not big what you can also do is up here in the right-hand if I click on that, I could simply click on sum I can go through and do average. You can also and you could also do the max and the min. could just automatically apply. It takes some this little auto sum list. What's also nice with again. What you can do is you can highlight a set I could highlight another set of numbers and I'm another number and then close parentheses and numbers. So, I'll click into the formula field, up. So pretty powerful. Now, what would addition could do is I could say equals this cell and then You could also multiply. If I click on this one, on this next cell and that'll multiply the two and then forward slash 10 and that'll divide And I showed you earlier with this auto sum, That'll give me the average across those numbers. and that'll give me the max of all those numbers. that appear within this set. So using Excel, functions and formulas, you could really do in the sheet. When you, when I think of Excel, Okay, now that we wrapped up on basic formulas, and I'll kind of walk through what I mean by this. car dealership and I want to know what my profit want to take the price and you want to subtract again. I'm going to type in equals and then we'll profit margin. Now what I mean by fill series is it, it'll simply take my formula and apply it all and I click on, I click into the formula, taking this value minus this value. So basically which is pretty nice. Now, one of the things I my profit margin less Kevin's fee because maybe every car that gets sold. The price minus the cost and now I can copy the formula all the I go to the second cell, you'll see that it relative cell reference. What I want to do is and what I could do then is I'll go back to my before the management fee, before the letter and Excel is that you want to fix the position So I'm going to hit enter and now I could apply you'll see now that it locked the cost or the calculation for the profit margin That's referred to as a relative reference What I can also do, just a little shortcut if you the F4 key when you're hovering over this value between an absolute reference and you could also depending on how you're filling your formula. So, this sheet, I can also transpose the data. So in kind of this vertical orientation where I have but maybe I want to have my column headers on is I can highlight all my data and what I'm I'm going to go up to paste. I'm going to click now I'm going to go to transpose and so I'm going transposed all my data. So now all of my columns going this way. So it's a nice way if you and another thing that I want to show with filling down. So here I have Q1 and you know maybe this So if I click on Q1 and once again I'm going to that if there's a Q1 well they're going to be increments that by one. So, when you fill with The next thing that we're going to look at is the split data tab. In here, one of the things I have last name. What I would like to do is I name. So, what I can do, this is a really neat on all these names and then we're going to click going to click on something called text to columns So I'm going to click on next and the way that them but you could also do it by tab, semicolon, separated. So I'm going to click on next then is right now it wants to put it in A2. What So basically, I want the data to go into this you'll see happened is it just separated all of them up between first name and last name. So, The next thing that we're going to look something that I really love and really I'm going to click on the filter and sort and all these different cars, models, colors, mileage, to go up into the data tab up on top and I'm So we're going to apply a filter and what with an arrow on top of all of the different and what you'll see I can do is I can sort now. sort by different colors if I had colors there. name. So here I sorted from A to Z and so now it at the bottom. What I can also do is I could sort or largest to smallest. So here I'll see which one you could sort your lists by largest to smallest. to see my Chevrolets in this list. That's called again and here you'll see all the different And so I'm going to click on select all to click on just Chevrolet and I'll click on OK. Now my Chevrolets. What I can also do is if I click and my Dodge and I'll click on OK. And once again So, my Chevrolets are together and my Dodges are how you can filter and sort your data. You advanced sorts where you could sort based on let's say if they both have the same make, then like that, but you could play around with it and The next thing that we're going to look at is the value or benefit of a table? So, I'm going to to click on format as a table. And we'll just go has headers. Okay. So, I've just inserted it. So where each row in the table has this color that's What you can also do is let's say that I expand. table by one and maybe I want to call this my the formula earlier, but I'll take the price minus don't have to drag it down because it's a table. item in the table. So, it automatically applies it you some time if you know all the data is related. actually know this until recently, but something I an option called total rows. I'm going to go ahead added a total now. So my total of all my margins this little dropdown and I could say, well, what's max margin that I have, or I can just say, what's calculate sums. The next thing that I want to Excel. So, I just clicked on quick analysis. you know, here, back to my car data, you know, I want to visualize very quickly, which one is the What I could do is I could right click on And so with quick analysis, I could also click you'll see this quick analysis button. So, I'll data. So here I could see, you know, the more I could also apply a color scale. And so, there that I could use when I'm looking at my data, So just kind of a nice little quick way to analyze And ideas is something new in Excel. It's up ideas. This is part of Office 365. And what it and it comes up with interesting insights based on This one's interesting. Price and field cost the price of the car appear highly correlated. cost. And so, what it does is it goes through my So it calls out kind of interesting insights to your data to see if there are any interesting looked at ideas, we're going to go into charts and in Microsoft Excel. So, I have this little table side and then I have conference attendees on is I'm going to go up here and I'm going to click click on recommended charts. And what you'll charts that I could insert. And the first one y-axis or the vertical axis, and then it shows me And so, I'll just say, okay. And this inserts a have over here. What I can also do is I'm going I have the same data that I had above, but now we I could do is I'll go back, click on recommended going to click on all charts and I can do a combo to chart out. And so, food sales, maybe I want primary one. This is my secondary one. And so, my And I'm going to go ahead and click on okay. could see the attendees and then I could see the just kind of quick charts. What I like doing with around with it. Here I could click on change chart different views to see kind of what type of view see what you like, what you don't like. And it's The next thing that I want to show is how to I have all my card data in here and I have have hundreds of hundreds of rows that show I don't know what column D is or what column E the header stick with the data, and I can So if I click on, I'm going to click on view and I'm going to click on that. And what I could do things like freeze the top column or you could but I'm just going to do the top row. And so, I a little darker than the other ones. And now when stays in place. So, kind of a nice way, especially what that data is that you're looking at. The very And I have a whole separate video on pivot tables wanted to do just a quick overview of what you getting to more advanced levels of functionality again. And what I'm going to do is go back to And so it selects my data, selects the range, And so what this did is it creates something So all the columns appear within this pivot table I could drag my color down to a row and I could drop that in values. And so what that did then cost. And so I could see by cost. So for all And you could kind of do neat things where you vehicles that I have by color. So, what I wanted tables. You could feel free to play around with I also have a few additional videos down in the links to more in depth overviews of what are pivot how do you use formulas like VLOOKUP or HLOOKUP you can do with Excel beyond this. Well, that's wanted to do is just give a quick overview of kind as well as give a little kind of peek at I have more videos that go more in depth on if you want to learn about VLOOKUP or HLOOKUP, or conditional formatting or a lot more functions topics and I've included links in the description. your expertise in Microsoft Excel. But with this on a day-to-day basis. This is most of the stuff in a really good way and really helps me analyze a super powerful program. Hopefully this video Microsoft Excel. If you have any questions, feel read all the comments that come in and I'll be If you want to see more videos like this in the you get a notification anytime new content like any other questions or any other topics that you to leave a comment down below and I'll add it to that's all I had today. Hopefully you're well on and hopefully it's going to help you either be to analyze data better or maybe in your personal maybe your finances, maybe you're buying a house evaluate things. All right, well that's all I