THE STATE OF NEWEGG: celebrated for its tech offerings, is fighting Newegg was the go-to place for gamers. But now, company lose 99% of its value, despite its its humble beginnings to becoming a household revolutionary. In this video, we will from startup to sensation, from CPUs to customer WHAT IS NEWEGG: When Fred Chang created the company in 2001, beginning for e-commerce, an industry struggling the name was prophetic. Newegg was one of the By 2005, Newegg had surpassed a billion dollars companies were selling tech supplies and PC parts. for starters, their prices were often the best you other giant retailers, but good pricing was just PC part on Amazon was aggravating, but Newegg's Newegg's shopping process was seamless. You find exactly what you needed. Newegg would even with each other. This is common today, but in loved it. "Shopping for electronics on Amazon extremely powerful search tools optimized for Newegg had everything easy to find on their site. and it was as close as one could get to a one-stop comment also hints at the third thing Newegg did Shipping was always fast, and returns were it was built for them. It served tech customers could. Newegg was clearly the dominant player, NEWEGG TODAY: things might seem fine, but zooming out to the their IPO in 2012, their stock price has crashed websites like Glassdoor, Newegg sits at a 2.3-star terrible, incompetent management, high risks of competitors. Even loyal employees share these there are "really none except some of the people coworkers who will share your plight and agony." management issues aside, the most important Is the company making money? Well, up until 2019, they started to make good profits, surpassing was likely due to the pandemic, but they were things made a worse turn. Newegg started These losses were big and sudden. In 2022 they their net loss grew to $59 million. But that's not their total assets are $499 million, and their a debt-to-asset ratio of 0.74. For reference, Newegg is in a risky position. They carry a seem to be shrinking faster than their debt. going bankrupt within the next 2 years. What's so just a few years ago. So why did their profits go CONTROVERSY &amp; DOWNFALL: Negative comments about Newegg started to pop up support experiences most of which had a consistent and received a faulty one, and another in poor their refunds were denied, with Newegg citing sending the motherboards back to the customer. The when the customer sent in the motherboards. Now, customer satisfaction, but this was different. seemingly damaged themselves. This story wasn't compiling and sharing negative reviews of terrible close to $2,000 with them to build a system for stick of RAM. I specifically mentioned the damage problem. Sent back and they denied the return. It arrived damaged!!" But Newegg didn't change, another reason: In their eyes, they didn't need and there's absolutely nothing I can do." But incident would catapult this negligence into the stumbled onto one customer who would level the Nexus returned an unused motherboard, which fell customer support reared its ugly head once again. damage" just like all the other complaints. But never opened the box. Which meant the product was the pebble that caused the avalanche. In a video Nexus showed the aggravating customer support. Steve opened the returned motherboard and dug was a faulty item sent to a supplier for a repair The snowball was now in motion. Customers eerily similar to Steve's. They were finally just regular consumers either. Other YouTubers Then other YouTube channels and commentators all at Newegg, and they went into panic mode. So they number of returns may not have been thoroughly errors and isolated incidents." This only added incidents. There was a pattern across all Newegg reached out to the impacted customers, but ironically, this reveals one of the biggest most customers would only get their issues noise. This wasn't Newegg changing. It was just issues with Gamers Nexus and UFD Tech after they what happened, they're sorry they got caught and AN AUTOPSY: They only appeared to make things right when so sure. During the peak of the drama, Newegg's While a great gesture, most of the conversation of real change. But things aren't so simple. It's so high. Most of the executives had only been it appears this trend of poor retention hasn't Newegg today. Has their reputation improved at purchase rate decreased from 31.3% to 29.2%. The Which tells us one thing. Customers aren't coming purchases anymore. Motherboards, graphics cards, often well over $379. The saddest part is can Newegg bounce back? Well, in their 2023 for this decline in business. Which included products,*" as well as lower profit margins and all of it dances around the most important issue. most important thing: customers. Customer support annoyed customer into a brand advocate. But it publicly shaming and advocating for others to because of Newegg's negligence, apathy, and bad Newegg set out some strategies. In 2022, they and other compensation costs by $12.7 million," a step backward. Because as we know, their sales terrible turnover, reputation, and bad customer Newegg. Newegg may have saved money with sloppy benefits, but long term, these are just short-term their reputation. Ironic as it sounds, people miss dives, interviews with insiders, and exclusive newsletter, link is below. But until then, I'm