What's up branding experts! -- Arek here And in this video I'm going to share with and then we gonna talk about how to define for how you want your brand to sound to others. So that you can shape the way your brand is And your audience will be able to connect being. Now if you're new to the channel and you want design. Well then smash that subscribe button and My name is Arek Dvornechuck and at Ebaqdesign brands. Ok, so before we talk about tone of voice Let's quickly define what brand voice actually a business. -- What is a Brand's Tone of Voice? your brand's message to your audience. It's basically how the personality of your in communication. So that brand voice is essentially, an extension So that your personality and voice will work message is delivered. And the tone of voice should be used consistently to allow the audience to familiarize themselves a real human being. Your tone is not only about how you speak, use them (the cadence and rhythm, velocity, and length For example, do you speak fast or with a drawl? Are you loud and bombastic or quiet and reserved? Do you speak in long, ornate sentences? Do you use industry jargon or plain English? Are you cashing in on all your 50-cent words, So many brands call tone of voice as communication Because the way a brand looks is just as important So besides designing your visual identity, voice. And this comes down to defining a definitive But first, let's look at some examples of And then, I will give you my step-by-step for your, or your client's brand -- so Ok, so without further ado, let's jump right -- which is Starbucks. Starbucks has a clear and concise brand guidelines with a section dedicated to its tone of voice. So the Starbucks's tone of voice is primarly Starbucks' tone of voice guidelines consists of how to use this voice to design different So the functional tone is used primarily for with a goal to keep the copy clear for maximum While the expressive tone is where the Starbucks So the expressive voice is used to tell a Using both functional and expressive voice relevance, connection and joy. And sometimes the copy will just make you And other times it will clearly navigate you -- Now, the second example on my list is And the Uber's voice guidelines provides across all touch points. So the Uber's brand voice is considerate, And their guidelines show you a bunch of specific Uber's voice expresses the brand's essence for. Now, Considerate voice -- means that the And Simple &amp; Direct voice -- this refers to understand way. And consistent voice -- it obviously tries countries and languages. So that they can all together create that Despite the cultural differences and so on. So the Uber's voice guideline is much more And you'll also find supporting tone of even editing tips. So I recommend to check it out -- it's --- Now, the third example on my list is MailChimp speaks to its customers in a tone and never snobbish. So the Mailchimp's brand voice is clear, And their tone of voice guidelines brilliantly and a conversational voice to write empowering Now, Clear -- means that MailChimp strips to value clarity above all. So the genuine voice they chose to use helps challenges By speaking to them in a familiar, warm, and And also their guideline clearly states that forced humor can be worse than none at all, so if you're unsure, it's better to keep So in their style guide, you'll also find use that tone of voice in communication. -- Now, the next and fourth example is Harley And Harley-Davidson is a perfect example of the right brand. So the Harley-Davidson's voice is strong, Some brands try to speak in a pleasant and but Harley is definitely not one of them. Their voice challenges the reader to show motorcycles. So as the brand clearly adapts the Outlaw rough and rugged, so it's their voice. They show that personality through a unique their target audience. So this type of voice resonates well with customers (or wanna-be). Everything about their marketing evokes confidence, just look at their website and the headlines -- Ok, so the next on my list is Coca-Cola And Coca-Cola is one of my favorite examples Now, the Coca-Cola's brand voice is positive, And they're always showing us concepts of accompanied by a positive, optimistic voice So they've been on the market for over 130 but their voice remains consistent with a You can see polar bears, families getting or friends dancing and smiling-- and in every of happy-life. So Coca-Cola brilliantly connects positive through evocative images and perfectly-constructed -- Now let's take Old Spice as an example: And Old Spice had long been the leader in but when Axe entered the market, the brand So now, the new Old Spice's voice is humorous And the NY agency Landor established Old Spice's To inspire new ways to engage consumers. The Old Spice brand, similarly to Coca-Cola, over 90 years. However, unlike Coca-Cola, the brand wasn't it with old people smell. That's why the company had to undergo a changing the tone of voice. So they began using plenty of humor in their proved to be very successful. So Old Spice now uses a consistent tone of that helps the brand to redefine masculinity -- And lastly we have Tiffany as an example So Tiffany is not just about the shade of but it's also about their well defined brand So The Tiffany's tone of voice is witty, Now, the content and social teams work together and branded content. "Historically, Tiffany's voice as a brand back." ... said Hong, who leads the team of art directors So Tiffany also has a strong brand voice and After all, people are willing to pay much without a Tiffany logo. So they pay for logo, design, and the small But it wouldn't be possible to sell those of voice and messaging. So in every single communication the Tiffany's and the brand became iconic in a big part with the tone of voice that resonates well Ok so this was the last example on my list... So I gave you 7 examples of top brands and relate. -- And now let's sum it all up: (CONCLUSIONS) So your brand voice is a set of guidelines Think of your brand voice acting as a filter your marketing materials. Your tone of voice will stem from your your And many successful businesses dedicate a tone of voice In order to make sure that the brand communicates -- Now, How do you define a tone of voice? So first, you should look at your target audience, And think about the tone of voice that you so that your brand will come off as someone And secondly, your voice should support your So that if your personality is sophisticated, Are you trying to be humorous? Or is the subject Are you formal and keep it professional at Do you approach the subject in a respectful Do you seem to be enthusiastic and excited and matter-of-fact? Now there are many attributes that you can and therefore there are many different ways That's why I've developed a branding exercise team To be able to capture a brand's voice with So check out the 7th exercise of my Brand Where you can download the worksheets and So that you will be able project a compelling And my guide is very practical, so hopefully but in case you have any questions -- just to answer all of those. Or perhaps you already have an idea of what So what's your voice? Is it funny or serious? And don't forget to like this video and strategy and design. This was Arek Dvornechuck from Ebaqdesign. See you in the next one.