In this video, we will show you how to properly Together we'll turn a freshly opened carbon skillet --a skillet ready for use. If you want head over to our international channel and This is a beautiful carbon steel pan that we perfectly shiny --black-- you can literally see you see on the surface, but the product of the And this for example is a What we have is a kind of mirror finish. And of course, the bottom must be treated as the seasoning protects these quality pans against steel and untreated cast iron. Secondly-- and this non-stick. We will not have a non-stick coating If we wanted to, we could even cook Now before starting the seasoning process, we difference in the non-stickiness It's the same kind of test that engineers We want to see the difference in the an untreated stainless steel pan and a teflon pan. in the center of the pan and see how much we need The less we have to tilt the pan non-stick the pan is. For example this is And now we add the same amount of water and let's ...nothing yet and finally the water moves! So water move, demonstrating that this untreated angle greater than 30 degrees. That's roughly to make the water move. Now let's get started in It has a layer of protective wax coming from wax before treating or seasoning the skillet. and so in this case all we have to and use a soft sponge to wipe it That's it! Super easy! And now we're just discarding this water and One last time and we're done. And we need to pour the boiling water on the Perfect! Look at this beautiful blue gray because after seasoning it will transform into the pan well before starting the seasoning To season a pan or skillet, The first is paper towel or cotton cloths. we will spread the oil all over the And obviously we will need oil with which on the surface of the pan, which is the very with a high smoke point. The choice is yours; You Here we are using peanut oil. The goal is to heat the surface of the metal. That's the essence it just takes a minute to screw up the process. and not distributing the oil well. And then have to correct and that's not an easy process. at home alone, because the process produces a open and have plenty of ventilation or even You could even wear a mask if you are sensitive to regarding the heat source. Seasoning can be done the oven. We don't recommend induction. Let's get quantity of oil that can cover the entire surface reach will be very high --well over 250 degrees so you'll have to be careful so that the why we will be changing it very often. A bit And then we let the pan heat until it reaches start to see the smoke, we'll take another piece If you have an infrared thermometer, that's we know more or less what temperature we are at. point of around 230 degrees celsius, so we are In fact, now we are starting Do you see it? It has already turned in color. If there's one part of the pan that is getting the pan around. Let's add a bit more oil. it. And this is very important: there must be only The most common mistake when seasoning is to little more oil ...just a little bit ..and if you decide to season the pan in the oven, you won't save yourself regarding open the oven, you will get attacked by the smoke. Here you can see we are moving the pan all around area. The central part of the pan will normally be the rest of the skillet. The question we often get them with water! Without soap-- soap is avoided film that we are working hard to create. So wash the stove a minute to be sure that there's no more on the pan and put it away. The central part So that means that we are well seasoned there. If you are curious about what pan we're showcasing as always, we have information about any Now we can start to really focus on the edges. A carbon steel pan is unbeatable for brazing and method that we are showing here can be used to --the so-called blue iron pans that For baking trays, we use Let's see the temperature... 340 degrees celsius, so we And here we are! The pan is ready. Now And here it is! Look at that Ready to use and naturally non-stick. Should we do the water test? Let's see how Incredible! The angle is very close to that And of course the real test is cooking ...and look at how the egg can slide on the pan. please give us a thumbs up! Subscribe to from Italy and beyond and click the And of course let us know in the comments how