Sadhguru: Data means repetitive things, nothing Consciousness means it is a memory-less intelligence Aren't we denying ourselves the fundamental instruments are not up to the mark? As you already said and everybody will agree sophisticated piece of technology on the planet. So, should we not learn to use it? You cannot slap one meaning from your mind very basis of our existence. So, this is what is the fundamental mistake psychological process and trying to understand Whether it is death, coma, anesthesia - in they're not very different; it is just different When you become completely unawake, that means Moderator (Bala): Good morning. Vannakam. Namaskaram. Namaste. My name is Bala Subramaniam, and here we are and also exciting personalities. So, it'll be a great session I think, and And I want to introduce briefly about myself I work at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, initial training in Puducherry, India. I did my MBBS in JIPMER followed by anesthesiology in Delhi. Then I spent a year in UK doing Critical Care Then I came to Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Health. Currently I'm also an Associate Professor Medical School. It is my privilege to introduce Steven Laureys He is recognized worldwide as a leading clinician consciousness. Steven was born and live (lives?) in Belgium, They have five beautiful children. While specializing in neurology he did research on pain and stroke. He moved on to functional neuro-imaging for Steven has a full MD Ph.D. and is a full professor. He is a founding director of GIGA Consciousness Liege. He holds several international collaborative activities, multiple TV shows with CNN, ABC, and keynote and research lectures including His books include the &quot;Neurology of Consciousness,&quot; Your brain&quot; and I think he has recently come book&quot; - it's a best-seller in Netherlands I find him as a very impressive personality and he also is a meditator. So, it is my pleasure to introduce him, Steven. Steven: Thank you so much Bala for this wonderful Moderator: (Laughs) All right! Steven, you want to say why you wanted to Steven: Because that's what drives me. I think as a teenager like many I think, asking in this universe?&quot; these big questions, and terribly difficult question about what is that knowledge into our clinical activities to care better for the damaged brains, but and the mind, I think the more I am just fascinating And it's incredible how much actually we ignore Moderator: Great! Sadhguru, are these one and the same (Sadhguru Sadhguru: (Laughs) Well, in the yogic sciences, that modern physiology accords to the brain. We see brain just as body. It is just body, it is one more aspect of But mind or what we are referring to as mind, kind of too general. Normally, we identify four parts to what we The moment you use the English language, you internal, we're talking in more generalities, So, if you want specifics, well, we identify which I feel largely in modern societies they Essentially... I mean I'm not saying this with any prejudice, I'm talking in terms of where these things The European culture has recognized intellect In the yogic sciences, we see intellect only on the basis of the limited data that we have Intellect is quite a useless thing if you If there is no data, intellect cannot function. So, intellect is very much like... why today, Yes, it has. It has data, and it can use it. If it doesn't yet have, I don't know what... I think you're using a bad phone (Laughter). You... You're still on Nokia, I think (Laughter). Steven: I think even the best iPhone is still It has no subjective experience. So, because we talk about artificial intelligence Sadhguru: Yes, yes, but I'm talking about Intellect means it... it has data; using the which the phone is beginning to do, maybe but it is beginning to do that activity. Even among human beings, not every human being and with the same complexity and sophistication. So... Well, you have the brain of a monk, but you then you would know what I'm talking about Steven: It's classified (Sadhguru and moderator But... Sadhguru: No, no, these... these days they're It's not like old times, okay? So, I'm saying this intellectual process is That's not how we look at it. We see intellect is called buddhi, which is that it has gathered, largely conscious data. Sometimes it accesses data, which is not very of conscious data. You will see if somebody is having little goes helpless for a period of time. &quot;I can't remember this,&quot; means there is nothing Though unconsciously that memory is still it, intellect feels helpless for that fe... So, this is called as buddhi. The next dimension of intelligence, or I'm... I'm using the word intelligence instead of The next dimension of intelligence is referred This means... there are many ways to look People usually say it's ego, but essentially, Because the way you identified, that is the Now if you say, &quot;I belong to this nation,&quot; that identity. If you say, &quot;I belong to this religion or accordingly, your intellect functions, because survival process. If you identify with something, intellect trying to protect that identity. So, in the yogic system we consider the ahankara important than the nature of the intellect identity that you have taken. Once you take a certain identity, intellect that, and what is right for you, what is wrong you're identified. So, the third dimension of intelligence is of memory, starting from elemental memory, memory, karmic memory, articulate, inarticulate - like this, eight dimensions of memory. Now, how you access this huge silo of memory? Right now, we have a human form only because within us. If there is no memory, well if you eat you Only memory is so strongly instilled in every what we eat, even if we eat dog food - right it can happen -even if we happen to eat still remain human simply because of heavily our system. Similarly, genetics - it doesn't matter, me. I eat European food, you... I won't become like you, because there is Like this, there is karmic memory and other vast amount of memory simply depends upon In which way are you identified, how strong access this memory. Though this data is there, this data is processed If your identity is very nationalistic, now willing to live and die for that identity. These days, people are (Laughs)... in Europe, club. They're willing to live and die for it. So, it may look ridiculous for somebody else, someone else. It's more than a religion, it's more than are willing to live and die for. So essentially, the identity, if it is consciously So, in yoga, always we are trying to establish a limitless identity, your ability to access in every cell in our body is greatly enhanced, like way above what everybody else is functioning. One, human being functions way above that, amount of memory, which is recorded the whole The very development of life on this planet or not is the only question. So, a very limitless, at least we cannot see You take the identity with the world or with think is the biggest thing out here. So, the next dimension of intelligence is Chitta means it is an intelligence, which at all. This is just pure intelligence. This is the basis of creation that today, within us in a few hours, simply because the is functioning within us, and it is free of No memory means it is limitless. Memory is a boundary that we have set. Now, &quot;This is in my memory,&quot; means this is that is not in my boundary. So, a dimension of intelligence which is free So, in the yogic sciences, they... mischievous or this dimension of intelligence which is become your slave.&quot; Moderator: Thank you Sadhguru. Do you have a followup? Steven: Yeah, thank you for that. You refer to the yogic sciences. So how... because in science, we always want us wrong. So, you know, I'm this hard-nosed scientist Sadhguru: No, no. Hard nose... Hard nose is not a good thing during the COVID nose. Steven: But so this, you know, way of looking and then to verify and so to come up with value, that has predictive value. So, I am a bit surprised you call it, in that you have experienced, which is for me as a reconnect with the form of spirituality. So how could we know that what you explained we find ways to test this? Sadhguru: Mhmm (Indicating agreement) we can. See right now, if we... is it true that human something, it is everything to them? Is that so? Whether it's nation, religion, race, what Steven: I follow you for the identity ego Sadhguru: ...they just took on an identity. Don... No, no, no not the... not ego, it's just identity. I'm... &quot;I'm an Indian,&quot; means I'm willing to live is, and that's what is expected also, if you So... So, you know identity determines how a person Just a piece of cloth, just flies like this, It's a flag, you know, a national flag does up men shed tears. What is there in the cloth? There is nothing. It's... It's just the identity that you have taken So entire human experience is determined by When one sleeps, there is no identity. When dreams, there is identity, but in sleep In death there is no identity. Well, you can always talk about your anesthesia I'm not the person to talk about that. But I'm saying the... in conscious experience everything. Well, does it show up in your blood, does I don't know. That's for you guys to say, but it is a fact and what... how they live is determined by So, is it scientific enough, I'm asking, when So, the next thing is memory - the manas. Now, we were talking about many things. The... Steven do you remember how your great great looked like? Do you remember? Hmm? Steven: (Laughs) And somehow yes. I know. I have the nose on my face (Laughs). Sadhguru: (Laughs) Yeah, yeah. You've been listening. You're not remembering (Laughs). Steven: Absolutely. And so we kind of understand that a little it all comes down somehow to the language But... so, in terms of your comparison to with data, I think there's something fundamentally (Overlapping conversation) Sadhguru: No, no no. It is... It is a question of lack of complexity and It is not as sophisticated and complex as I did not use the word 'brain'. I said your intellect. Steven: The difference between the iPhone right? My iPhone is not... (Overlapping conversation). Sadhguru: No, no, no, no, no, no. That's not what I said. I said, between your intellect. See this is the problem. Right now, English language is using the word Now if you go more specific, in this mind, is a huge volume of memory, and there is a Right now, I don't want to call consciousness, cleaning. It's kind of absorbed all kinds of stuff in So, we will leave that aside. These three together or these four together But if you look at the intellectual process different, but very different in terms of different, another world altogether. Steven: Umm, So I... I'm very excited about the brain. It's my favorite organ. Sadhguru: That one... That one you have on the table or yours? Steven: That one I have up there. Sadhguru: Oh, oh! Not on the table? (Steven laughs) No because that seems to have Steven: That is maybe true because this the just an amateur. But these brains are important, of course, but without this one, it's less fun. So also when we talk about organ transplantation, Sadhguru: I told you I gave away my brain I also gave away my... gave away my heart Steven: No but seriously, it's because you redefine death and we now have brain deaths can be saved, thanks to organ donation. So, are you okay to after death give your Sadhguru: I am not right now planning to die By the time... By the time I die at least, my brains I would've Moderator: Steven I thought I will... Sorry, go ahead Steven. Steven: No, no, no... So I think that the example of transplantation that it shows kind of the importance of the every organ and we can now indeed even replace not change the way you think and feel and But of course, for the brain it's different. So, there are... there is something special But... And there, we shouldn't be too arrogant. When it comes to the big question of consciousness emotions, we just have a terribly hard time brain, and to this very first person's subjective So, there for you I understand that the brain and then there's... Sadhguru: I... I generally think through my whole body. Really. That is why... Steven: And, that is true. (Overlapping conversation) Sadhguru: That is why I can do two dozen things because I use every cell in my body. Steven: Okay! Sadhguru: Because what you're referring to experience... I am not somebody who's propounding this, combination of memory and intelligence is Steven: Yes. It's difficult, because we're talking about Sadhguru: So, tell me in every cell in your it's there in your brain, and the number of body is functioning, you can never figure reactions that are happening across, not necessarily own nature. So, when they are able to do so much, there So, in yoga, we don't say mind is here or As there is a physical body, there is a mental There is a... There is a whole scape of memory and intelligence But now I believe you know, we... we've always understand now these days doctors are saying Am I right? Steven: Yes. Sadhguru: What do they call this Bala, what I heard that... Steven: The second brain some call it, and in our gut. Yet, if I have to choose between losing those... the brain, and I think again we can transplant change who and what you are. Moderator: I'm not sure about the _____ Steven: Sorry. Moderator: I'm not so sure about the gut transplantation. It's not so widely done and it's... Steven: No, no, no of course. Moderator: I agree, brain... there is no transplantation. Steven: But we...we can like anesthetize them, system, and the impact would be very different, of those brain cells? So, I think we all agree that the brain is And... Sadhguru: No ques... No question about that. There's no question about whether brain is But brain is important and it's functional of the body, with the neurological system. Suppose you cut something in your spine, then meaningless, what it does, only because it's So how yoga sees brain is, not as an organ It's like one big knot where more is happening but it doesn't mean it is not happening in So that's why I said, &quot;I think through my This is why even if you're doing two dozen level of stress because it is like, if you're you bought a car with four wheels, but you Obviously, one will wear out very quickly Every time people have to do something - simple to wear, where to go, what to do, they get using just one dimension of their intelligence, Steven: And that you can train through yoga? Yes? Sadhguru: Oh de... Oh definitely, yes. Steven: And I am... as I said, struggling be too arrogant, it's to me one of the big this objective scientific method. Some would even say it's impossible, and we understand the mind, but I'm naively optimistic. But it is true that, as you said repeatedly, right, and that is why I'm listening to these being your tradition or Buddhism, or... and as a taboo. It was just impossible when I started in the and that is finally changing, but still... we have these machines - functional MRI print brains and look at how the parts of But maybe we ignore a little bit too much, So, when I have these Buddhist monks in my levels of consciousness, and you just mentioned for me it's very very difficult, because I think I should... (Overlapping conversation). Sadhguru: No, no, no, what you're saying is... for me because it's not there in my memory.&quot; That's exactly what I said. If something is not in your memory, your intellect So how will it come into your memory, unless You know, what is red, blue, yellow has come That is why it's in your memory, otherwise If you see a certain kind of food, certain you know what it is only because it's there So right now, something that is not yet... you are trying to sort it out in your intellect It is not that you will never be able to figure That's not the point. You will never be able to figure it with the now. First instrument that you're using is intellect stuff in your lab, this is all products of They all function only from data. So, data means repetitive things, nothing Consciousness means, it's a memory-less Unfortunately, because of the type of modern misunderstand that memory is intelligence. You know, if you... if you read a textbook hall and vom... puke it on the paper, you Simply because you have memory. So, memory is being misunderstood as intelligence. But intelligence doesn't need memory. Intelligence functions of its own accord. Intelligence can generate memory, intelligence of memory which is intelligence. Intelligence is the basis of memory; memory Steven: So, would you agree that we could Sadhguru: Which... Where are the two worlds, I am living in... Where are you from? Where are you, are you talking to me from Steven: I am talking about my lab (Sadhguru approach. But linking it to the phenomenology to as that we may be have been ignoring it too much, Sadhguru: See in your lab... Steven, in your lab, is there any instrument you are? Steven: No. Sadhguru: Then why are you using crude instruments that you have? Steven: I am trying to combine them. Sadhguru: Why? Steven: (Laughs) Because... so, what you are Sadhguru: No, no, no, no, there's nothing The only reason is, you... we have all gone trust the finest instrument on the planet. Moderator: So, I wanted to ask this question, Especially when I talk to neurologists and don't experience this, they doubt it, they the consciousness or the intelligence part The science is all about reproduce(e)ability Sadhguru: Well, human beings are repeating Isn't that good enough (Laughs)? Moderator: ____ (Unclear) because they want because we don't have any instruments as of power-point presentation. But there are millions of people who're experiencing don't we trust that in scientific world? Because the first question I face is, &quot;Oh, nonsense.&quot; So (Sadhguru laughs) again that... you are That's why I'm asking you this question, why science that you know, keeps on saying, &quot;It's I can't demonstrate.&quot; But we can put ourselves into that state and who're talking about it. So, I am not sure why we don't account for Steven: And I think you're right, we should neurologists, you, anesthesiologists or psychiatrists, experience, whatever you call it. Umm, now I think and that's what I am trying and approaches that if we only go with experience, may be plain wrong... (Overlapping conversation) Sadhguru: No, not with... not with one person's If it is repeated in 10,000 people, is it Steven: Well, I will be here... the scientists 10,000 people, a million people, billions right, it could be... (Overlapping conversation) Sadhguru: No, no, no. We're not talking about belief, unconnected See if a belief you need flock. Unconnected people, you can check hundred if... if we put a certain input, if the same people, is it not... is that not repeatable Steven: Yes! Sadhguru: Right now, do... is there any scientific Steven: It's... The definition of life is actually still challenging I think it's, it's... &quot;What is matter? How does it organizes in life and _____ (Unclear)" So, I am following you in this importance are experiencing and that we really should And sometimes I feel when talking to people Sadhguru: Can I say... can I say something I'm... I'm not saying you should listen to me. It is not necessary to listen to me, because I'm saying something, it may be a bloody lie, All right? I am not asking you to go by my word. I am just saying, if you do certain thing, is true, isn't it? You don't have to believe what I say. I am saying all of us, we are here, how did... The basic thing is our parents have given and now we gather our own thing in our own complex. This is how we are living. So, what is the proof of this? There is... Living is a substantial proof, because it's So, it can't be questioned. So right now, the instruments that you have that you had in 90's, and the instruments more sophisticated? Steven: They're better, they always get better. Sadhguru: They always getting better. So even today what you're using definitely twenty years they'll get much better. So, I'm saying, aren't we denying ourselves because our instruments are not up to the As you already said and everybody will agree sophisticated piece of technology on the planet. So, should we not learn to use it? Beyond our thought, beyond our emotion, beyond you learn to use it, then this will clearly most competent machine that's out here. Steven: Yes. And yet I am trying to imagine a world where Right? Imagine... Sadhguru: You're... You're talking about a very... very competitive Steven: Yes, it's your work/world(?). So, I chose at one point in my life not to but a scientist and then to use that as a And I'm still happy with that choice, because the scientific knowledge and the technology improved our quality of life and our life So, I am very happy that there are these scientists But at the same time, I think we should try or the pure experience as you say, would you Sadhguru: See it is like this - if you take the motorcycles, let's say, but now you ask Well, he can use his screwdriver and open Beyond that, he doesn't know a thing about All right? This is just like this. Objective sciences are like this. It is always one plus one is two. That's the only way objectivity can work. You cannot say one plu... one plus one is All right? You cannot say that, because this is the nature is coming from our intellectual process. Intellectual process, as again I said already, So memory cannot be fudged. If you fudge the memory, it's a mess. I remember, this is one and this is one. And now I put these two things together and Now, this has a memory basis. If I fudge this, then my intellect becomes All right? So, intellect is handling one aspect of our For our self-preservation, our intellect is Without it, we cannot function. Right now, all the things that you said, it enhanced our life in so many ways, no. It has not enhanced the quality of our life It has only enhanced the comfort and convenience All this is definitely self-preservation, It's survival process. So, when it comes to self-preserve... self-preservation, Without this one functioning, you cannot survive All the five senses are function... functioning, and from there you're using it, how efficiently you survive. So, your life expectancy enhanced means your That's all it is. So, you are more healthy than what people we are, it simply means your survival process So, leaving the survival process, now you're Consciousness means, see the English word If you say somebody is in anesthesia, if they his consciousness.&quot; No, he is conscious, because there are no Language is a different aspect. Language is also a product of our intellect. So, it can only talk in opposites. Without polarities there is no language, without but when you talk about consciousness, you There is no a... A-consciousness and B-consciousness, there's there's just one. So, what doesn't have a polarity cannot be Intellect is a sharp instrument; it can only It cannot absorb something. See, if you are using your intellect upon you want your intellect sharp or blunt?&quot; they Why? Because it's a cutting instrument. If your cutting instrument, if your knife So now you want to stitch your clothes, but then all you have is tatters. Th... That is showing, almost everybody is wearing You see everybody's pants are torn. I don't know, you are... I'm not seeing the whole of you (Laughs). Steven: It's very good. Sadhguru: If you're wearing... if you're blue So, you're using your intellect to handle That's never going to happen, simply because - it's not going to work. Steven: Mhmm, mhmm, Okay. Moderator: Steven, while you're here thinking point because you have remarked in some of by calling consciousness as a binary term, Yes or no? And then with your experiments and also your the instruments that you've had, now you've of consciousness or wakefulness, if you want Sadhguru's saying consciousness is one, there these? So, again the term comes back to consciousness You are in all these guiding... guideline of these committees. Can we even change that as just wakefulness Steven: So, we're... Thank you for that question Bala. We are definitely struggling. And I think we have no definition of consciousness on are somehow practical measures that... &quot;The patient is unconscious,&quot; what do we mean? What is the language we speak? And we will there reduce this complexity to And that's what you've seen and what we all When you make them fall asleep during anesthesia, environment and then their self. During sleep there is already this notorious fascinating and there is lucid dreaming and observers saying meaningful things about awareness And then these patients as you say in coma looked at from the outside as looking at eye-opening, stimulate them and then observing their behavior true that when you talk about... when you is exactly why I started this research because I could say meaningful things about consciousness, I'm doing at the bedside is making inferences of proof, is there not always proof of the So, to me it seemed as a historical error the patients we see with severe brain damage And now we see all these more nuanced states, be more or less awake and we described these eyes open, but completely unaware, that we them unresponsive-wakefulness and then some is very frustrating because you can't communicate have, very probably, when we look of these and hence a functioning mind that can perceive So I am trying to be a little bit more precise environment, of the self, and how we can link to do with this global neuronal work space it by all possible means to help clinicians, value, but it's still a tremendous challenge descriptive and they have a big practical the explanatory power because they are truly discussion and I am thinking that I know for happens to me is still a big challenge. And as you know we also listen to patients but afterwards they tell us they had these Very, very intense, very, very positive, often, outside, this notion of light and for some I think it's a challenge because death is but all of that somehow makes me more humble of the amazement from... Well I... despite all my theoretical knowledge, ever? Well, there to me it seems very interesting community of what I would call the athletes myself try to do meditation, so that I maybe maybe we can compare it... Bala and Sadhguru, to... my initial area of a lot and then to me it's easier to connect, remembered his dreams, and so his approach have no dream, never, how could I even with dreams? It's I think important that we have the experience get to an understanding. Or imagine I would be a scientist looking see in black and white. So even the most perfect understanding of color-blind scientist, wouldn't it be different So, that's the kind of frustration I have, don't know how many ten thousands of hours meditation yourself and I'm just this little mean when you talking about all these different And so, you're right, I see consciousness scale, but try to all the colors of the rainbow different... difficult for us to collapse of the experience. Sadhguru: If I can say something, can I? Moderator: Yes, Sadhguru. Sadhguru: See Steven, as we sit here, this established. Right now it is one-hundred percent like this. I don't know what you're drinking, I can't in the cup is not you. The moment you drink it after some time it This is happening right now. So though, what you think is your body and this planet, right now it is distinctly clear, percent. This is my mind and that is your mind, this your emotions, these are my experiences, those But there is no such thing as my consciousness This is a living consciousness. We blew our own bubble. I'm sure you have... that little wonderful blowing soap bubbles at you some time. So if you blow a soap bubble, this is my bubble, Puup it went, then there is no such thing thing as my air and your air. Consciousness is just like this. Right now you have blown your bubble, I have This is me, that is you. But when this goes puup, there is no such It is just that we are holding a certain amount I would prefer to call it as life, because I'm seeing, that even last time when we spoke and consciousness, there is no clear distinction See everything that you do with your anesthesia something to do with body and various functions You're shutting down certain aspects of the One of them is transmission of pain, which to surgery. You don't want to stop their heart, you don't see the transmission of pain stops. Whatever is being cut is being cut, whatever happening, whatever parts of the body may being pulled out. All that is happening. Only transmission of pain is not happening. This has got nothing to do with losing consciousness thing. So we're using the word wakefulness and consciousness And not only that, especially... not just language, there is no distinction between and 'consciousness' as a larger possibility. So, my body, your body, my intellig... my experiences, your experience - all different. But there is no such thing as my consciousness It is just that it is only the human creature and sophistication of mechanism that if they consciousness. No other creature is really capable of accessing This doesn't mean there is no consciousness Without that, the life process wouldn't happen. There is... there is consciousness even where Only thing is, you need a certain sophisticated mechanism. This is why we consider being human is a great beyond your physical boundaries. That is the fundamental significance of being So, let us not misunderstand the instrument see, you saw another galaxy, but the galaxy The galaxy is there. The telescope only gave you an access. Similarly, your body, your brain, whatever From your hair to your toes, everything is brain. It is just another dimension of the body. So, this body if we keep it in a certain way, ideas, philosophies, identities, if you keep become an access point to what we are referring that we are, in a way. So somebody can call it consciousness, somebody God. Well, we can use as much vocabulary as you Essentially, we are trying to put a meaning has no meaning. Meaning is a consequence of human psychological of accumulated memory. So you cannot slap one meaning from your mind very basis of our existence. So this is what is the fundamental mistake psychological process and trying to understand Consciousness is not something that you can Understand means, there must be a meaning. There is no meaning to it. There is no meaning to the existence. It's just a tremendous phenomena, but you You have the necessary instruments to experience Not the instruments in your lab - you as to experience this. Will you allow it or not, is the only question. As I said in the beginning, it all depends If your identifications are limited, you have If your identity is, you know, n... not identified loose like that, then there is a possibility A whole lot of people under drug-induced conditions, I'm not questioning that at all, it's very seen happening to people under the influence sense of identity. What they think they are usually is not there Because of that, they might have acce... accessed competent to access it whenever they want? No, hundred percent not. In fact, they may lose their faculties because to happen, so that may not... that may damage able to experience anything beyond a certain Steven: Can I ask you two questions? Sadhguru: Yes, sir. Steven: So you mentioned this instrument that it consciousness, intelligence. But you say it's for humans, so what do you the world? And then the second question is this terribly If you say that, somehow and you made the is no such thing as your consciousness, my how do we somehow deal with, well, what was be when you're dead? So, these two are still burning questions, Sadhguru: See, when it comes to animals, an its life is fixed around its survival process. Let's say, for any creature for that matter, They just sit there happily. But that's not the nature of the human being. Stomach is empty, only one problem; stomach This is the nature of the human being, because Only when survival is taken care of, what one more creature. When we are absolutely hungry and survival Human beings fight like any other creatures Only when those things are taken care of, So, survival is not the end game for us; it It is &quot;A&quot; of life, but for all other creatures, But even among them, certain creatures are being sensitive. I wouldn't say accessing, they are little Wherever there is consciousness, certain creatures In India, in the yogic culture, in the Indian be a cobra always. Simply because we've always seen, wherever to consciousness, these creatures somehow What makes them sense it? One thing I'm guessing - this is not a certain they're stone deaf, I think they're super they're very, very alert. This is a fact, this has been checked by a See for example, a cobra in Southern India, So it has got the whole body to the ground (Laughs). So, if there is going to be an earthquake away, that means, almost on the opposite side If there is going to be an earthquake in the start behaving in a certain way. If you observe it carefully, if you have mastered tell that there is going to be an earthquake There are people who can do that by simply say there is going to be this kind of movement So, because any littlest... even the minutest So, because of this, it has a certain awareness probably when somebody accesses what we are which are... normally everybody's throwing stuff, their psychological stuff, probably Lack of that reverberation is something that If you become very meditative... Well, it won't happen in Belgium because there But if you're in India, if you become me... meditative, cobras will gather in front of They will come and sit there as if they're This is my personal experience any number And this is... this will be vouched for by because they're able to sense that lack of When the vibrations become very minimal or I feel, for variety of reasons because of go into the detail now, but in my experience, venom in their system, all of them are con... Probably, you know, I... I... I'm... I'm just doing guesswork here. It's just guesswork. See, some creature generates venom within because in some way his physical features venom he wouldn't have survived. He's constantly threatened. So, because he's feeling so threatened, you... Those who are feeling always threatened, they So looking at human behavior, I'm just guessing, they don't have limbs... Let us say the snakes don't have limbs, they creatures have, so they might have developed they wouldn't have survived, otherwise they Everything around them moves faster, but still of the venom that they carry. All venomous creatures, I've noticed this they behave around me, many, many times I've In the beginning when it happened, I couldn't something which nobody else... You know human beings don't know most of the I've generally noticed this with all venomous there is some special process going on within From what I hear from other scientists, and they are saying venom is a... one of the most planet. And today, for various neurological ailments, be a solution in the future because... you venom has done miracles to me in terms of myself in so many different ways. If you are n... I don't know if you and Bala not aware of always carry these mountain scorpions, which Once in a way, they will decide when, they Your whole neurological system will jangle, to forty-eight hours. It won't let you sleep, it will just keep And between pain and pleasure, there is very Once the neurological system gets tangled... can make it into pain, you can make it into So they will cry, they will laugh, they will this for whole twenty-four to forty-eight just shake up the whole neurological system. So having said that, somewhere, certain creatures They may not have access to consciousness, they're able to sense that. In my understanding or I would rather say to mark out those creatures or those bodies, them. Where there is least amount of reverberation, so they're drawn towards that. And at the same time they will not harm that, they feel very passive. Like, I don't know right now in the video I'm holding a king cobra. Not by the head, but in the body - it is We've just caught it three... two-three days And king cobra if it bites you, you have six It has enough venom to kill an elephant, but It all depends... If you show a little anxiety, it'll bite you. If you are just absolutely calm, it will not that you generate. So, having said that, this consciousness, Let's not call it as an experience of wakefulness Well, even when you're awake, not everybody's Suppose... you're teaching in a university, Do you find all the students awake at (Laughs)... Steven: When I teach... when I teach... yes. Hyper-vigilant (Laughter). Moderator: He actually uses that analogy in Sadhguru: What? Moderator: He uses that analogy where he picks Sadhguru: Hmm. Moderator: ...and he analyzes and tells them, much awake and alert (Sadhguru laughs). _____ (Unclear). Sadhguru: So, no two human beings are awake So this whole dimension... if we change the fall into a little better place of understanding; That is, right now when we talk about anesthesia very similar. I don't know medically how you differentiate Essentially, bodily functions have dropped In one person, a certain number of functions have dropped further. And I will take it further, even what you bodily functions. So whether it is death, coma, anesthesia, they're not very different. It is just different levels of profoundness When you become completely unawake, that means You're little bit awake means you're in coma, the influence of anesthesia, little more awake Steven: You're experienced, but you've not Sadhguru: Let's not go into that now. We'll go into it some other day because you... Are you in Brussels huh? Steven: Yes. Close to Brussels. Sadhguru: Okay, so unless... unless you serve those things to you right now (Laughter). Steven: I will offer you French Fries and Sadhguru: Well, about... When you said before being born and after See, death is a social thing. It is not existentially right to say 'death', talking about bubbles as an analogy, let's So right now, you've blown that big bubble. This bubble has a material, the soap. Depending upon the soap quality, the tenacity by the type of soap and the quality of soap So, this soap or this structure for this is What karma means is accumulated memory, which So as long as this karmic memory is there, So right now, let's say you were born as this made some efforts and made this into a this So suppose now... let me not take you as an Okay, it's easy for me to die (Laughs). So, i... if I die right now, well, I leave we have collected from this planet, it has It's just a material that you picked up to this planet, but the life that you are is Life itself is not yours, that we are referring It is always there, but you have captured Depending upon how much life you capture... See, it is not just about the data, it's not much life you capture, accordingly the significance When I say significance, you as a life - not world. That is just a consequence. In certain times, people may recognize that recognize. If you came here thousand years ago and you they'll just dismiss you, &quot;Can you wield a That's all they would ask you in ber... Brussels, all right? If you cannot, you're out. So I'm saying today in twenty-first century, there is a situation. It's... it's a consequence of time. So let's not take that activity as the basis. But the profoundness of your experience is how significant you feel when you sit here, to somebody else, not comparing myself to but when you simply sit here, this is why When you close your eyes, you've shut off When you sit here, what is the significance This is determined by how much life you capture. So the entire yogic system or one important capture more life into this one, so that if Whether others will understand the significance, in the world or not, these are subject to But in your experience, you are phenomenally possibility of life. So once this happens, now it is held together a kind of a software. Most of the software may be gathered unconsciously, holds this together. Even if we die, the body gets left here, discerning and this is already there. But now because there is no discerning mind, Now, it will just go by its tendencies. It's very beautifully described, in the yogic The word vasana literally means smell. So it depends what kind of smell it has, accordingly, it will draw certain things towards itself, accordingly it stays in a limbo for that kind If it is already become very feeble, it will If it is not become feeble, it exists by itself When I say a period of time, when we're in See right now, for you to know what, how long look at your watch. You just ask your lower back, it will tell Or you ask your urinary bladder, it'll tell So body's keeping time. Time is a concern for us only because we have If we did not have a physical body, we can So once you don't have a physical body, the But still, the experience of being pleasant There's a whole dimension to this. I think Bala you must se... send Steven, the I just published a book on death, it's been And I'll ask Bala to send it to you or we Steven: Thank you. Moderator: Steven so, couple of questions So, what determines Sadhguru: I hope I've not said something very Steven: Oh... oh...oh, yes you did, oh, yes (Laughs). Sadhguru: That was the idea. Steven: That's why I'm here (Laughter). Sadhguru: That was the idea (Laughs). Moderator: What determines how much life we Sadhguru: One thing is, you must have enough karma. So most of the time, people are trying to When I say avoid karma, people are trying many ways, as to what they take in. Suppose, let's say, I don't like you Bala. That's not a fact. I'm just telling you as an example. Suppose I really don't like you, I just can't I will avoid you. This means what? I'm trying to avoid some nasty impressions Now you're avoiding karmic material. So this is why in yoga we say, you ahh... somebody comes and says, &quot;I don't like this same department, so that every day they build that. This is not a social process. There is an internal process to this, that to it. Because your experience becomes beautiful So first and fore... most fundamental training that you need to Reaction is instinctive, react in... reaction we have made. Response is happening out of your conscious So you learn to respond, not react. Once you learn to respond and not react, you because you have no hesitation about every... Once you have so much karmic substance, now You need good soap to make a big bubble, not There's no dearth for air, there's a whole But what you need is a certain tenacious soap, Otherwise, if you have... no I don't want Some brand came to my mind (Laughs). If you have a bad soap, only this big bubble If you try to make this, it'll go putt. So if you want to blow a big bubble, what there. Tch, at least in the context of who we are, It is not really limitless, but still it is at least, it's quite limitless. So, there is limitless amount of air, there in the universe. But the question is, do you have the necessary So you don't avoid anything. When... when something outside of you does that is when you're willing to take on everything. When something outside of you makes you either those things which give you pleasant experiences. Those things which give you unpleasant experiences, So if you really look at in the world, most in the world, most people can't stand almost Their neighbor means, must stop there only Friend means till here (Gestures), but he If he crosses this line, there'll be trouble. Well, a spouse means here (Gestures), if they A child means here (Gestures), but if he crosses I'm saying for everybody, there is a boundary. If they cross that boundary, there is trouble. So in a way, if you really look at it, actually So, this is the fundamental thing we need People are trying to teach this in roundabout You tried, it doesn't work. People say you must be compassionate, be this, All you're trying to do is, that you are not respond. Or in other words, you want to make your experience who comes, how nasty they are, it will not Once you have this insurance that somebody a situation, cannot sour the experience of every kind of experience. Now you have a super soap, you can blow a Steven: But... can I ask something? Sadhguru: Yes, sir. Steven: Is that... So you would advise somehow that meditation Sadhguru: See once again, this is a very vague When you say meditation, if somebody sits we say he's meditating. But with eyes closed, we can do many things. We can do japa, tapa, dharana, dhyana, samadhi, know, in the universities they have mastered No, no, not in your class. No, no (Laughs)... So they may be horizontal in your programs That's what I meant. Steven: _____ (Unclear) So it's true. But then it becomes... the term meditation saying, because it's _____ (Unclear). Sadhguru: It is not specific, it's generally So, let us say you're chanting something, No, that's called japa. Japa, if you do it in another form, the same used to generate heat in the body. What you were talking about Tibetan monks, using it in a certain way to generate heat Because, if you generate a certain kind of is called as samath prana if you generate And this heat is not just as temperature, level of perception. It... it makes you very healthy. It can... it'll allow you to lea... live with All these capabilities will come because your That is what generally they are trying to They're trying to do tapa. So that is... you want to call that meditation? No, it is tapa. If you do the same thing with a different If you do dharana, that means you're focused that's called dharana. So, if there are... if there is you and there well focused and you and object are connected, So, you are so focused, one of you disappeared, disappeared, it is either just the object experience, then we call this dhyana. Suppose, both disappeared, the observer and there's an explosion of energy, this we called Samadhi is called something else and... I'm sorry that is called samadhi and further like this. So I don't want to go into all that stuff. But fundamentally, the word meditation is So if we have to put a definition to that, quality, it is not an act. It is not an act that you perform. It's like fragrance of a flower. The fragrance is a consequence, but because so goal-oriented, they want the consequence. They're always aiming towards the consequence. No, you cannot create the consequence. If you do the process properly, consequence Right now, you... we have eaten well, we are is happening, in a way, our experience of We are alive because of a consequence of various If you do any of those things wrong, the consequence So similarly meditation is a consequence, It cannot be done, but it can be made to happen. If you crea... if you cultivate your body, you cultivate your emotion and your energies meditative. It is not like in the morning, evening you You become meditative, as a quality you carry So, if we want to further technically define assuming meditation means dhyana, it is an fix it, otherwise it's all over the place. If you call it as dhyana, that means if you body's here, your mind is here, what is you This cl... three clear distinct identities, or space between what is you and what you Once this space is there, this is the end of suffering in human life, physical suffering Once there is a distance between you and the end of suffering. Once there is no fear of suffering, that is referring to as consciousness or chitta, because Once there is no fear of suffering, you are It's only the fear of suffering which curtails Once this possibility of suffering is taken see how hell looks, what hell looks like, Actually Gautama said this. When people were all talking about going to in heaven everything is wonderful. What will I do there? In hell everybody's suffering, let me go there suffer.&quot; So, once there is no fear of suffering, you Otherwise, no matter how adventurous people all the time because the fear of suffering Steven: Sadhguru, do you think that the patients they have migraine, headaches, anxiety, depression, And as now is very popular in Western countries, Sadhguru: They're already suffering because They need to come to... they need to come So, each person may be in different level I can make. But, becoming meditative will it help? Absolutely. But can you make them meditative in a clinic? I doubt that, because you can't suddenly make Some people may, some people may be ready But can you make everybody meditative, a doctor instructions? No, because it will need a certain amount They have all the ingredients for it to happen, no induction. So there needs to be a some charge for them Somebody may be ready for japa, somebody may dhyana, dharana. This is an evaluation that has to be made If suppose I met somebody, they are twenty The same person, he practiced for three-four it up for whatever reasons. Now at forty years of age he comes, now I because he is not the same person anymore. He may think he's the same person, but he has changed - his perception, his experiences, So, accordingly, one has to do this. This is the... this has always been the traditional he will mix the right cocktail for you, otherwise Steven: Thank you. I will go do my yoga (Laughs). Sadhguru: Don't tell me now (Laughter). Moderator: It has been a very fascinating I can go on and on, I have so many burning But I think it's been more than hour-and-a-half. So, I would like to wrap up. At least one thing I'd like to see is Steven using the term wakefulness as a way of different in neurology world and then leave consciousness explain so many things in your lab and what in restoring some of the comatose patients So thank you so much for doing your work. And also being open to explore this aspect there is so much more, he is an ocean by himself. Sadhguru: As you... as your lab... as your to raise the dead, hmm? Because it's just another... another level Steven: Like my favorite philosopher says, Sadhguru: I didn't think you're English, hmm Moderator: He's married to a Canadian psychologist. Sadhguru: After the Brex... after the Brexit, Thank you. Thank you, Steven. Wonderful. Steven: Thank you so much. Thank you so much. Sadhguru: Bala, thank you very much. Moderator: Thank you Sadhguru.