Thank you to Rocket Money for supporting PBS. Two protons next to each other in an electromagnetically with enough force to lift Release this energy and you have, Just as well there's an even stronger force than But it's not the strong force, as not directly. Nuclei are held without which we would have no complex atoms, Quantum chromodynamics is a complicated of nature it describes - the strong force - is In our previous episode on this topic we saw how protons and neutrons. But that's where we left the strong force is entirely confined to the binds protons and neutrons together to form most it deserves its own episode - especially because held together, that led to the discovery of both place. But this is also the story of the meson - while less well known, is just as essential to the Our story starts with Hideki Yukawa, a young of Osaka in 1929, before moving back in with his assistant. Due to the Great Depression, not while, Yukawa was focused on the problem perplexed about why a force so strong Yukawa had one intriguing clue and that was beta decay - the tendency of large and in the process convert one He knew that the electromagnetic force is and it stood to reason that this nuclear So what if this particle was the electron, and beta decay was the side effect of the Like, if protons and neutrons were playing catch ball. It turns out this is totally not what's mediated by particles was new in its time, and Having an exchange particle with is a great first step for These exchange particles are what we call before. Virtual particles can sort of break the the energy needed for their existence out of This is a result of the Heisenberg uncertainty never know both the energy and the duration of a That means, for very short periods of time, the Mass is a form of energy, so a mass from nothing - but the more mass Yukawa used the electron mass to calculate the particle, assuming it's traveling near the speed around 1/200th of the strength needed to hold the the size of the atomic nucleus. So the electron nuclear force. But Yukawa now had an equation He adjusted the equation to describe a force and found that it required a much He called this hypothetical particle the &quot;meson&quot; had to have a mass somewhere between Yukawa also predicted that these particles had to a neutron could emit a negative a proton could emit a positive and the neutral meson could be exchanged As a result, Yukawa predicted 3 mesons Unfortunately this new theory didn't explain that beta decay required a completely different the nucleus together. In fact, he correctly the weak force at the same time. Although the and we have videos explaining everything Yukawa published his theory in 1935, and it proposing the existence of two new forces of require extraordinary evidence. No one was going These days we routinely create countless accelerators. But back then particle so we had to rely on cosmic rays. These are the Earth from natural space particle Yukawa wrote a letter to Nature magazine mesons, hoping to inspire other researchers Nonetheless, others had independently thought radiation. We have Bibha Chowdhuri who developed a method using photographic in India and Tibet due to the fact that our rays - which is annoying if you're a particle And Chowdhuri and Bose did indeed spot the meson research went mostly unnoticed until British Anyway, not only were these new particles in the predicted by Yukawa, one positive, one negative, Over the next couple of years, thanks to better of radiation, more and more mesons were The first mesons, the ones found by and these are the particles actually the nucleus. But there were many others like And to make matters worse, scientists also mesons&quot; just like protons and neutrons. after the Greek word for &quot;heavy&quot;. Omega, and more. Again, all with This endless collection of baryons and mesons was a huge problem for physics. According needs two baryons - the proton and neutron with all this extra junk that nature doesn't This problem was finally solved that mesons and baryons are not elementary Hadron is the general name for a particle made from all the quark combinations that are possible. chromodynamics, but here's a quick refresher With the discovery of quarks, it was clear that nucleus together, but also hold the nucleons strong force really. Binding nucleons is sort of on things with electric charge, the strong force types of color charge, unlike the single type could have a colour charge of red, green, or antigreen, or antiblue. These names by Composite particles need to be colour neutral, charge which cancel each other out, while 2 quarks These quarks are bound by the strong particle called the gluon. Gluons each carry and they cause the colours of Baryons and mesons are held together by But wait a minute, haven't we been saying Force has a short range is because Well that was Yukawa's whole deal, but now particles of the strong force? And the real ones Actually, the colour-neutral hadrons just as electrically neutral objects don't But there is a workaround. Atoms seem you are close enough to the nucleus you would feel or neutrons get close enough to each other, their A quark from, say, a proton, will want to But they can't simply exchange a gluon to so exchanging a gluon would cause the hadrons to In order to properly feel the strong neutral particle. And nature has Here's how it goes. A pair of nucleons get close other. Its gluon connection to the other quarks in and snaps, and in the process generates while the other forms a quark-antiquark pair meson - our pion. It's colour neutral and so it breaking any physics. There, one of the meson's in that nucleus. Ultimately we're left with two but they've now communicated the strong but the process nonetheless exchanged energy This is how the strong force finds its It cobbles together a neutral But the meson has mass. A virtual meson has and so the uncertainty principle says range defines the possible size of an atomic nucleons are too far apart to exchange mesons when we talk about the force between but this residual strong force that exists between Ya know, this reminds me of our episode we talked about how fields can arise and these quasifields will have their own of what's happening here. The strong nuclear force the meson. Without this little quirk of nature supposed to be there, the most complex Fortunately nature stumbled on a way to bind the and ourselves, including a young physicist out some of the most important forces from Thank you to Rocket Money for supporting PBS. and expensive, Rocket Money knows that managing critical. The Rocket Money finance app helps you create custom budgets, and see where your money identify recurring charges for you, and you can That way, you never have to make a call to a a time on each billers' website. Rocket Money does negotiate your bills for you, whether it's for and Rocket Money takes care of the rest. Finally, automatically monitor your spending by category. you've exceeded your spending limit, and you Rocket Money is here to help members improve their too. For more information, click the link in