(logo dinging) - [Falcon] Triple-A is one that means something different But the agreed upon stuff is that it's a major publisher game with a high development cost, With all that in place, you'd think it'd be easy but often it isn't. In fact, what we're interested in today is what are the duds? Hi folks, it's Falcon, 10 of the worst triple-A Now a quick disclaimer going forward. There's of course room for as triple-A or not, and that's fine, that's what the comment section is for. We love seeing the discussions. Without any further ado, it's &quot;Harry Potter and the This game has a 4.5 user score and a 38 on Metacritic. It's bizarre, it's &quot;Harry or is &quot;Gears of War,&quot; but You would definitely call it - [Grandpa] That's what The &quot;Gear War,&quot; but with &quot;Harry Poplar.&quot; - [Falcon] Okay, President, and Chief Operating Officer Grandpa. But the thing is, it's not It's awkward, it's stiff to control. It's way too heavily scripted/automated. So there's very, very There's a few spells to choose from that are basically just different guns, but it's kind of just easier to use Stupify and blitz The cover mechanics are terrible. Often you'll find yourself or your cover just won't do anything. At least it doesn't 'cause the game is so easy that taking cover is kind of pointless. - [Harry] Stupify! - [Hagrid] Be careful! - [Harry] Stupify! - [Speaker 1] You won't escape this time! - [Harry] Hagrid, after them! - [Hagrid] I know, you keep casting, and I'll get us over there! - [Falcon] There's a where you can put points into but it's like I said, The game is so easy, you and it really doesn't There's also stealth missions. Yes, and they're as bad Enemies are at the same while having x-ray vision and can spot you through walls. These parts of the game are the worst kinds of trial and error. And if you really wanna torture yourself, there are some exclusive really a smorgasbord of all Harry Potter as a cover is a funny concept, but it doesn't work. As number nine is &quot;Alone sitting at a 58 on Metacritic It was meant to be Atari into the AAA market. It was gonna be the next big franchise right beside &quot;Resident Evil,&quot; and they marketed this game hard. Big cover stories in gaming a trailer that barely they did it all. It did not help that the game was immediately torn apart by critics for its numerous bugs and One thing I'll say is that usually people for its lack of innovation, but if anything &quot;Alone in the Dark&quot; went too far in the other direction, nothing about this game is what It's got a weird inventory system, the Melee combat is strange, and honestly, it's got surprisingly There's a lot of ambition for this game. But as they say, the road to hell is paved and oh, ho ho, the Road to so to speak, &quot;Alone in the Dark 2008&quot; is a janky mess that feels in on itself at any moment. Most of the ambition like the healing system. You can spray different parts It's supposed to make the but all you can really do is that are clearly just Very, very, very goofy. (creature grunting) (sword whooshing) (creature growling) (sword whooshing) The game takes itself very seriously. But it's funny, honestly, every time I boot it up I can't help but laugh that Max Payne spouts some of the worst While this actually pretty that makes no sense as to why it's there. It has no place in this doesn't sound anything like but it doesn't make sense, and I'm listing like the positives. in terms of the gameplay Like the best I could call Like it's saying like, &quot;Ah, It's just like putting a gold star on, and like you tried, old meme from the era this And number eight is &quot;APB&quot; with a Metascore that matches &quot;Alone in the Dark,&quot; 58. But a user score that's worse, 4.4. &quot;APB&quot; was a game that got a lot of hype. I remember people just being It was meant to be huge, the guys who made It was made up of former including the co-founder This was a massively It was meant to be the but it's hard to really nail it was barely a game. Looking back on it now , you'd assume it was some and you might be a little but you shouldn't be. This had $100 million budget. Now, like I said in the intro, but that's the estimation, and it also had an EA publishing deal. To call it a small deal It was a big, big deal. Many people are saying, and everyone who jumped had the exact same question, &quot;This is it?&quot; Of course, the devs quickly responded that they were just showing a fraction of what the game would end up But no, they weren't, that was it. (gunshots booming) (gun clicking) (gunshots booming) That interaction should have gone as such. &quot;This is it, question mark. This is it, period.&quot; The game was lacking in Barely just a selection of and replay endlessly in a few small zones. There really wasn't enough to keep people playing and it was meant to be an MMO. The only universally was its customization suite, which actually was really and it seriously actually holds up today. You go back to this in terms man, lots of cool stuff here. Everything else, half and it had a monthly fee. And number seven is When this game came out, I said something about how I thought the developers were probably not excited to make a live services And ah-ha, there was not long after that This was a game nobody wanted and the Arkane staff probably wanted it less than players did because I can remember a time thinking, &quot;Oh, Arkane and Vampires, You know why? 'Cause that's a sound concept. An open world co-op shooter but apparently by the time they were done developing this game, 75% of the Arkane Austin staff, the developers of this specific game, developers that had worked such as &quot;Dishonored,&quot; &quot;Prey,&quot; et cetera, critically acclaimed brilliant people, about 70% of their staff up and left 'cause they didn't And I'm not making that and it shows. Like Arkane was understaffed to make a Games as a They started off with 100 employees and losing that many out of 100 employees, even if you're hiring there's just too much to do. Like there's a lot of areas in the game that look nice from far away, The combat, which by the way is Arkane's bread and fricking butter, they are geniuses when it comes to making a certain kind of and it's just, it's not there. (gunshots booming) (tense electronic music) (heartbeat thudding) (flames whooshing) (vampire screeching) (gun clicking) It's neither satisfying or fun. And you can just see that didn't want to be involved with this. It's not the kind of game anybody who wanted to work at Arkane, and had for years wanted At number six is &quot;Driver 3,&quot; or &quot;Driv3r,&quot; &quot;Driv3r,&quot; &quot;Driv3r?&quot; &quot;Driver 3,&quot; 56 on May be hard to believe, but the PlayStation 1 era &quot;Driver&quot; series was actually a big deal. The first two driver games, They cemented the series as on the PlayStation. That all came crashing down with &quot;Driv3r,&quot; one of the most disastrously The only reason why this is 'cause triple-As are separate from everything else. We would never give &quot;Driv3r&quot; a 56. We would never contribute This game is so bad. Atari wanted it to be a GTA killer. So they marketed it like (tense dramatic music) (John grunting) I bought this game because I Honestly, I couldn't get I love &quot;GTA III,&quot; &quot;Vice City&quot; &quot;San Andreas&quot; was awesome, This was a promising new genre and &quot;Driver&quot; had always Sadly, it seems like it really went through a bad dev cycle too. So like it was a ton of hard 'cause &quot;Driv3r&quot; sucks. At number five is &quot;Lair,&quot; a highly anticipated game meant to be a PS3 launch title, but it got pushed back over a year, and much like the world, (Falcon humming) I don't know why I brought that up. Developed by Factor 5, this game was meant to demonstrate the power of the PSS3 console, but instead it just revealed of the hardware. Yeah, we've all heard about but it can't be understated and it's not that it was it's actually about the movements Everyone calls out these but the real issue is just the dull and outdated game design. You know that old chestnut, there's just not much The campaign's either on an alternating basis. And yeah, some of the for a PS3 game, but the frame rate is, it's It's a half baked game from a developer people rightfully Factor 5 made the &quot;Star So they clearly knew how but &quot;Lair&quot; is, it ain't &quot;Rogue That's a very nice way of saying it too. It's much, much worse If this game had come it probably would've gotten bad reviews, but at least it would've in the whole PS3 launch hype cycle. But delaying it, and being like, &quot;You know, we're gonna make and then not have anything to show for it. Oof, it got eviscerated in the press. Yeah, we all can remember it. I don't think we would have if they just launched at launched, and it would've been terrible to be fair, but it was terrible anyway. (slow relaxing music) (dragon grunting) At number four is &quot;Medal Remember EA's desperate attempt to capture the &quot;Call of Duty&quot; audience. The original &quot;Medal of Honor&quot; games up to &quot;Allied Assault&quot; are the classics. But when the team moved over to Activision to make the first &quot;Call of Duty,&quot; the series was just never quite the same. EA tried to revive the series in 2010 with the moderately but whatever gains they they've just completely ruined It was a bug riddled mess, it was hopelessly uninspired, it was dull. The story mode is mostly Uncanny Valley crap. It can be best described as unremarkable. It felt quite sloppy. It was not finished to say the very least. Didn't hold up to the middle of the road &quot;Call of Dutys&quot; even. And then there were a big that don't make sense to go into here. 'cause it took too long. It was just bad and it didn't do well. (gunshots booming) - [Speaker 2] This won't end - [Speaker 3] Look left, top deck! - [Speaker 4] Low right. - [Falcon] At number with a 38 on Metacritic For a while, Capcom was before &quot;Resident Evil VII&quot; We were getting crap a team-based shooter set in I mean, it's not like they're not making bad multiplayer spinoffs to this day, but they're making really So yeah, seriously, how many fans of the &quot;Resi&quot; franchise are just dying to play a first person multiplayer shooter that vaguely resembles You know, a series that's primarily a single player horror experience. I mean, I guess it makes at than the &quot;Metal Gear Solid&quot; version. Why? These companies have made over the years, but honestly, like it's a generic military shooter, a lot of the time you to tell this is supposed to but that's hardly the If it was incorrectly labeled, but a hell of a lot of fun, I don't know if it would've that it did, but yeah, Balance was a mess from the start. Melee weapons were really overpowered and a team that relied on them would pretty much win every time. (zombie screaming) - [Speaker 5] This one's mine. (zombie grunting) - [Falcon] There was only two modes. The weirdly hardcore One Life match, which is a three on three where And then the Multi-mission mode, which is a lot like where you run through a with different objectives, usually racing the enemy team to complete the objective first. There was single player It's basically a collection and an extended tutorial The controls are not terrible, and there are some interesting that can take out and cause but it's otherwise a pretty lame shooter and does not have a lot After &quot;Resident Evil 6,&quot; the but &quot;Umbrella Corps,&quot; wasn't it. Thankfully, Capcom came to their senses, and put out &quot;Resident Evil And honestly, they've been on Even if there are lame multi-player Eh, it's kind of whatever. Maybe they'll eventually get and it'll come as a pack in with one of these great that people actually want from them. At number two is &quot;Sonic Maybe you don't think of Sega as one of the major publishers, but if you spent any time with this game, and beyond, if you lived it, I certainly wouldn't go back to it, but Sega put a lot of It was meant to be a a soft reboot of the and a celebration of Sonic's I've talked about some games but no matter how high the or how low, I don't know, maybe some people realized but regardless of the This was probably one that has ever been released to a mass audience in the The controls are so, so bad, especially in the mock speed sections. Nothing about this is fun. The Havok Physics bug out constantly, and everything looks cheap as hell. I mean, probably the worst is the best thing in like there's areas of but it's generally pretty bad. It's &quot;Sonic Adventure,&quot; but like worse. But Shadow and Silver, they're so much, so much, so much worse. Silver has a gameplay and it ain't good. It's frankly shocking that this game was released in the state it was. It's very funny, like it's very good content for the internet. What's interesting is that and quote, unquote, fixing this game. Like there's a lot of fan remakes that make the game not horrifyingly bad, but the actual game itself is. It deserves the 46 Metacritic, and frankly, it deserves a I think a lot of people and that's why. - [Sonic] It's no use. - [Silver] Take this! - [Sonic] It's no use. - [Silver] This will end it. - [Sonic] No. - [Falcon] And at number with a 41 Metacritic and a 2.1 user score. I think the user score for this one. SquareEnix and Platinum and that sounds like it because they did that once before, and we got &quot;NieR:Automata.&quot; &quot;Babylon's Fall,&quot; who is not And a lot of the times like, &quot;Oh, here's the redeeming It's not that it should that all of you are savaging it.&quot; And this one did not. &quot;&quot;Babylon's Fall&quot; came out, a bunch of people said it was bad, and a bunch of other people went, &quot;Yep.&quot; It sold really, really bad too. Only about a 1,000 and only about 3000 copies It was declared dead almost immediately, and it wasn't long It took less than a year. Came out in early access And the servers completely closed February 27th the following year. So not a full year, one day short. It was meant to be the first salvo in a big Games as a but if that's the case, they 'cause this game was pathetic. It was subpar in terms of graphics, environments were samey and dull, and the presentation was bad, the gameplay was repetitive and also bad., and that's a running theme It seems like they're trying with the consumer to see The idea is that they're gonna to keep everybody engaged and having fun, but it seems like devs forget about the engagement and the fun. These games are just bare bones, they're repetitive, and but they do have a lot And then when everybody's like, I don't really like this game and I don't wanna buy any of the whole constant update just kind of goes away, and that's assuming that they in the first place, I don't know. I don't think that it with this game. The writing was on the wall, day one. Nobody bought it, fans didn't want it, and casual players just didn't care. And it wasn't just that it was It was filled with confusing systems, and repetitive, boring gameplay. Just a bad game all around. You have to wonder if Platinum Games kind of had a contractual obligation to it that put it in a same situation as Arkane Austin and &quot;Redfall.&quot; And that's all for today. Leave us a comment, let If you like this video, click Like. If you're not subscribed, We upload brand new videos Best way to see them first So click subscribe. Don't forget to enable notifications. And as always, we thank you very much I'm Falcon, you can follow me We'll see you next time