Fairey Gannet Hornet is often celebrated as one of the most setting a high standard for beauty in military frequently remembered for its lack of aesthetic spectrum with its distinctive, unconventional it reflects the practical realities military in the aftermath of World War II. started planning for the future, realizing submarines. They considered many ideas, including a new version of their Firefly fighter plane This was a time of reflection and re-evaluation, understanding the broader implications of Just as the British Navy confronted the landscapes post-war, today we face our The world has serious data privacy problem detailed personal pro-files on millions of people In a nutshell, your personal information is being have the right to protect your privacy and request about you. However, removing this data by yourself Moreover, you would have to redo the process gather your information and create new records. a personal information removal service. I started helped protect my privacy. They handle the tedious corporations resist. Each month, Incogni updates Anyone can access your personal information using huge loans have been taken under people's Almost everyone experiences spam calls from keep getting your number, the answer is data control over my personal information. discount on their annual plan, which helps support monitored and removed from broker lists. as Fairey refined their aircraft designs with twin initially met with limited interest--the government trying out designs with two engines and directions since 1935, even though the government this idea on a different bomber plane that and the American military thought about using As the Navy understood that future anti-submarine was available during the war, they asked for new of their other plane designs, originally meant for purpose. They planned to swap these old engines Mambas, making the plane more suitable for the new and their large propellers, was named the Twin called the Type Q, their competitors, Blackburn, the Navy decided to go ahead and make prototypes In September 1949, Fairey's first prototype of and moved to Aldermaston for its first flight on had already been tested in the air. Early flights control when the flaps were used, slow response flying straight. These issues caused an accident months for repairs. After making some tweaks they started testing it on an aircraft carrier. competition with their SB.3, which was notably Q made history in June 1950 by being the first the HMS Illustrious, showing great promise The second prototype of the Type Q was almost the could be hidden under the plane. The Navy then and an extra seat for someone to operate the they had to make a third one with these new a slight increase in wing size, and a new version was called the Type 17, or GR.17. it was clear that Fairey's design was better now named Gannet, received a high priority planes. The addition of the radar and extra seat added small fins to the tail to fix this without Despite some late changes and losing the production of the AS.1 model started seats to three and was modified to prevent soot AS.1s were initially used for further testing In April 1954, the British Navy got their them intensively with a group called 703X these new planes without a trainer version, engines in the AS.1s reacted differently to especially when pilots needed quick bursts of testing in hot weather because other countries' the Navy to use the Gannet for missions was 826 Sea on the HMS Eagle. Using the Gannet in real plane was still found to be a bit weak, especially Seeing the need for a training version, the first being delivered to the Fleet Air Arm in 1955. This the radar dome and added a periscope in front of put a more powerful engine in one of the first safer. This upgraded plane was called the AS.4 and all the older AS.1 planes had been replaced by was soon updated to the T.5 model in 1957, The German and Australian Navies liked the Gannet at first, planning to switch them for AS.4s later, were replaced by Grumman Trackers. The Australian HMAS Melbourne and from a land base at RANAS which they started receiving in 1958. To speed supposed to go to the British Navy and also sent training right away. In Germany, the Gannets to Nordholz) and mainly patrolled the Baltic Sea In 1959, Indonesia bought some of the longer in use. These planes were updated to to Indonesia. Interest from other countries in submarine attacks became less of a concern from the damage of World War II. Canada up choosing the Grumman Tracker instead, The Gannet also had a version designed for early version was meant to be a simple modification another aircraft, the Skyraiders. However, it requiring a completely new design for the body dome under the middle of the plane, and space for cockpits and moving the exhausts. A bigger tail large radar dome. The first flight of this new the Navy started using it in December 1958. this early warning version, but they quickly planes could approach their ships undetected and in August 1959, a special testing group was As this was happening, helicopters were becoming of the roles that planes like the Gannet were water to search for submarines, didn't need large many other tasks. Because of this, the early the submarine-hunting versions, staying in use By the middle of 1960, the Royal Navy stopped because they had helicopters called Westland some of the Gannet AS.4 planes were kept and from signals and even block or jam communications how to handle electronic battles. These planes much. They were first known as AS.1 or AS.4, called them ECM.6. There was also a simpler turned into a basic transport plane by taking seats or cargo. These planes were used a lot deliver mail, which was a very important job. plane, was really useful for the Royal Navy and warning support. But in 1964, when the UK got a including a new big aircraft carrier got canceled. This meant the Gannets had to be to defense spending by another government and most of the Gannets were sent to be thrown by the RAF's Shackleton planes for early warning without any planes for early warning from the air. the Royal Navy stopped using the AEW Gannet the Falklands War, the UK lost several ships to early warning aircraft to detect low-flying and saved many sailors' lives. It was only to get some early warning capability back, using but these weren't as suitable for the job. that these helicopters received better radars, warning protection the Gannets used to provide. four Gannet planes were put to civilian was fixed up in 1982 and sent to the USA, where it stress. Another was used by Dowty-Rotol until the how noisy they are (and this plane is being at UK air shows by a private owner until the late was sent to the US in 1995, restored, and was an effort in 2004 to bring this plane back problem and didn't move from Canada US in 2013. Currently, there's an effort in