(logo whooshes) - Hello everyone, I'm I'm so excited for another Thank you for joining me. Today we'll be looking of some common English words. So it's another rainy, cloudy day and I think these are for diving deeper into the because when we can of words in English, we of what we're saying when we speak English and not only that but when or a word's story it's what that word means to recall the word when we are speaking English with someone. So there are a lot of benefits to learning the hidden meanings of So let's jump right in and get started. We'll start with number one, the word war. War, war means to be in conflict. So this could be between countries, between groups of people or even war between We can use war in a sentence like, my grandpa fought in the Vietnam War but his memories were so painful he didn't like to talk about it. Or in a sentence like, I know that long distance but I really like him, I feel like my head and my heart are at war, so war. Now let's look at the hidden So the word war comes from which simply meant to confuse. To bring into confusion. I think this one is really interesting because it shows us and underneath war there's and so in your own life the next time that you're having some look at ways that you can be more clear in your communication so any confusion and you may just eliminate the conflict as well. Alright, so let's move on. Word number two is heal. Heal, so to heal means to or to cure something, or to fix something. Let's use the word heal in a sentence. So this is a story from my own life. When I was in seventh and I tripped and I fell and I So it took a while for my wrist to heal and during that time my friend So heal, what's another one? Another sentence is, it often takes the heart Alright, now let's look of the word heal. So the word heal came that simply meant to make whole. Just to make whole. I really like this one because so often when we're trying to heal and we're treating the symptoms This one reminds us that to truly heal we have to become whole. So we might need to or do whatever we need So to heal is to become whole. I really like that one. Alright, let's move on. Word number three is addict. Addict, so the word who is physically or mentally dependent on someone or something else. So the word addict can who just really, really and does it often. So for example, if someone and does it all the a puzzle addict. Now let's use the word She was so addicted to video So addicted or, his alcohol addiction caused him to drive drunk and So addiction, let's dive deeper now and look at the hidden meaning So the word addict addictus, which meant slave. Back in Roman Empire times, when a soldier would come back from war they and the slave was called an addict. And so if you think about it, the things that we are addicted to, we're essentially enslaved by. We become slaves to these things. So I was thinking what is Chips and salsa, yoga. So in some ways, if I'm not careful, I can become a slave to that thing. So that's an interesting and an interesting way that we do often. So are we enslaved by them, I hope not. Alright, word number four is heresy. Heresy, so heresy is a the popular belief. It was very common in the past that was against the popular to have been condemned for that they had committed heresy. Heresy, let's use the It was said that Galileo committed heresy when he said that he around the sun. Or let's use another, So anyone who went against the popular opinions of the So heresy and heretic. So let's look at the hidden The word heresy came from a Greek word that simply meant, to make a choice. So this one is also often has a negative connotation with it. It's like anyone who commits but originally to commit heresy just meant to make a choice, to do from what everyone else was doing. And really, that's something and I think pretty cool. So the next time that you're that's different from everyone else maybe think about it as something and really cool and maybe to make that choice. Alright, we are moving to Our word is utopia, utopia. Utopia refers to a place that We could use this in a of Atlantis was said to be a utopia. Or, he decided to move to New York City because he'd heard that unfortunately he was a lot of pollution and noise. So utopia, let's dive a little deeper now and look at the hidden The word utopia actually (speaks foreign language) and (speaks foreign language) meant no. (speaks foreign language) meant place. So when you combine them, no place, so originally I think this one is actually really funny because so many human looking for perfection thinking that just around the next corner they will find the perfect place or the perfect partner. But what if the perfect In some ways it's kind of relieving. What if finding perfection in your life means embracing the imperfection? And I think that's one thing The more we can embrace the imperfection, the more perfect things become. Because utopia doesn't exist anywhere. Okay, so that does it for today's lesson. Thank you guys so much for joining me, it was a lot of fun and I look forward to our next lesson together. See ya later. (logo whooshes)