14 years ago, I started my And throughout that time, I've built and sold for small shops to celebrities to the Fortune magazines like Forbes and Inc as an &quot;SEO expert.&quot; To top it off, the United States government Now, despite any success I've had in digital along the way that cost me So today, I'm going to show you how I would and I'll also share some of my Alright, so the very first thing I'd do is to choose And this is the opposite of what I did. So for context, in 2009, I started my first website That eventually slowed down, And well... I wasted my money because But then social media was blowing up so coupon codes. Boy was that embarrassing! But still, I was making like a solid I was officially a business man. So I decided to hire a search engine optimization And that was the turning point for me They scammed me for everything I had. The good thing that came out of that though that I committed to focus on learning just have to hire another company. And by around 2011, my company was worth over Now, by definition, digital marketing is just So you can choose to focus on just email marketing, social media marketing, etc. Digital marketing is just so vast that it's It's best to focus on just one area of internet Now, after you've chosen the area of digital make a mental commitment Now, while there isn't a single &quot;right&quot; way to be helpful is to learn in 3 stages. So, for illustration purposes, let's say Now, stage one is to focus on So in SEO, that would include things like why how search engines work, and the main ways link building, technical SEO and Fundamentals may not be exciting, but they're learning an instrument, a new Stage two is all about making connections For example, you should be able to make is reliant on keyword research and that on-page and keyword research. Finally, stage three is all about learning how you'll want to get an idea of workflows For example, you should at least know that Keywords Explorer. And the way people find keyword ideas is by ideas report, narrowing in on keywords with engine results pages to understand These three stages are typically And for that reason, I think it's worth taking of digital marketing you've chosen - This is something that I was too young and with online marketing. I went with the unguided route and literally... Pavlov's dog and I'd give them all my attention. I wasted tons of time and money because for be more rewarding to figure it out on my own. Now, as you go through this learning stage a time when you feel like, &quot;yeah, But I can guarantee you that when you feel so straightforward anymore. And that's why the next thing I recommend is to In my opinion, there's no better way to learn And the best way to do that This way, you'll have a safe place to Now, as you commit to actually doing #1. Cut yourself off from all new content. You should have already consumed enough you used to have a high-level view of what it looks By cutting out new content, you'll be able the fundamentals that will be an And #2 don't obsess over things that For example, if you decide to build a hobby hours trying to fine-tune your logo, As an SEO, you're going to want to focus on in Google. Now, if you're able to actually put all these how to actually get results with SEO or social chose to focus on. Now, if you want to know the fastest way to stage into overdrive, then I recommend When you work at an agency, you get the unique group of projects. Not only is the exposure great, but it forces apply your learning in various scenarios. Now, perhaps the biggest advantage to working with people who are ahead of you You can ask them questions, watch them solve willing to mentor you. Thriving agencies are usually fast-paced a great place to learn digital Now, while you obviously want to learn the mistake of taking And I'm talking from experience here. Early in my career, I took an SEO So my first company was an ecommerce store and Now, one of the hardest, but most important And back in 2010 and 2011, backlinks were high in Google. So I came across a private blog network called an infinite number of backlinks. And without fail, throwing a handful of links at Google for queries that were converting into The thing is, buying backlinks was and still Now, while I was making a healthy But without warning, I lost like 85% So when I sold the site a few months later, I ended up getting, much, much, Now, had I focused on learning link building not only would I have had a much nicer exit, skills to pretty much every other Bottomline: avoid shortcuts And you'll only really realize that in hindsight. Now, another thing I would do differently So, for like the first 8 years of doing SEO, I did because most people just didn't understand. And it was lonely and I was really just So what I would do differently if I could start groups of people. So, Group 1 would be like-minded people who marketing as you. They're basically a safe place where you can without fear of judgment. And not only can you learn from each other, other to get better at your craft. In fact, this is what Mr. Beast did with a group of And in interviews, he frequently attributes to grow with. And the second group of people I'd network All it really takes is an email or a DM saying, admire your work. Thanks for all that you do!&quot; Now, that might sound weird, but at the end In fact, in 2017 when I started sending these CMO at Ahrefs, to just say that I respect what To which he replied: &quot;You've made my day!&quot; Fast forward one year, and Relationships in digital marketing are important. In social media, these are people On YouTube, these are potential collaborators. And in SEO, they're a critical part to link building. Now, as you continue to build your own and network with like-minded people, you're going what's next. And I see three ways this can work - So option 1, you can continue to This means that you'll continue to build your your specific field in digital marketing. The pros with this is that generalists often because they get more or less The con is that you never really become an own set of limitations. Option 2, is to niche down further So as you gain more knowledge and experience there's too much information to And for that reason, you may want to consider marketing strategy breaks down quite a lot. For example, if you've chosen to focus on on Facebook marketing. Or perhaps you want to go more niche and choose Now, the pro of niching down is that it's a niche authority because there's less competition. And if you're viewed as &quot;that&quot; authority, you can typically demand higher wages. The con is that there's usually less demand. And option 3 is to expand into And this is kind of the route that I've gone. The way I recommend doing this is to expand and transferable. For example, starting from SEO and expanding the skills from SEO are totally transferable. And even something like going from SEO to and some of those skills are transferable too. Now, being 14 years into my digital marketing learning all the time. And that's largely because I'm practicing a I work with a ton of smart people at Ahrefs in I've had the opportunity to meet really smart and even from random cold emails. And I go through seasons of intentional Now, while I've screwed up in many ways, because it helped me to get I'm definitely not the smartest, richest, most in the world. But this is a long journey that I've embraced enjoy or are currently enjoying too. Now, if you want to start your digital marketing watching our SEO course for beginners which to your site from start to finish. I'll see you there.