NARRATOR: gave up an extraordinary secret. It was a vast, rising up from the Caribbean's It was the discovery PETERSEN: It's just humongous. It's like a medieval fortress, HEYMAN: with the kind of the density of fish. NARRATOR: But once discovered, the challenge was how to keep and how to learn from it. HEYMAN: I realized we needed learn more about it, But we needed to keep it quiet. NARRATOR: And so began an a dive into a living treasure to saving many NARRATOR: Fishermen are known but this one is true. It begins in May 2013, is pushed into The big fish he depends on -- the groupers, snappers, have virtually vanished from waters that He takes a dangerous gambit and pushes farther and farther As the sun rises, his engine [ Motor sputters ] Miles from land, the water Just beneath the swell, a massive crown of rock an uncharted, It's a tantalizing treasure, a Caribbean secret for the survival The fisher tells only Ana Giro, Kenny Martin, have spent years Ana is among the first to hear. PETERSEN: So, this fisherman and he told me about some rocks. And so I told him, You know, that you -- It's just humongous. It's like a medieval fortress, We have pinnacles that come out. Deep walls. And then, It's just mesmerizing. NARRATOR: This newfound reef to many other Caribbean reefs It's like stepping back in time PETERSEN: vibrant and beautiful The ecosystem is just many types that compose this That was just for me, you know, personally. McFIELD: When Ana told me that it's just totally amazing, I believed it, We have benthic habitat maps. It's not there, you know, You know, NARRATOR: By 2017, the reef's significance It's an underwater mountaintop crowned with coral and set on the deepest part It became known It's part of straddling the waters News of the coral wonder is quietly shared with fisheries HEYMAN: I was at a meeting and told me of a place There's giant, giant fleets supplying the country the country of Honduras. But when you check it out, all the ships are going this way There's a shallow area right between these two massive and that's the Cayman Crown. What I heard was these were some of the healthiest I have never seen any place with the density of fish. I realized we needed learn more about it, but we needed to keep it quiet. NARRATOR: To build the for protecting the Crown, If news got out, fishers might PETERSEN: So research, the explorations, kind of just between Before we have it, that was, you know, NARRATOR: But protection will with the support The team invites Kenny Martin MARTIN: We grew up in a coastal community catching fish on hand lines, It has caused a negative impact, and I've seen it NARRATOR: Kenny wants that many people depend on. That means protecting the reef. MARTIN: ...1, go. NARRATOR: there will be no fish to catch. A coral reef and different animal and plant Deep gullies lead to an The inhabitants are strange and dependent Parts of the reefscape The chimney of a single sponge can filter 2,500 gallons There are nurseries And dormitories Everything is interconnected. At fish grooming stations, spritely cleaners pick off The reef is also home like this 400-pound The gutsy little cleaner There are visitors. A pod of dolphins [ Dolphins squeaking ] Whale sharks, gorge on an abundance of Nurse sharks thrive here, too. In a healthy system, predators only take If the balance is right, the number of predators Predators, like jacks, are vital to the health and a key food Most prized by fishers Nassau groupers were once the but now they are Groupers hunt at dawn and dusk. They lie in ambush darker recesses. The Nassau grouper, depends on a healthy, The food web that feeds starts with sunlight Currents sweep that's harvested by fan corals Feather duster worms unfurl to The next level up are grazers, nibbling algae off coral French angelfish enjoy a side Parrotfish tend Porkfish forage Everything from microscopic is bound together. Spurred on by the riches, creating an inventory of what PETERSEN: It took us a long time that we surveyed, like 90 kilometers square Doing monitoring and the geomorphology, and the like nothing that NARRATOR: Ana photographs building a mosaic The photo maps reveal that has the highest live coral cover McFIELD: So we can zoom in PETERSEN: Yeah, you know the coral composition. Coral cover, as well. McFIELD: This is the site PETERSEN: Yes, McFIELD: And you see it. PETERSEN: A huge amount I mean, compared to the rest when we're talking about McFIELD: PETERSEN: This is -- NARRATOR: What is revealed of global importance. But the team fears that Caribbean waters posing a grave threat They place temperature sensors McFIELD: We do have bleaching the whole world, obviously. That is probably one of the PETERSEN: In October, you can feel the heat McFIELD: 1998 was the first and it has gotten worse NARRATOR: are tiny coral polyps. Inside them, algae make sugars. But if it gets too hot, Then the polyps eject the algae, The algae can return Otherwise, the coral often dies. From 2014 to 2017, killed up to a third Amazingly, the Crown But in October 2019, The Crown takes a direct hit. PETERSEN: Like, all of it. HEYMAN: We saw a massive I mean, the corals blanketed with snow, NARRATOR: the team notices PETERSEN: the corals get better. February, they get even better. May, the corals They're looking beautiful. McFIELD: We have this and it has recovered. The corals in this region NARRATOR: The news reaches He joins the team to investigate Will Heyman shares his theory. HEYMAN: Let me give you So, this is PHILLIPS: Yeah. that's your Cayman Crown. What you got to remember is that Here, it's already and then drops, drops, 7,600 meters, deepest point. NARRATOR: At its deepest, the trench is over 4 miles down. A 15-pound bowling ball would take over an Cold currents rising sweep nutrients up to the Crown. HEYMAN: onto this vertical shelf. So where we were, PHILLIPS: So that's the source HEYMAN: Exactly. NARRATOR: The upwelling flows that act like pipes and channels easing temperatures HEYMAN: The other factor that we get 4 meters, that falls all within a -- PHILLIPS: All in this region. HEYMAN: Through agricultural PHILLIPS: Into this one bay, HEYMAN: Exactly. like a -- like, a roof, over this coral reef. NARRATOR: Just as the Caribbean muddy water Emerging research suggests could shield corals HEYMAN: They're getting shade, and they're getting cooled. So where all the rest took that bleaching this area is resilient NARRATOR: Another factor may be Myles finds an abundance that can withstand He also sees a surprising amount that proliferate like weeds PHILLIPS: Well, what I found considered the poster child that, honestly, or so effectively that they can You also had these that invest a lot in surviving things -- And they were massive NARRATOR: is something he doesn't find. A deadly disease has been To Myles' relief, the normally susceptible seem untouched here. PHILLIPS: I saw no sign of Actually, no sign of any disease These corals must be tens and they look like through anything in their lives. NARRATOR: The crown except its isolation from another invader. It's a creature that's become Lionfish. They were first seen These predators from are among the most aggressive, Even the regal Nassau grouper is wary of the lionfish's This disturbing discovery shows is not totally disconnected The reef has trade routes. Fish use highways reaching The Crown, the team realizes, stretching across the Caribbean that we are But untangling these connections [ Thunder crashes ] [ Wind howling ] [ Thunder rumbles ] [ Thunder crashes ] Hurricanes and other storms are becoming more frequent most likely due The researchers can only hope that the Crown's location as a storm lashes McFIELD: What we're seeing over and over with the intensity is that that is one of the main And we don't have that The Cayman Crown's below the main hurricane belt. NARRATOR: is yet another factor able to seed After the storm, documenting Hamlets are easily but seeing the start of their They release hundreds into the current, which sweeps them away A sea cucumber also adds eggs A school of blue tangs joins The females release eggs, and the eggs are fertilized. Currents can carry eggs seeding reefs Others linger in gyres From a few days old, guided by temperature, currents, They are heading for the It's an in-between world that will serve There are gangs like snappers and jacks, An inch-long barracuda lays low. Here's a baby cubera snapper, of the voracious hunter Young wrasse go to school. And joining the class The next stop for many young They find more food here than when hiding Young sardines try to avoid The abundance of life and sting and eagle rays The juvenile fish will set out when they're old enough. To the researchers, and the mangroves make up each an essential part PETERSEN: we need to preserve all of it. We need to preserve We need to preserve the seagrass The connectivity NARRATOR: Young fish come back the hub of the system. Many fill the ranks ever vigilant for predators like these snappers. The journey to adulthood But snappers can live to be 80. Each year, at breeding grounds on the reef. Finding the location and timing is like winning the lottery Spawning sites are targeted MARTIN: We've been seeing and most fish with eggs. We've noticed that, you'll find less fish. NARRATOR: Kenny and Will for likely fish-breeding sites to protect the spawning Both believe that the Crown for Nassau groupers and other and ideal rocky outcrops HEYMAN: These fish at these very specific places This stage is promontory stage, so it's kind of like Dropping off on two sides. NARRATOR: Multiple species HEYMAN: What blows me away about is, they all come They're all queued up with the moon, I want to understand and We've got to know in order NARRATOR: on the most likely HEYMAN: so we use remote sensing. NARRATOR: They place cameras during the breeding season. HEYMAN: That data's It takes time. And time is not on our side. NARRATOR: on grouper spawning Dr. Michelle Scharer SCHARER: My main interest is in They live in this environment but very few people There's an opportunity about coral-reef ecology and not so much seeing Took a little bit of training and actually listen when you're and the different pitches and the different rumbles [ Discordant scratching ] [ Low-pitched thrum ] NARRATOR: What sounds like [ Scraping ] ...is actually a chorus SCHARER: They have ear bones where they can actually sense [ Low-pitched thrumming ] Basically, fishes They are emitting signals that let them know if they're ready to spawn. [ Thrumming ] NARRATOR: The scientists collect set up months ago. SCHARER: and there's sounds accompanying [ Croaking ] It sounds spectacular. Just the amount and diversity and the frequencies [ Croaking ] And there's other little grunts that are different organisms So I think it sounds Different species will have [ High-pitched croaking ] -Toadfish. [ Laughs ] NARRATOR: Toadfish are Squirrelfish communicate [ Squirrelfish clicking ] [ Scraping ] Grunts make sound [ Scraping continues ] A batfish bleats. [ Batfish bleating ] Michelle has identified defend territory, [ Low-pitched thrumming ] Nassau groupers grumpily [ Thrumming continues ] The calls travel long distances. [ Thrumming continues ] Listening is key to survival. SCHARER: Baby fish need to hear and they use the sound This helps them then As they grow and they need they can rely on sound to find at the spawning aggregation site I heard something there Did you hear it, too? Yeah? SCHARER: Okay. NARRATOR: This rich soundscape that the Cayman Crown And in 2020, The countries sharing the reef grant the Crown McFIELD: We've protected In Guatemala, In Belize, They've stepped up to the plate So, you know, that was is, &quot;Hey, and now it's happened. This helps, but I think on management and enforcement that this reef does have that will help it be resilient and that fish are on the reef NARRATOR: And, indeed, appears short-lived. Michelle is already that the Crown's future It's spawning time, the same season Will heard Now, Michel detects a shift. SCHARER: We did not hear as many So I think there may be NARRATOR: In fact, almost disappeared The news stuns the team. HEYMAN: Fishers have realized You know, I'm not but how do you deal with this? McFIELD: How do we stop it? NARRATOR: Fishers must have been But it's not the locals. Kenny has been working with him. He's confident they are the government's put in place. [ Indistinct conversations ] The team suspects the raiders are from outside MARTIN: We've been seeing nets, and batting into the reef. I've been seeing anchors to moor their boats We've been seeing ripped-out sponges, So we know that fishermen for commercial species. NARRATOR: A sponge is sliced Kenny and Melanie But the team can MARTIN: I would like I would like to see I would like to see Belize, working together to protect that is very vital and also for the local people. NARRATOR: incomplete as they are, are placing the guardians HEYMAN: They're protecting valuable resources you know, with people It's dangerous. [ Generator whirring ] PETERSEN: It's really alarming. You know, we need to think about We need to bring back our fish. NARRATOR: As the team calls Michelle ponders can be lured back to the Crown. She takes inspiration of Glover's Reef, SCHARER: For a few years, with Myles Phillips, of the groupers at specifically listening by the Nassau grouper to be able to detect NARRATOR: that the groupers SCHARER: These fish have from different distances. They need to know So communication between them and move towards is really important for them. NARRATOR: Nassau groupers Reproduction Some will travel They arrive in December when Caribbean waters SCHARER: They start They have different signals, different languages for the different behaviors when they aggregate to spawn. NARRATOR: They also communicate and shifting patterns HEYMAN: They look cool already. They got their stripes But when it's getting they're, like, trying on Some turn white, NARRATOR: More groupers arrive. [ Loud thrumming ] Some wait on the sea floor, SCHARER: They need to Everybody has to have their eggs for that moment. They are communicating, Do you think we can spawn now?&quot; [ Thrumming continues ] NARRATOR: As their numbers grow, they rise from the sea floor [ Thrumming continues ] As the full moon approaches, the performance has become HEYMAN: Where the real fun is, is in the courtship Each has their own suite that all come together [ Grouper thrums ] NARRATOR: If they are ready, they change HEYMAN: But as you get closer they all choose this tuxedo, black, black, black, and a white belly. We call it bicolor phase. [ Grouper thrumming ] It's like a vaudeville act. Males fighting over females, [ Thrumming continues ] NARRATOR: Males wrestle The noise builds. [ Grouper thrumming ] But night after night, [ Grouper thrumming ] Then, one night, The moonlight is right. Most importantly, The chorus reaches a crescendo. [ Grouper thrumming loudly ] Then, silence. Spawning has begun. HEYMAN: These are the volcanoes for the entire region. All of these fish at these promontories, and shooting by there and captured in gyres, some shooting way long distances That is the large-scale throughout this NARRATOR: The mating spectacle used to take place at the Crown. Could it happen here again Michelle hatches a plan to use to attract groupers SCHARER: If there are fish can we actually that spawning aggregation HEYMAN: I'm curious. we put out loudspeakers and see if we can attract of what used to be HEYMAN: Okay. the first try to attract fish that maybe are still there, because there's only So if we play back these sounds maybe they'll come back NARRATOR: In Australia, sound recordings to settle on a recovering reef. Michelle and Kenny test an The first step is to gauge [ Grouper thrumming plays ] If the experiment works, it could jumpstart the recovery [ Grouper thrumming plays ] But recovery will also depend on staunch enforcement [ Grouper thrumming plays ] Groupers can recover. Strict protection in the Cayman Islands tripled their numbers The team listens coming from the speakers below. They anticipate [<i> Thrumming</i> ] MARTIN: Imagine hundreds of them just making that thing happen. HEYMAN: SCHARER: I guess it takes one and then everybody PHILLIPS: They see one person where they're like, [snaps] SCHARER: Mm-hmm. [<i> Thrumming continues</i> ] NARRATOR: When the Crown it sparked a sense of hope that the Caribbean's embattled And it has brought once unlikely MARTIN: It's gonna be a huge thinking on a positive note so they could NARRATOR: The team's success and protecting has given them encouragement McFIELD: We all get refreshed, and our hope for we can succeed and we will succeed So that's what we do. NARRATOR: The Crown itself a remarkable resilience. And the fight for its future HEYMAN: If we're -- If we're gentle, if we realize the value, these places are resilient. These places can come back. And that's why I maintain hope. PHILLIPS: It's not even This place is huge. It's like seeing the sun <i>To learn more about what you've <i> visit pbs.org.</i> O0 C1