Hey guys, Toby Mathis here. And today we're going to go over the buy wealth and paying zero taxes It's actually pretty straightforward. And then I'll give you some examples So you can understand Now. It is one of those concepts. If you've ever googled buy, borrow die, Musk or all these wealthy billionaires Here is why. Because if you have assets that appreciate and value, there's or taxable income that is oftentimes where they never pay tax, For example, I buy a building for $1 and I maintain it, and normal appreciation Lately it's been like super But let's just say inflation let's say in ten years Well, I didn't pay tax on the So the same is true is like if I buy stocks and I buy it for $1,000, or, you know, fill in the blank of or maybe I buy an index, I'm buying these things and they're just And hey, I'm chill with that. And most of those other But let's just say It could be art, it could be real estate, And I'm just letting them Even my house. Hey, I just buy my house and over time I'm not paying tax on that appreciation. And that's an important concept So when we start talking about that we are talking about And that is step one. Step one is buy and you're going to buy that go up in value is tax free. So I want to buy specific types of assets. Now there are assets that you wouldn't You might not consider. That is something But it is. It's lendable I want to buy assets that I could borrow against, So when I'm buying something, When you buy securities, If you're like Morgan Stanley, Raymond James, Fidelity Schwab, against that In other words, I can borrow against that if I get cash value, life insurance, indexed universal life, whole life. If I'm doing something where it has cash That's a section of the IRS, It just keeps getting bigger and bigger. And you don't pay tax on it. But I can borrow against it. Even things like, Actually, my IRA wouldn't work But if I have a 401 K, I could borrow Up to half my plan assets It went up to 100,000. Right. And you pay that back over five years. I can borrow against those things. So that's step that I'm going to be able Is to borrow. And this is where the secret is because borrowing money loan proceeds are not taxable to you. I'm going to say that again So if I use a home equity line of credit against my house I bought my house It's gone up in value. Now it's worth a million I don't pay tax on the 200,000. What the wealthy are good putting them in a crock pot, over a long period of time Then they borrow against it And you're going to say, that sounds crazy, Toby. They have to pay back that loan. Yeah, but they're not paying tax. So even if I have to pay back if I do life insurance, But I am eventually going to die off out of the death So the insurance or that cash value, I am not paying it off. You're going to say, well, wait a second, Nope. Because the death benefit from insurance So the borrowing of the money pass away pays it back. Never pay tax. That's why it works well. But but but my heirs okay then let me show you how that works. Step three something we all got to do is you have to die. Why is that important? I bought an asset. I let her depreciate, and in some cases So, like, real estate, I borrow against it. I never had to pay tax on that. On those proceeds. There are some things you got to be at risk But if I'm borrowing against it, it's my real estate in my LLC I'm not going to pay tax Eventually I'm going to pass away There's something And what that means is that whatever, when the day you die, whatever the fair market that's its new basis. Why does that matter? Because you only pay tax on the difference and your adjusted basis, or your basis. So if the basis let's say I buy a house, of $500,000 over the years. I borrow $1 million against that house and then I die in that house is worth $2 million. Am I here? Sell it. What's the tax bill? The tax bill is zero If I sell it for 2 million, loan, And I paid zero taxes. Works with stocks too. Same thing. Let's say I buy half $1 million of Tesla. I'll use Elon Musk because he likes to use his stock So let's just say It goes up in value over the years. I use it to get a line of credit, and And then when I pass away, So I sell them and pay off the million Maybe not. You might be able to just keep rolling it But worst case scenario, Remember I bought it for half a million, I used a million, So I've literally used $2 million That's why the wealthy do this. Now I'm going to twist your There are ways to trade assets that you buy during your lifetime So for example, and you bought four houses. So I'm just going to put four houses. So I bought $500,000 So each one has a basis of 125 K. Over the years those go up in value. So you sell them. But you buy more real estate. It's called a 1031 exchange. You're going to see a 1031 exchange. It's tax free. So let's say that those houses each go up to be worth 250,000. So I bought them for 500,000 for houses, And now they're up to 250. So now they're worth $2 million. And I borrow the money off again. I didn't pay any tax. All you have to do is pass. But let's say they go up further. I could even 1031 of them again. But let's just say that when I pass away, In the meantime, So again, wealthy people understand doesn't mean I have to take it, now. You pass away. Your basis is now $4 million. So you sell the property for $4 million, You could keep it. You could pay off the loan. Maybe there's life insurance proceeds you took out of it. Whatever the case, I'm not paying tax on that growth. I bought it for 500,000. It's now worth $4 million. Let's say 30, 40 years later, I have $3.5 million of growth And I could have been using the entire I'm zero tax again. That's why the wealthy use the buy, That's it in a nutshell. It's not more complicated than that. It's a three step formula. You could do this with art. Hey, I buy some art. You don't even realize And you're sitting there and you're like, You know, I maybe I have some medical expenses and I'll sell my Picasso And I have We get very valuable. I have to pay tax That's up to 28% plus net investment You could be paying 35% or you could borrow. And pay zero tax on that. And then all you have to do is die Let's do that again. But with stocks this times I have a portfolio. And your financial planner says hey like hey, you know, do you have any Why don't you sell some stock? And you look at it and you go, shoot. If I do that, I have to pay tax on that. Maybe you're in a high tax state like California, in New York You're like, this is really going to suck. I'm going to pay 20% long term capital gains plus my state When I'm all said and done, and you're annoyed versus you borrow the money, you go do your trip. You pay a little bit of interest. Like in some cases it's federal IFR rates, It just depends. You look it up. At that time they went down to two and 3% It just depends on what's published. It's the federal IFR rates. You could use that or you have terms And for example, That's right, They have fixed rates and they're a little different. But the variable rates They were 11.7, 1.8. depending on where you're at and what interest rates are doing, Right. Let's just say, hey, I was going to do that way around Trip was going to cost me 100 grand. I would have had to sell $150,000 I would have had $100,000. So I lost quite literally more That was a 33% tax versus I borrowed $100,000 out. I didn't pay How long is it going to take? It's going to take many, Oh well, I ended up And here's the funny part. Depending on what you're borrowing against quite often it could be tax deductible. Like if I use a headlock against my house and then borrow against that investment I literally could deduct Again, I can lever assets, borrow money and go buy more. I could literally and keep doing it. And that's what the wealthy do, is They use it over and over again which is sell nothing, and live off of those proceeds So it's like getting a 30% return It's going to be somewhere on all your money and because, well, That's the biggest one. Right. And then the other big benefit is when I don't have to worry. My family could sell those assets some of the loans that I used And all we did is avoid completely throughout our life paying the tax man. If that appeals to you by borrow strata If it doesn't, well, They do take donations. All right, guys, go ahead and like and subscribe. Give me your comments down below. If you've known anybody that's used this, or if you have any questions, And if you know anybody that would benefit