What you watched in the previous video. What you watched in the previous video. Operator: Hello, customers and regular companions of Ghancheh channel. We are very happy that you are watching our videos again. Please support this video by pressing the like and comment button. We are waiting for you, regular companions. Thank you very much. Nazanin: Who is it? Operator: Nazanin, I am the operator, please open the door. Hello to the greetings of the operator with Nazanin. Operator: Hello, don't be tired, hello, Mr. Engineer, how are you feeling? Hello, Mr. Operator, you are very welcome, thank you. Parvaneh: Shall I bring you breakfast, Mr. Operator? Operator: No, thank you, I already had breakfast. Parvaneh: Mr. Bahman, the operator, says that this bed inside the room should be moved. I want to move this bed for Bahman. Parvaneh: My dear Bahman, please turn off this heater so that I can move your bed. Engineer: I like to be busy building a hut and I don't like to be inside the room. Pervena, God willing, you will be busy. Engineer: My dear Parvene, you are pregnant. This table is very heavy. The operator will take this table. Parvaneh: Mr. Bahman, keep busy, you will be refreshed. Parvaneh: Amir Hossein, my son, this is the mirror of your toy car. Operator: Mr. Engineer, I will help you. Engineer: We have to rotate this bed. Butterfly: OK, Amir Hossein, my son, be careful. Engineer: My dear Butterfly, you are pregnant, this bed is too heavy for you, sir, the operator lifts the bed. Parvaneh: Dear Bahman, please lift this bed, I will smooth this carpet. Nazanin: Mother, what does the meaning of merchant mean? Parvaneh: My daughter means merchant, a merchant means a person who sells equipment. Operator: Mrs. Parvaneh, don't bother. I will help Mr. Engineer. We will take this table into the room. You are pregnant. Parvaneh: Thank you, Mr. Operator. Operator: Please support this video by pressing the like and comment button. We are waiting for you, our constant companions. Thank you very much. Engineer: I have a severe headache. Butterfly: Don't worry, you should be busy. Engineer: Nazanin, my daughter, do these textbooks belong to you? Nazanin: Yes, father, thank you. Engineer: Mr. Operator, help me move this mirror. Must be an operator. Operator: Mr. Engineer, I arranged with the owner of the hall that you go to work. Engineer: Thank you, Mr. Operator, let me be busy and I will feel better. Operator: They hold a wedding party inside the hall, it is good for your health and mood. Engineer: Thank you, Mr. Operator, I have to be busy, I have to find a job so that I don't get depressed. Engineer: Darling Butterfly, I have a severe headache, my mood is not good. Parvaneh: Dear Bahman, don't worry, it's normal, you'll get better soon. Engineer: Darling Parwane, please bring my medicines. Parwane: OK, sure. Engineer: Amir Hossein, go outside and play, I want to rest. Engineer: Darling, can you go outside, I want to rest. Parvaneh: My dear, wait a moment while I arrange these things. Operator: Please support this video by pressing the like and comment button. We are waiting for you, our constant companions. Thank you very much. Operator: Amir Hossein, go hide in the closet, Mr. Engineer, excuse me, the children are playing. Engineer: My daughter, what are you looking for? Nazanin: I am looking for Amir Hossein. Engineer: Amir Hossein has not entered the room. Parvaneh: Amir Hossein, my son, don't move the table, I will make this craft. Operator: Mrs. Parvaneh, excuse me, are you going to school today? Parvaneh: Yes, Mr. Operator, today is a lesson about rabbits for the students. I am preparing a rabbit craft for the students. Nazanin: Mother, why are the eyes of rabbits white? Parwane: My daughter, some rabbits have white eyes. Operator: Please support Ghancheh channel by pressing the like and comment button. We are waiting for you, our constant companions. Thank you very much. Parvaneh: Amir Hossein, my son, watch. Hello, my son. Hello: Mother. Parvaneh: My son, Amir Hossein, look at the holes in the rabbit's eyes. Butterfly: My son, this rabbit is too big for your head. Butterfly: I will take this rabbit craft to school for the students and I need a carrot to show it to the students. Engineer: Amir Hossein, my son, please go outside and play. Operator: Nazanin, be careful, the tree branch will break. Butterfly: This iron does not straighten the clothes. If our life situation improves later, we will buy a new iron. Amir Hossein: Mother, I want to go play. Parvaneh: My son, wait a moment, I will put on your shoes. Parvaneh: Nazanin, my daughter's mother, you have had lunch, get ready, we are going to school. Parvaneh: Dear Bahman, please get up. I want to go to school. The operator is taking care of you. Goodbye. Goodbye engineer. Operator: Aunt Zahra, the switch of the car is on the table, please deliver the ticket to the destination. Parwane: Goodbye, Mr. Operator. Operator: Goodbye, I'll take care of you, Mr. Engineer, don't worry. Operator: Please support this video by pressing the like and comment button. We are waiting for you, our constant companions. Thank you very much. I love you all.