This video is going to be all about LOD or level up development in BIM We're going to establish what it is Why is it important? And then I'm going to give you of each of these LOD levels So you can use this as a quick manual If you don't like reading Let's go. Now quickly, I would like to take a moment This is an AI project admin and construction domains create meeting minutes, project reports Let's see how Congram This can be a virtual meeting, A hybrid meeting or an in-person meeting, So if I click on the meeting, it has produced a transcript And on the right hand side, point notes and action items Two things are unique about Congram It is able to summarize conversations such as on a site visit And the second thing is, it's able to minutes document, such as, you can see that it has exported meeting including our formatting heading So this mobile app can transcribe as you're having your on site every single conversation that you have However, the mobile app also has photo taking capabilities, As you complete your site, walk those photos Congram will to your meeting minutes report that you can share If you would like to check it out, up in the cards above, and then also down And now let's get started by asking in a BIM. We have to be careful here can be used both for level of detail The BIM level of development measures represented by a BIM element. It defines the detail and accuracy at different stages, as has been developed for architects or AIA for short. This is not the same as level of detailed that concerns Now let's discuss Well, for that we have several reasons. The first one is clarity and communication for all stakeholders, which would be and owners, ensuring that everybody For instance, during a project meeting clarifies that the design is ready Next thing is risk management. Different LODs help identify For example, and LOD 200, between a structural element allowing for adjustment Then we have cost estimation with accurate better cost estimation, at LOD 300 for example, detailed elements precise material quantities and labor costs, reducing the budget overruns. Later on. LOD in BIM is also important because higher LOD When using LOD 400, contractors can plan specific fabrication since the model includes Then we have facility management. LOD 500 provides a comprehensive as built For example, maintenance teams and service the HVAC systems Finally, we have collaboration among disciplines A clearly defined contributions are aligned with projects, minimizing rework In summary, LOD is vital for clear effective risk management, efficient facility management, collaboration through the project LOD in BIM streamlines efficiency, ensures cost throughout the construction By adhering to these standards, stakeholders can navigate complexities ultimately revolutionizing how engineers conceive, build, and maintain structures. So now that we have established, and why it is so important, let's now accurately define each level individually. There are six levels, the American Institute of Architects and the Associated General Contractors have established And it starts with the first level, design. So LOD 100 or conceptual design represents without detailed information. It conveys the overall design purpose, goals, and aspirations By defining a intent early that the subsequent decisions Then we have, conceptual sketches and diagrams They're visual representation of design Sketching allows designers to explore Diagrams clarify spatial relationships, circulation Then we have spatial organization, different areas within the building It includes, room layouts, adjacencies and flows. Well organized spaces and efficiency. Proper circulation Then we have the massing studies. Massing studies explore the overall volume They consider factors like site Studies help architects understand how They inform decisions about orientation, setbacks and visual impact. Next, So site context includes landscape, topography and climate. Integrating building ensures contextual irrelevance, and maximizes views and natural resources. And we have sustainability concepts which are obviously sustainable design energy efficiency, resource conservation, Early consideration of sustainability This reduces energy consumption, lowers operating costs, and supports Now let's move to the second level, The model becomes more refined, quantities, It helps analyze spatial relationships So here we are So at LOD 200, the BIM model evolves from a basic geometric It includes more details, shapes, and sizes of building elements. Architects and designers spatial representation Next we have approximate locations. So for LOD 200 we introduce information about the location of elements While not precise, understanding of where components We have basic so the model at LOD 200 includes basic This helps stakeholders visualize representation of materials, even though No detailed connections or assemblies. So unlike LOD 300 LOD 200 does not delve into It focuses on individual components This level of development So architects and engineers rely on LOD It aids in refining the initial concept, and evaluating spatial arrangements. A cost estimation and building is important within LOD 200 The models assist in estimating project cost and providing more accurate Additionally, they enhance visualization, to better understand Now let's move over to LOD 300, This includes and shapes, and detailed object construction, documentation LOD 300 represents a pivotal stage where the model attains Here are the key points about LOD 300. The BIM model includes accurate measurements and relationships This level ensures that the geometric specific material types, and key information about material types, This helps stakeholders, make informed Then we have these simple connections So LOD 300 introduces basic connections It aids in understanding fit together use So of course, architects rely on LOD 300 for producing detailed These documents site, coordinate across disciplines. So LOD 300 facilitates such as architecture, by providing a comprehensive and accurate representation of the building design. Now let's move over to Ellard. 350. So the fourth level is not the LOD 400, this is construction documentation. It includes detailed assemblies information used for generating So here is a concise exploration of LOD 350 construction documentation in the context of building information So first we have detailed assemblies. So at LOD 350 the BIM model provides How different building elements This includes precise assembly details, Fabrication level data. So LOD 350 includes data necessary It goes beyond design intent and focuses For example, it specifies and other specific Then we have sharp drawings. So LOD 350 models are used as the foundation for creating sharp These drawings are crucial for contract They provide detailed instructions within the building. Then we have coordination and clash So LOD 350 helps identify clashes such as structural, It ensures that all components align correctly during the construction process. Next we have use during construction. So contractor s rely on LOD 350 to execute a project on site. It serves as a guide for construction ensuring that the building is constructed And finally, we have bridging the gap. So LOD 350 bridges by providing the necessary detailed Moving on. Yes, there is more. Next we have LOD 400, So this includes detailed models suitable for fabrication and 400 represents an advanced stage where the model is specifically tailored for fabrication and assembly purposes. Precise geometry for manufacturing so at LOD 400, the BIM model provides required for the manufacturing processes. This includes detailed measurements, Then we have fabrication level data. So LOD400 goes beyond the design intent and focuses on practical implementation. So it includes information necessary during the production and assembly phases. Then we have sharp drawings So LOD 400 model helps for the people who will build These instructions, called sharp exactly how to put things together. It's like having a step by step guide Efficient on site production control model ensures that all measurements This precision helps the builders and more accurately And finally, we have LOD 500 So this includes information and operational elements of the building, conditions LOD 500 represents the final stage process, capturing as built conditions so this includes field verified model. So at LOD 500, the BIM It provides a comprehensive representation within the building, reflecting real world Facility FM for short. So LOD 500 models serve as invaluable They offer a dependable reference maintenance, and facility management. The data within these models helps ensure efficient building operations and upkeep. And that pretty much concludes So you can always refer to this video. So when you hear LOD 200, and see what exactly LOD 200 is. Now I would also like to warn you I've learned just from talking yes, it's nice we have all of these However, in real life it's very hard So even though something then you have some people thinking that that should include more detail So always make sure make sure that you're actually the level of development I mean, actually kind of in points. So, try and just make sure that you're because if seen in a real live over modeled or under modeled people are simply not on the same page So it's silly, I hope you have enjoyed this video, with another