So the president elect, Donald Trump, he has selected former Democratic congresswoman term Trump supporter Tulsi Gabbard as his pick to be director of national intelligence. If confirmed, that would mean Gabbard would oversee the 18 agencies that make up the entire U.S. intelligence apparatus, including overseeing the CIA. Why this announcement is now sending shockwaves includes Gabbard, seen by many as an apologist for brutal foreign powers, including the leader of Syria, the same leader that man who has used chemical weapons on his own citizens. Gabbard even traveled to Syria for what she called at the time a fact finding mission, and met with Syrian President Bashar al Assad. She later responded to questions about that trip with statements like this. Do you think Assad is our enemy? Assad is not the enemy of the United States, because united Syria does not pose a direct threat to the United States. The man used chemical weapons on his people. And then there is this from national security affairs expert Tom Nichols, writing for The Atlantic, in a new piece, The Following. She has no qualifications as an intelligence professional. Literally none. And her appointment would be a threat to the to the security of the United States. Joining me right now is John Bolton, a former national security adviser under President Trump and a former U.S. ambassador to the United Nations. Thanks so much, Ambassador Tulsi Gabbard. What are your thoughts this morning? Well, I thought it was the worst cabinet level appointment in history until they heard about the Matt Gates appointment. really, my reaction was that this is like the legend of Caligula, the Roman emperor, who wanted to nominate his horse as a Roman consul. you had to be a Roman senator at the time to be a console. And it was intended to show how demeaned and degraded the Roman Senate had become. So now we're going to see whether the American Senate can stand up and reject two people who are totally unqualified, unfit, professionally and, and really lacking in the and the moral characteristics, the character that you need to hold these jobs. I think this vote should be 100 to nothing against both of them. And even before they get there, I heard you say that you think both should face a full field investigation before they're even granted confirmation hearings. What? Why is that? Look, it's typical for for most senior, nominations that that people get a full field FBI investigation. I've had. I can't count how many. I've had updates and all the rest of it. and those, by the way, those investigations on all the cabinet nominees can begin right now. The the way the FBI conversation with somebody, starts off is to say, Mr. X is being considered for a senior government official. I'd like to ask you questions about him so you can begin the FBI investigations now and be ready for confirmation hearings even before Donald Trump is sworn in. There's no question here of delaying things. so it's very typical. It should be for everybody, but especially for these two. in the case of gates, you've got a House Ethics Committee within a few days of issuing an apparently pretty difficult report. I can't wait to see that. And that report will get out one way or another. And in Tulsi Gabbard case, she said some of the most incredible things, including, as I recall, a reference to the real cause of Russia's invasion of Ukraine being chemical weapons plants, in the Ukraine, that that were joint U.S Ukrainian efforts. This is just insane. She said in response to an interview with Jake Tapper on in January 2020, right after the Congress was briefed about the, effective elimination of Kassam Soleimani, a presidential decision by Donald Trump. She said she wasn't convinced by the briefings about this. And I quote, illegal and unconstitutional act of war by Donald Trump. So that's the kind of person that Trump has now nominated, shows he hasn't vetted them, at all. That's what an FBI investigation is for. Every other nominee should go through it, too. But but I think Congress should insist they want to see the results of this in particular. So there's lots of talk that Trump could use or may be forced to use recess appointments to get these people in. Looking back at the George W Bush years, Bush used a recess appointment to get you into the post of U.S. ambassador to the UN. After Democrats and some Republicans blocked her nomination in 2005. Ambassador, how do you feel about recess appointments now when you look at these two options being included, there? Well, just on on my situation, it was a recess appointment because at that time you had to get 60 votes to overcome a filibuster. which, Joe Biden himself said to me, he was the ranking Democrat on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee that I would have gotten and the Republican who opposed me, George Voinovich later wrote an op ed in the Washington Post after I'd been up at the UN for a while, said he would support me. So leaving that aside, recess appointment is a presidential power. and and appropriate in circumstances like mine where the Democrats were being obstructionist. Republicans control the Senate now. And, I think I think the, the leadership will try and get people through in an expedited basis. the Democrats have blocked the recess appointment for years by never recessing. so, you know, this is a constitutional struggle between the two branches, but to say that recess appointments are illegitimate is just wrong. Ambassador John Bolton, thank you so much, Donald Trump wants former congresswoman Tulsi Gabbard to be his director of national intelligence. As recently as four years ago, she ran for the Democratic presidential nomination. But she has since left the party and is now a staunch ally of president elect Trump, who believes the intelligence community has been weaponized against him. The head of the DNI role has broad oversight into the U.S. intelligence community. Gabbard is an Army veteran, but she has never served in any capacity in an intelligence agency, and she's often been skeptical of U.S. intelligence. In the past. When she was still a member of Congress in 2017, Gabbard met with Syrian President Bashar al Assad as civil war broke out in his country with U.S. backed rebels two years later. I pressed her about whether Assad was a U.S. adversary. Do you think Assad is our enemy? Assad is not the enemy of the United States, because united Syria does not pose a direct threat to the United States. What do you say to to Democratic voters who watched you go over there and and what do you say to military members who have been deployed repeatedly in Syria, pushing back against us up? people who have been deployed to Syria have been there focused on their mission, which has been to defeat ISIS. Our troops have not gone to Syria to wage yet another costly, destructive regime change war. All right. Joining us now to talk more about this picks Sean Turner, the former director of communications for U.S. National Intelligence. Sean, good morning to you. Thank you so much for being here. your reaction to the selection of Tulsi Gabbard here. There are a questions also that tie into this question about Assad that lead to Moscow. What do you see here? Yeah. You know. Well, good morning, Casey. Thanks for having me. You know, first, I've been saying that the president gets the biggest cabinet and and we know that, and we've got to accept that. But the role of the director of national intelligence, as you said at the outset, sits atop all the other intelligence agencies. It is one of the most complex cabinet level positions. that that the president has. And this needs to be someone with a steady hand who's experienced, who's qualified, and who is willing to speak truth to power, to to give the president news, good, bad or indifferent. So when I, when I look at someone like Tulsi Gabbard, and I look at, the lack of qualification, the lack of experience, but more importantly, when I, when I think about the fact that she is someone who is in the role not because of her, understanding of intelligence, but because of her loyalty to Donald Trump and really concerns me. you know, the clip that you ran where she had met with Bashar al-Assad, to say that Bashar al-Assad with Syria is not an enemy of the United States suggests that she really doesn't understand the complex intelligence environment, and it completely discounts, discards the fact that we have partners and allies around the world. And, Bashar al Assad is a threat to our partners and allies. So I'm really concerned about this, this pic and my hope is that as many of these, individuals see, that when she has the benefit of full knowledge, have full understanding of the intelligence community, that she realizes the weight of the job.