Behind me is the P -38 and yes, Welcome back to Military Aviation History, I'm II Museum based in Granite Falls, Minnesota. you ought to check out. Big thank you here to also the crowd funders for possible since it Is a 100 % community funded be jumping inside but before that as always We'll course the hefty firepower that the P -38 offers 99 millimeter machine guns heavy machine guns to 500 rounds depending on how you want to set it that is of course a Hispano based cannon with 150 guns on top delivers a lot of heavy firepower which is very much ideal for shooting and in fact considered is one of the best shooters that to the right hand side of the aircraft notice of easy taxi since the P -38 of course has a tricycle roughly above the gear well the front gear well course up front on the nose there of the P -38 we're talking it mounted but there would also be a of the shooting that the pilot has done against would also be used in a movie home. Now as we then move towards the cockpit the wing on the leading edge we have an auxiliary and behind that we have the main course mirrored then on the port talk about the engine that we have 111 or 113 depending on which engine we're talking output of about 1 ,600 horsepower. Now that's of her up to 3 ,000 RPMs at 60 If you want to drop it down to cruise you're inches of manifold pressure. The aircraft also has cool on this engine nacelle as well is that the pilot on both sides to check whether the gear the cooling intakes up front. We have two oil also have the turbo supercharger intercoolers is routed all the way towards the back. Up front propeller. Now that's a constant speed propeller, to 57 .7 degrees and it can also be favorable, propellers of course means that you put the to the airflow, minimizing air resistance because want to have essentially free speed brakes on So by feathering that out you're getting around is also that it has counter rotating propellers against each other towards the fuselage Which it a very stable platform both on the ground and nacelle just in front. We tank that provides 15 gallons of capacity in an oil tank in the back with 13 gallons. The for the electrical systems on board and then As we move towards the leading edge here then of dive brakes mounted here and you can see the in the this aircraft that we have here in it this mention about the P -38s setup here is that the edge here on the output section of that we have right here that nacelle and instead we have an additional range. On the wingtip of course we expect and then as we swing aileron, no trim tab, neither a variable nor the flaps. This tear -shaped intake scoop is it. Now the turbo supercharger as in the P -47 except that it is inverted. compressor above that because it's on the top least generally speaking there would also be the cockpit section of the aircraft in order to flying in direction of the pilot. Now the exhaust supercharger and then back via the intercooler ask what is this big intake scoop right here? so that's for the water cooling. It goes in here, P -38 an automatic flap deflection depending on at. Traveling alongside the boom then in the baggage or also for radio equipment and And then let's move towards and of course one of We have a rudder on either connected via this large horizontal stabilizer. can see and then the large elevator that travels a trim tab right here, variable trim tab. You top. Now as we move towards the fuselage nacelle of all see the ladder that is now in the deployed a rearward mount onto the wing and then you move would be the radio set, to the be the IFF set and we also find the hydraulic I've been warned as I go up this step I have to as in all aircraft you know, it's leaking and it works. Now with that being said we also have section of the wing and now let's move on towards it's an American aircraft of the time so that weight goes from roughly 13 to 21 thousand pounds missions and also depending on which exact P -38 find two additional oxygen bottles and you could correct. And what is also important on the tail, here, APS -13, so a position warning antenna exactly the same as in our here. Now Now moving then towards the wing, side of the aircraft, although we have a pitot control surfaces that we have in the P -48 that a J, the Aileron does not have that boost yet, higher speeds. However, the Aileron here does the electrical power, the battery is housed only about the twilight tier that we filmed with the move towards the cockpit again, yes, we're going talk about the additional weapons equipment these provisions, these pylon provisions that an additional compartment for a gun camera but a single bomb on either side of the aircraft which like a thousand kilogram bomb that's pretty good so for example five HVAR rockets on either wing drop tanks that would be mounted in these pylons are multiple options up to 165 gallons usually. gonna do now? Yeah, we're gonna be jumping inside. A big thank you here to the for providing this access and all crowdfunders trip possible. As always we will go through moving over to the central instrument board and Then we will also have a look at a stick. Starting as the fuel pump switches and set in front of this We also have a landing gear handle right here. Moving forward we find the throttle quadrant They are colored in red here. Behind that levers, and then we have the friction control. We is an auxiliary release for the automatic retraction if the aircraft we also have the elevator trim cap control. Moving forward, directly behind the quadrant, we control. and then we have carburetor air filter control and then offset to Coming to the central instruments and gauges, slightly from the position where you would front instruments we find the fuel quantity tank gauge followed by gear warning lights. Then, as we gauges, we have an altimeter in feet, a vertical per hour, a turn and slip indicator, and below which has a compass above it, and then we have lower side we have two ammeters, an artificial compass. Moving towards the right -hand side, we start getting to the engine control gauges. well as a manifold pressure gauge. An oil both engines is also there. And then we have again, for both engines. We finish up with a the central position soon, but now it is time to the flap control lever. And then right next to the emergency hydraulic pump and a window crank. the control yoke we find various systems. We start buttons. As we move to the engine primer switches, as well as starter heater, external lighting, and compass switches. the yoke, let's swing our gaze downwards. You'll control, and then, in black, the offset control the pilot but then hooks over to be in front of have the rudder trim controls on top we have the prop feather controls then we have battery coolant and intercooler flap it you will find a trigger in the conventional of the handle. We also have press -to -transmit selector switches and the aileron trim is usually horizontal lever of the yoke, out of sight from you think about the P -48 lighting, this tour and any questions or want to make additions let here goes out to the folks at Fagin Fighters to the P -38. Check out the description for more a fantastic place and when you go