[MUSIC PLAYING] Good evening, everyone. My name is John the Dean of the College of [APPLAUSE] Thank you. On behalf of the staff, and students I here tonight for the first and, without a doubt, this is to follow. Before we get started, I The first is Al Bergesen, head who recommended to showcase the best of the to our local community. [APPLAUSE] Second, I'd like to who have been long associated and who helped make tonight possible, Massimo Bever. [APPLAUSE] Both teach in our world-class [APPLAUSE] And, in fact, there are so to Chomsky in the that this department referred to as MIT West. [LAUGHTER] I'd also like to thank of Linguistics, Simin Karimi, staff, and students who have been working On the screen behind me is who have helped sponsor I would especially like to thank for Creative Inquiry and [APPLAUSE] Financial support has also Magellan Circle and underwritten by Magellan Circle and her husband, Thank you very much. [APPLAUSE] I'd also like to thank the Star, the College of Education and the College of Wildner-Bassett. [APPLAUSE] Thank you. Others contributing include the School the Cognitive Science of Communication, the the School of Geography the Department of Gender and of Government and Public Policy, the School of Journalism, Studies, the School of Middle Studies, the Department the Department of Sociology, [APPLAUSE] And thanks to everyone and in SPS development and who have put all Thank you all very much. Well, now, what can I say Who, after all, has been as as Noam Chomsky? The author of 100 books he is the founder of His ideas have not only they have indelibly cognitive science, childhood the languages, mathematics, and speech. In fact, you can find in every field that does it mean to be human? If there was a Nobel Prize for he would have won it long the first book, which appeared in 1957. He is, according to the most cited living third most cited in the [APPLAUSE] Professor Chomsky gave a to a small group-- and community members and and I have to say, I was Tucson, by all rights, on the title the And, of course, the public intellectual, the socialist, and of established politicians on [APPLAUSE] An activist who has Professor Chomsky is well known of US foreign policy against the Vietnam War and his Power and the New Mandarins, a collection of essays titled Interventions, Empire, [APPLAUSE] The topic of tonight's and for what, draws on One based on a about education's role in the and freedom. For us at the these issues are of as we grapple with how to in the face of over $180 million Today, only 16% of the comes from the state, of what it was 10 years ago. Of course, these cuts have but in all states to the question of whether be a public good, a common and our state's solely a private matter and their families. Professor Chomsky's remarks spark reflection on this and to education. And now I'd like about tonight's proceedings. Following Professor we have allotted approximately and answer period moderated Christopher Conover who Mr. Conover has over 23 years journalism and has been a since 2005 and I'm very grateful [APPLAUSE] Finally, throughout ask that whatever your opinions, and your neighbors in we have a unique in thoughtful, civil discourse intellectuals and public Please join me in giving to Professor Noam Chomsky. [APPLAUSE] Thank you very much. Mic check. Mic check. Mic check. Mic check. Thank you-- Thank you-- -- for supporting-- -- for supporting-- I can't hear what [INAUDIBLE] [APPLAUSE] I'm truly glad you [INAUDIBLE] Sorry. I couldn't hear it, but I'm So I hope everyone else did. [LAUGHTER] Well, I'm going to concentrate but that can't really from what happens say some words about In the background, there of whom education is so let's take a look There are two fundamental One view is that higher for the elites, The rest of the be dumbed down, maybe allowed to learn trades. There's a more that lies in the background holds across the mainstream It's more instructive to focus on the left so I'll keep to that-- So, for example, the of the 20th century, who was kind of a Wilson, His view was that we between the called the responsible he called the ignorant and the general population-- but not participants in action. And the responsible who ever discusses part of the intelligent so the intelligent minority, are in charge of they have to be from the roar and the trampling He developed the concept it's a new art of has to be used to keep the outsiders from interfering. He was actually relying these were writings Incidentally, they are on democracy. He was relying on his experience only official US propaganda Information, a term that It was the Creel Commission World War to try to drive a warmongers and it worked It was led by the responsible who were, more or less, were the targets of an earlier Ministry of information-- was essentially the thought of American elites. So they would, in the great task of bringing War on England's side. Another member of who was also very impressed He's one of the main founders industry and his views There has to be an intelligent and we have to have a it engineering of that the rabble as spectators, not participants. The basic view goes So, for example, long before was considering the question interested in having mass public education and he said that the ground on urged the claims of That in their words, is filling up with thousands and you must educate them to Meaning, educate keep their perspectives narrow and free and independent into obedience. That's something that is done as well. We've all experienced it. If you go back still of the Constitution, it on the same principles. James Madison, the was pretty much the same. He said we have to make sure because otherwise And in fact, if you read the Convention, he to think about what would happen the model. What would happen in had a democratic vote? He said, well, what be that the majority would use their voting the property of the rich-- to would call land reform be unjust-- so, therefore, we've Actually it's kind that whether consciously or an argument that goes back of political theory, Aristotle reviewed the there could be and but decided that democracy He is, of course, mostly but he raised the same dilemma. He said this same He said that one of the is that the majority of the power to take away and divide which is unjust. So Madison Aristotle but they drew Aristotle's conclusion eliminate inequality-- make or less. And he proposed actual what we would call today and that would So reduce inequality, But Madison's solution was the So design a system in be able to exercise that would threaten one of the he said is to protect the against the majority. So same problem, but opposite And if you look at the that's the way it's designed. So, again in Madison's words, has to ensure that power is the wealth of the nation, the have respect for and, therefore, will ensure protected from the majority. And that's why, in the original power is primarily in the Executive at that time So power is in the which, remember, That was much later. And the Senate, he said, of the nation, the make judicious and Actually in should be mentioned that he was, So his model of the was some mythology about Rome, and benign aristocrats would make all the He soon learned differently, That's the original for those who are interested in To go back a little bit David Hume, one modern political philosophers. He wrote a book called The and in this-- I'll quote him. He wondered at &quot;the easiness governed by the few; and the men resign their own sentiments of their rulers. When we enquire by what means we shall find that on the side of the government, to support them but opinion. 'Tis therefore, on opinion only and this maxim extends to the governments, as well as to the And, in fact, in the more where force is get the most of the notions of engineering of consent, public And the educational enlisted in this enterprise. It's a very conscious return to the way it works Well, that's one point of view Another alternative point of is that it's for interesting work on this. One book I'd strongly have good eyesight-- it's very is a scholarly book It's called The of The British Working Classes. It's a monumental study of the British workers and to see what they were reading. Rose contrasts-- I'll quote of knowledge by with &quot;the pervasive philistinism There is good evidence for was true in the United States. In Boston, let's say, if a blacksmith could afford hire a young boy to read and reading meant or contemporary consider classics-- were the mills that to be built in the early days A lot of the workers from the farms-- they Now there was a press at the time-- very The factory girls had of the industrial they were being forced-- in a little bit-- was that it was taking They were used to reading classics, and so on. When they were driven that was taken away from I'm old enough to At that time, there was lively and some of the and mathematicians intended for worker education. Mathematics for the George Gamow later, One, Two, another well-known scientist. There were educational courses-- were mostly unemployed but they were deeply even though some never made They were what Rose calls although they were helped by and things like free Park and so on. Well, those are two views two contrasting ones. Then comes the question And here too, there The contrast is during the Enlightenment imagery associated with it. One image is that education into an empty it's a pretty leaky know from your experience. So you're pour and, of course, all of and you remember nothing. The other alternative should be like laying the student can explore and That image comes from who was the founder of the one of the founders of I'll get to John Dewey, social philosopher He wrote that it is &quot;illiberal to work &quot;not freely but for the sake of the their activity &quot;is not participated in.&quot; And as he also pointed out, Those contrasting choices I'm sure, again, have seen it in your own have myself. It has very definite right now in fact. There is just some very discussion of this, which Association for the a main scientific organization. It has a regular journal, and in the last couple of Bruce Alberts-- sets forth He's discussing science but it generalizes. So one approach he discusses view-- that teaching is laying the student progresses through discovery And his version of is to make it much everywhere to provide their experiences that mirror of scientists, instead of labs where students follow result.&quot; And then he contrasts that is of course is pretty much taught with an overly strict and group memorizations. And then he goes on to quote his Standards Commission, his as teaching the periodic table which is totally Incidentally, he points out it is taught that way. And what he says is, &quot;When we of science&quot; that they &quot;then we have wasted valuable &quot;produced nothing of lasting &quot;we take all the enjoyment And he discusses He says, &quot;Unfortunately, most DNA at such an early age that memorize the fact that&quot;-- he &quot;'DNA is the material from which brings no enjoyment or And much later he says, &quot;when to understand both the molecule and its I fear that the joy been eliminated by the early facts. We have spoiled a by teaching it at Then he goes on to He says, &quot;For example, in an students are often required enzymes that oxidize with such details and obscure of the central issue,&quot; leaves that science is impossibly it. &quot;Tragically, we have trivialize and complicate As a result, for far seems a game of the recalling facts-- so much so that it whether the factoids come from the periodic He gives some examples. Again, I'm sure you've had Just to interpolate, I remember when I was at the University I had to take a course with about this many It was insufferably it was completely obvious So if you read the exactly what was going to But, I got an A, it was OK. I actually had a friend who But the worst part was and I knew perfectly well and carried out the experiments, That's automatic, so I There was a manual where you to the results of and, again, entirely obvious So I filled it in and But then I had a very I had to register and when I tried insisted on my paying a fee I'd never been to I didn't know where it was. But obviously couldn't $17, which was a lot of money in the lab that I never I don't remember a I'm sure many of you can Actually, this approach It's called No [LAUGHTER AND APPLAUSE] I see you've experienced it. Actually, it's been going No reported progress, Serious education is It's what Alberts and it's the way science at the advanced levels-- it's a research university. There is a world-famous Weisskopf, who-- like a taught freshman courses. And he used to say to the first session students would ask, what are we And his routine answer was it it matters what you discover. And maybe you'll discover that That would be great-- that's This goes on right through In a serious university, is-- it's the whole curriculum. And that's actually possible all there are examples. In fact, Alberts in gives a good example. He talks about a won some award in the sciences. These five-year-old that was given them-- was given a dish that contained And their task was to figure So the kids got called a scientific had ideas about how They exchanged the some ways of testing it, and They finally got somewhere but they are basically It ended up at the point what were the seeds and they They were given magnifying and locate the embryo, which That's learning-- real learning. That's Enlightenment not No Child Left Behind. It can be done and sometimes but far too little. Well, let's take a brief Not surprisingly, the US has evolved along with Actually there was at the time of World War II. Everything changed it was a very dramatic The United States was the but it wasn't a major The major actors were Britain, but not the United But after World War II, it The United States with a position of that had absolutely no and no precedence since-- it The United States at the of the world's wealth. Other industrial societies harmed or devastated. For the United States, which the war was a tremendous stimulus to the economy. The industrial and it already had been the It also had an overwhelming remotely like it. Well, this affected the whole Prior to this, at least elite a kind of gentlemen's club. And, indeed, it remained so after-- again, personal I was a student at and that's exactly what it But the US had also through colleges. In fact, that's a very of American society. It was motivated in part by It was motivated from an agricultural society to an industrial society. It was necessary to turn factory workers. And since they needed the kind of education The kind of education that will And it was dramatic-- I and it was very Factory girls, artisans they have many complaints being driven into. It's worth reading-- The industrial was crushing their culture, It was turning them into In fact, a century a very common belief-- was a slogan of the Republican Lincoln-- was that wage from chattel slavery only in than that it's the same. You're being forced-- not under your own initiative. So they wanted to worker ownership and so on. I think the most interesting was their condemnation called the new spirit this is 150 years ago. The new spirit of the forgetting all but self. Adam Smith had He called it &quot;the vile maxim All for ourselves, And the new spirit of the was to try to drive into people's heads. It was a very sharp break that valued trust and for common purposes. In our own tradition, should be the English commons. We're going to celebrate-- be commemorating the 900th The Great Charter, in It is forgotten. The Magna Carta, as is the foundation of civil of innocence, trial by jury, But it's sort of that there were two charters. There was a Charter was a Charter of The Forests. The Charter of The Forests of the commons. The commons-- were the possession of everyone. They were the source of food, They had been with mutual aid and mutual so they were very which everyone had access to. And The Great Charter calls from the predatory acts Well, that's been forgotten, anymore. And that's a very In fact, the failure to is going to destroy us. That's the environmental towards with utter abandon. If some extraterrestrial they would think but it is going on right now-- [APPLAUSE] -- and unless this conception and the values that were part we're in trouble. Well, shortly after of capitalist a move towards making And it then becomes the new spirit of the forgetting all but self-- Adam Smith condemned Actually there are major The public relations marketing-- it is of the gross national is devoted pretty much to this. It's devoted very consciously-- the literature their It's devoted to what's called stimulating consumerism, turning are called the superficial like fashionable from real human values. And enormous work goes from our throats, again. That new spirit of so that over 150 there still is So in the early 1970s, as an there was a very important young workers mostly. Many of them were others just young people The most famous one was significantly, they were for wages and benefits, but for That was also the were becoming organized workers, black All of this was been beaten back for a In fact, the Occupy movements are reviving it. [APPLAUSE] I think it is a And a lot hinges on whether 150-years-old and, in fact, in to the destruction it is a very whether this new If not, we're just lemmings There's a lot to say about Well, again, after going back to that-- there a spirit of triumphalism. Before the Second World was a kind of cultural, If you want to study a science or be a writer, you went to France, someplace like that. But after World War and it led to just a I remember very well-- I student at the time. The atmosphere shed all of this and lead the world to was called an American century. European scholars-- many of fleeing Nazi Germany-- because they were were disdained because that's And the two were There were many I could tell you about some From a student I was in the 1940s in psychology-- they just Disregard all of this old too in fact. Forget it all, and start from the beginning. We're going to create a new and a lot of ignorance. There are many right to the present. It's very striking in the but also elsewhere. There were also crucial changes-- in the and the state role had a huge impact on the particularly. You go back to the Adam Smith gave advice the greatest And the advice he gave was that the World Bank and the IMF give to the poor Pursue your don't try to import from the advanced try to control your will be better if you do that. Well, the United States was so they were able the rules of what are called If we had accepted them, we'd But, in fact, that is was pretty much created. But the colonies The so-called Hamiltonian system to block superior There was a lot of what is now called piracy. And the United States and this went from of industrialization, and on pretty much until the A huge role of the sector in developing industrialization was in armories because there The railroad system was managed and so on. Well, after World War II, that huge. There was massive funding mostly through the Pentagon. And was done through the You have to inspire get taxpayers to pay the from various imaginary dangers. But the money that went ended up creating that we're now living in. So computers, microelectronics-- a comes out of decades of mostly My own university, MIT, was And the net effect and to privatize profit. And it's a standard device-- another example. It's not what it's It was sold on the It was really part to automobiles, energy corporations. The idea was to make us wastes fossil fuels we're now in the middle of. There was also a rapid through the GI a whole new sector into higher never could have gone before. That a very positive and on the general society. That's incidentally been reversed in the last to it. The sharp increase in to science and technology there was a spillover 1957-- the Russians into space, Sputnik, about how the US is falling and so on. The scientific community knew that the achievement We could duplicate any time we wanted to, It was exploited I should say-- I And it was exploited to give into higher education That's when you get the that Alberts is deploring, I have to say-- I had we had very amusing my young children, nine, try to learn new who didn't understand theoretic basis for it but And the kids were I'll just give you one example. When my youngest daughter I had a visit from a friend, he's an old friend. Yehoshua Bar-Hillel, He came and stayed and he saw my daughter doing Boolean-- they are actually Boolean algebra. And he was interested been trying to teach it students in Israel and they and she seemed to So we started like if you have three things, You know, like a milk bottle and and she said right And then he asked She listed them, And he asked, which set is She said, the null set. And I couldn't believe how do you know the null set So she said, well, to have a and you put the And if you look always a little that's where the null set goes. So what in fact had doing something quite sensible. She was making up which happened to work for had absolutely nothing they are trying to teach her. This was going on all the time-- In the '60s, there were major the Civil Rights Movement, women's rights, all sorts of were greatly enriched was the whole society. By the end of the a fair amount of political and it became a major force. Again, at my own university, university-- it had an extremely through the 60s. People are absorbed But by the end of activism had gotten to the formally, for the whole the question of the role Amazingly, a question that had do it. And that led to a which, in fact, brought in the Institute. And similar things were even abroad too-- it And it had a real civilizing Well, that civilizing aroused deep concerns all That's why it's usually It was civilizing the country And it's kind of a little about the reaction. It has very strong effects On the right, one was an influential memorandum-- you can pick it up on the by Lewis Powell who He was later appointed by At the other end there's an important worth reading-- by the These are liberal from the three major industrial States, and Japan. Their general outlook that the Carter drawn almost completely who they were. And both of them They provide a good insight of what has, in fact, been and on rights that shape 40 years ago-- sharply in the Reagan-Thatcher and it's now And they also provide insight the educational system. So let's start with This was sent to the That's the main business lobby. The title was &quot;The Attack on System.&quot; And it's worth reading, but also for the tone, which is characteristic of the major Nader, with his consumer safety was preaching Marxism, the New but primarily their naive the universities, the and other media, the educated control the government, I'm incidentally That's exactly what it said. I urge you to read it. Well, the takeover of the is a dire threat to Because the only alternatives are varying degrees of of individual freedom ranging to the leftist and Actually, if any the Republican is being repeated right Obama administration, and Actually, Powell with another alternative namely the system in which he associates thrived. He was an influential lobbyist And he was surely aware of for the production of not only kills the users at the targets of the mostly but also kills many others. Deaths from passive damage, just being around beyond those from hard drugs. And he was surely aware of the like him in assuring the government would help-- not but help it conceal They knew about that they were peddling. And there are huge to show for their achievement. They're still piling up rapidly. But that didn't keep him that I'll quote, &quot;As every few elements of have as little as the American even the millions of in case you hadn't noticed.&quot; And that, again, is considered And the reason is that that for the state to private power, that's Any disruption of And he then drew the He was talking about He said the campuses from are supported by tax from American business from capital funds controlled or The boards of trustees overwhelmingly are composed leaders in the business system. Most of the media, including are owned and by corporations which depend system to survive. And therefore, these who are being destroyed should instead of just while business and our are destroyed by this from the media and Well, Powell's memo elicited by 1960s activism at spectrum. But much more is the reaction at the Internationalists. And these are spelled out in that I mentioned. It's called, &quot;The It's not easy to because they mostly when people started reading it. But it's there. Actually, I should say when it came out. And I figured this isn't so I bought a lot of copies So if you can't find has maybe a dozen or so copies. And then, it did I should say, very quickly. The crisis of democracy is, literally, that The problem, they said-- major political scientists from that democratic order the public is supposed to The Lippen, Bernays, Emerson, they're supposed to But in the 60s, to organize to That's what was being called &quot;the special interests.&quot; The special interests are workers, farmers-- the They are the special interests. And when they press there's too much The state can't deal with them. Therefore, they have to Now there's one group the corporate sector-- Because they represent special interests. Just like the far right, the assume that their extraordinary of the state and is just the natural order. A primary concern of just like Lewis Powell, was the and I'm quoting, responsible for the The schools, the universities, they're not carrying to indoctrinate the And that's why we had In general, they said, we in democracy if the national including much more successful Well, the Powell memo, spell out the concerns of the dominant, These are largely And they've led to restore order, as often One consequence of these has been a pretty sharp attack many forms. I'll mention a few. About a year ago, to give talks at the Quite a good university. It's a very poor but quite a good, impressive good faculty, lively discussion, not like a rich but quite reasonable. I also visited a There's a City University Incidentally, UNAM is free. No tuition. About 10 years ago, by the government to raise That led to a national The country practically The government There actually still is an administration building And it's still occupied. And it's used as a kind The City University but has open admissions for those who need them. And it's also a I was quite impressed to see it. Well, I went from Mexico to place in the world. There, the public which is just the best public is being destroyed. It's being privatized, For the rest, there's some level And that's quite a contrast and, in many ways, the And that's happening In most states, like before, tuition, in most states, of college budgets. That's also true of most Pretty soon, only the will be state financed. And even they are under attack. I'm quoting a recent study. Analysts generally of affordable, four-year, subsidized by the That's one important way of the young for a very Students leave in a debt trap. College debt has reached of over a trillion dollars now. When a student leaves they don't have many options. Indoctrination is working. That's true of social It's also an important feature Well, as the illustrates, the reasons for of the greatest public in California, and the reasons are not economic. There are many other cases, Germany, to mention one, or for experience. Much poorer country than we are But tuition was very low. So for example, when I went to as an undergraduate, it That might be $400 today. It's not an economic reason. But as a technique it's very valuable. Well, if they're not how are universities They don't produce And that's the dominant Spirit of the Age. The funding issue raises These would not arise if and inquiry were as during the that is, having intrinsic value. The traditional ideal were flawed in practice. And there are major So crossing the the right-wing government what's been for centuries It's a century barred government intrusion Whether they'll succeed in And well, there's on intellectual culture in this morning's newspapers. The Cameron government has going to apologize. It's not going to give an murdering one of the and scientists of the 20th apart from being a major also happen to be a war hero. He was crucially involved something which saved Britain. They killed him, basically, Cameron, the prime they're not going to apologize He was guilty of the which is a violation of law. This should be a major scandal. I mean, I don't know But we'll see if it is. It isn't so far. Well, in the United research institutions like the problem was being to more corporate funding. And that has several effects. First of all, on short-term, applied work. Funding from, say, the they're concerned with of the advanced economy. That, incidentally, means of the corporate So we develop computers for a couple of being profitable for the private That's the socializing costs, Well, that's government funding, very free, best funder there is. I was funded by them In contrast, the wants something it can use And it wants to be able I don't know of a appears that the shift in fact, does lead to more and less exploration to be interesting and valuable And another consequence Pentagon funding to corporate During the Pentagon-funded I happened to be on a examined it carefully-- there was no secrecy on campus. One exception was the But in the sciences, Literally true, they were So none in the physics department, and somewhere else. That's not true today. Corporate funders, they, of But they have an They can threaten That's led to some scandals, to have landed on the front involving MIT. Corporatization can also in other ways. Corporations, by their nature, That's what they're for. And they seek to convert into commodities. There's a lot to say about but one particular on what's called &quot;efficiency.&quot; Efficiency is not a It has quite crucial For example, if a business it becomes more efficient with lower cost. But quite typically, that It's a very familiar phenomenon. And the costs to the That's not a choice based on And that applies directly for the university. Increasing class size and using of full-time faculty, graduate and other measures on university budgets, are transferred to the generally as the quality There's furthermore the human and the social costs and universities into facilities for the job market. Abandoning the traditional encouraging creative and inquiry, challenging exploring the horizons free it's an ideal that's undoubtedly But nevertheless, it is a of civilization achieved. Well, there are related There's a major assault on And the main reason is Public schools are based on They're based on the principle That's a violation of the Me, for example, I don't happen anymore, obviously. So why should I pay taxes? I mean, I'm not getting Therefore, let's get and just do things The attack on Social Security It's based on the supposed to care about the You're supposed to care she Why should I care? I'm doing fine. There are various but they collapse very The real source of these attacks and public goods, I think, to instill this hateful and Spirit of the Age, and long before that, the and instilling it to concentrated, private and human effects. There's a related those parts of the enrich the lives of them to follow the for them in the enlightenment That interferes with control, with imposing with subordination to the about oneself. A major struggle here is-- you know the destruction of the studies program. And even-- [APPLAUSE] --even the removal of books that are has become a national Classics, like Paolo of Chicanos in the Mexican It looks like we're even Shakespeare's Tempest. This is all reminiscent that we don't like but they're worth And it's particularly dramatic in the midst of what &quot;occupied Mexico&quot; conqured in-- [APPLAUSE AND CHEERING] We all know, and we it was conquered in a Well, I don't know to the dilemmas that in trying to develop and of independence and for the Enlightenment ideal, that are dominated by with very different But at least one thing efforts to do this cannot from much broader struggles to achieved-- and a lot has ongoing attacks and to carry of greater freedom and justice. Thanks. [APPLAUSE] Come over there? Should I go over there? Yeah. Thank you so much, As we get ready for the question tonight, a reminder. We only have about and I can imagine a lot of would have a lot of notes and a lot of comments So as we get into this let me lay out some ground if you will. We have two microphones We'll alternate back and forth. As Dr. Jones mentioned make sure you respect We want a thoughtful and civil There may be a few differences Also, the ground rules for this. We're not going to do from our people in the as many questions as we can. So please try and as succinct as possible. And we'll get through as we can in about the I should say, I so you may have to translate Yeah. That's fine. Am I supposed to use this? Yeah. OK. As you line up for and we will have going to ask the first question. I'm going to take moderator's Professor Chomsky, you towards the end, corporate and the idea that in the corporate eyes, need MIT, your home institution, called OpenCourseWare is getting a lot of For those of you that there are many forces at MIT available free and Talk about that a that may be going against I think it's-- actually, one or less running it. But I think it's a And I think it's just I mean, of course available on the internet, so All over the world you could scholars, others, are You can hear the I mean, it's not like taking a because you're not part Like, you can't stand up There's a better way to do it. You know? Which is a large part of It's supposed to encourage That means challenges. And a lot of what we and is wrong, that's why you don't unless your field is dead. Because you're learning, comes from what They're part of the And you don't interact I'm sure all of you know that-- that what's enriched your is peer interchange, arguing about things, out together, and so on. I'll take my own university but if you walk around the students are talking working together, And a lot of very important Well, if you're you're not part of that. So it is necessarily Actually, there are and it's tricky-- to develop And it's not impossible, And I hope that But the general idea All right, I will and not ask a follow-up, as Let me start on this side. And, again, let's fairly short so we can get Hi, Professor Chomsky. The first thing I want for visiting the and thank you for Thanks. [APPLAUSE] I wanted to ask about the the Powell Memorandum and Do you consider that the in intuition? And what other factors Well, I don't really know so I have to speculate. It's kind of surprising that know-- there isn't any phenomenon. But if you just look at the it, and other things that are it's hard to doubt that the on the liberal end &quot;the to indoctrinate the the failure of this, which effect of the '60s, it and not only by the beginning but by lots of other things, So university architecture If you look at universities this is world-wide, You know, Japan, United that are designed in they usually don't They don't have anything where students get together demonstrations, and so on. So there are paths but not places for That is conscious. I've talked to And I suspect that the Actually, it's a I don't know of any studies, Again, there can't be an for the reasons I mentioned. It's got to be an Thanks for your question. Now I'll come over to this side. Thank you for coming, I just wanted to ask, here are in that that education is for everyone. So in light of things and the HB2281 my question is about hope. Where should we a lot of us being to kind of go forth Well, for one thing, there's-- It's right nearby. As I say, we're basically in it. [LAUGHTER] The-- [APPLAUSE] It's a poor country. It's not a rich country like us to do with us, as you know. But anyway, it's a fact. And what they do in the is quite impressive. Actually, I should add that university, open city university It was instituted he was the mayor, left-wing He started it and it's been As I say, that visited Things like that, Or you can look at the student I mean, from Chile there are very lively, In Chile, it's amazing. It has just revitalized There's been student protests. Remember, this is protests of the dictatorship on what in Latin America It's kind of striking that what that means, most of them. But the first 9/11, that I can think of was much [APPLAUSE] And not just in Chile. It had a very global effect. And the dictatorship been gone for about are lingering effects, There are lingering effects right now. And the young people protesting as they're called, are the very serious lingering They're very real. Well, that's Chile. And there are similar through the hemisphere. In fact, abroad. And, in fact, right here. The protests about the Studies program, for example. It's important. And teachers are organizing. And they're under a lot Tremendous pressures against You speak up, you're But it doesn't mean that There are efforts to respond. There are journals where And there are the After all, we've achieved a lot. You know, this it was 30 years ago or There's a lot more freedom, Again, take my own generalizes over the country. If you walk down the halls at you would have seen white males, very conformist, doing but that's it. That was the Institute. If you work down it looks like this-- half informal dress-- which and a lot of of all sorts of things. It didn't happen by magic. It's happened all over the all over the world. And that's the that ought to suffice. I think it goes back to the days, as far back as you Thank you. Over on this side now. Hi, I'm Denise from Chicago. First, I just want to thank the came tonight. From where I stand, especially seeing all So thank you to both of Two, I'd like to invite you, here to Chicago for troubadour Woody Guthrie, that you talked about tonight. And you could find info on page, who holds the deed Do you have a question? The question, what do you and the decision by the to get into it with the-- and now they've made the It's obviously a the first one, incidentally. On the other hand, there that political figures The structure of election, has been shredded. I mean, it always of-- there's always a big If you want to learn about is by a political economist a personal friend. But he has a book called a century studying in detail not only on who's elected, but It goes right through the New He's extended it since. And I think it's It's what he calls the It treats elections as occasions coalesce to invest Campaign funding is And it doesn't it doesn't pretend that is does, Now, that's changed radically The last 30 years, part of assault on democracy what it is. It's worldwide, but has just been the sharply And now, especially in the Super PACs, it's But it's been going has a very definite effect. It forces political of those who have the money-- It's increasingly Incidentally, that's not only for office or Congress it's even permeated I mean, it used to be the of some authority or say, chair of an used to be the result of By now, literally You have to pay money in order to qualify for Well, you can guess what the And this has been by Citizens United but it's a process Actually, you go was a great, famous campaign of the era, Mark Hanna. He was once asked, what are the And his answer I can think of three The first one is money. The second one is money. And I've forgotten That was over a century ago, and So, yeah, this is a but if he wants to run in a you don't have a lot of choices. It's the system that's the choice of the individuals. [APPLAUSE] Good question. Thank you, Professor Chomsky. I'm a student from you a lot for your writing in Jeju Island. It suffers a lot from the But I just want more of expenditures on the instead of education. For instance, Korean from the actual And almost we are heading American students are being, is expending lots of money of educating people Yeah. Actually, that Jeju Island is something very significant. We ought to know about it. Jeju island is quite It was the site of a by the US-backed mostly in South Korea. Horrible massacre. And the island, it's been, I think by the UN, as It's trying to be And the US and South trying to build a major military on the island oriented I think it's 500 kilometers And it's part of the kind which is called Here it's described of freedom of the seas. The Chinese see it a There see it the if the Chinese navy was We'd blow them off the But the way the world we're supposed to be In fact, if you read the and strategic analysis, they refer to the naval confrontation as a Each of the two sides kind of an existential danger. They just can't give it up. It's too important. So we think that it's if the United States all the oceans around China. And they think it's if we send nuclear into their territorial waters. That's the security What can you do? And in fact, the to essentially encircle China to the Pacific or to the Malacca goes and so on. Japan is part of this system. Japan's a client state. There's military bases all over This is over the of the people of trying to get those and they can't do it. Recently the US basically forced of office because he Well, Jeju Island in South And it's really serious, There's a lot of civil disobedience, a lot of But your general I mean, the vast are part of the-- I don't We had vast military and it still was And for GI Bill, totally free. And huge amounts of money and so on. And now it's a but I don't-- society has to your money. Do you want to spend dilemmas in China's with all the debt to building naval bases on and so on, or do it building a decent society? And this question arises I mean, one of the is doesn't involve does involve survival-- is the oil throughout the country. In Obama's State of if you read it carefully, was that we're now coming we can have a hundred years by exploiting-- using and fracking and so inaccessible, and oil, with all sorts of local And this is all over. There was a recent of the Chamber of Commerce, It's Thomas Corcoran, I think. You can find it in the internet. It's his annual speech and the first point the most important point, he says, several centuries by just tapping our own oil. You go to the most responsible in the world that I know of, they devote a whole full page of the possibility having a century of and a century of global hegemony There's only one small footnote. If we use those You know? There's no future and your grandchildren. That's not discussed. You got to gain wealth And that means my not what happens 30 years And that's-- [APPLAUSE] Meanwhile, you know, there are probably solar energy's going And it's quite happening to the solar about half the are being produced in China. Now, that's not cheap labor. It's not a They started the way all very low-level manufacturing. Manufacturing provides the design conceptions, to technological advances. Very common. And slowly they've they've been moving up the They're now producing the in the world. Well, OK, that's one way We have choices. We have plenty of a very rich society. China's a very poor society. We're a very rich one, so We have about 10 you so much for keeping we can get through as many-- That means I should I got it. [LAUGHTER] You're the guest of honor. You can answer as Yeah. Hello, Dr. Chomsky. I'm a member of Unidos. And our question is-- [CHEERING] In your opinion, what are of the decision by the TUSD superintendent John Mexican American Studies? Well, I think it's a of the whole attack on ideal of education. In this case, to destroy of the educational system and and so on, for a large After all, it's a big So I think it's just part on a free and creative stimulates learning, discovery, And it's trying to impose A particularly ugly because of where it's happening. It would be ugly anywhere, here. Thank you. Back to this side. Professor Chomsky, on behalf of almost it's an absolute learning from you in person. Thank you. [APPLAUSE] I'm an Iranian-American and environmental a participant in a supporter of the Arab Spring And obviously I'm a in the Occupy Movement I believe has already and therefore I am of what it may do wrong this last chance movement. So please share with what is it that you think, the Occupy Movement needs to Well, like you, I think has been quite a beyond what I thought. And the tactic has been very One effect that it's kind of national discourse. In fact, even the of the Occupy Movement is It's focused attention on like somebody asked before, shredding of democracy; of financial institutions contribute very little, if In fact, the most respected in the world, I of the Financial Times in highly respected correspondent. He describes the that have developed as kind of like a larvae that embedded. [LAUGHTER] [APPLAUSE] I couldn't get away with And I can get away And the Occupy Movement to foreclosures, of problems that were there Another major contribution is just overcoming the The United States is a People are kind of alone. You know, the ideal social of view of concentrated You and the screen, That's a way to make sure And there's a lot of that. You know, children. It's a real disease, And the Occupy It's creating, of people who actually are I mean, if there were any real they'd be applauding reviving the concepts of sympathy, free on that are just the most There's been major and that's being revived in the and solidarity that Well, all of this is But now, where do Well, first of all, as any kind of an I've been wrong so many that I usually shut up. And these are Tactical judgments have direct human consequences, But my general feeling have a kind of a half-life. They have diminishing returns. They may be very successful, After a while, there's kind of begins to overcome from beginning to you're trying to reach. So while I think that been a great success, I and moves have to be into larger communities. Now, that's been going on in Like one of the developments I know in New York and has been what's been Neighborhood Occupy Movements, integrated with the ones that Wall Street, occupy your Occupy other things. And those deal with of the local people. And they can be very serious. I mean, it could sounds as simple as getting kids have to cross the street. I mean, if people they learn you can achieve and you can go on. That's what successful And if the Occupy Movements reach out to larger and engage the they have yet really to do, then I think they But it's not easy to do this. And we have a lot of repression, and power systems don't They'll do what they but I think that David &quot;power is in the hands There's nothing-- there's no other than control of opinion. Attitudes, opinions, can make people feel hopeless, OK, then you can keep power. But the governed, in the imagery of the Occupy But they have to get And that's the task to devote themselves to this. [APPLAUSE] We have time for It will come from this side. Hi, Dr. Chomsky. I met you first with It's a long time ago. But anyway, getting back to linguistics. It's been troublesome to me like &quot;socialism,&quot; but we never hear &quot;fascism.&quot; And from my studies of ideology, pretty much what you've been I know words have power, Are we too shy to talk about the end of mankind Or is it just the have to go to Link or-- I don't know. But they are not supported. They have to be supported Isn't anyone aware? Well, the history of that Fascism obviously took on bad But if you go back-- the same is true of other words. Like take &quot;propaganda.&quot; The term &quot;propaganda&quot; now In English. It still is in other languages. If you go back to the was just called propaganda. Like Edward Bernays, the founder of the public the book of his from which of consent and controlling is called Propaganda. Propaganda is just you try to control Well, since the you can't use that term anymore Fascism is a very And we can learn a from looking at its history. Before the Second World War, got into the Second fascism was not regarded In fact, there's a I urge you to read if you as a System of Power, by one of Robert Brady, a It's about the spread of fascism He points out that the industrial countries, of basically fascist character. And he discusses them, and, he was quite right, in fact. There's nothing inherent you have to have gas chambers. That's a special And in fact, say was very highly-regarded Remember, that's pre-Nazi. So FDR, Franklin Roosevelt, he described Mussolini as &quot;that I mean, as late as 1939 he well, he's been kind but basically doing And when fascism was and it was pretty ugly, it in the United States. Business Investment shot up. It also did after Fortune magazine, the had an issue in, I think, 1932. The title, you look at big letters it says &quot;The Wops meaning the wops are finally You know, they've got a fascist and we like that. People on the left Same with Nazism. I mean, as late as 1938, Sumner Welles, went to That's the conference which And he came back full of who were going to help us They're the moderates kind of from the extremists of the I mean, George Kennan, who's now-- there's a major full of praise-- if you take he was the American Consul He was withdrawn, Pearl Harbor. And he was sending back to Washington be so hard on the Nazis. They're doing some things can do business with them. They're the right Well, a couple of years later, that way. Fascism meant crematoria, you So you stopped using the word. But your point is correct. As a social and political knew what he was talking about. There are elements of this all over the industrial Thank you. Well, thank you all for and for your attention. [APPLAUSE] [MUSIC PLAYING]