Welcome back to this episode that I am very And that is blowing up the see-through engine. Now in a previous episode. I had A viewer request. To run this see-through engine on nitromethane. Which I did not do because I thought it was But I am going to run it on nitromethane in I think it's going to blow this thing apart. But in order to do that. I need to make it fully remote controlled. That's going to allow us to get a nice safe That way this thing can blow up completely. No Holds Barred. That being said let's Let It Rip. Hear that we are all set. We're all set we're ready to go. A lot of people ask me what can go wrong. I guess the whole thing can blow up. Or we get a crankshaft out of the side of Or the head blows up and pieces fly everywhere. My prediction is that the heat is going to To the point where it just goes boom and Pops. For people wondering how we can relate this. This engine is used in the car that you drive It's something that we have been using for This is the entire principle behind internal This particular project. With the fuel that we are using. The nitromethane. That is something that we can find at any Like the funny cars and stuff like that. That they race with the big exhaust and they're Those funny cars burn Top Fuel. So it's pretty explosive from what I've heard. I've never run an engine on it. Let's see what happens. Apparently I have to open up this needle a I'm going to open up to where it's almost Here we go try this again. I thought the head failed. But actually the electrode came out. Looks like I have a little problem to solve. And I think I already have a solution. Alright I think we're good. How much can an engine take. Something is sizzling. Yeah it's a mixture problem. It just ate up the whole head. Haha look at that. So it looks like it actually ran for about We got some plastic coming out of the exhaust And the head is a little bit melted. I think that's why it shut off. Started leaking compression. So I'm going to come back and do it again. That was kind of unexpected. I didn't expect it to blow out of the side It's all melted together look at this. You can see where all the heat is concentrated. Take this apart. Yeah it looks like it definitely melted this All that really happened was. We started leaking compression out of this That got melted between the head and the spacer And the burned up this had pretty good. It looks like the plastic was part of the Because this whole plastic was getting shot This isn't what I wanted to happen. I wanted this whole thing to blow up completely. So I think this is the week part right here. This spacer so. I think I'm going to just change this out I have the spacer plate completely 100% done. And I doubt that this one's going to melt. All I'm going to do now is I'm going to throw I have a new acrylic head. That's not as bad as the one we burned up. This time I have a new spacer. And I also have a new fuel. In the last run I ran RC fuel which is 30% And as you just saw it did not blow the engine Originally I wanted to run 90/10. 90% nitromethane 10% alcohol which is Top But instead this is what I got. This is 50% Nitro and 50% alcohol. The reason I went with this fuel over the Is because the 90/10 takes a lot of spark I don't think that this Magneto has enough And now that I'm going to be running a higher I'm actually going to remove this flywheel. To change the timing. I don't know what this runs from the factory. But I'm going to do about 30 degrees advanced. That's pretty modest. I'm thinking where it is now is about 13. That's 45. That's 90 right. So right about there that should do it yeah. Normally Top Fuel dragsters from what I know Because Nitro Burns really slowly. My main goal here is I want to make huge explosions. And get as much power possible out of the This is the nitromethane right here. And it smells like acid. But I'll tell you it does bring back memories. Those remote control cars and remote control What happened. Since I set the timing so Advanced. We're going to run the engine here. Make sure I don't need any more timing adjustments. Then we're going to run it and blow it up. Since I'm burning more of a percentage of We need a lot more fuel. So instead of putting a bigger jet. I raise the gas tank to a higher level. That's going to give me more fuel pressure. And increase the amount of fuel. Hopefully. After running it for a few minutes. I found it really interesting that it idles Look at how it's idling look. I thought that was pretty crazy how it idles. Really really low and quiet. And then when you rev it up and goes crazy Alright looks like I have a new problem. I went to start this engine up again after And apparently. The nitromethane is wreaking havoc on our Because we now have no more fuel. It looks like I found the problem here. If you look at this float. This float is actually supposed to be level. The float is kind of stock. And there's our little needle. It doesn't seem like it's clogged or anything. There's definitely not a o-ring in there. The little tip of that is rubber. I guess this expanded with the nitromethane. So maybe I just need to adjust the float. Let's get our see-through head on here. So I have two new gaskets. And the new aluminum spacer. This should work out really really nice. I'm going to start it up so we can see how Running with the see-through head on nitromethane. Now that I gave you that little demonstration I've been searching the internet high and For some type of Clips or animations or something. How nitromethane Burns differently. Compared to gasoline and other fuels. And my search came up empty. So before I blow this up. I'm going to bolt on my last remaining transparent Set up the high speed camera. And I'm going to try to capture some high-speed To reveal just how differently nitromethane Compared to other fuels. Then I'm going to run this thing Full Throttle This is what we got. It started melting up the head a little bit. But at this point I'm hoping that the head Or something cool happens. I guess we'll see here it goes. Let's do it let's blow this thing up. Whoa that's all we needed was a little Spark. There it goes Full throttle. Hold it hold it we got oil. Got oil coming out. The engine is kind of still running. We got oil flying out from all over the crankcase. And from the Magneto over here. I'm not really sure what's happening. I'm going to try to start it up one more time. And see if we can get it to blow. Do Full Throttle again. It kind of died on its own I don't know why. But there's oil all over the place. I'm going to start it up one more time and Here it goes. Here goes my second attempt to blow up our Oh it still runs. Here it goes Full Throttle. Oh hold on it's still running it's still running. Alright I don't know what happened. It doesn't want to run anymore. This is our second run and I don't know what's But there's oil everywhere as you can see. I don't know where that's coming from. It's all over the ground down there. I can't see where. But we're like leaking compression or something But it still runs. I don't know in like died out on its own. I don't know what happened if it's like overheating This is going to be my 3rd attempt. I'm going to try to start it up again. And see if it starts. And I think this is going to be our last run. Because I think it's on its last leg. Or last piston. I mean the head looks pretty beat up there. As you can see. Yeah I'm surprised it's holding together. I mean it was Full Throttle. It was definitely more than 3,500 RPM. Start this baby up we got oil all over the Look at this we got oil everywhere. I'm excited. Alright so that was definitely a head failure And that's what it looks like in your car Okay I mean the Briggs &amp; Stratton held together. Surprisingly enough. After all this abuse. The Briggs &amp; Stratton is still holding together. I can't believe it. Take a look down at the engine here. This was our third attempt at blowing this We got oil coming out of the crankcase I don't I'm going to have to investigate further. What did every subsequent run. More and more oil is coming out of the crankcase But ultimately. The mechanics of the engine seem to have held Maybe the crankcase is leaking oil somewhere. But the mechanics themselves have held together. Our failure at this point was the head gasket. oh shoot oh that's hot. That's hot. So anyway it wasn't even our had that failed. It was the head gasket that actually blew As you saw on the high-speed footage. I wanted to get something cool with this engine. I wanted it to just blow up. But I think that was cool enough for now. The next step at this point for me. Is to move on it to the next step in the story. I'm going to get the turbo charger. Both it on here. And I'm just going to do it one level up. I'm going to do the turbo. And the nitromethane and 40 degrees timing. And full throttle. To see if we can actually get this thing to All I can tell you this much. If I had a company making lawn mowers. I would definitely buy Briggs &amp; Stratton. Let's take a look at all the oil one last And you can see how much weight we needed I mean this is a beast. Is 100 lb is 140 lb and this is about 100 That being said that's how much weight we And I'm happy. I think this looks fantastic.. Hopefully you enjoyed that episode. This was a long one. We had a lot of attempts to blow this thing That were unsuccessful. Subscribe if you like this kind of stuff. And that's about it. See you in the next video adios.