On April 12, 1861, South Carolina troops initiating the American Civil War. Four years stand triumphant over a broken and devastated states to war is simultaneously complicated and confrontations had threatened the union the only issue that the democratic process failed fear-driven need to preserve the institution of was no doubt of this at the time; there should be new series on the American Civil War, where war in American history and discuss the causes In Their Own Words historian James M. McPherson describes slavery the Civil War, a stance with which we wholly cause of the war was southern secession, and proximate cause was slavery. Absent that peculiar However, you shouldn't take historians' word for them as well. The Confederates were quite open personal letters, church sermons , newspaper the Confederates repeatedly stated that for secession. The second line of Mississippi's that "Our position is thoroughly identified with interest of the world." It then proceeds to lay by free states before declaring, "We must either worth four billions of money, or we must secede this as well as every other species of property." declarations had the same grievances and drew The Confederate Constitution was similarly clear the US Constitution except for adding protections Article 1, Section 9, line 4 of the Confederate ex post facto law, or law denying or impairing passed," while Article 4, Section 3 specifically Founding Words the Confederacy's Vice-President Alexander H. was specifically created to defend slavery. "The new constitution has put at rest, forever, peculiar institution--African slavery as it exists form of civilization. This was the immediate cause further asserted that contrary to the Declaration created equal, "Our new government is founded upon laid, its corner-stone rests, upon the great truth that slavery, subordination to the superior race, the speech, Stephens blatantly and unequivocally could threaten the institution of slavery. He made seceding to continue the enslavement of Africans. to be more guarded about secession's causes rights. However, he never publicly disagreed with privately. In fact, it's quite clear from his Stephens. In his farewell address to the Senate were inferior and deserved to be slaves, as in that very class of persons as property; they were men." In a speech to the Confederate Congress, and organized system of hostile measures against States," ensuring abolitionists wouldn't be insecure as to be comparatively worthless, and thousands of millions of dollars." Overall, it dissension. The southern states openly seceded in and they trumpeted that fact to everyone. This leaves the question of how there came to causes when those behind the war were so open The first is a lack of focus on slavery from wrote about the Civil War did not see the need to cause of the war was considered a settled point. of other contributing causes and let slavery fall need to write about established facts when of focus created a perception that slavery was Another reason that slavery fell to the wayside obfuscation by the Confederates themselves. Having they sought to distance themselves from In a post-war diary entry written while Confederate Vice President Stephens claimed misquoted and miscopied by a reporter and that over states' rights. His claim is undercut by despite consulting with the reporter after the for his own "misinterpretation." More damning, contributor yet never mentioned being misquoted incarceration. Davis would similarly change his "the inalienable right of a people to change from a Union into which they had, as sovereign incidental to that issue, a complete reversal war and everything their own states' secession Davis' and Stephens' obfuscations as This mythmaking was aided by the work of were Robert E. Lee's final orders to his celebrate the Confederacy as a noble Lost Cause Society and newspapers in the 1870s. These works, created a mythology to protect the South and the unjust institution it had fought to as Union General George H. Thomas noted in 1868 insurgents since the close of the war have been justice, humanity, equality, and all the calendar wrong when the effort for southern independence of political cant, whereby the crime of treason patriotism so that the precipitators of rebellion defenders of the government, thus wiping out with the dedicated efforts of Lost Causers slavery's importance to the war, but there was The South's Fears willing to fight were as complicated and simple and Confederate rhetoric corroborates, that fear fears were and which were most important is still them stand out. The most visceral fear was of but as Thomas Jefferson eloquently observed in the ear; we can neither hold him nor safely let slave uprisings, and with good reason. Many of the familiar with Spartacus and the Roman Servile and those ancient Italian slaveowners who had the Haitian Revolution, which happened only a still fresh in everyone's memory. The brutality but far worse for the Southern slaveholders was the island. Southerners, even those who didn't same fate if they lost control of their slaves. According to the 1860 Census, the United of which about 4 million were slaves. The the Confederacy was about 5.5 million, with Mississippi had more slaves than free citizens , being the first two to secede. In the event of a feared they would lack the manpower to put simply watch the rebelling slaves exact just firebrand abolitionists certainly advocated . In from servitude could only end in disaster, even There had already been a number of localized slave and the rebels' mistakes than any competence on oncoming disaster of their own making, which they needed slavery too much to make any A related fear was the loss of political power. the right to vote, and even if things didn't turn be a threat at the ballot box. Southern whites political power away from whites and possibly A more immediate fear was their states losing to the North and West, and it feared that soon, their needs and push their own agenda. The that depended on a favourable balance of trade and both the North and West were rapidly increased government spending on infrastructure were moving to the North and West, it was interests dominated national politics. so-called Slave Power was dying. 9 of the first the North had relied on Southern votes to win handily won the Electoral College despite not it was clear that the slave states were now in the few areas west or north of Texas were suitable This economic bottleneck was a key Southern dependent on slavery. Ever since they were first had been built around agriculture, with large This system was nearing collapse in the 18th cash crops and the devastation of its soil. Cotton was native to the South and grew well even to the seeds being extremely hard to remove by per day per worker. Gins, which had existed in never made it west, easily sorted the seeds from per day. Meanwhile, Britain was in the throes of textile industry. Thus, at the same time that the Britain developed an almost insatiable appetite into white gold. The South traded cotton at top for British manufactured goods. This trade was 1860, 57% of US exports were Southern cotton the richest men in America for decades. "King and production soared. This system could not exist without slavery. could be harvested up to seven times a year. unpleasant in the southern heat and dangerous bolls. The profit-maximizing amount of labour of cotton per day. Cotton would readily grow in at the time to increase yield per acre. Growing ever more workers. Luring non-enslaved workers extremely high wages or them having literally promising limitless possibilities and the rapidly southern planters couldn't compete in the labour the lowest cost option was slavery, which was a maintenance cost over the long run . This resulted increasing amounts of slaves and land unsuitable suggests that the total value of American slaves government revenue was about $4 billion. Almost The Problem reliant on a dangerous economic system. Known and a Rentier Economy, it created a system of which extraction of a high-value resource struggle to compete. The easy money in resource other economic sectors, and so they are left economy becomes dependent on the resource and collapses . This causes an enormous wealth gap the general population, leading to instability. combination of violent oppression and social South certainly used extreme violence to keep While the cotton economy created a highly vast majority of Southerners were poor farmers. only about 8% had more than ten, and only 0.1% of southerners who held no slaves heavily supported While the reasons for that support are complex aspiration. In theory, a poor subsistence farmer cotton growing. The profit from one year's cotton take over the work. Once slaves were working the often this actually happened is hotly debated, the allure of being an elite planter was enough Compared With Other Emancipations Cause myth is that if slavery was the issue which to end slavery? All the New World empires were their slaves, so it can't be the main reason unique aspects of emancipation in those empires. which provided for the gradual emancipation ten years. This was accompanied by slaveholder the government's budget. This compensation quelled slaveholders in the British Empire held less Moreover, members of the British Parliament where slavery had never been legal, and few beyond limited commercial interests. Thus, slavery political backlash. A better comparison is The slaveholders there had very similar fears until the entire plantation system was beginning almost on a whim, and directly contributed to Without the American Civil War, it is probable in allowing slavery to continue for the benefit elite. As it was, their desperation to maintain downfall. It could not be any clearer that American Civil War. In the next episode of this seminal showdown between North and South. To make commenting, and sharing - it helps immensely. kind patrons and youtube channel members, the description to know our schedule, get early and much more. This is the Kings and Generals