And it seemed to me th- the stupidest problem you could conceivably imagine that led to the most complicated answer you could conceivably imagine. I was in Cambridge; I finished two lectures early, and then I sort of hinted, you know, I said the University regulations or something demand that I turn up on Friday but you don't have to turn up on Friday. And I thought they'd taken the hint, because when I get to the classroom there was usually- with 150 people in it you can usually hear some chatter and so on, but it was all quiet. And then I opened the door and they said 'surprise!' And all for a party. Some of the girls wore nice long party dresses, none of the boys wore long party dresses or if they did they were indistinguishable from girls. And- but anyway, one of them came up to me with this problem, he said 1, 1 1, 2 1, 1 2 1 1; that I was supposed to guess what came next. And I didn't succeed; 111221. And he looked at me, and I still 312211. And I knew from the way he was saying it that somehow I was supposed to be able to guess, I still didn't; 13112221. Anyway, it was quite interesting at this party but I didn't guess - and I suppose I should cut the story short a little bit - in the end he had to tell me. So there's no need to be embarrassed if you didn't get the rule. What's this sequence how many 1s? One 1, oh yes. What's this next sequence consist of? Oh two 1s, oh yes that's right. This next followed by one 1, oh yes. One 1, get the rule. And that's quite an interesting sequence. And I was just going off at the end of term and on the plane to, Boston I think I was going to, I fiddled with this and came up with a really rather remarkable conclusion. On average each of these sequences is about 1. - I hope I'm getting it right - 1.357 times the one before it. I mean, not exactly, but it gets closer to being this fixed number times the length of the one in front of it. So it gets bigger and bigger and bigger by powers of 1.357 all the time. And I proved that that number - I hope I've got it right by the way - was an algebraic number, don't worry if you don't know what that means, of degree 71. And it seemed to me this- the stupidest problem you could conceivably imagine that led to the most complicated answer you could conceivably imagine. Anyway, that's been called by some people a look-and-say sequence. little paper about it in the undergraduate magazine of Cambridge. And I called it the weird and wonderful chemistry of audio active decay. Audio active because you say this, and then in some sense the structure decays although the thing's getting longer all the time. And it's like radioactive. And I showed that there are some sequences; in fact if I go one step further, or maybe two steps further, 1113213211, yes this is it. If I take a red pen so that you can see it more easily; I'm putting a red spot there. It turns out that if you develop this sequence here it always ends in a 2. Because, you know, you've got one two at the end of it next time. Here you've got maybe it's two 2s, I don't know. But anyway it'll be 2s. So the the left-hand sequence always ends in a 2. And the right end sequence, well look: it goes 1 1 1 3 1 2 - something like that - and then 3 1 1 3 1 1; and then 1 3 2 1 1 3 etcetera; and then 1 1 1 3 1 2. And here we are - this sequence and begin in the same way. And you can see that- so this sequence will begin 3 1 1 3 and so on and this is 1 3 2; what I'm trying to say is that this will always begin with a 1 or a 3. And I remarked before that 2. So what's interesting about that is, if you follow this sequence as if it's all there is, if it's all there is, results together it's correct. And so I say this sequence splits, it's a compound of two atoms or elements. And it turns out that there are precisely 92 common elements in this thing. And you 92- historically there were 92 common elements in the world. And that just took my fancy, there's no connection whatsoever, and but I call these elements: hydrogen, helium, lithium, carbon, nitrogen, oxygen and so on. (through to uranium?) length 10 is not an element, it's the compound of this sequence 1 1 1 3 2 and the sequence 1 3 2 1 1 in that if you follow the- let's call those you follow L and follow R independently you still get the right You only need to consider elements that aren't compounds or sequences that aren't compounds and we call those elements or atoms. And it turns out there are 92 of them. I mean you can do various other things; for instance I gave a lecture on this in Acadia University in Nova Scotia. There was this Nobel Prize winning physicist, David Park, at the lecture and he said, what- have you thought about Roman numerals? One, one one. Oh this is two ones, this is three ones, oh this is four ones - now the Roman numeral for four is IV. And then this is 1 1 1 5 1 1. This guy gives rise to another problem of the same kind and it turns out that this depends on the root of a twentieth degree