Ahhhh, the Nokia 3310. A mobile device launched in September 2000 company which was then leading the scene. The device was an evolution of their earlier It wasn't the first Nokia to lose it's aerial, as their 1998 handset, something I found the This was an era of Pay as you Talk and yearly every year was almost obligatory. To that end the Nokia 3330 was released just lesser known model. Along with all the 3310 features, the 3330 a new pinball game called &quot;Bumper&quot;, and animated However, the standout feature was WAP capability. This was the reason I obtained my model in to this day. Internet browsing functionality was pretty quiz answer or looking up a taxi number, I deal. But give the recent announcement of a Nokia revisit this dependable unit and see what So I thought the best way to go about this first, and then after that we'll have a look That should save those who are less interested Now, setting this up, took a while. The 3330 uses a very outdated method of internet I'm using an O2 sim card here, but I actually The reason for that is because the phone actually up back in the 90s. In fact if you dial the number you hear the Once it's dialled, the Nokia then accesses allowing fairly quick access of a whopping Because of this configuration quirk, you can to get access. Now back in the day using the connection of costs, but nowdays, that's just not the case, It's times like this when you start to appreciate I was actually surprised Vodafone's dial up I imagine it's a rusty old modem sitting in So after entering a plethora of settings, The next problem is finding a Wireless Markup ancient proprietary browser can interact with. Most modern servers will tell you where to still support these old protocols, and this Now, this might not appear incredibly exciting. But to me, it really was. Just seeing that little globe in the top right alone, and then, there we have it - Google.com, Some links refuse to work, but others, such You don't get any images, but you do get a click through. In fact I spend so long clicking about here Come on, this is a phone with up to a 245 Now I couldn't find many other WML sites worthy and popped it on nostalgianerd.com. So here it is. A welcome page. A page with a picture of me, and of course, a gratuitous shot of a ZX Spectrum... I've popped the link for that below if you Although some browsers will require an XML So as you can see, this early attempt at mobile It was of course monochrome, it wasn't the But it was functional. It was helpful and it was definitely a sign This is what Nokia were good at, and it's loved at the time. Let's take a quick look round. Construction Like the 3310, these are sturdy little devices, In my possession I have a standard coloured You can see the Orange model has an introductory apparently setup by a lass by the name of Corrie, if you're watching. Well done. The 3330 also allowed animated screen savers. Enough to provide hours of entertainment in fruit machines. Ringtones I can think of nothing more nostalgic than Ffffffffft, they're a bit harsher than I remember. There are some 35 tones built in as standard downloaded custom tones. See if you can recognise the tune. Yes. It's Looney Tunes. Not a bad rendition I might add. Once you get fed up of the tones, you can with it. Games The 3330 really upped the game with it's games. We had the classics such as Snake 2, which But also, Space Impact AND Bumper tables. A frickin' PINBALL game. And it's not half bad I might add, and there's Game Boy. Texting SMS was where it was at in the early noughties, Not only do we have picture messaging, but Now this offered an early version of the kind Allowing for a more flowing text message conversation. We know where you got your ideas Apple. Additionally, this phone could handle messages threading 3 separate ones together. Smashing that original 160 character limit. The very same limit that Twitter is indeed I beleive this was also the first Nokia to and the phone memory kindly provides an additional Allowing a whopping 200 contacts to be stored. This was of course well before Facebook friend ample for all your acquaintances. Or at least, the ones you ever wanted to contact. Depending on your provider, you can also receive A method which is still used in many third So there we go, that's the Nokia 3310's slightly I can certainly see the appeal of a new model But the main draw for me is the simplicity It offers entertainment, customisation, limited and it just feels liberating compared to our of today. You won't be able to take pictures or watch you room to breathe, to think, and to get comes all flooding back to you.