The U.S. is producing more oil than ever. In fact, the U.S. is pumping more oil than any country ever has in the It's very profitable right now to drill in the United U.S. oil production hit 13.4 million barrels a day. People were saying we'd never get past 12 million So, it's a big number. Big oil companies like ExxonMobil, Chevron, shell, nearly $173 billion of profits in 2023, according to Defense Council. At the same time, billions of dollars worth of tax In the end, we need energy to do our daily lives, but Renewable energy companies like NextEra energy, First have seen stock prices stumble ahead of the 2024 That's because the renewable energy transition has support, and it may be costing more than expected. The transition that we're talking about, it's not It didn't even start yesterday. It started years and And they actually happened during the Biden They happened during the Trump administration as well. We're building out the infrastructure for clean energy. But, we can't retire the infrastructure for oil So, how did the U.S. become the largest oil producer of all time? And what does that mean for the transition to greener Oil is critical to the US economy. If you think about how we move around. If you think about how we live. A lot of that is based in ample and easily accessible For the last more than 100 years, most of that energy The price of oil impacts almost every American When oil prices are high, gasoline and energy bills inflation. When oil prices are low, the cost of doing So, oil prices have gotten a lot of lift in recent the tensions in the Middle East, which also kept oil And, that signaled to the American companies that they oil. The research and development of hydraulic fracturing contributed to the boom in U.S. crude oil and natural gas production. In the 90s and into the 2000s, you know, everybody was And, of course, the United States industry came up basically be able to squeeze oil out of what looks to This is also known as fracking. Fracking has all of a sudden made natural gas much, Just to give you a comparison, oil production was at 5 breakthroughs with horizontal drilling and fracking. And, now we're at about 13.5 million barrels a day. These three charts show how the U.S. oil industry has become more productive than ever, The advancement has allowed oil wells, both new and otherwise would have. The number of new oil wells fluctuated over the past pandemic, the amount of new oil wells coming online to pre-pandemic years. At the same time, active oil directed rigs, which trended downwards. So, despite the 69% decrease in the amount of active crude oil production has seen a recent boom because of The United States is not only the largest oil producer oil exporters. The US is exporting more oil than ever. We are a major, major player in the international oil market because if the United States industry was not a lot higher and a lot more volatile. The U.S. exported more oil to European allies that are oil. There's been a lot of attention on where natural gas invasion of Ukraine, and a lot of countries have The very few countries in the world that can provide We have to have U.S. oil production at record levels otherwise we'd be in able to afford fuel. The U.S. government has incentivized the energy If energy prices are really high, that hurts the It also hurts the economy in the sense that most of lifetimes have started with an oil price shock. There are some major incentives built into the tax There's something called the IDC, the intangible in your first year of drilling if you're, say, a A lot of the expenses for fracking come in the first So the IDC is a very important support for that It's not dissimilar to the subsidies we see in wind The intangible drilling costs tax break is expected to $1.7 billion in 2025 and $9.7 billion through 2034, according to the White House Budget for Fiscal The oil industry used to get other kinds of subsidies that's been cut in the last ten, 15, 20 years. So, the IDC is the most active subsidy they get, and Another large subsidy is known as the depletion diminishing oil reserves. The White House 2025 budget expects the depletion industry by $880 million in 2025, and about $15.7 2034. However, there are a number of ways that For example, the International Monetary Fund also And according to IMF, U.S. fossil fuel subsidies hit more than $750 billion in $3 billion of explicit subsidies. So, actual subsidization of the fossil fuel sector, implicit subsidies, and they come in the form of And, so the existence of those negative externalities if the producers were, in fact, responsible for those, It becomes very political, you know, to talk about the But, basically we subsidize everyone. And, subsidies are neither inherently good nor bad. We subsidize things we want more of in society all the That's the point of subsidies. It's a really pretty complicated landscape. So, if we just take the policy that oil companies are alternative energy, then you have to ask yourself the participate? Tax credits worth billions of dollars are also meant to U.S. energy policy has been largely oriented towards That's how a lot of the renewable energy deployment Renewable energy subsidies have expanded in 2022. Wind and solar tax expenditures totaled over $11 which includes intangible drilling costs and depletion million. That's a significant decrease compared to expenditures have been in the 2 to $3 billion range. It represents a shift away from traditional oil and For example, nearly half of the federal energy through 2022, and government support for renewables billion in 2016 to $15.6 billion in 2022. The key source of that expansion came in the Inflation The Inflation Reduction Act included $369 billion for ever. A lot of that was directed toward renewable It's a very difficult way to do policy. You have to give subsidies to alternative energy so So, if I'm a new company, I have to lay out a lot of industry that already exists. Of the Inflation Reduction Act's $369 billion allocated $270 billion will be delivered through tax incentives. If the IRA is ultimately successful, it will have made so much more cost competitive. They're already really close. You can look at renewable energy deployment in the booming. The Congressional Budget Office and Joint Committee on cost the government, primarily via tax credits, $660 and $790 billion through 2033. Compare that to the White House budget cost estimates companies: $9.7 billion from 2025 through 2034. The things that affect renewables really are the and those have been around for 30 years. The largest tax credits are the production tax credit in the Inflation Reduction Act. The Production Tax Credit, or PTC, applies to project. A qualified company can receive up to 2.9 renewable energy generated. A second prominent tax break is the investment tax 30% investment tax credit on qualifying renewable This is similar to the production tax credit, but it's The ITC... that's been in place going back to 2006 and gained bipartisan support. Comparing amounts of government support allocated to a full picture of what it means to subsidize these Because doing so creates an impression that parity is If renewable energy, for example, is subsidized at X fossil fuels either to X or another amount of dollars? And no, that's not really what we're talking about It's not like a birthday party where all the kids need happy. Alternative energy is in this sort of chicken and egg But you have this owned and depreciated money making and gas industry. But in this sort of middle period where we're both infrastructure. So if you're trying to pivot like BP stations at all of their gasoline stations, that's a So, then you get into this sort of moral question, charging stations at their gasoline stations? The 2024 Presidential Election put energy subsidies on Democrats have touted the IRA as the largest investment Republicans have consistently tried to repeal it since Now, while experts say a total repeal is unlikely, But complicating matters come November is that More than half of the announced projects are in investments, according to data from E2. As part of the Biden administration. Vice President Kamala Harris played a key role in The Washington Post reports that former President Trump them to help raise $1 billion for his campaign, saying environmental regulations some say hinder more oil He literally promised big oil companies... Big oil lobbyists he would do their bidding for $1 campaign donations. We will drill, baby. Drill. But, you know, of course, drilling is an all-time high. And we have all these rules about environment. I'm not sure that's really actually what the industry But, on the flip side, you have Vice President Harris that she would stop drilling because, in the end, gasoline in their car. How do you ensure that at any given moment there is It starts to become a little bit more complicated These are intermittent resources. The cliche is, well, when the sun is shining, solar We don't have enough coordination between what happens No one's planning out where should the charging Where can we shut down natural gas? And if we stop drilling here, is that going to cause a We're having trouble working out all those details. Eliminating oil and gas subsidies from the tax code has I think changes to the tax code are always complicated. There's a lot of institutional inertia for keeping it, been granted. And, whoever may or may not be Pesident yeah sure, they have an impact over U.S. energy policy. But, there are trends at play that For example, the clean energy job market has expanded Wind energy jobs grew during both the Trump Jobs in solar and hydro energy also increased during So, I think the reality is that, regardless of who wins renewables over the next decade.