In the last video, I asked you guys for they win? Let's find out! TWD98 says Pink Alright, that settles it. But we will use Troy's signature combo, we have I love this combo as well. We got the Mario maximum mini-turbo stats, so it's so fun to play As Troy would say, we're, uh, we're cruising I have a red shell. Alright, um, I think I'll Alright, alright. Oh, I'm in second. You know That is so satisfying! Oh no, there's a blue dodge the blue shell. Alright, um, I'm not I feel like there's usually one blue shell on Uh, no one can really hit me here. Yeah, okay, I'm These mini-turbos and the handling are busted on Alright, looks like she messed up or something. give this combo an 8 out of 10. Pretty low and I'll give it a nine for cuteness. Oooh, I I might like those sponge tires a little bit more so Baby Daisy feels right at home. She absolutely I don't think she belongs to the Mushroom Kingdom that crown on her head. Wow, this is pretty cute. that the streetle points its wings out, that is it's just the entire anti-gravity section. That's Botched that. Alright, try again next lap, hope I can get two orange mini-turbos there. Uh, I want different items. So, see how the then the plants actually cannot get you. So, oh sure the Boo can't steal it, so I'm going to, uh, about this mini-map? I can't tell where everyone in case you didn't know, this track is a Mobius path, but you end up on the underside of the looks like that. It's because everyone actually I think from here you can actually see the the underside of the track, which is pretty cool. it's a pretty cool gimmick. Is this combo truly I was trying to bomb myself. I'll give this a missing the sponge tires. It's such a scramble decision, I'm going with the wood tires. I think the Landship is shooting cannons to the left and that's what they're going for. And Baby Luigi's so cute. Also, uh, the Landship has a very good But unfortunately, that's only underwater, that as, uh, having the water speed bonus. So, wow, great. I don't know what happened to everybody to get a super horn or two red shell defense Hop onto that curve so it doesn't give you air. What are these stats even like? The Landship Buggy and Biddybuggy. It's not actually I have no clue about the wood tires, don't even know if they're on the higher speed But I'm in 10 coins with double defense, this so if a blue shell shows up, it'll break my the blue shell. Alright. So that means I'm if hopefully it hits somebody and I can keep Not even doing anything special, I'm just driving Oh, I hit someone. Nice! [Music] Okay, kind of messed that up. I was trying to So we'll just use this here. Hopefully two just no red shells coming my way. Hop onto first places in a row. That just goes to show worry about your stats. Stats-wise, I mean, low I never got bumped. And for cuteness, definitely have Baby Mario, we have Mario riding Yoshi. I wasn't expecting to be using inside drift. I the inside drift challenge. Okay, so let's give lot better with inside drift than I was before I've never done this on inside drift before, I forgot to use the mushroom after the second how to drift. I actually, right after that So we're gonna get back up to speed. Oh, He's swerving! No, that was so random. And it okay, that's what happens when you're using a have much going for me right now, but at least that yet. That was never gonna happen. Oh, stay As soon as I'm on inside drift, they're like, Oh, someone was in the Boo, and they I'm taking such wide lines to avoid everybody path here so I can grab this item box. Yes, Hopefully, dodge a shock. [laughs] I forgot you can't hop to tried to spam for the star. Oh, What did we get? Third! Oh, and let's just cute. Alright. Hey, I mean, you guys asked I'm gonna do it. It's a democracy, except when I this is weird. Bump that Yoshi. Uh, doesn't work I've got a mushroom. I think I'll just I do not want to be in the middle of the pack. And of course, uh, as per my own advice, I will I just got? Is it the monster tires? I think I'm not gonna go for double item box. That is too thing, plus it's on mirror mode. But we're I'm in first! Alright, this is great too. I'm away not really worth it doing that shortcut. I missed everybody, which is my main goal right now because Right, mushroom right there, and I'm gonna use the I just wanted to get as big of a lead that's a nice second-place item. I All right, so no fancy stuff here, just Oh, this is mirror mode. It's a combo I never shell! Let's go. All right, I'm actually kind of feel like with such a big hitbox I should get hit works. I'm gonna see if I can hit people here. No, to hope for no red shell before this item box. far ahead to hit anybody with this, so I'm just All right, where do you even go? I forgot. I'm not with potentially making a mistake. Come on, no What are those invincibility frames? Oh, wow. 10 out of 10 for height. This combo is actually green sport bike. For some reason, I thought okay. I'm gonna try and grab these coins here. I'm but luckily on Dry Dry Desert, I can kind of just help me drive this course a lot easier. Oh, okay, I'm just gonna go back to the next item set. Oh, star and shock. Okay, uh, let's go forward. Uh, no, I'll change this at the next know what to do. I'm so far behind. I'm just gonna use it. I don't Okay, we're gonna keep trying to get items. Like, none of this really matters right now. All right, I'm gonna bullet right here. Oh, the bullet goes inside. That's cool. Another it's gonna drop me off before this item set No, I only got one item, and it's a bullet. use it. I want this to drop me off before the because I don't trust myself to use inside drift. Just use that. [Music] I guess Jeez, I should have slowed down, but No, I would have won. Oh no, the red shell ruined definitely could have won that. I'm gonna have to sense, but cuteness, I'll give it a seven. Look at I mean, Sky High Sundae is not a great track to be Knock that Yoshi off with me. [laughs] I'm there's a bomb right there. Okay, okay, So, female villager's animations and everything, wind. I'm not even gonna trick here just to show couldn't. And the way she throws items, this is all just adorable. They absolutely, but for male villager, I feel like they really like, really disheveled, and female villager when she does her trick animations, and she's I'm gonna try and get a double item box Oh, the Isabelle. [Music] like, look at that is just so silly. Oh, and I fell off. Oh no. Okay, dodge the shock, that's cool. I mean, play this properly at all. All right, we got last race, I mean, come on, I wasn't really and right. So, uh, this race, I'm gonna materials to do a little gap jump. Get these Oh, bump. Oh, that wasn't my Okay, that was unfortunate. I just Okay, it's okay. We have another lap to do the and I missed the item box. It's okay. There's jump. So, if I can get that, then I'll clear We're pretty close to the front here. [Music] Yes! Oh my. So, I didn't get target Like, when you land, you're kind of slow anyway, I'm gonna need another Yes, mushrooms. Please don't hit me. [Music] I'll have to give this an eight for stats, throw away a race there in order to switch to Animal Crossing combo, and, uh, Ninja Hideaway. Animal Crossing island. Like, it's just a theme but that doesn't mean it doesn't, like, fit It makes sense in the world of Animal Crossing. I had a last-minute decision to try and go up, to items here, and then, of course, I did get hit by we had mushrooms here. Great. Four mushrooms. Wow. I'm just gonna use them to gain some speed. Oh, it's coming for me. Okay, so we're just gonna So if somebody else breaks that, I I'm gonna go up again. It's slightly Okay. I mean, I straight-up just held I can red shell them, but I also want to use All right, let's just toss that. Please open the shortcut. No, I have to Right, I just let other people through, I'm not. Okay, okay, and first What? Did second place get hit by something? Couldn't get a mini turbo, right Isabelle. Oh, what a good dog. I think I'll go Everyone is playing Daisy. Look at me. I never use these things, so the funny thing good stats. Like, really good. Like, it's I think, two points more invincibility. which, I don't know, maybe in that section right so stupid. [laughs] I mean, okay, the rest of the tires once, which was enough for me to, like, because I realized it was bouncy. And what I mean I don't really land here, but when you land on, uh, is the tires, like, give you a little bit more but I don't know. I didn't try to start a drift, you can actually notice the extra air that you got Causing chaos. Oh, I had it done right back to me. Cut their mushroom boost but didn't I need to get away from the star, just even though I was in a mushroom. That about Never use the cushion tires. No, oh, invincibility stat from the I got seventh place. I mean, what can you expect and, uh, 7 out of 10 cute. It could use some more looks sufficiently goofy, like maybe even goofier like the button tires and the, and the, the this mini turbo stat does not feel good, by button tires have good mini turbo, and this must even getting mini turbo there. Okay, I'm gonna At least I'm Koopa Troopa holding a green shell, gonna be okay. Wow, I can't control this one to use so far. I wonder what are the stats I'm not risking getting hit, Yeah, I saw them go invisible, and I knew so I didn't even bother trying. But I, like, I'm turbo. I'm just gonna have to-- Well, I pressed Okay, I'm just gonna see if I it's gonna be hard to get worse Nope, nope, nope, it found a This thing's handling, this thing's mini turbo, to use this, rather have the bullet. Okay, I'm otherwise the bullet is going to All right, bullet, save me some spots. I'm sorry to all the Koopa Troopa mains. I'm gonna but, uh, ten out of ten cute. I feel like like no one ever plays them, but it might from the bad respawns that he gives here we're gonna see Lakitu riding on his cloud. but I mean, that's the closest we'll get Well, besides the actual Lakitu that pulls you can actually showcase this track properly. Like Okay, they used it, they used it, [Music] Tossing red shells into an item time because if they're chaining items So sometimes it's actually good not to chain Oh, mushroom. Okay, probably just gonna save this, here anyway if you're doing the shroomless cut. Okay, cool, cool, we got it. Another people are slowing down for the blue shell. Oh, hope there's no more blue shell and just do this, And now I have some distance. I'm gonna try and Oh, I got him. Yes, yes. Okay, I have a huge lead Oh, I forgot to get rid of my coin That would have been so good Messed that up. I meant to hold it behind me, Nooo. Yes. Yes! This combo gets nines across the the Mercedes car in this game. Like, doesn't whose head and I guess hair is like, uh, Okay, that doesn't feel nice. You being reminded of Lemmy Bad wagon. I just know this isn't a good combo. There's just Not gonna try and go for anything advanced here. flashbacks to specifically Lemmy Bad wagon on this nothing mattered. It didn't matter what I did, but Okay, Lemmy's get hit by green shell stat all the items-- Why do I ever use Lemmy? He's cute, But, like, his luck stat is just atrocious, worst we have two people behind me. but they're like half a lap behind. I'm pretty And go around. Uh, I just want to be Nice bullet. Come on! I can't believe it, it was real. The get hit I would. 5 out of 10 for cute and, uh, get them So, Tanooki Kart and, uh, the hot monster I couldn't find anything quite as big so, uh, this is what I'm going with, and I just gonna try and figure it out. I mean, it is so, uh, it's not going to be a huge deal if I figure this thing out. Okay, and it's mirror mode, More coins, please, and coins right here. I'm getting out of here. I'm not gonna be able to a game of luck at that point because I'd have to chain this one. We're in seventh place. Wow, these I'm getting away. You're still here? Bullet shock, oh, let's go! [laughs] Okay, so of course, um, I'm gonna be holding this, bullet. Oh, I messed it up because it's mirror It's supposed to use it in the shortcut, like it's mirror mode. It didn't extend! Are you I'm gonna, I'm just gonna chain this, rock, let I was trying to get the ground mushrooms, All right, so a little bit of bagging and on a bagging track. 9 out of 10 cute, Look at Toad's butt, we got Toad on a sport but Toad on an inside drifting bike is so funny. diaper, it's probably just his pants. [laughs] the Mushroom Kingdom, and I'm just calling it Royal Raceway on an inside drift bike. That's really hard if you don't already know the lines up here. Let's see if we can take a shortcut. Lap Okay, I just learned that that is there. [Music] so we're still in fifth place, not too bad. don't know how to use this. Okay, can I make this Being bumped during a draft is so tough. Let weird. I don't know if that has to do with inside Okay, we're at 10 coins. This is looking good. for that boomerang. Brake drifted for the item Hit some off-road, had to use that mushroom. Couldn't get an item! I-- Wha-- Why did it-- I--I'm not even gonna I was like, why are you right behind me? The &quot;get off me&quot; item when someone's something out. Let's do that. [laughs] I just did it again, but No, it went backwards. Okay, this is rough. You goal is not to win; the goal is to hit people. Six for the diaper. Okay, so we have Toadette on the cheating when you use the biddybuggies and rollers but Toadette's super cute. Like, look at pigtails during the race, then I think you have And actually, a fun fact I didn't know until the biddybud. Like, obviously, I knew it was based on I didn't know what it was because I'm not super What am I doing all the way over here? Oh, I a red shell for no reason. That's actually common, just toss their items because they're like angry Okay, I wonder if enough people are double you play worldwide. You have a very, um, even inconsistent set of skill levels. So sometimes, you can just pass everybody even though I messed up the shortcut. What? I What's going on? Why couldn't I turn there? Okay, so somehow we're back in third. See what So let's try and have a better lap three. I might be able to win. Oh, I thought I was gonna hit that banana, so I the banana. Oh, I almost got a speed boost there, shortcut when small, and being small doesn't Wow, I'm just in first place. I told you all other laps are going. I just needed an OK lap was pretty awesome. So we'll go with, uh, eight both of those categories were carried by the so this one's called the Yoshi stack. I went with most sense, and we're on inside drift, which look at me. I managed to go from the front to the This shouldn't be too hard of a track to play layout. Okay, this is a sharp turn coming up. and that wasn't even a shortcut. That pretty Oh, I thought you could-- I'm pretty sure you piranha plant before. I don't know if it had but I'm blaming everything on inside drift don't get hit by these. Okay, can't I just burned one mushroom and I kidding me? These things can't turn at Come on, better items than this. Ah, I but then I can't turn. All right, great, we have This sucks. Give me a bullet, give me Yes, okay, this bullet is probably gonna last to it. But first place just finished, Yup. [laughs] Thank you, bullet. Okay, I'm know I have a bias against inside drift. tires and a Yoshi glider. Okay, so I think buggy rollers actually being a cute combo but it's one of the best combos in the game and are you really using a cute combo if you're just should be two separate things. You should be At least that was true during you know, the point of this video the fact that I'm on one of the best combos in to throw that back to make sure that I get the And when you're boosting, the piranha said that earlier, but it applies to Couldn't do anything about that. We're kind Love this mini turbo stat. This combo is You can pretty much always get a purple God, why am I all the way over here again? I got hit too. That was so much lag. it's just the actual hit came way later. I This is not the item I want in third. [Music] Let's drop that right there. Aligning for that double item box can Please tell me that hit. No, I don't think a chance at first here, depending on what item I I keep messing this up. I got first! Oh geez, this get out of here! This is the Oh hey, I heard you're looking for some