(upbeat music) - If you have an aviation dream, This is where all the - Sam, welcome to the world's biggest A380 and 777 training facility. Are you ready for us to explore it? - Let's go. (upbeat music) - [Woman] Keep going, do not stop. - I'm not feeling well. (fire blazing) (extinguisher blasting) - Mama, keep pushing, keep pushing. (water splashing) - It's incredibly cold here. - [Instructor 3] Throw it over - It's like a little scarf. - No, no, no, no, no. (flight attendant laughs) - Just let me help you. (gentle music) - Welcome to our simulated here at Emirates. So I'm going to take you through about how the Ab Initios So, they're going to start it's a core part of their training. We're going to look at some sliding, we're going to look at and then we're going in a smokey cabin, and then firefighting as well. So, are you ready to go? - I'm ready to go. But Fiona, before we What is Ab Initio? - So Ab Initio is the initial and they go through an intense before they're then ready to fly with us. (gentle music) (flight crew yelling) - [Sam] First time jumping - Yes. - [Sam] Are you guys excited? - Yes. - For this exercise, we want you to do this as So what I'll ask you to do, instead of jumping I want you to sit down, and I want you to just Please do not put your hands on the slide 'cause I want to protect your palms. This is the Captain, evacuate, evacuate. (alarm ringing) - Leave everything! Open your seat belts! Leave everything! Come this way! Open your seat belts! Leave everything! Come this way! - Reach forward with your and down you go. - Like this? (trainees laughs) There you go, excellent! Good, next please. - [Woman 1] On the ramp like this? Yes. Jovan, Andrew. Go ahead, Jovan. Andy. Okay, so what we're is two of our crew, so we have a crew member and whether they're a What I want you to do, you're going to sit down first, okay? Take a seat. Now you're going to sit right behind her, so your legs are going to go around. There you go. Now, I want you to your arms in front and your hands are going to connect. So, one hand here. No, no, you're going and then hold onto her other wrist, okay? So, you're going to scooch down. - When you have the crew with the passenger with Once they land, you will help them to eventually evacuate - Yeah. - So on each side there. Perfect. Great! Okay, off you go - Thank you. - That's a great morning exercise, Fiona. Now, is there a timeframe they must evacuate the whole plane? - So we train the crew to In fact, our goal is to in no more than 90 seconds. Okay Sam, so now it's your turn to jump. We're going to go up to the and you're going to see what it's like to come down our upper deck slides. - This is going to be even higher, and a faster slide, I guess. (upbeat music) (alarm ringing) (upbeat music) - So we go to evacuate from here. Are you ready to go? - I'm ready. But I also want to say, this to jump out from a second Ooh, I'm scared. Okay, so I will do the same, right? - [Fiona] Perfect, that's it. So you're going to sit down, try to touch your toes. And then when you're ready, I'll see you at the bottom. - See you. (Sam exclaiming) - [Instructor 2] Perfect, well done. - The speed was much faster on this one. - [Instructor 2] Yeah. - You know, you feel the velocity, really. - [Instructor 2] Yeah, exactly. That is what I told you. - Pretty well done for your sliding. It's something we never want but it's good that we can practise. What we're going to do now is 'cause the crew are practising - [Sam] Let's go swimming. - [Fiona] All right. (upbeat music) - So on the life jacket You have your two red toggles, a light that will illuminate a whistle that's on the same side. So locate your red toggles, yeah? And I want you to pull. Oh, that's too bad, they (all laugh) Okay, so if they don't inflate we'll then have to do so manually. So in between the chambers, I want you to inflate your life jacket. So you'll have to use both tubes, okay? Go ahead, you'll have (upbeat music) - Our initial crew number? - 3907! - Are you ready to ditch? - Yes! - What I need you to do is I need you to board on this slide. So you're going to go on the left here, you're going to crawl, and - You'll never see me doing this again. - So we'll start with the canopy set up. Now with the canopy, the or a covering on the slide raft itself to keep us safe from the elements. So once these are in place, now we want to put the All right, everybody has their hands. If you're holding the pole, that's fine. Everyone else, I want you to On the count of three. One, two, three, throw it over There you go. Excellent, so this would be your canopy. Now the canopy itself will if it's raining, and as well as the sun. But we have to keep in mind that we want to keep air - Like that? - Hm-hmm, go for it. (water splashing) - [Sam] Is it cold there? It's very cold? - Yeah. - Breathe in, lean forward. There you go, excellent. Well done, good stuff. - Go quickly, go, go, go. One, two, three. (water splashes) - It's incredibly cold here. - [Instructor 3] All right, so I need you to come How do we feel? - Great. - [Instructor 2] Perfect. Comfortable, huh? - We can do this all day long. - [Instructor 2] All right. - That was great exercise this morning, and they didn't tell me what to expect. I just jumped in the water, it's so cold. We're back at changing room. How do you feel, boys? - It was okay. It was good to see the real situation. - Was it your first jump as well? - It was, it was my first jump. For all of us actually. We've got exams tomorrow, As thick as a fist. - [Sam] Oh, good luck with the study. - All this knowledge ready for the exam tomorrow. - [Sam] Exams. - [Sam] Make sure you - Perfect, thank you. (upbeat music) - Okay Sam, so we filled we turned the lights off. This is our mock-up baby, this is what we want the crew to find. They're going to be wearing they're going to be using flashlights. So let's go and hide the so they can go and find it. - This is so real, the whole I can hardly see myself, and you probably can't see anything else. (indistinct) - Just show the way with Okay, there's your flashlight. Take it off the wall. Perfect. Now remember, you're looking for your baby in the front, okay? So talk to each other. Remember, have a look and when you find it bring Off you go. - [Trainee] Let Julia On the chairs? - [Instructor 4] On the - [Trainee] Okay, I found something. Nothing, checking for second row. Nothing here, I'm checking the middle. - You can see they're having finding them. - Okay, I'm going to check Yes, I found it! - [Fiona] You found it? - Window seat. - Okay. - Good, good. Okay, let's go. - [Fiona] Make sure you don't - Are you (indistinct)? - I'm not feeling well. - Quickly, quickly, get him out quickly! - You got to take me out. - [Trainee] Can you see the floor? - Yeah, yeah, yeah, thank you. (upbeat music) - So we've moved now to a which is our real And you can see the setup behind me here. So it's a requirement that and you can see that they're practising using the extinguishers in Okay Sam, so this is in the fire room here. So we're going to put one - I need backup, I need a backup! (fire extinguisher spraying) Fire is out! - I need backup! (upbeat music) - You guys ready? - If your casualty stands up - Yeah. - The different positioning of your CPR. - Yeah. - So your casualty stands they collapse in the aisle. Your action plan. - Hello, I need senior and AD. - Sir, sir? - Sir? - Can you hear me? - Tap another time, tap another time. - Sir, can you hear us? - Okay, let's see if he is breathing. - [Instructor 5] No response. - Let's see if he's... - One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, 10. He's not breathing. - All right. - We need AD! - One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, 10. - Thank you, can you - Don't stop, keep going. What did we say? Keep going, keep going, keep going. - You can do it. - Okay, maintain the right speed. Keep going, do not stop. - Keep going, keep going. - Five, six, seven, eight, nine. - [Automated Voice] Do Stay clear of patient. - Everybody's clear? - Clear. - [Automated Voice] Deliver Pause, begin CPR. - Let's go. - I'll take one after 30. - Fine, let's go. Keep going. - 18, 19, 20, 21, 22. - Straddle, straddle. Straddling position. - Ladies and gentlemen please, we would like to have any doctor, nurse, or paramedics on board. Please come help us. Thank you. - Due to COVID pandemic, we are not allowed to give the breath for the sake of our own safety. So we do have equipment and so that will be given But if we do not have a medical volunteer, then we shall only be And this is what the crew are doing. (upbeat music) - Today, we are training So with the childbirth, how do you know that the - [Trainee] The water breaks. - She will feel low abdominal pain. - [Instructor 6] Low abdominal pain. - The water will break, so she will feel it gushing out. - Oh this is very close then, yeah? - [Trainee] An urge to push. - The urge to push, perfect. Now what we need to do as a cabin crew, we need to get all the equipment, get ready to help the mother With on one hand you're and with the other in front of the head of the baby, because? - You need to support it. - You need to support. If the mother push the baby The mother is pushing, what - The fluid will be coming out. - Okay, what do we call this? Crowning, yeah? So you can see the crown? Okay, mama keep pushing! Ask her, encourage her to push. Keep pushing, push more. - Push more. Okay, the head is out, yeah? So when the head is out, it's very, very important if the cord is around the neck or no. So there's nothing around The baby will turn, and the because all the area that is only 10 centimetre, yeah? So the baby needs to Mama, keep pushing, keep We have a girl, bravo! (all cheering) - You can see the cord is connected to the belly of the baby, and the baby is very slippery It's full of fluid. So very important, when you hold the baby, try to hold like this, Now that the baby is still this is one, we're going to clamp it. Clamp it six inches from the baby's belly. So the first one, six inch, clamp it. And the second one? - [Trainee] Nine inch. - Nine inch, perfect. And I'm going to cut in between. - You guys did a great job. How many cases do you the mother gave birth just - Last year we had three cases. - You do have cases like that, so it's actually a very useful course. - Yeah. - Thank you for showing us. (all clapping) (upbeat music) - So Sam, welcome to where This is where the piece of our image and uniform session. (upbeat music) - Hello and welcome to My name is Sally and I'm one of the image Here we are with a very who just received their uniform, and it's their first day to wear it. And I have with me a few of the cabin crew that have volunteered - [Sam] And you just got your uniform? - Yes, today. - [Sam] How does it fit into you? - It's very amazing. - [Sam] Really? Did you learn how to do the hair yet? - Yeah, I did. - [Sam] Uh-uh. - I mean, it's kind of difficult, but I just started with the hair spray. - [Sam] Have you done hair like this, like fly attendant before? - No, it's the first time. I mean, we're training today, so. - [Sam] I know, but you're - Aw, thank you. - [Sam] You know how - You're very kind, thank you. I think that's it. - [Sam] Let's see. - Of course. - So I think she's done an amazing job and definitely ready to What you can see here classic bun style, but we do have nationalities of cabin crew up to I think 130 nationalities So of course we have different hair types. And so we need some styles that can actually suit all of them. So you'll notice here we do the French rolls, French braids, so we can actually suit all Okay, so Sam we're now about to show you the trademark of the Emirates uniform, and that is of course our red hat. So we do have some standards We have the veil with the seven plates for the seven Emirates, and of course the golden logo, We place the hat centre of the head, slightly tilted forward, Then we fold the veil, and the fold should be just and gently draped around and tucked into itself. And the completed look. - To show you that little trick, right? That scarf is actually So, you know, just stick onto it here. Now, lots of passengers are wondering, it's not a one piece, it So we're going to do it together now? - Okay, so you put it on your head. - Yes? - And here. - Here? You put- - Under, yeah. - Like a little scarf. - No, no, no, no, no. (all laugh) - Just let me help you. - Did I do it wrong? - A little bit. You look gorgeous. - Ta-dah, how do I look? - [Trainee] Just missing the lipstick. - Just missing the red lipstick, right? - Teaching the gentleman how doing the manicure and keeping their nails and neat and tidy at all times. - [Trainee] Just soak for a minute here. - [Sam] Only for real men. - [Trainee] Yeah, only for real... (all laugh) - [Sam] Okay, so what's the next step after soaking in water? - [Instructor 6] The next step will be of course drying this up and making it ready for filing. Nice, not too much, yeah. A bit gently. You have to make it adjust because we're not allowed to Work it on, we give it the very nice end. - [Sam] Oh yeah, it looks polished. It looks beautiful now, yeah. - [Instructor 6] Something like that. - What a difference it makes! I think some of you have seen Instagram picture from here, right? And this is that room. This is where they make all the ladies look like the Emirate standard trademark. How are you feeling right now? - I'm feeling fabulous. - And we are proud of this. - Where are you guys from actually? - I'm from Brazil. - [Sam] Brazil? - I'm from Uzbekistan. - Mexico. Where are you guys from? - I'm from Brazil. - [Sam] Brazil? - Kyrgyzstan. Wow, lots of different countries. All right, good luck with your uniform. Good luck with your imaging, see you. Bye, bye. (upbeat music) Oh, we just landed, 777 cabin here. - This is where all the fun begins. These are our new Ab Initio cabin crew who've just joined us. And today what they are going through is a live demonstration of learning themselves how in the economy cabin. - All right, Sam. So right now I would like to in which we are going to be discussing all the features for So we start the boarding at the door, who's doing that today? Max and? - Theresa. - Theresa, perfect. So we're going to be doing the welcome in English. Who's doing that? - Camilla. - Then we're going to We'll continue to the children's (indistinct) - Yes, correct. So just be mindful of asking present with the correct toy. The menu today for... Where are we going? - To London. - We have two special meals here. Which special meals do we have? - Child meal and AVML. - Yes, AVML or Asian vegetarian. All right. Now if you have observed, today we do not have the exact In the bottom we have four And on the other side and two per beef. Do you think you might - [Trainee] Maybe. - Let's see how our ideal crew will be dealing with that shortage. All right. So I'll start heating So when we take off, it's What will you be using - The drop stick. - The drop sticks, correct. - Are we ready to board - Yes! - Yes, welcome them with a smile. So let's do it together. (all clapping) - Okay, okay. - All right, Sam. Welcome on board to our Here at the door, I operating right now, Maxim and Theresa. They're getting ready to board who today are our customers. - Hi. - Hi, how are you? - May I have your response as well? - Let me help you reach your seat. - Thank you. - So right now during boarding, we might be faced with some scenarios. Tanya for example, is an eight That's why we have Miki during boarding, having the introduction to the minor and explaining all the and introducing herself. - Hello. - My name is Miki, one - Nice to meet you. - Nice to meet you, Tanya. How are you today? - Good, thank you very much. - I just came here to you have in front of you. This is a little TV just for you. (Tanya gasps) Yeah, do you like Disney movies? - Yeah, I love it. - Yeah, we have Disney classics here. - So in this different scenario, we have Stephanie with That's why Lina will be - Hi Madam Estephania, how are you today? Welcome on board. - Oh Mashallah, what a baby. How old is she? - Michelle. Nice to meet you, Michelle. - Okay, welcome on board. - Okay, just to inform you, in case you need any help on board. You have the lavatory to change the baby as well. As well, later on as we can assist you with baby vaccination. (upbeat music) - How many juices do we need per cart? - Three. - Okay. I need two more juices here. - Mr Nashi, I bring your drinks. - Yes. All right. - The gin is beefeater. - You did a great job 'cause in the training we don't actually open. However, make sure you open The position of the napkin was correct, the glass in the centre. However, bear in mind it's kind of midway. I would suggest always at the base. We don't want to get any close to the rim, but great job so far. - Okay. Excuse me, excuse me sir. Thank you, passing through. - [Sam] I was testing you. - We are starting now our afternoon tea. Would you like to join us? - [Sam] Yes, please. - Okay. - So may I help you with your tray? - [Sam] Yeah, how do I open this? Okay. There's no choices, only this? - I will explain for you right now. For today we have a cucumber and scones with jam. - So what did Sam ask you - If it's just this option. - Definitely. Did you inform him that we only have one option? - No, I didn't. - So it's something to bear I would also like to see a little bit more of confidence on you, 'cause I could see some hand gestures. - That was not bad. I actually enjoyed it. I thought it was pretty good. I think that thing comes with experience. - Yes. - Once you've done 10 and then it will be a piece of cake. - I hope so. - It will be a piece of cake. - Thank you. (all cheering) (upbeat music) - [Sam] Surprise. Hey, hi, how are you? I've come to surprise you guys. - Thank you. - [Sam] Yeah, how's your assessment going? - Good! - [Sam] Good, good, good. We're close to graduating, right? - Yes! - Where did you go today? How was your fight? - We went to Karachi. - Karachi? - Yes. - You should take me along with you. (all laugh) I just want to say one thing, eight weeks, almost. You're going to graduate and in and then I'll be proud to Keep a very open mindset, You'll see lots of weird stuff, but you'll also discover So never lose your cool and you'll go a really And I wish you all the best, All right, ready to fly? (all cheer) Well, I've seen so much today, so much happening behind this building. But what's important, I've seen is, Aviation's recovering. You know, we're passing and a lot of new crew are joining. This place is buzzing now. - Correct. So every week we have more joining our big Emirates family. We train them and we give So hopefully next time you will actually see see them on board. - See them in the sky. - Yes.