"Arrakis ... Dune ... wasteland of the Empire, Because it is here--and only here--where spice in the Empire, there is no civilization... Today it will be our goal to give context you to the incredibly rich work of Frank Herbert universes that suffuse our culture today. The Galactic Factions, and the Planet of the world of dune is absolutely fascinating it's various books videos and films however for me the truly immerse myself in the action through 1979 it's now making a triumphant comeback in two the first version is a reskin of the original made me fall in love with it however with complex time it can admittedly be a bit daunting to to refine and evolve much of the gameplay with a and diplomacy with 2-4 players and a 30 to 60 of the original into an ever more tense pacing spice blows card draws troop revival army all factions have their asymmetries and player no two matches play alike as an avid fan of the check the link in the description below to order It is the 11th millennium AG, or the 27th millennium AD by the reckoning might be from one of the backwater planets, It has been a long time since mankind first stars in the 2100s AD. This trend would during an era that would become known as the 500 year period, the off-world population came Yet given its high population density and still maintained its position as the imperial would all change abruptly in 2798 AD when our home The event accelerated the inevitable transfer be the one to take up the imperial seat. Empire of Ten Worlds with colonies and outposts By the year 5000 AD, Ceres claimed to be the Yet the further we pushed into the unknown Imperial power and communication was Its authority could only be maintained It is perhaps because of this that a rebellion Ceres, shattering the stars into hundreds These would be successively united, divided, with the peaks of each intermittent Golden known universe such that it now stretched encompassing over ten thousand worlds. Traversing technological advances that allowed ships to light. However the ever increasing pace of The rise of incredibly sophisticated, sentient to the freedom of mankind and sparked a at the start of the 17th millennium AD. By untold billions of lives had been lost but the This pivotal moment had a dramatic impact on the rely on the treacherous crutches of such text meant to guide humanity forward in this "Thou shalt not make a machine in the likeness surely protected mankind from the dangers of humanity's ability to regain the strength But nature abhors a vacuum and the void In the wake of the Great Revolt, the biological a bid by various groups to claim dominion known as Mentats for instance emerged with store, and analyze data at a level that which had preceded them. The female dominated Bene and training to hone incredible skills that would intelligence gathering, diplomacy, and societal be the Navigators who leveraged the effects of This ability to peer into the near future allowed perilous process of space-folding. Vast distances using ships equipped with both navigators Another important development in this new to a feudal-like galactic order. This had arisen of its social structure completely collapse. In and economic entrepreneurs to rise to the as the new glue of civilization. The imperium resting on three legs: The Landsraad, the The first of these, the Landsraad, was in essence It had existed prior to the Great Revolt and governments who together controlled over 10,000 with many smaller assemblies meant to but its primary role was to Following the Butlerian Jihad, the inner workings feudal order of the galaxy. This is best evidenced 400 of the 1,000 available votes were were governments of vast wealth and power who They were admitted or removed from the body by of Great Houses varying over time from a few would have its own highly centralized form of Depending on their status, they would Minor Houses also held a total of 400 votes. each wielded far less power. In fact there were so the Empire" in order to be given representation. reality underlying this structure was a massive, The 100 votes of the Landsraad now leads us to a discussion of the 2nd leg This seat of power was occupied by House Corrino "Padishah Emperor" or more generally Yet while he technically ruled over all, the a small number of systems. The rest of the galaxy houses we previously mentioned. Numerous duties The final 100 votes of the Landsraad were given out occurred in the centuries shortly after the were forced to come to a power sharing agreement the new calendar. The strength of the Spacing light space travel which gave them a stranglehold Much of their organization remains opaque but it with the Guild Navigators whom we previously For 10,000 years these three legs of the Empire would be in constant competition with the other, overturn the current galactic order. It is on the converge at the start of our story. Let us now Arrakis is the 3rd of 6 planets orbiting the a giant white dwarf star and the white hole it lightyears from old earth, falling far beyond of the imperium. For this reason it long went ultimately reveal a secret that catapulted it from To quote princess Irulan: "Arrakis and the most valuable planet in the universe. Because it is here--and only here--where spice the Empire, there is no civilization... he who a crash course in the planetology of Arrakis Initial, long range observations of than old earth with two satellite moons. It with almost no axial tilt resulting in with an atmospheric composition of mostly nitrogen where it differs are in the anomalously high These work together to produce The low water levels are indicative of a planet high surface temperatures during the day ozone rich atmosphere meanwhile maintains a of dramatic convection currents. At their mildest stream of dust into the sky. At their most violent flows circulating between the equator and poles, with wind speeds measured in the hundreds of rather than any flowing water, which Were one to draw back the veil of dust clouds, an around the poles are two small ice caps, the Meanwhile the majority of the surface consists the planet were it not for the high levels of the rapid formation of mountain ranges and deep many of these tend to run roughly north south has resulted in the formation of a sort of ring, against the worst of the Coriolis storms It should be no surprise then that life on Dune when one considers the traumatic history of from a variety of environmental catastrophes. highly adapted organisms managed to survive. of hardy flora and fauna but none are These are fascinating yet poorly understood as small larvae birthed from eggs in a deep desert bodies some 10 to 20 cm in length. Thousands are and nutrients from around the nest. They have isolating and herding liters of water back through months the accumulated excretions of the larvae the area, forming a pre-spice mix. Eventually CO2 a powerful explosion known as a spice-blow. are brought to the surface and exposed to both a process turning it into spice melange. Its use For now, the presence of the chemical reaction Soon they will begin to metamorphose into In this stage in its life, the superorganism will deriving all of its nutritional needs from For hundreds of years, they will travel In some cases this might mean maintaining their unfavorable conditions may trigger a reversion form. Out in the deep desert however, worms without bound. Some of the largest specimens measuring over 400 meters in length and Mature adults will finally have entered typically create a nest by thumping out The newcomer then proceeds to consume the female, and producing a fertilized egg sack unleashing the next generation of worms. and has been nearly impossible to replicate imported. The end result is that it is here on they may be a product of their unique environment After all, their accumulated biomass represents planet, their metabolism serves as the primary cycle is the only known way to generate the But just what is it? Spice melange is a narcotic when consumed include the following: Extended life expectancy by as much as three times and awakened mental abilities Yet these benefits do not come without a addicted to the narcotic. Habitual while heavy users will see even more severe humans can even cease to appear humanoid Navigators who literally spend their waking Its effects were first, and best understood, by were the Zensunni nomads, a far travelling people, they too would be molded by the harsh environment group known today as the Fremen. They are a hardy living out of the various Sietches tucked They live and die by the conservation of water, precious drop. For instance one's very breath stillsuits while the bodies of the deceased As the Fremen nightly chant goes: "Now do we for the flesh of a man is his own, Ever a resourceful people, they have just like the worms of Dune whom they Harvesting Spice plays a large part in properties but as a resource for the production of word of this exotic material escaped beyond the factions of the empire would descend like vultures to scour the desert for existing deposits while Despite the hazards of the job, the Now small extraction and processing huge industrial levels necessary to feed the Currently it is House Harkonnen which has Imperial Throne. Their duty is to ensure that a tribute to the Emperor and keep the rest hugely enriching to House Harkonnen which has holdings. This is done by slashing expenses and All who protest are met with a brutal policy the Fremen have suffered greatly. Yet among the there is one gift which they truly hold dear: The that one day their harsh planet can be towards this dream that they now strive In the year 10,191 AG, Imperial House Harkonnen's fiefdom over Arrakis. In While the color of the hand which cracked rumors that the approaching Lord brought with bred whispers in every Sietch. Could this be the Whether or not such myths planted long it is sure that the winds of change were blowing I have to give a huge thanks to our team of of Dune to life. They poured a tremendous amount happier with the results. If you'd like to contributing to our Patreon or buying some of In the meantime be sure to like and check out these other related