Is all that exists just whatever exists right Is the past erased and the future a void yet Well the answer lies in between the past and that we call the present. Today we're starting a deep dive into the we'll encounter the physical origin of time, this tells us about consciousness and free Big questions that'll take us to the edge But today we're definitely doing physics, reality of the past, future and present. We think of the world that exists as the world The past is gone except in our memories, and into the past. But interpreted some ways, physics suggests while the present is an illusion. To show you why this really might be the case, As with many ideas in physics, this one originates Newton was the first to come up with a set of all objects in the universe. Newton's revelations led to the notion of by knowing the current position and velocity as the forces that act between those particles, states of the universe. Now quantum mechanics might argue otherwise, depending on which quantum mechanics you prefer, but we'll come back to in an upcoming episode. Newton's picture of the universe included wrong. It included the idea of an absolute, clearly Newton assumed that all particles, all observers, constantly ticking clock. This universal clock meant it was possible would agree on, and so everyone would also Here's a nice way to represent Newton's Let's cut out one dimension of space - space in time. Now let's stack successive instants so that Every slice is the same universe at a particular the next according to the laws of physics. We only experience a single slice at a time, slice as the one that currently exists. But we can also imagine a perspective from entire structure just exists. From that perspective, time doesn't have "present". Time is just a dimension like space, and we slices in sequence like a flip-book. We sometimes use the term "block universe" of all space and time just existing in this The flip-book of the block universe has to phenomena like the sequence of cause and effect, evolving patterns of structure and information, entropy, and even our conscious experience, of patterns of information in our brains. Our awareness of the universe rides this forward-moving wave of the present. To us, none of the rest of the block universe the forward evolution of a razor-thin slice. Although by the way - that perception of existing in a single instant in time is definitely an illusion - our awareness - in fact our over a couple of hundred milliseconds. But that's a topic for another, well, time. Another way I like to think about it is that experience is the music coded in the grooves. Viewed from outside, the whole thing exists, right direction. Nothing "plays" the block universe - it just embedded in it, when you look at it in There's a name for this idea that all of as this atemporal structure. It's "eternalism". The opposite viewpoint would be presentism, has a meaningful existence - the past is erased, And the middle viewpoint would be that of this shock-front of the present creates the the past out of nothing. Believe it or not, we can actually science a little help from the smartest guy in the The representation of the block universe that We had a single time axis that everyone agreed block was currently the present, and which Newton says there's only one way to slice Einstein says otherwise. In his special theory of relativity, Einstein whether two events happen simultaneously - the present, past, and future are relative concepts. Let's pick this apart. How do we even say what "now" means for Nothing, not even information, can travel That means any distant event is already in We represent the region of the block universe - signals from things inside that cone have The boundary of the cone holds the paths of Whatever events live on that cone represents to us by light. Any event above that cone is unseeable in lightcone moves upwards to encompass it. Which is the same as saying we have to wait Our entire time-slice of our present is never To map it, we need to wait. From your point of view, you are motionless. After all, motion is relative so we can define That means as time passes you move straight As that happens, signals begin to reach you Successive shells of light from more distant the other, expanding your view. OK, so the present seems definable - if only But if they're moving relative to you things To you, they seem to make a mistake. They are racing towards one set of incoming At the same time, their entire perception motion. We talked about this warping via the Lorentz The upshot is that the moving observer builds - they define the present differently. In fact, it's possible for another observer you not to be in theirs. So that's the effect of Einstein's special other, so that different observers will slice on their velocities. Even your own sense of the present changes Start moving forward and your slice of "now" Ahead of you, things once in the future will becomes the present and what was once the Walk in circles around the room and your entire a storm. Nearby the effect is tiny, but the "present" back and forth by a couple of centuries every Try it, but be careful - it can make you dizzy. Let's get back to the question: what does and the future. Imagine that the future is created as the But where is that wave? Whose slice? At a given location in space, you can lay possible presents. The largest tilts are for things traveling the future light-cone. In front of the future light cone is the region what their speed. So is that the future that doesn't exist Well that can't be right. Consider the time-slice of our present; we that we surely must "exist". After all, they could have travel to those They have future light cones, simil The space beneath their future light cones defines all possible defines all possible definitions of the past to them. Just like it does for us. So now fill our present time slice with observers and their remains no part of the block universe that couldn't be considered the past according to someone who lives in our present. Let's take stock: It's hard to accept current "slice" of the block universe impossible to define what that slice actually It's also hard to accept that only the past in the sense of a growing block universe, else on your slice of present could be literally So we're left with two options: 1) the entire or 2) if you don't want the future to exist present beyond your own immediate experience, which can include events only from your past light cone. Nothing outside that section of the block until you interact with it. That second stance feels extreme - it feels subjective experience is the only thing we But there's a way to humble this notion - to those who like to believe in an actual That means most physicists, including this To rescue materialism without demanding a quantum mechanics. Quantum mechanics tells us that all this stuff aspects of the world within that cone - exist Depending on how you interpret quantum mechanics, that could be evidence in favor of this solipsistic denial of external reality. But quantum can also save materialism and need all possible realities to exist simultaneously and persist into the future. We've talked about these ideas before - the - but soon we'll dive back in, to see what and what it would mean to live in a block To everyone who helps us out on Patreon - once again, thank you so much for your support. It makes a huge difference. And today's special shoutout goes to Marty level. Marty, we're officially designating you the means past, future, and present - never mind At any rate, may your future lightcone contain Last episode we reported on the incredible atmosphere of Venus. Remember, it's probably not life - but it So let's see what you had to say. Henri Williams points out that any Venusian - having transported to Venus on rocks that And Afto Kinito points out that it could easily life being seeded by Venusian meteorites. Well I think you're both on to something. Earth and Venus do exchange a lot of material, would have traveled between the two, in the The question then becomes - would it have on two planets independently, or have a spacefaring bugs propogate after crashlanding? Honestly, the latter seems pretty compelling. Man, it would be so cool to learn that we're Robin Nogueira takes issue with my statement was confirmed, pointing out that it would Just to explain this excellent point for those The mysterious absense of civilizations in of a great filter - something reliably stops That something may be ahead of us - like nuclear war, environmental destruction, ... Or it may be behind us, like it might be extremely If we discover that life forms very easily then it makes it more likely that the great Which is bad news, not good. So yeah, maybe - but there are still plenty lifeforms or intelligence or whatever. Or maybe life did only spawn once in our solar Either way, I'm still rooting for life on Mark Pendragon reminds us that industrial so maybe we just discovered Venusian heavy Bummer. Maybe if we can make contact we can ask whatever advanced civilization to kindly shut down their factories so we can more carefully analize