In today's chess video, we are going to absolutely must know. No matter how good a chess player you are, to spot these patterns, whether to save yourself, So stay with me till the end &amp; keep watching Let's start with the Anastasia's mate. In such a mating pattern, we see the knight trap the opponent's king. You will also see an opponent piece like this &amp; that's what results in a checkmate. Now check out this game. Can you find a similar mating pattern for You can pause the video here if you want to Well, we begin with knight e7 check, pushing Queen h7 check, that's a queen sacrifice. King takes on h7 is forced. And finally, rook to h5 is a checkmate. Okay, now let's see the hook mate. This also involves a rook &amp; a knight. But we also have a pawn along with this opponent escaping. In this mate, as you can see here, the rook is protected by the pawn. This is what we call the hook. Now check out this game &amp; try to find a similar So we begin with a queen sacrifice. If king goes here, then queen b8 is a mate. So black obviously has to take. And now we have rook e8 check. If king d7, then rook d8 is a mate. And if king b7, then rook b8 is a mate. The rook is hooked to the knight &amp; the knight Both these pawns are blocking the king so Alright, the next mating pattern is the Arabian together like this &amp; trap the opposing king The rook is right next to the king protected square to prevent the king from escaping. Take a look at this game. Can you find the mating sequence for white? Alright, we begin with knight f6 check. He can't take because of this pin so king Now rook h6 check. That's a rook sacrifice. If he takes with the pawn, then rook g8 is And if he does not take &amp; blocks with the mate. Okay, now let's check out our fourth mating The Corner Mate works by confining the king using a knight to deliver the checkmate. Look at this game. It is white's turn. Can you find the winning continuation using We start with a queen sacrifice. Black has to take with the bishop. And finally, we have knight to c7 trapping call a corner mate. Next, we have the Vukovic mate. Here, the rook delivers mate while it is supported And as you can see, the knight is used to Let's see if you can apply it in this game. You need to find the winning continuation Well, we start with knight a7 check. If King b8, then rook e8 is simply a checkmate. So black plays king d8. Now we have knight c6 check. King comes back &amp; then you have this in-the-face Okay, now let's look at some mating combinations First, let's check out the Opera mate. In such a mating pattern, we attack the king bishop to protect it. You will also find an opponent pawn or some this square &amp; that will result in a checkmate. This checkmate was named after its implementation as the &quot;The Opera Game&quot;. Anyway, in this position, can you use this You can pause the video here if you want. Okay, so here's how it works. We again start with a queen sacrifice. It's a check &amp; black is forced to take with Now we play bishop to e6, it's a double King has to move, d8 is the only safe square a checkmate. Alright, now let's look at the Reti's In this, we trap the opponent's king in on its escape squares. We attack with a bishop that is protected And this is how it looks. The Reti's Mate is named after Richard Reti, eleventh move of his game. This was the position; he was playing as white. And he started with a queen sac. King captures, then bishop g5 is a double If he goes to e8, then rook d8 is the opera But black went to c7 &amp; here, Reti played bishop See how the king is trapped between his own mate. Moving on, the next checkmate I am going to after the great, Paul Morphy. You can achieve this mate by using the bishop opponent pawn help to confine it. Let's check out this game. Here we need to mate the black king. Can you find the winning continuation? We need to get rid of this pawn first so rook King h8 is the only legal move. Now rook f7, it's a discovered check with King g8, then again rook g7 check. King h8 again. And now that we have eliminated the pawn, This time the king cannot go here because So he blocks, captures. Blocks, captures &amp; that's a checkmate, which The next pattern that I am going to show you Harry Pillsbury. It's kind of a variation of the Morphy's In this, it's the other way round. The rook delivers checkmate and the bishop corner square. Let's see if you can apply it in this game. White to play, can you find the mating sequence? We begin with queen g7 check. Knight takes on g7 is forced, rook takes, Now what? The best move here is a rook sacrifice, rook King takes and now we have rook to g1 check. The king cannot go here because of the bishop Well, he can block with the queen, but again So that's the Pillsbury's Mate. Moving on, let's quickly look at some checkmates The first one we are going to see is the Swallow's In this mate, you will attack the enemy king some other piece. As you can see, the opponent's own pieces This somewhat resembles a swallow's tail Next, we have the Kill Box Mate, which occurs the queen defends it. They form a box like this to trap the king, Moving on, the next pattern is the Triangle Here, the queen delivers a mate, while it The king is also restricted from moving behind See how the white queen, the white rook and the black king. That's why we call this a Triangle Mate. Now let's look at one of the most common &amp; it's the back rank mate, which occurs like this and it gets mated by a rook or a Now check out this game. Can you use this idea to checkmate the black You cannot straightaway go for queen f8 check square. So the idea is to first remove one of the We start with queen f7 check. The king has to go to the corner. Now we can go for queen f8 check. Bishop f8 is forced &amp; now we go for rook to Now let's look at another interesting pattern, rank can be. Look, how beautifully both these rooks eliminate This mating pattern is popularly called the And on that note, please don't turn a blind If you appreciate my efforts, do show your Next, we have one of my favourite checkmates, This mating pattern is possible only if the own pieces. This also highlights the unique jumping ability his own. Let's check out this game. Although the black king is not yet fully trapped, Can you find it? Okay, so we start with a discovered check If he goes here, then queen d7 is a checkmate. So King moves to b8, then knight d7 check. Again king c8. Now knight b6 is a double check. Again, he goes back. And then we sac the queen, black takes with smothered checkmate. After the smothered mate, we will now see It's somewhat similar to the smothered mate. But here, alongwith the knight, you will need The knight checks the king and the bishop You will also see a few enemy pieces like up in a checkmate. Let's try to apply it in this game. Can you trap this black king with your knight Yes, of course. You will start with bishop h6 check. Black has only one square, king g8. Now the king is trapped &amp; you just need to How can you do it? You need to go knight e7, but this queen is So let's bring our rook into the game, rook He cannot free up any of these squares for queen c7. But now, the queen is overloaded. She has to defend both these squares. So we play rook g3 check, queen captures &amp; finally a checkmate. Moving on to the Anderssen's mate, which This mating pattern features a rook or a queen the opposing king. So this is how it looks. Now in this position, can you deliver such Okay, we start off with a queen sacrifice, And now rook h5 check. He can't take because of this pin. King g8 is the only legal move &amp; finally we mate. Moving on, we have the Pawn mate. As the name suggests, it is a pattern where Look at this game. Can you find a way to apply this idea here? If you go to d5, then the king can simply first. How can you do that? Well, it's quite straightforward. First, we go for a queen check. This king cannot go anywhere. He can only block with either of his knights But it does not matter. Let's say he blocks with the knight, and and the pawn delivers a checkmate. Alright, I will now show you some checkmate Let's begin with the Dovetail Mate or the In this, the mating queen is one square diagonal here. And these 2 escape squares of the king are Now let's see if you can use this pattern So how do you start? You don't want the king to go back to safety If the king goes here, then we can mate him So his best option is to take with the rook. Now queen c7 check, pushing the king to the Then queen c4 check, he takes the other bishop This pawn supports the queen to deliver the own pieces. So that's how it looks. Next is the Damiano's Mate, which is one of you might be aware of this. It works by confining the king with a pawn the final blow. Most people generally try to execute this Anyway, let's take a look at this game. Can you implement the Damiano's mate &amp; checkmate Alright, first the rook sacrifice, king takes. Again, a rook check, king moves back. Again, a rook sacrifice, king takes. Now the queen check, king goes back. And we deliver the final blow with queen a7 mate. Moving on, the next pattern is the Lolli's This mate involves getting into your opponent's generally against a castled king. Let's look at how this can work out in a As you can see, black is completely cramped The first step would be to double up our rooks. Attacking the queen is the best option for Rook h7 check, queen takes, rook takes back. And now if he takes the rook, we can easily And if he does not take, then rook h8 check, deliver a checkmate, just like this. And that's the Lolli's mate! The next one is the Epaulette Mate, which The queen delivers the mate &amp; the king is Here's another example where these guys we have the name Epaulette mate. Moving on, let's check out the Greco's In this checkmate pattern, the enemy king bishop. And then, we use the queen or the rook to So how can you apply this tactic in this game? It's white to move and it's a mate in Let's start with knight e7 double check. The king has to move to the corner. Then knight g6 check, pawn takes. And now h takes on g3 is a discovered check Queen h4 is the only option and finally rook Alright, let's check out the Max Lange's In this mating pattern, we use the combination like this one. Let's see if you can apply this same pattern So how do we begin? We start with queen a5 check. He has to block with the queen. Now we can give queen d8 check. King a7 is the only move. If you go queen b8 check, then he can escape So we need to get the bishop to cover this We do that by first bishop b8 check, king Now bishop c7 discovered check. King a7 again. And ultimately, we finish it off with queen Now let's understand the 2 bishops' mate We are targeting this black king and we need It's quite simple. First, a queen sacrifice. It's a check, bishop takes. And finally, bishop c6 is a checkmate with Moving on, we have the Boden's Mate, which kind of criss-cross diagonals, trapping the Here's a good example of how you can apply Look, this bishop is already covering this All we need to do is deliver a check with So we start with queen c6 check, pawn takes Next, we have the Balestra mate. This looks somewhat similar to the Boden's But here, you have a bishop and a queen instead The bishop delivers the checkmate, while the This is how it looks. Alright, the next mating pattern is the Blackburne's This involves 2 bishops &amp; a knight going against This is how it looks on the board. It's quite rare to get this in a game, but Alright, the next checkmate we are going to In fact, this includes a wide range of ideas. But to summarise, we can say that it simply which could be a rank like this, or a file I hope you got the point. That's the corridor mate. Now let's jump onto some really basic checkmate be knowing. But still, let's quickly check them out. The first one is the fool's mate, which checkmate possible in the game of chess. It occurs after these opening moves and we This can happen mostly with new players so The next one is the Scholar's mate, which The main idea here is to get your queen and square to deliver a checkmate, just like this. I guess almost all of you would have tried would have won as well. In fact, even the great Mikhail Tal fell for only 9 years old. So just be careful about this. Anyway, the next mating pattern I want to This is also quite a common opening trap, black king, just like this. I have made a complete video on the Legal's You can check it out by tapping on this 'I' Okay, so here's a chess puzzle for you all. It is white's turn &amp; you need to checkmate Can you find the mating pattern? Do share your answers in the comments below. This is your test, let's see how many of Well, don't forget to Like and Subscribe and are showing up on your screen right now. Thanks for watching and I shall see you in