We have been in a flow in the church, and God Well, he has been speaking to me. I learned Holy Spirit as long as he would, so I'm in the last few weeks and continue with I'm going to pick up in verse 8. I want you to go but I'm going to pick up in verse 8 today have an instruction and a promise. First comes of sober mind. Your enemy the devil prowls around Resist him, standing firm in the family of believers throughout the world This is the verse I want us to really think who called you to his eternal glory a little while, will himself restore you Let's read that verse again. The first week, we talked about The God of and last week we talked about The God of Today, I thought we would talk from verse 10 in 1 who called you to his eternal glory in Christ, will himself restore you and make Can you guess my subject for today? &quot;And but a little bit later. &quot;...who called you to suffered a little while, will himself restore Would you join me in praying again? Father, I thank you for each precious person you In your shadow, Most High, we find refuge and a place of safety, a place of strength. in a specific way in their life, hit the target. Holy Spirit, I offer you all of me, and I What they need and what I know... There's a but not for you. You can speak I trust that you will and that you The God of After. Have you where you got the joke but it was too Or you get the perfect comeback for somebody, you can't exactly meet up with them and do it be a good thing in my life. A little space between sometimes, because I'm quick on my feet, but that on my feet, so I get myself into situations That's probably why I love this Scripture where and get ready for the Devil, because he's coming amount of preaching in the world that can Specifically, there is a suffering we all you to know about this suffering before we this Scripture suggests that whatever suffering Secondly, it's not for nothing. Somebody is under attack in this room right to church because of what you've been dealing Scripture says: it's only for now, and it's not not the stupid kind of suffering You know, when you hit yourself with the hammer God to take the swelling down. This is a type and it has actually come for a I was talking about last Wednesday... and after I spoke to the staff, I spoke to I had a conversation with a staff teaching, I was talking or specifically, not fighting against things God is something I struggle with. She had a follow-up She said, &quot;Well, when you're a fighter, and somebody is challenging you or saying and that fighter wants to rise up in the moment, receive that interaction and I never process positively in the moment...almost That's usually where a lot of my I screw it up and the Holy Spirit Would you like to keep screwing that up to stop screwing stuff up in your life?&quot; I'm I going to have to do to stop screwing it up? I want you to realize that spiritual growth but on your ability to go back after so you don't get frustrated with yourself. &quot;Just yesterday, this guy honked at me.&quot; Elevation sticker on my car... He honked Let me set this up for you. This fool, this to today.) When he pulls out in front of me... I'm I mean, nothing wrong. I can't always say that he honks at me, and he pulled out in And, yes, I backed up. And, yes, I said, and I kept my voice really low. He said, &quot;Are depends. Are you good? Because if you're good, I had to get all the way back to my house and try to think, &quot;What made me back up and I mean, this guy might be getting baptized He might be some Special Forces. He might have Sunday my last Sunday preaching. I don't know any I think about all that after. Then I tracked Why couldn't I just laugh at this blessed tool I realized what we did right before My wife has me taking the family Christmas Who wants to take family Christmas pictures Do you know all of the fights we have been through Of course I'm a little edgy. I'm bringing this show you how immature I can be but that I realized of me and honked at me that made me back up Sometimes, in our own lives, we never to back up and ask the question, &quot;What was it that So, then we just repeat the behavior over our lives apart because we never stop to ask the I mean, that could have gone much worse. my estimation of how it could have gone, but there times when I am completely unreasonable, and I before that...?&quot; I think that's what Peter sober-minded.&quot; To recognize, when the Enemy attacks you, where you Without asking that question, you just repeat my best growth moments in God have been after where I go back and ask, &quot;What was it?&quot; Have you &quot;Well, I know it wasn't that that made me act like What was it that made me so irritated Why did something so small, like a pebble Sometimes, when you go back and look at it, In the process of taking those family and I think I was a little sad because I'm I'm not going back on all of this to blame it but Sometimes, when the Enemy attacks you, but if you would pay attention to your of the stuff that comes at you regularly. You He said, &quot;Be alert and sober-minded...&quot; Or &quot;...because the Devil, the Enemy, prowls around like If he can eat you alive with anxiety, lunch. If he can eat you alive with offense, If he can eat you alive with the memory of he will, because he's looking for his lunch. inventory of their life to go back and It seems like the Enemy always attacks When you have an unreflective life, when you are just reactive all the time, happens to you. You cannot resist it. There I want to get better and better and better in but going like, &quot;Hey, what was it that put me and how next time, when I'm going into that Sometimes God will uncover really weird stuff When I get really hyped up before I preach, it's hyped up when I start preaching. But here's what You had to drive through some traffic I didn't have to bring any kids to So, of course I'm ready. I didn't have to get I didn't have anybody to account for but myself. and shoes on and was showered up was me, so I realized that I have to be ready when not be ready to listen yet, because if I'm when I'm like, &quot;Oh no! They don't Well, they're into it, but it's They just have to get settled into You know, I asked God one time... When people yawn Like, really sets me off. If you ever notice in really, really rough all of a sudden, like, really and judgment, and stuff like that...I probably saw I remembered something. Even this week, they call it triggers. It could be a be a sound. It could be a lot of different boy when I was first learning to teach Not yawn like he was trying to hide it, but he would stretch up over his belly. I had and all this stuff. That was when I was first right in front of me when I was first learning to He would yawn while I was preaching the Bible. it actually sets me in a place where I feel Or maybe I just need more it gives me a moment to know, &quot;Oh! That He might be tired because maybe he's Or he stayed up all night playing video If I recognize that that puts me in a bad place, then I can be ready to respond rather than to attacked. Faith does not give you the ability I wish that, by faith, we could rebuke every panic room, every attack on your physical body I would do it. I would love to do it for you, the rest of the Bible that suggests that, at will, the Devil's attack, but we can plan for what That's why Peter called him a roaring lion. Before he ever comes to devour you, there's Or do we live lives that never reflect this situation? Why is the Devil always relational pattern? Why are people never It's always this thing of blaming and resist it and get stronger from it? I if the consequences of the sin were immediate. even overeating if the bad No, I'm serious. If the cellulite grew you ever noticed how the benefits and the payoffs of doughnuts are immediate? I mean, a quick sweet relief, a y'all. I fast before I preach.) There is a hidden hidden benefit of discipline that doesn't kick I used to always say I could do crunches if When I crunch on a Frito... If I could I could stop with the Fritos. It is the delay It's the most amazing thing what the Devil It's an amazing thing what he'll bait that It is not until after you are hooked that this can't get rid of the habit that you wish you had This is why we must teach in church not only the of the grace of God so we can help people make I want you to pray to God after you fail, you fail so that maybe he can spare you some his hands before you get caught in it so God This is not even in my notes, but I just feel we create our own suffering because of shortcuts but I heard a wise preacher say, &quot;Never give There are some things you want to be in the future that are going to require some adjustments Even some of the Scriptures you hear and some you the most will help you the most after. at tracking back and noticing what happens I mean, if you will look at your life (and of &quot;These are the times where the Enemy attacks rhythms of my life, I can be more ready.&quot; I think The rhythm of your life cannot be marked by The rhythm of your life cannot be and still have an outcome of overflowing joy. The Enemy is looking for someone to devour. He's He's looking for someone who just took family pictures and is just a little triggered by the whole experience. Because it even know why I was in a bad mood. It went great. something about it... Then I look at it, and I'm family pictures, I am not going to back up my car No, no, no. Next time. Next time I find myself to myself and be a little bit more ready for that. time in your life. There are only two times you When you win over a victory, ask, &quot;What I have certain friends that I found Do you have anybody like that in your life? Now let me turn around so you can have a private them and spend time with them, it puts me in this more cynical on the other side. Pay attention you'll notice, &quot;Oh! When this happens, it is the A lot of times, that is a relational consequence Here's another thing since Sometimes you feel sick to your it's what you scrolled through 15 minutes ago see something that triggered a response in it didn't show up. It doesn't show up in the If the moment you were looking at the stuff you and less content, and this is causing me to only aspire to things that aren't even a while you were looking at it, you would stop Stop biting. How many times is he going to before you can see it coming and say, &quot;No, I'm paid to argue with you. Nobody is worth that in my If you don't see it, he will eat you The one he can devour the most is the one When you know you're vulnerable, it gives you know where you're vulnerable. So, the church that's being persecuted He's writing to them about but it also applies to ours. He says, &quot;Be is looking for someone to devour.&quot; that anytime he tries, you'll lie down and go all he has to do is lure you out there? Is it you? Is it you that every time he the Enemy can get you to go down so deep days to recover? Is it you? If he can make you will reach for something to feel instant that's going to cause you to If you're not paying attention to the patterns You have to get into Spirit-led reflection where and shows you ways you can handle things next your day or in your life but so you can beat it If the Devil hasn't messed with you, good He'll mess with you again. You're like, &quot;I don't know. He has just been leaving me Keep this message right there. Don't going to need it. You can leave it right He's looking for someone to somebody who's vulnerable. You have to ask that caused me to be in a vulnerable position?&quot; ask it, I believe, the more God will show you You can't prevent the attack, but you can right in the moment, but it's when I what do you want me to see about that that I It's not fancy. I know it's not amazing. It's not and of sober mind. Your enemy the devil prowls Who's he looking for? Someone. Someone he &quot;If the Enemy is attacking me right does he tend to attack me?&quot; I want be ignorant of his schemes. When does What are those access points where I let is a valid question, and we have to ask it but there's another question I want you to ask this question right after you you could mention a few areas today. I know you honest and weren't scared of being judged, They might be some areas that are more areas that cause shame, but you could &quot;Where is it that the Enemy attacks that causes you to give in to it, that But there's another question I want you to learn If the Enemy is attacking you as much I want to ask the question...What that is causing him to attack you like that? If he's looking for someone to then what is it about you that causes you you feel like the Devil has really been after This is not a trick question. I really want to I want to know. If the Enemy is after? What is it that God has inside of you that may even be unknown to you right now that he sees about your future that is What is this spirit of heaviness that has surface we tell ourselves, &quot;Well, the because I'm not much, because I don't have I don't have the moral character. That's why Is that why you're dealing with the Or is the Devil looking for someone, someone who has something, something they so he can catch you in your vulnerability that you never do what God What's he after? If you've been discouraged, and you've been thinking, &quot;That must mean or is there something...? I'm just curious. Is there something so significant in the next Maybe the Enemy has more vision for your life than a seed form, and if it ever comes forth, if it ever gets full grown, it's going to spread out and What's he after? Get really good at he's giving me these headaches.&quot; &quot;Well, he's he's surrounding me with these people.&quot; &quot;Well, on how he's attacking you or we could spend a In my life, the greatest seasons of temptation moments of breakthrough. I came I don't care what it has been before. I didn't I didn't come to preach about I didn't come to preach about how your week went a message about the God of after. It's just a The Enemy doesn't have unlimited and he's shooting at you, that must That must mean you have something of value. I've I've lived in Charlotte. Nobody ever tackled I bet if I had that ball and I was on that that could actually inflict damage on the Some of us aren't getting hit because we're not toward something... Maybe that's why he has been on rough. Maybe that's why it has been kind of rocky. I wonder what he's after. I wonder even aware of yet. I wonder what a year from now that you don't It's powerful, y'all. Has Well, get happy, because that means you it's not over for you. The Devil should have because after this word, you're back We should have taken a selfie before I started Because when you leave this church today... No, no. I have to preach it like God gave it to who called you to eternal glory in Christ, Set your timer for a minute, Fly Ty. your phone. Tell me when you've got it set uses a very significant phrase. He says, How many of you have been suffering for a has been a while I've been dealing with this. He still hasn't started his timer yet. He's prolonged suffering. Right? Sometimes Lord one time. I read that Scripture. It suffered a little while.&quot; I asked I want one minute on the timer. We have a different definition of a not the count-up timer. I need the alarm God gave me something to say to somebody, and left.) Now, not all suffering ends in a short a moment where you can say, &quot;You know what? I I have replayed this memory long enough. Peter says, &quot;After you have suffered a little while. It's only for now. I know it seems but... Ten seconds, nine seconds, eight seconds, Oh, his ringer is off. You are All right. Since his alarm failed, I need you Since his ringer was on silent, I'm going to need We're getting ready now, because it has been a minute since you've felt the joy you've seen yourself in the future. It has up to a new possibility. When I say, &quot;Three,&quot; &quot;It has been a minute.&quot; One, two, three. Look back at them and say, &quot;It has been a I've been crying about it. I've been stressing and I'm not expecting a quick fix.&quot; But tell them, &quot;It has been a minute, and this The problem is not over yet, but This is my after. Not when I'm perfect, that he's the God of after. Who Peter? Why would the Enemy pick on Peter? The Devil never attacks what you are right now. He attacks what you're going Wait till you see what your kids are Wait till you see what they're going to you see how the grace of God flows through The Bible says, &quot;A righteous man walks in his 20:7. I saw this. &quot;...and his children are blessed you're fighting right now is not about what you So, even as Peter was warming himself by denying that he even knew Jesus; even as Peter the Enemy was after him. If he can kill Peter and Peter never preaches on the day of Pentecost. &quot;After you suffer a little while...&quot; That's what the attack is about. Stop prove your insignificance. They So, we're going to change the trigger response as a feeling or a temptation. &quot;Oh, there that I'm meant to do this week.&quot; A lot of it, That's what your faith is for. We never know how Most specifically, there are some that you will, by faith, experience I'm telling you, I have stood and preach to people who had little and in the moment that we prayed, we experienced We only knew after a little while what with that timeline called a little I was back after preaching. I don't remember what city that they brought back a guy to 7-year-old has a... They explained the condition everything they were saying, and I'm not This 7-year-old's brain tissue had extended a few years earlier, but then a cyst developed would be life threatening but would be operated just taken him in for a scan, and they were the specialist and maybe schedule the surgery. Someone brought them over and said, &quot;Pray for I said, &quot;I will.&quot; I learned as much as I I don't even really remember praying the prayer, but the dad I prayed for, just last week, told He said, &quot;When you prayed for us back there, It made me angry that you were praying because say a prayer that God would heal our child He said, &quot;But whatever little bit of faith was it kicked a little bit when you prayed. and the doctor brought the scan.&quot; The specialist said, &quot;So, when He said, &quot;We haven't had the to talk to you about possibly scheduling And he held up the scan. He and then he held up the scan from a few days ago. look like. If there were a perfectly executed &quot;If it were a perfectly executed surgery, He told me, &quot;I didn't even and I didn't really feel anything when I know you don't even feel like praying I know you don't really feel like going and more time. I'm not saying everybody with a week. I don't have the power to say that, but So, if you need a healing and he gives you but if he gives you the grace to endure the all grace, and he's the God of after. No matter outrun the revelation he had. &quot;You are Peter, Has the Enemy been attacking your mind lately? in the future to make this world so much more Faith is standing right in the middle of it, even and knowing that after this, It's not over for you. God Father, as I have released your Word today, to your people. There are specific situations, a very certain thing you wanted to say to somebody Now I ask, God, that your Holy Spirit would make the direct application so it Lord, they may never know what comes after this but if they can make it through this, the eternal glory, after they have suffered a hey thank you for watching the Elevation Church can know when we go live and post new content what spoke to you today where you're watching you'd like to support the ministry financially continue reaching people around the world for