For a long time, But those days are gone. You can use a Gua Sha stone but also to do something and relax your facial muscles. Some are supposed others, so they say, ...lots of different crystals... ...and spirituality. I really believe in it... Minerals and crystals But looking behind We hope you understand, but we We want to understand and where these stones come from. It's not okay. It shouldn't be okay. Who pays, and at what price? We're on our way to Hannover to find out more that's become so I personally love crystals. I feel like they hold a very, Influencers show how to use ...and then out to the side. Roll over the area under your eyes ...from your eyelid to your ear... ...seven times per side... ...and then you won't need And even stars are Hi Vogue. I'm Claudia Schiffer. -I'm Bill. I'm Badmomzjay. ...and today, I'm going to And reveal their Lots of different crystals. This one is in the This is rose quartz. I seem like I'm not the Will we also find this trend here, at Stones as far as the eye can see. What brought you here today? I came with my wife. She's interested in for their various She uses them while meditating. Normally there are just But there are also new fans. As kids you collected But I think, especially we're re-finding the effects Right, and especially there's a lot on social media I think that's why there's What kind of crystals I have stones and jewellery. Stones that go on desks, Do you also have Yeah, rose quartz. Exactly, rose quartz. How did you become Where did you learn about them? Social media. They're trending These new guests We call them our TikTok girls. They're between 12 to 17 or 18. Some come after school, And they're pretty keen to buy. They like the classics or the famous We actually suddenly last year between also green aventurine. If you have time, Sure... There are also people and the best way to use them. Do you know rose quartz? Rose quartz is the stone In posts that make big promises, these crystals are touted Gemstones with healing This is rose quartz. It's calming, and is something It helps us develop compassion and it can also help I really believe in it. Because for me, there's Many of the people we also believe in the The demand for these But where exactly One place in particular is on Many of the retailers don't want to But we find one who does. Where do you get Do you go to the countries No, I have good who have contacts For example, is high quality rose quartz from But you should know that the The people are bearers There's no education People have to start hauling stones So you would say this is a It's support within the framework If the country develops, But usually little support reaches Instead, they mainly serve as Miners often work under something that's been a A landslide in a mining has killed more than 90 people, Many more are still missing. The jade industry is lucrative, but hardly any of it reaches Dusty hot goldmines in Asia, considered one of the Only children can fit It is hunger that drives forcing them to risk their lives We can't find much on rose except for an article in the about the mining. According to this, the mining We investigate further and find out that based Madagascar is top three export nations of The country sells quantities almost How is it that a relatively And do stones from Madagascar To find out, we asked which countries they get and who their suppliers are. Thank you very much for your email. We hope you understand, but we Great. Other companies I hate these hotlines. Yeah... so our messages to the They were all tight lipped We decide to have a look at the But that's not so easy. The Embassy does not without prior approval from the And then here's a long ...which took a while. I'm extremely stressed because It's Thursday today, and and for that we need We've been told it's on its way for In the end, it all worked out... ...just in time. Madagascar is the largest The country is around as big as We landed in Antananarivo, Our colleague Holly She has been researching and knows a lot about The plan was for her to But she wasn't the only one. On the very first morning, Madagascar welcomed who works for the Ministry Olivia was to accompany This was a condition for Holly was also there that morning I was wondering that film teams have to take It's very normal... It protects them, it protects Yes, we are their companions. We are also facilitators, as we are agents of the state. help speed up processes, for What a strange situation. We just met the woman who will We have to see what We've come up with because we clearly can't have her No one at the mines if there's someone from the We had initially planned to But we decide it's better to take in the hopes that we can We started with an We needed two cars, driver, interpreters and It quickly became apparent that things are very different It makes it much harder to have normal conversations I have to say, I'd rather it were just The woman from the ministry is with the word 'media' on the back. So everyone knows, It actually says It's just... very obvious. This is not undercover. We drive back to the who works for Transparency Valery oversees everything to do with He tells us the miners' situation The number of miners So we have up to 500,000 people that But we don't know, we about their numbers So that's also one We don't know who they are. They're just flocking and moving from one We learned from most mining in Madagascar also because the government Around 80 percent of mines are with human bodies pulling the crystals We wanted to go But we were worried our state agent chaperone could Especially as immediately she went to question It's a very strange situation. I went over to find She's asking him To be honest, because I told him that Luckily, Olivia doesn't To be on the safe side, we go to the coastal The town is the most important We want to find out what from the mines to the port, and We need three permits to We'd submitted the But the port director doesn't accept So we have to Instead of being able to observe rose and interviewing we find ourselves back I'm a bit annoyed because even though we were initially told we had all of these Olivia, our supervisor from also wasn't able to help us, And that wasn't all. So it turned out this woman which made the ridiculous because she started Fortunately, we were We continued on our journey, Olivia had to go into quarantine. Meaning we were able go to Our base was in Antsirabe, Travel times in Madagascar so we set off early It's around 5 a.m., We're going to the mines now. It's a three hour drive plus a walk. Let's see what awaits us. According to the World Bank, about 80 percent of lives below the Rural areas in particular are poor. Pretty much the only jobs here To get to one of these mines, We just came to a mine that But we can't go It's closed. There was an accident and Our search continues. Our interpreter helps as we look for a mine We've just received the location I look like I'm on safari. And it's great. You're wearing a My grandma gave it to me. We are not sure how We're almost there now, it's But we're going to because we want to and should But they're already expecting us. People here don't mind us Rose quartz deposits exist in Here, it's under just Freshly mined, the stones This is one of the reasons is considered one of the and why labor laws in Madagascar prohibit anyone under the These two boys seem to know that. They stop when they see us filming. But later, they get back to work, One of them, Naina, is even willing My parents both work here too. I'm the eldest and I have three My parents brought me here We ask Naina what he would like I'd like to go back to school. In Madagascar, only 63 percent According to Unicef in 2018, one fifth of 15- to 24-year-olds What I'd like to become? A doctor. Not all children from We don't know Often parents cannot so they take their Another worker agrees My name is Sisia. I feel tired because of work. We talk to him about the two It is absolutely forbidden. But because the families children have to It's not okay. It should not be okay. Sisia experienced a similar fate. When I was 16, I dropped out Because life was unaffordable. I would have preferred to go to Life got harder, so I had We've brought along a rose quartz Have you ever seen This is quartz. This is what it looks like when This is our product after Here we just dig it up and then people Is that gold around it? That's metal. Metal? And what's it for? It's amazing. It's like a facial roller and you Sisia and the other But the mood changes such products are Sometimes they sell Did you hear that? I'm rather shocked For me, that means the The bigger the pieces They are paid 400 ariary per kilo The price of two cigarettes Many of the labourers live in According to estimates, nearly between the ages of five We meet Tovo, He used to work in a gold mine. He shows us his home, where he lives with his wife This is our house. This is the bedroom. This is where we When I started working, because I had to My energy level went down. I could see it was not enough because And how is it now at It's hard. It's hard because when we still have to live and So we have to work even if it's hard. Could you imagine your I wish they didn't have to go there. But because of this poverty They'll have to go there because with our jobs, we can't We learn that start to work in mines although some Even younger than that, they Back in the car, we feel strange. It hasn't feel right for us white, to examine people's lives here. But we also believe it's important to report on something We drive to another mine. But along the way, a Although Olivia is back the Ministry of Communications They've kept calling. So we I'm now writing to the woman to say that we're because we had too much and our editors won't and that we have So we're telling a big fat lie Luckily for us, there's no cell Showing us the way there is Jimmy. Because even if we don't have we're always either announced This time it's Jimmy. Jimmy is a sort of The owner hired him to supervise He hardly leaves our side. This mine is very remote. And According to research younger children are often We'd heard rumours that but we can't confirm it. All the workers here My name is Andrianasandratra I started mining when A few months ago The workers had No, no one was hurt. It collapsed while It collapsed when We ask if the work is dangerous. Yes, if you aren't careful it is. We ask if he ever Yes, I did. He was in the Did he die? Mmhmm. Jimmy, the foreman, says it's rare But that doesn't look Almost everyone we've seen in the It's a bit heavy. When we ask what the labourers their answer sounds a bit forced. We are always careful. We recognize when it is dangerous. Aren't you worried? Well, we are worried. But this is how we earn money. Another worker tells us isn't for people, They would like to use But for that, they'd need And those are too expensive, We ask how heavy the stones are They can weigh up to 160 kilos. We have seen how hard people have to work in mines Without protective clothing, and sometimes for the measly sum The longer we are here, the more absurd the hype around We are back in Antsirabe, where many exporters who ship We have an appointment with Fidy, who sells stones from We make export and we collect, so when we have order we can He shows us his depot. The stones, they are around 27 tons. 27, for one container? For one container. An order from India. Fidy has specialised in He shows us the containers This container is full. -And we put this after... And is this also China? Uh, no. This for India. Who buys the most Chinese and Indians. Until now I don't have customers It's always Chinese and Indian men. He says that with rose quartz it's It takes his miners around We ask how the In 2015 nobody wanted to But now demand is up. We don't Maybe down because we are depending The stones rarely Instead, they usually go to China Do you think that who sell these products, do they know... can they know I'm sure they don't know. Because I think German traders If asked, Chinese sellers that the stones are because they would be afraid that big customers from Germany So I think they don't know... Our research in Madagascar We learned a lot about the and about how important Again and again, we were told We didn't manage to but official figures About half of the precious and are exported to China. Germany is ranked fourth with much lower trade volume. Back in Hamburg, we decide to get in touch with Rather than identify we set up a fake and pretended to sell Our colleague Max made a website Why do you need a fake website? Well, because we know there and that it's extracted in But we're still missing the processing in China. So Under the guise of we visit a Chinese trading platform that can supply us with 10,000 Seconds later, our inbox explodes. We used the opportunity including about working Meanwhile, we also had Regarding information We know you are concerned about whether the rose and about whether But we haven't heard We do however have a video Not really, because the video doesn't As we were researching undercover, the Chinese suppliers didn't We even received mock for SOA Organics, our company, But when it came about working conditions our fake start-up didn't We decided to try again in person and headed to Sainte-Marie-aux-Mines, Once a year, one of Europe's largest takes place here. Look, it says Madagascar. Here again, there Many retailers are aware and that they earn very little. Including this We can't pay the workers. That's just the way it is But if the money that would be better than Do your customers or are price and quality 80 percent price and quality. Very few people ask about it. But do retailers here live Doubtful, according to our What do you think about the For the workers? Awful. But you buy nevertheless? Like everyone. Like everyone. At least I try to improve of my own workers and of my suppliers But what happens on the mine, But you see, even there are at least seven, who are carrying And I guess no one is very involved And when customers asked about I can take any photos and That's it. What do you want to see? And don't show you what If there are no children in the Since 1 January 2023, the Supply Chain which aims to protect the rights of the people producing But does it hold up to this promise? The law is supposed to force and environmental throughout their supply chains. But the Act was severely For example, it now only This is one of the reasons why to talk about this Barthle played a key role in the as a State Secretary in the It was one of the most I encountered in my Our fiercest opponent plus the relevant parliamentarians They showed fierce opposition. Amongst other stipulations, we're told How deep should you go? Should the entire supply chain The business community has always said We contacted the former Minister who responded that the law could only The new law obliges to ensure human rights compliance. But with indirect suppliers, only We asked big retailers. But they usually didn't answer Then we pretended and asked the suppliers in China. where things came from, But when it came the statement was always: But as a German company, that would be all I'd need under In principle yes. Then you would You asked. And if if there are no complaints then that's all that's But isn't that too little? Yes, as I said, that was one To what level of depth in the supply I can imagine that things will But for now, a stricter law Thank you very much for the interview. It was a pleasure. Barthle is happy to have But the law will for the people we saw in Madagascar, And that's a bitter pill to swallow. Because as he said, German companies this supply chain law, But only up to the level And that's China. So what have we We met people who for products whose benefits No one takes responsibility for the people at the they are not heard, That's almost always And Germany's Supply Chain Act