What for? For fun. I'll do anything for fun. How much can a single expression convey? Steven right now and one of my favorite performances as Ben in Lee Chong Dang's Burning. Jung-Su. Do you like pasta? I'm not going to spoil the movies I talk about this one: Jung-Su has randomly reconnected an unexpressed crush on, meanwhile Hae-mi with wealthy and mysterious Ben who she's stuff but there's another layer here. There's some of Ben's rich friends and Hae-mi at Ben's learned while she was traveling Jong-Su is catches him yawning and then Ben gives him a feeling that he doesn't really care, a kind to him. But there's also this element of bringing sort of aspect to the look that feels like behavior. Something that is found only in a whole world of subtext that eventually becomes This video is sponsored by Curiosity Stream. Sign up for the Curiosity Stream plus Nebula this video about screen presence on Nebula You have nothing. When people talk about &quot;best performances&quot; of it is this kind of thing. The big evocative transform themselves into a character completely For the Oscars it's even better if that transformation like weight loss, prosthetic makeup, or an Like so much of the rest of the Oscars it acting and not necessarily best acting. I think one of the reasons The Joker has become because he's just a more compelling villain, a playground for bold expression that the allow. And actors enjoy lining up and taking their enjoy watching those swings. And this video is not about how these kinds I love an... &quot;I've abandoned my boy&quot; ...moment In fact my favorite actor Tilda Swinton, while doesn't. One of the reasons I love her work is in part and transform herself into all manner of absurd So I'm not here to bash that kind of acting But in all the praise for this kind of showy the best performances or moments of performance So I want to showcase an aspect of performance impressive. These moments are not ones where the actors to disappear into a character where you can and instead just see their character feeling Often what sets these kind of performances can convey deep rich and complex emotion with They've embodied the character to the point through the character not just with line delivery Sometimes these subtler reactions and expressions story itself: besides the Steven Yeun character is another great example of this. Kaluuya plays the big emotions in this movie to the world around him gives the film subtext into the absurdity of the experience. &quot;Such a privilege to be able to experience -like the way this look right here telegraphs: The exact subtext of a lot of Daniel Kaluuya's are just as important as any of the lines Another recent performance I think is really She nails the big outpouring of emotion necessary impressive is her command of a subtler, smaller The film opens with the death of her family it up: &quot;also I I never had the chance to tell you your loss&quot; &quot;oh&quot; &quot;what happened I mean&quot; -I the way her expression sort of melts into looks like it could only really be an automatic There's a similar moment from a bit part in The three brothers show up at their father's his funera,l and the way the mechanic subtly &quot;you'll have to wait another week I left a &quot;yeah he didn't get the message Mr. Whitman &quot;Jimmy Whitman?&quot; ...For some reason to me one of the saddest Continuing on this theme of grief Rooney Mara Ghost Story.&quot; Sometimes grief can leave you frozen in shock off for an actor you just don't move. But there's a tension and involuntary element from just not moving and here.... there's the smallest involuntary twitch that One of the reasons I think I'm drawn to these often convey a kind of complexity of emotion Pulling off the big outbursts in a way that but what about the nuance of expressing repressed What about when you want the audience to perceive also perceive that the character is trying Amy Adams does it here in Spike Jones' &quot;Her&quot; cry but is also obviously trying not to. &quot;Charles and I split up.&quot; &quot;what?&quot; &quot;yeah really&quot; Or what about the complexity of multiple emotions Oscar Isaac nails this in HBO's remake of and his wife, played by Jessica Chastain, &quot;Ava'll be thrilled.&quot; &quot;And your parents.&quot; &quot;oh God yeah&quot; -And this little moment of expression... ...is amazing. The amount of fear hope and trepidatious joy at once, even while he attempts to hold them I find this kind of thing compelling because of real life emotion is actually like. Sure wall moments for some people, sometimes, but that people are trying to conceal or that of just one big one. Riz Ahmed has this great moment in &quot;Sound sponsor for money: &quot;I was wondering Joe I don't know if it's &quot;Just to buy back my RV you know me me and ...and the way grief and shame seem to bubble me every time watching this. People talk a lot about range in acting as but I think there's also a kind of range in We all know Joe Pesci for the sinister intensity &quot;funny how? I mean what's funny about it?&quot; you say funny how?&quot; This guy is right on the edge. You don't want at any moment and he's genuinely terrifying. &quot;tell me tell me what's funny&quot; So it's impressive to me that in &quot;The Irishman&quot; &quot;There's been a change instead of uh we're tomorrow morning and then go up drive up.&quot; &quot;But I told Jimmy that we were gonna be up to be up in the morning.&quot; &quot;I know&quot; Even though the intensity of the performance &quot;We got to go there I mean I gotta go I got &quot;Frank. We did all we could for the man.&quot; The fact that he can convey something so similar is why he's one of the greats. When I talk about these kinds of subtle expressions by the actor. I don't think Rooney Mara is acting that scene going to make it feel more real.&quot; Rather this kind of subtlety is the result or feel the emotions they're trying to convey of that. But one of the reasons I've never talked about 100 videos about film and television now is me. When I listen to actors talking about their wins out and seems to be the best and when kinds of performances. It's often very esoteric and it's all about completely differing techniques can get you Sometimes they refine things through extensive the spontaneity of a first take. It's kind of impossible to reverse engineer and trying to figure out what the actor did And so I think talking about technically what feat. All I can really do is look at these performances to me. I think a lot of these techniques are just then this very realistic expression comes That said if there are performers out there minute micro expressions in a way that feels There are so many fantastic examples of this meant to be a definitive list or a list of examples that have stuck with me because they looking through all these examples and trying this kind of subtle expression to come through of these performances have a quality that presence is an interesting idea and it's one so I made a companion video all about that this video on nebula a streaming service made topic in depth with longer examples without if you don't have nebula click the link in entire year for less than fifteen dollars there's so much great content on nebula that the companion video here about screen presence about how the Lord of the Rings films were fellow video essays Tom vanderlunden from and if you listen to that on nebula you get a bunch of bonus exclusive episodes that are out and you can get access to my normal YouTube nebula is great because there's no advertising for the Creator we can focus on making the on what's going to get the most clicks and sign up curiosity stream another service has has their own extensive library of great educational you sign up for curiositystream using my link for free with curiositystream for less than the link on the screen or in the description