So tell me something funny about me! One of the funniest things, hands down, about is your studious cleanliness. Your whole and clean Swedish concept. That everything has to be spick and span. Everything in Sweden is really clean. Everyone's houses, there's a lot of pride and put themselves together. The hygiene level is really maxed out over And that might not be strange for most people, Because people like I was saying before to shoes on, that's just normal. And dust, dust, and not throwing away old All the houses in Sweden are insulated and You expected coming to Sweden and being cold Yeah, I was really confused that you could are much more makeshift, and well we don't, You kind of expect to go inside and put on because insulating the house costs too much. Another incredibly shocking thing or hilarious haven't gotten over in our relationship, is So if it's a warm sunny day, and this is the just stand there and bake themselves lightly Because that sun's going away and it's not and you're all very cold. Whereas in New Zealand it's warm and sunny sunny basically, it's quite sunny year around o'clock. You can waste a few sunny days, you can stay computer some video games. And that's fine in New Zealand, but every I'm like why it's going to be sunny tomorrow, We're not in Sweden anymore. Oh there was this brilliant moment when Saga hug her because in New Zealand. I can't remember this. Of course you can remember that. Oh my gosh, so in New Zealand you can hug do that with family and you definitely extend And both my parents came in, they swarmed step back and went &quot;ah, so you guys are huggers&quot;, Because apparently in your country.. That's we don't really hug that much. Have you hugged my family? Once, yeah, and it was awkward actually. Another confronting thing when you go to Sweden dressed. There's a real kind of status game in there, should dress up more. And in New Zealand people have taken that And people go out in like, a shirt with holes Like it's super relaxed. Where as if you did that in Sweden, people Yeah, you can go into a supermarket in New And New Zealand prides itself for being clean smoke a lot on the streets and just chuck I don't experience that in Sweden. We don't smoke nearly as much. I mean his entire family everyone smokes but who smoked. The pride for looking after things seems to we are, but people do litter in forests and definitely see it happen, and it doesn't happen It doesn't, not as often I don't think. One one of my favorite things about being to SVT Play, which is your government channel We have like a governmentally owned TV channel. So they're not allowed to endorse any brands bit more neutral and it's a bit less like or like you know. Yeah, we're chasing the reactionary kind of The thing is, coming from New Zealand you is their second language, but it really is not fluent. When I meet Saga her English was so fluent oh so it's like your second language but you've That's not the case when you go to Sweden, second language. So that was very surprising. And my family, some of them don't really speak My dad really doesn't like speaking English, We haven't spoken a lot. Yeah but my granddad speaks a lot of English, people are also very self-conscious speaking It makes it very difficult because Swedish so they just won't speak to you. I think the most honest thing I can say is equality, and because I'm with you our relationship surprisingly equal for some people. But mainly when you defy people's expectations. When we were working on the van people assumed work because it's a &quot;manly&quot; thing to do, but You, you did some. Sweden also is like really scientific too. Before you move on something you seem to want In New Zealand we can get a bit of agendas policy. I mean you guys all get free education too, is really a high value. Ah, the most shocking thing about Swedish on your windows. In New Zealand you have condensation and every And mold, pretty much in every house. For some reason no one, everyone refuses to Oh I think it's all been covered. It was supposed to be a fun video, I don't I hope so. I really enjoyed it. That's good. So thank you so much for watching! and yeah we're very relaxed like that or dirt a little bit of both and he's an actor Sweden's a lot like New Zealand instead of to south of Sweden that's a good one honey the conversation when you edit these things great anyway so you've got to go out strong so as you can tell my husband is equally strange working methods