- Hello, I'm John Fitch. Man, since the beginning of time, has wondered about the Our neighbor planet Mars has intrigued the imagination Some people think there is life on Mars. - [Male Voice] I see a crisscrossing the planet. Obviously, the work of The simplicity and symmetry cannot- - [Male Voice] It will be to see cities on Mars, to detect navies in its harbors. - [Male Voice] The inhabitants of Mars are vast, cool, and looking across space at the planet Earth with envious eyes, are - We've been looking at Mars the way artists and writers imagine it. A planet of jungles and And, of course, beautiful women. Well, I'm happy to say Mars is far more mysterious than that and far more surprising. - [Narrator] Of all the Mars has always held the most fascination. There is no longer hope But the question of whether might have once or still (dramatic orchestral music) This is the story of the first pioneering and how each encounter (group cheers) dismay, or delight for those (group cheers and applauds) - [Man] Each time we got more data, each time we got closer, that image was completely obsolete. That's still going on. That's an amazing thing. - [Narrator] The Changing Face of Mars: Beginnings of the Space Age. Next. (mysterious orchestral music) In the cold war between the United States and the Soviet Union the space race was a great drama played out before the entire world. (rocket ship blasting) At the beginning the Soviets with their powerful But that began to change when NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory scored America's first &quot;first&quot; in space by sending a robotic spacecraft - And in those days, intense cold war rivalry, you were dealing with things And so countries of the world were trying to say, well, Who's gonna be the And so we had a lot at stake. It wasn't just trying to get a satellite. - The name of the game The space race was very real We knew that our job and get there best. - [Narrator] And now as were the Soviets. In June of 1963 Mariner announced results of the to reach the red planet. - [Jack] Today, the USSR spacecraft Mars 1 made its encounter with Mars, dead as a doornail. The Soviets have made to Venus and Mars, none You are better than they are. You're one of the individuals who can make Mariner the first spacecraft to make measurements of the planet Mars. This depends on each of Your initiative your craftsmanship your ingenuity your precision. It's up to each of us (dramatic orchestral music) - [Narrator] What Jack was how hard it would be to reach Mars. - [Engineer] Two, one. - [Narrator] Although JPL's Mariner 2 had been first to reach another planet, the spacecraft had barely survived the three and a half Traveling to Mars would And nearer to home, five attempts in a row by JPL spacecraft just to crash - The first thing we'll have to do is organize a team, the best we can get. We're going to have to come that will perform for at least 250 days outside the orbit of Earth - The first challenge What you did once you got there was kind of frosting on the cake. It was like climbing Mount It's not planting the It was just getting there. - [Narrator] The United in having been first to Venus. It was an accomplishment widely acclaimed from the Rose Parade to the White House. But the achievement did not automatically give JPL a green light The lab had to compete against a proposal by NASA's Goddard Space Goddard wanted to land JPL's more cautious proposal was to replicate their success at Venus, launching two identical with hopes that at least Ultimately, the choice was made for NASA when it became clear that the rocket the Goddard Proposal required Still, JPL's more conservative Just reaching Mars was And JPL's mission to Venus had been with just a souped-up version of a spacecraft built (upbeat orchestral music) Going to Mars required a real - Mariner 4 was really that were specifically designed Mariner 4 had all of the things that became characteristic An integrated packaging an octagonal bus extensive use of louvers for temperature control three axis stabilized loaded with instruments that (electric whirring) - [Narrator] Traveling away from the Sun meant encountering a colder, with less ability to draw power. The solar panels had to be of those flown to Venus. (electric whirring) For the first time the Earth could not be used for establishing the known as attitude control. Instead, these spacecraft by sighting a star. - The spacecraft will roll permitting the star sensor Once sighted, the gas jets It may be a very difficult operation which will have to be - [Narrator] Because communications links had to be strengthened. What came to be known as - Stations are so located that the spacecraft in deep space will be in direct line of sight contact, at least one of the - [Narrator] Above all there was a very basic How long could a spacecraft of space? - For one thing, instead we were talking about a mission that's gonna be eight or nine months. (orchestral music) We'd run through the liability analysis and that number came out to We tended not to believe the numbers. We sort of convinced ourselves that God did not really ordain at .0 whatever it was And we just plowed on. - [Narrator] The twin Mariners 3 and 4, which some dubbed flying windmills, were remarkable feats of engineering, but flying to Mars was (soft music) Just reaching Mars would be But the larger goal was For scientists capturing as a spacecraft flew past might answer whether life existed there. It was a question very much on the mind of Caltech geologist Bruce Murray. - You couldn't go to So a major development was that could be used for a camera. Then NASA chose a well known by the name of Robert to set up the team and together design this In fact, it was the first - After many meetings and we finally agreed that we of black and white photographs that should begin at the limb and continue across the The photographs should show than any taken from Earth. Considering the altitude, possible resolution and radio we designed the system - [Engineer] Lift off. Lift off. - [Narrator] On November 5, 1964 Mariner 3 with the world's lifted off from Cape Canaveral, Florida. - The launch is always exciting. It was even more exciting in those days because about half of them were failing. - [Narrator] And that Within an hour of launch telemetry showed that the For some unknown reason the spacecraft's solar panels - It had enough energy to escape the Earth but not anywhere near So it only lasted as long It lasted a few hours. It was kind of devastating news. But we were, to be honest, we were getting kind of (printer whirring) - [Narrator] The launch of while engineers worked against to understand what had gone wrong. - There were three weeks until because of this geometry meant that you had to So in that three weeks JPL what had caused that failure. - [Narrator] The problem was tracked down to the nose fairing. Its purpose was to protect The contractor, attempting had built it out of a light material that collapsed during ascent. Working around the clock engineers modified the fairing. - [Engineer] Prepare for launch. [Indistinct] Engine start. - [Narrator] Remarkably just after the failure of Mariner 3 its twin was on its way to Mars. (rocket engine rumbling) - [Engineer] Roger 137. - [Engineer] We're on our way, roger. - [Narrator] Ahead was and 325 million through deep space. During the cruise Jack James turned over the to Dan Schneiderman. He had been the Spacecraft System Manager for the mission to Venus. Schneiderman grew up on a chicken farm in Bakersfield, California. In World War Two he had worked in radar in the Aleutian islands. Following the war he used the GI bill to get a degree in engineering. Then he got a job Unimpressed with the he quit and found his way to JPL. - He was a real character. And later in years I would I owed Dan... everything I ever learned I owed to Dan or something like that. And he would get mortified. He was &quot;Oh, Casani, He would wax philosophical. He liked to draw analogies. I can remember him what you can see with the camera. - It's interesting to look at things and look at them as you get closer. For example, if you go if you were an angel or then you flew high above you look down, you might see a greenery and then you lower your And this greenery becomes patchy greenery. What looked to be homogeneous all of a sudden becomes random. Okay? You come lower and all of a sudden what you're So what was random becomes homogeneous again. - He was a worrywart didn't sleep well. And he would say that floating down a river. All the people working crawling around this log. And the project manager is an telling all the other ants to pull right to avoid those rapids up And of course, whatever the ants do, doesn't make a damn bit of difference. The log is gonna go I think it was expressing that there's not much that anybody can do to influence the outcome. - [Narrator] Mariner 4's journey to Mars was relatively uneventful. The spacecraft at times had difficulty locating the star Canopus. That caused nervous moments (ominous music) But only one trajectory to keep the spacecraft on course, more or less. - In the beginning, when I first started, I was the trajectory engineer. So it was my job to design the flight path that would take the - The Mariner 4 trajectory and goes to Mars will be approximately an the- - We had not been to Mars And as we were approaching the planet, the last couple of hours, we realized that our were beginning to change significantly. In fact, we ended up missing from where we'd aimed, which by today's standards is abysmal. But by those standards The last hour to half was a wild scramble of trying to get the last data, trying to get on the and tell them what time to It was a wild scramble. - [Engineer] This is Mariner Mariner 4 is currently being tracked by station 51, Johannesburg. The spacecraft is 134.217 And 50,142 miles from Mars. - [Narrator] As the spacecraft neared Mars everyone knew this would and a white knuckled one. A flyby of Mars meant a single pass and no second chances. Schneiderman and his first we're working a long list of what ifs. A major concern was the star tracker. If Mariner 4 lost sight of Canopus the spacecraft might end during the flyby. And that would mean for eight months through deep space only to fail at the critical hour. - It's this discussion - Boy, that just really scares you... It just scares you to death. - Because... - If that hits us, we - Well, we're going to have a frantic day no matter what time that might occur. - [Narrator] While Schneiderman the science imaging team joked about what they might soon be seeing. - What are we going to stamped out in the snow? - What John Casani said we're going to see is a bunch of black. (laughing) These guys are gonna be firing - [Narrator] Meanwhile the engineers considered more what-ifs. One was the spacecraft's It would be in control during the flyby. But if something went wrong the computer had no backup plan. Should engineers leave well enough alone or send up a new set of commands? That carried its own risk. New instructions might only - These are the questions. This is the soul searching Boy, don't don't worry. Our first reaction was, man, we'll let that Let's not horse around with it. But as soon as you start of yourself, then you begin to We've got to put ourselves in a position where we've done everything to ensure or at least to - [Narrator] The main fear might not turn off. If that happened the images would be recorded with the blackness of space. If a tape recorder fails to turn off we cannot tell that. That's the rationale behind Is to protect the pictures. (ominous music) - [Narrator] On July 14, 1965 another command called With it, Mariner 4 began taking the first ever closeup pictures of Mars. - The DC 25 command should initiate a platform scanning action. (beeping sounds) If the command is not received the spacecraft will in about one hour. We expect that 21 After other planetary data are returned to Earth the space craft will of a TV picture. The first picture will cover an area of approximately 176 limb on the planet. - I wish I was as sure as he is. - In about a couple of minutes now we should be able to determine is operating and that Although we will not be whether pictures are actually until they are played back. (printer whirring) - Hey, we got wires dangling. It's time for 26 to go. - [Narrator] &quot;26&quot; Was DC 26, the command for the recorder - [Engineer] Pictures 281 drive. - Here it is. (laughing) - The system had worked. The picture was recorded That was a big deal. - Gee, it's not safe to because we're really subject to... Almost anything could occur. (indistinct chatter) I just hope nothing unusual occurs. I hope it keeps right along. Being just as easy as it's been so far. - [Narrator] Later Mariner 4 transmitted back The tape recorder might not - There were some extra events And if you read those it said the tape recorder And that caused great panic - Yeah, what about the tape recorder? - Well, the tape recorder, there's a... The answers that I got late here is that we got a normal first end of tape and a normal second end of tape. And it appeared as though switched the data and coded a mode two just as it is supposed to. But the answer here, was that there was some funny business in the first 10 picture recording. - The TV system which should've on and off may have failed to turn it off and the tape runs through it faster. And that was exactly the was to save as many pictures We don't know for sure it's happening. - [Narrator] Mariner 4 carried And those measurements were programmed to be transmitted back first. Only later would the pictures - The data came back extremely Went into the Goldstone tracking antenna out in the middle of the Mojave desert and came to JPL by teletype. It was that slow. Chic chic chic chic. - Chanka chanka chanka chanka - The data playback rate was which is, as Jack James at one time said it was a slow morse code. And so it would take hours to get each individual picture back. So it was gonna be days before - [Narrator] Eight days in fact. This did not sit well when assembled at JPL. - The performance of the spacecraft during the picture taking sequence was not precisely accurate. There were some anomalies. in this short period of time We are still optimistic that we did indeed take some pictures. We have always said whether or not these even if the system performed correctly until tomorrow morning when will be initiated. - This was a time when life on Mars and Mars was a very exciting thing. There were only three major They were all sitting getting very restless. They came to get their story and they kept saying with the pictures, well, they're working on them. And so they began to get pretty nasty, demanding that this is a public's money. This is a public thing, which is true. Why can't we see them? Well, the answer was - Difficulty in this businesses is that it's such a difficult game where your experience anything abnormal usually spells disaster. - [Narrator] After what seemed an eternity Mariner 4 began transmitting back images. Assuming that was what was actually stored on the tape recorder. The pictures were to come back in the form of ones and zeros, each number representing a shade of gray. The first numbers transmitted as was expected. - They may be all black but we got something there. Hey, here we go. - There she goes. That's data. - This is kind of preliminary Can you describe what you see on Mars? - Yes, it's there. (indistinct chatter) Congratulations to the both - Oh, boy. - Give me Bruce Murray's phone number. Well, they were the Mars Yeah. The data is coming in, boy, (indistinct background chatter) You didn't know? Wow, the numbers are Well, yeah. Okay. Shade at least. - [Narrator] The processing for some. Desperate to see Mars, or in this case, numbers - Two or three of us who had came up with these schemes of how to try to sketch as it came in. And it was kind of a contest. And the one that won was paper tapes tacked to a wall. And that's the one that allowed us to kind of look at the data in real time. - And we created an faster than they could in a computer. That first picture was from us engineers trying to figure out if the because our bosses were saying, That's where the big pressure was. And at the point where some people noticed we were starting to they put a guy in charge of security to keep people away from the door. But people kept wandering in. So the word was spreading. (ominous music) Some people wanted to because we would circumvent if any. We said we're interested and not the pictures. So they allowed us to continue. (ominous music) We then had enough fans collecting and our immediate bosses said, keep going. (indistinct chatter) - Hey, that's gorgeous. - As you know, the more formal is taking place. - Dr. Leighton from Catech came in and looked at it. He really understood the data. He quickly picked up that was actually the black from space. And he said, there's the limb. And he could start to look at the picture and he looked like a happy camper. So it's been a lot of fun kind of the first picture of Mars. (ominous music) (machine whirring) - [Narrator] Eventually the of Mars was processed. (machine whirring) It was brought into the and laid in front of the They were shocked by what they saw. Or what they didn't see. - Everything was kind of very secretive. I'm not sure I exactly know why. There were only about five And somebody came running over to get me because I had also developed that would predict exactly would be taken and where each would be taken at Mars. And so they came over and I had to go over to this little room and I knocked on the door They grabbed me and pulled &quot;What does the first picture I said, &quot;Well, I don't know.&quot; But they said, &quot;No, I mean, is or off the planet?&quot; And I said, &quot;Well, it It should be about half on and half off.&quot; &quot;Oh, good. Thanks. Goodbye.&quot; Out the door I went. I think they were a little concerned that the first picture that popped up only had a part of Mars in it. But that's the way it was supposed to be. (soft music) - The lay public was very that was coming back from the planets, which had been just points of light. And now we were discovering in their own right. For awhile The WAG said JPL stood for &quot;Just Pictures Laboratory&quot; because imaging was such an integral part of most of our missions. - [Narrator] JPL had learned that pictures mattered. And now president Lyndon A White House briefing for Johnson and the passing out of medals to underscore to the world another U.S. accomplishment - I think I speak for every American when I tell you how very how grateful we are for what you and all the many members of on the Mariner 4 mission. It may just be that life as we know it is more unique than many have thought. (soft music) - [Narrator] Johnson's comments about the uniqueness of life were referencing these first However fuzzy, they revealed from what had been expected. - The best pictures which had to date back to three And that was so at variance that everybody was very shocked. - [Narrator] The Martian There were no signs of mountains. No canals. No flowing water and no vegetation. Any hope of life on the surface was gone. (soft music) At the beginning of the space race JPL had proposed to NASA an ambitious plan to send sweeping across the solar system. Now JPL knew how hard it really Yet in a reversal of roles NASA was now pushing for bold missions. The agency wondered: needed to launch astronauts to the Moon be used for robotic - The idea gained favor that the next mission would be a Saturn 5 to Mars. And that meant that the 575 pounds that we were able to send, the Mariner 4, that it'd be succeeded by a 50,000 pound payload in one leap. This is insane. - Two large spacecraft Two of them all sat on It was monstrous. (soft music) - [Narrator] Orbiters would circle and map the planet in detail while landers would search - It was very fortunate for all of us and everybody that that - [Narrator] These were to Astronauts, NASA dreamt, would in the late 1980s. In 1969 two Mariners, numbered six and seven, managed to survive their launches. For the first time JPL was flying two spacecraft The Soviet Union had the same idea but both of their missions (soft music) Following a five month cruise the Mariners were fast and excitement among the - It's just great. It's like being on the bridge Only that didn't exist yet. You can place your mind where you think you are in the spacecraft and every command you you can imagine what it's doing. I'm out there in the darkness And I'm seeing, just like hanging there. And that's our destination. We're going there. - [Narrator] 50 hours Mariner 6 turned on its science - [Astronaut] Okay, that's great - [Narrator] Only nine and Buzz Aldrin had landed on the moon. But in Pasadena, there Mariner 6 was already beaming back data. And following right behind was Mariner 7. Advances in technology the turnaround time for pictures. Instead of sitting in a back room Robert Leighton was now at a TV console offering to the world instant reactions as images of Mars reached Earth. - I see the picture developing here. So here is our first view I see some interesting light areas near the upper limb. There's some bright areas the upper limb of the planet, as you see them on the screen there. - [Narrator] Compared with pictures a science instrument called an infrared spectrometer by the public. Its purpose was to measure of the Martian atmosphere. With this instrument it might be possible to if it existed, in the form of methane. On Earth this organic compound can be produced by microorganisms. Finding methane on Mars would carrying tremendous implications. But there was a conflict. The TV cameras and the were mounted on the which meant both had to be Scientists were at odds - The value judgment in is what indeed you see As you point out none of you have seen it. You don't know. Well, that could be the Because no one mentioned the difference- be the most exciting and that's the place where on both flights. - No, no, no we can't do that. to appreciate the point Is that the you're on the bright side of seven. But is- - Hear me out. (indistinct crosstalk) Hear me out, please. Because the argument is canonic to the same kind of argument. You don't know what you're going to see. Bob is unimpressed with what I am too. - I was unimpressed with But I think you had to look. I think the issue that now is opened is whether you should look again. Just because it [indistinct] but you're going to want to look again. - May I finish, please? - Do we have that much time? - [Narrator] This debate of what would become a classic Multiple instruments on a spacecraft often meant conflicting desires. And not every hope could be fulfilled, especially with flyby missions - Two degrees south, three degrees south, one picture longer. - [Narrator] These preparing for this mission. For some their professional The expectations, especially were enormous. This was especially of the University of Two years before he had come close to becoming one of NASA's His dream was to go to Mars. But Pimentel failed the due to a minor vision problem. Now he was determined to through his science instrument. A maverick, Pimentel had already over technical standards. He was not averse to conflict. Lore has it that when a JPL once visited Pimentel's Berkeley lab a fistfight had broken out. And now at this critical hour, his spectrometer on Mariner 6 Some data was captured. It seemed to indicate water in the form of ice - Ice? - Yeah. - Yeah, all right. - You think there's water ice... - Pardon me? - Do you really think- - There's no question about it being ice. - [Narrator] Finding water would be a huge discovery. But everyone else's attention - The encounters were not very So we had two spacecraft to monitor. And it turned out that while the first one was in the encounter phase, we had some emergencies on the second one. - So we were taking We're in the middle of And somebody says, &quot;Hey, - Without data we are kind - [Narrator] When contact engineers were stunned had caused Mariner 7 to go But what? - [Engineer] Stand by and keep looking and if you see a signal call it out. And we'll see what we can do. - [Astronaut] I don't but they may not see - [Narrator] Amazingly engineers of the crippled spacecraft. But what had caused the - So it was a very hectic in trying to handle the on the first one along with the emergency - We don't know what the problem is? Unscramble the data. - [Narrator] A possible troublesome spectrometer. It required a pressurized A container explosion near catastrophic event. As the second Mariner bore down on Mars Pimentel's instrument - No, the JPL people that something went wrong The problem is there's no probable theory as to what could have done what has apparently happened to it. And so there's a natural tendency to look at our gas bottles because they are capable Well, after a Mariner 7 arrival, I may want to go to Russia. - [Narrator] Just before final approach engineers commanded the and cool down. - The real moment is when the signal to start cooling And we'll see whether... - [Narrator] If the engineers would have their smoking gun. - Come on, baby. This time it's fast enough. - [Narrator] Reports from mission control appeared to be good news for Pimentel. - That's number one. That's big news. The [indistinct] got current. - [Engineer] They got current? (indistinct dialogue) - We have what? Well, they think the bottles didn't go? (indistinct radio chatter) Attitude control reports no That's what's known as bad news. - [Engineer] Yeah. - If we don't hear something we've had it. God, you're cursing us. (laughing) (cheers) (indistinct clamoring) - [Narrator] While a relieved Pimentel celebrated his instrument's innocence, Leighton continued sharing about what he was seeing. - [Leighton] What a Incidentally, I think a view that that deposit on the polar cap must be more than a - [Narrator] Was the southern as Pimentel's instrument had indicated? Or were these layers of For anyone hoping to find life on Mars water was the preferred answer. - We'll be back tomorrow at 5:00. - [Narrator] Pimentel departed for home to pore Later from Berkeley he took part in a conference call in preparation for a press briefing. A teasing Pimentel hinted of - I'm curious, was that a hint that you think you're - [Pimentel] Oh yeah. - You think you are. - [Pimentel] Are you saying - Curious. - [Pimentel] Well, curious. That's optimistic mode right now. - [Narrator] Organics meant the - [Pimentel] It's quiet down there. It's quiet out there. - [Don] What are the wavelengths - [Pimentel] We'll see tomorrow, Don. - [Don] You don't want to tell us now? - [Pimentel] Right. I can see you didn't expect That's supposed to be a joke. - [Don] Yeah, I know. - [Narrator] Pimentel's not only in the dark but deeply puzzled. All the other science results pointed to an entirely And at the JPL press conference, presented a picture of Until the last speaker. - We were up Dr. [Indistinct] and I, with our computer, trying And I'm telling you the results And in so far as we may later prove to have to retract something and that's the nature of science. I'm telling you what our data indicate. We are confident that we and gaseous ammonia on Mars. - [Narrator] Being confident was all but another way of on Mars. But Pimentel was not done. His instrument also pointed needed for life, water. - Our data are consistent with and suggest that the polar and probably not solid CO2. In the region near the polar ice provides a reservoir of water. The solid carbon dioxide cloud provides protection from A region certainly deserving (audience applaud) - Thank you, George. I think you now see why science is fun. - [Narrator] As Pimentel had cautioned the nature of science is that knowledge is subject to new findings. He, like others, had virtually overnight with a But responding so quickly was risky and ran counter to the science And Pimentel and the in allowing cameras to warts and all. Very few scientists in the years since have been so transparent. In Pimentel's case he soon realized one of his findings was flawed. The spectrometer had not and CO2. He quickly and publicly And with that life on Mars was once again an unsolved question. As for the mystery of what an investigation traced the probable cause to a battery explosion. (ominous music) Mariners 6 and 7 had Piece by piece, the planet The ice caps were made of The most discouraging discovery for those hoping to find life was learning that the was reaching all the way (ominous music) And once again, there but for some reason, not everywhere. Mars seemed deserving of another look, and more so than anyone realized. By sheer chance the paths of the twin Mariners of two gigantic geological features, the largest of their kind (soft music) The first great engineering was to fly by a destination The next feat was to build a machine capable of going into In 1971, the very next JPL had taken the idea of an orbiter from the drawing board to the launch pad. - The basic spacecraft was But it had this humongous to slow the spacecraft to the point where it could That presented some You had to store propellants and then use them and cross your fingers and hope that everything worked (rocket engine fires up) - [Narrator] Once again, the It was prudent planning. the first mission failed when the upper stage rocket malfunctioned. - [Kennedy] This is It appears from our preliminary data here in the mission director center that the Mars Mariner We are standing by for further reports. This is Kennedy launch control. (rocket engine fires up) - [Narrator] Mariner 9 had better fortune and smoother sailing to Mars. (dramatic music) And this mission was not flying alone. Just behind it were two Soviet probes. These spacecraft were orbiters, too. And the Soviets were raising the stakes. Hitchhiking aboard each equipped with a TV camera, and a small shoe-box size rover. (dramatic music) All was well with all three spacecraft as they neared the halfway But then Mars itself began - We're going to arrive in November and in about August the Earth-based astronomers is going on at Mars. And within a week or two there was a global dust storm on Mars. When you normally look at Mars you can see lots of dark and through a telescope. It looked like a billiard ball. We were now at August. We were like two and a half We didn't know what to do. We were beginning to feel We'd lost Mariner 8. We'd gotten everything And now the planet's disappeared on us. - [Narrator] As the dust storms swirled, the three spacecraft-- one American, two On the evening before Bruce Murray arranged called &quot;Mars and the Mind of Man&quot;. The panel featured scientist Carl Sagan, journalist Walter Sullivan and science fiction and Ray Bradbury. Murray labeled himself The one doubtful that - So I became, in these debates within the scientific community, and sometimes in the public community, the bad guy, the black hat. - Man as a human species has been guilty of wishful That they want it to be like the Earth. This is a very deep seated where we can make another start or could be somehow habitable. And it's been very, very which have emerged and have It really isn't that way. That it is just wishful thinking. - [Narrator] If Murray was the realist, a buoyant Bradbury was a jubilant optimist with a poetic message. - I don't know what in I'm the least scientific of all the people up on the platform here today. A 10 year old boy, a few and said, Mr. Bradbury. I said, yes. He said that book of yours, I said, yes. He says on page 92, I said yes. He says, where you have the moons of Mars rising in the East, I say yes, He says, no. (audience laughing) (audience applaud) I was hoping that during as we got closer to Mars that we'd see a lot of with huge signs saying (audience laughing) (audience applaud) Or even Clark. (audience laughing) And I've brought along today, I'm gonna keep this short because I'd much rather listen to our scientific friends here today tell us about what's coming up this week. But every time I get a and have them trapped in a hall like this, I bring a poem, see. And you can't escape me. Luckily it's a short poem, but it sums up some of my feelings on why I love space travel, why I write science fiction, why I'm intrigued with what's And part of this has my philosophy And if you'll permit, I'll read it to you. It's very, very short. &quot;The fence we walked between the years &quot;did balance us serene. &quot;It was a place half in the &quot;and promising of peach &quot;we'd reach our hand to touch it. &quot;Almost touch the sky. &quot;If we could reach and touch, we said &quot;it would teach us not to, &quot;never to be dead. &quot;We ate and almost touched that stuff. &quot;Our reach was never quite enough. &quot;If only we had taller &quot;his hem, &quot;we would not have to go with them &quot;who'd gone before &quot;a billion give or take &quot;a million boys or more &quot;who short as us stood &quot;and hoped by stretching tall &quot;that they might keep their land, &quot;their home, their hearth, &quot;their flesh and soul. &quot;But they like us were standing in a hole. &quot;Oh, Thomas will a race &quot;across the void, &quot;across the universe and all, &quot;and measure that with rocket fire &quot;at last put Adam's finger forth &quot;as on the Sistine ceiling &quot;and God's hand come down the other way &quot;to measure man and find him good &quot;and gift him with forever's day. &quot;I worked for that. &quot;I send my rockets forth between my ears. &quot;Hoping an inch of good &quot;Aching to hear a voice cried &quot;We've reached Alpha Centauri! &quot;We're tall, &quot;Oh God, we're tall.&quot; (audience applaud) - [Narrator] Mariner 9 ever to orbit another planet. (soft music) Following right behind were with their landers aboard. The landers designed to be released just before orbit insertion could not wait for better weather. They would be plunging in the midst of the largest to have occurred in the solar system. - And for them it's much more serious than losing a few mapping pictures, because they have to come in with wind velocities of many on something which has or a parachute system. And they have only a that their communications can get back. Knowing that the Earth is spacecraft is falling in, if you have strong winds, the thing is swinging like then they potentially could - [Narrator] Carl Sagan proved Whether caused by the Martian The first Soviet lander crashed onto Mars after its parachute failed to open. (ominous music) The second descent module but less than 20 seconds after touchdown, the lander went silent and The tiny rover on board never had a chance to move even an inch. But the Lander did manage of video. Some consider this the first image, however incomplete, from (martial music) Though the landers failed, in putting two spacecraft into orbit. (rocket engine roars) The space race was far from over. (ominous music) Eventually the dust storm What the planet was finally was more than worth the wait. - It was a kind of epiphany in the sense of what an orbiter can do versus a flyby. The previous two flybys, all three of them had flown by and it was just coincidentally they'd all flown by the same side of Mars. They'd flown by the - And when the dust cleared we found a planet that was that Mariner 4 had seen, and that Mariner 6 and 7, completely. And so this planet, which we suddenly looked like bigger volcanoes, bigger flood channels, a canyon that runs the distance and is 60 miles wide in The grand Canyon of Arizona would fit into one little So we got really zapped because but everything was larger than here. So that left us bewildered geologically. But people who were interested because clearly there in this planet's history. - [Narrator] Mars had in a very different way. It was now known to be a forcing Murray to reconsider might still be possible. - The consequence of in this larger than life was to renew hopes that and that the original dream could be realized. - [Narrator] Now there was Not to fly by or orbit, but (ominous music) The first challenge in was to fly by a planet. The second was to go into orbit. And still to this day there is nothing harder than the third, landing. Touching the surface of Mars was now the next great which was more than matched To search for evidence of Martian life. (ominous music) To the consternation of JPL it was not chosen to The reasons were many. Relations between NASA and And the agency believed with other assignments. NASA also wanted to to its Centers. Besides, the Langley had an impressive record to reconnoiter the moon. Key to Langley's success was He was known to be as He cared little of title or a rank. What mattered was performance. - He was 6'4&quot;, 6'5&quot;. He looked like a commander. He stood up strong with huge barrel chest. He had a gray flat top. His eyes were taking in and you expected him almost to bark. This is launch complex 41 from where the Viking on the Titan Centaur launch vehicle. - The New York Times right after Viking, which likened And to people who did not know him, who did not see his softness, he was. He did not suffer fools. - [Narrator] With Martin in charge Langley had overall responsibility that was named Viking. The aerospace corporation Martin Marietta won the competition to Their arms were to reach down to be examined in an onboard JPL's role was to build a spacecraft that would ferry the landers to Mars, relay information from them back to earth and conduct orbital science. Given the lab's expertise in operations would also be conducted out of JPL's mission control. All told Martin's army spanning the nation. Requiring eight years, and the largest budget yet then spent on a planetary project. - The team that actually flew the mission was a badgeless team. Our badges said Viking. They did not say the Martin NASA Langley, the Jet Propulsion Laboratory or any of the many subcontractors. There was an allegiance - [Narrator] Martin took a a young Martin Marietta engineer, whose style of dress and length of hair ran counter to the - I was 28 years old. My hair was down below my shoulders and had little curls at the bottom of it. I wore white jeans with strawberries scattered all over them. And I once went to one wearing a pink shirt. And the chairman of the at that time happened to and he asked Jim Martin &quot;Who is the kid in the pink And Jim Martin looked at him and said, &quot;Well, he's one of yours.&quot; Gentry Lee is a different individual. One of his big bosses told and he'd never get any Gentry was a guy that how long his hair wanted to be. So as a result he went to work for JPL. He's probably one of the brightest people I ever encountered. - Well, what we actually have to do is becoming clearer as is press all the way back and go through the geological evolution, the atmospheric evolution, the interaction of the two, and somewhere different And somewhere they may So that's the sort of thing in general that I had hoped we would talk about- - And I hope you'll be glad to know that for this complete survey considering all of it, we have allowed you half an hour. - Okay. - [Narrator] Martin made Lee assigning him the role of and mission planning. That meant leading the It was like herding cats, one person said. Very smart but very independent cats. - I had all the scientists under me, and as I often tell people, I had two Nobel prize winners and explained why they should It was quite a group. It was quite an adventure. - [Narrator] There were including running political interference. One assignment was explaining oblivious to planetary alignments, why delaying a launch to rather than one. - I get this guy who announces in the White House and he's clearly irritated. He says, &quot;If I want to and I want to delay for a So why can't you go to And I said, &quot;Well, it's the &quot;And I don't think the president &quot;has the power to change that.&quot; There was quiet on the and he says, &quot;Are you a smart ass?&quot; (rocket engine fires up) - [Narrator] In 1975 the two Vikings lifted off the launch pad. And just as the laws of physics dictated, 10 months later they were nearing Mars. And having learned from with the dust storm the Viking landers were at the time of the mission's choosing after going into orbit. - Viking, very cleverly, is and not have to drop it for a Viking will be able to pick - [Narrator] Being able but when to land offered a huge public The 4th of July in 1976 would of the Declaration of Independence. What could be better than to celebrate America's bicentennial than landing on Mars? That was the expectation. (soft music) And as scheduled, Viking 1 went into orbit and began sending back images What the pictures revealed was a shock. - We got into orbit around Mars. Everybody celebrated. And we took photographs of our landing site. So the first time we spread we looked at where we had a priori and I remember Mike [Indistinct] and Carl Sagan and Hal Mazurski and Hugh Kieffer and I just eagerly looking at the pictures. And then I heard, &quot;Oh, oh! that looks like an &quot;And there're gonna be boulders there.&quot; And then Jim Martin strode up and said, &quot;And what does it look like?&quot; I said, &quot;It looks bad.&quot; &quot;It looks bad?&quot; He turned to me, he said, &quot;Plans A and B go into That began 18 days of What's the next option? That's not a good place to land. Where do we go now? What photographs are we And finally, with that we were getting to the point The hardest job of all this though, was the job of telling President Ford, that we were not going So I looked at Jim and He said, &quot;I got it.&quot; First of course, he had to who tried to talk him out of it. And Jim said, &quot;Well, I'm going &quot;If we land there, I'm not responsible.&quot; It was quiet on the Then he says, &quot;I'll call the president.&quot; - I am disappointed as are many people. But yet we've always had the fact that Mars might not cooperate. And I guess I would say it has not. - [Narrator] It was not the only time that Martin would disappoint Washington. - An hour before the landing I received a phone call - We were in the middle prior to separating the and then prior to, of course, and subsequent landing. Jim was in his office, which was kind of a glass cage in the middle of the The voice on the other end of &quot;Yes.&quot; &quot;Mr. Martin, this is the &quot;You tell President Ford, please, &quot;that I do not have any time &quot;We're in the middle of a lander checkout. &quot;And for him to call back in three hours.&quot; - The Administrator was sitting He said, &quot;Did you tell the &quot;to talk to them?&quot; And I said, &quot;yes, &quot;because I am too busy. &quot;Right now is absolutely the wrong time. &quot;Look at everything that's going on.&quot; He said, &quot;Well, I understand, I said, &quot;I'm sorry. This job on the surface is the most - In three hours, President Ford called back. Now, for those of us who'd worked for Jim for eight plus years, it was a no brainer. Of course the President Jim told him to. - [Narrator] In the early the Viking 1 lander and began the descent (indistinct radio chatter) - You have to realize this was before anybody knew closed loop guidance. It had to do a parachute. - [Control voice] [indistinct] - Then it had to do a terminal descent, where its radar, its four It had to go from 10,000 miles an hour to between two and three miles per hour in just a few minutes, and it (indistinct crosstalk) - 2600? - 100 feet, 40 feet per second. 76 feet, 73 feet per second. - [Engineer] ACS is close to vertical. - [Engineer] Now we're - [Engineer] Now just green for touchdown. - [Engineer] ACS green - Touch down. We have a touchdown. (applause) - We knew it had sent the message and survived at least momentarily. But then we had to wait 40 minutes for the orbiter to play... and play the lander data back. - And there is the first piece - A moment in every Viking's life that he or she will never forget is sitting with that television And watching as the first lines came down. They came down line by - [Engineer] See rocks. - [Engineer] That's beautiful. - The first photograph that from the surface of another planet. - [Jim] Yeah, I'm supposed to I just don't feel like talking. It's just incredible to see - And we all, 5 billion saw Mars for the very first time. - Look at that beautiful rock. And all of a sudden we were and it was clear, it wasn't dusty. And when we got to the with the dust and the small it was just a... it was really a miracle. - [Narrator] Images that came revealed that the mission There were rocks and boulders everywhere. - Can you see this big rock That was about 25 or 30 If we had hit that rock, the The lander found its way to the surface in a very smooth spot We had no hazard avoidance whatsoever. Just a lot of luck, if you will. - It never occurred to me I got those butterflies in my stomach, but we didn't know then what we know now, which is how tough it And the other thing we didn't know is that we were surrounded by the best and brightest engineers The best and brightest the prime contractor who built the lander, the best and brightest from who built the orbiters. The best and brightest and other places, they ran the mission, but mostly we had become a team. Jim Martin skillful over picked the very best he And so later on in life, we We say, &quot;My gosh, weren't the And we didn't realize this had (ominous music) - [Narrator] Now safely there was time for a call from Washington. - Hello, Mr. President. Jim Martin and myself are on the line. - [President] Nice to - [Jim] Thank you sir. Dr. Jim Fletcher, the Administrator of NASA, and you, the Viking Project Coordinator, for the just wonderful and in this historic mission. And I strongly encourage all Americans to follow the progress and to reflect on our Do we have any plans for - Mr. President, we're thinking very hard about that right now. I just got a big bunch of applause from our team here on that question. - [President] Well, I suspected among all of you for such a landing and such a project and- - Mr. President, the team is - [President] Well, give And let me express to each my very best wishes for a great job. We're all very proud of you. - [James] I appreciate those - Thank you, Mr. President. - [President] Good bye. - Thank you. (group applauds) - [Narrator] The enthusiasm proved wishful thinking. (ominous music) Although Martin's team had achieved an enormous engineering feat of both Vikings, the primary science mission, the search for life, and discouraging for many. - Not just that there was no life, but there was no organic material. And they found out the explanation was that Mars is self-sterilized. Nobody expected that. I didn't. No one. (ominous music) - [Narrator] But circling over the landers were the Viking orbiters. They provided six years of and once again changed our Here was a planet not only of craters, vast trenches and giant volcanoes, but also what appeared carved out by massive amounts of water. At some point in the past the surface must have If so, what had happened? Mars was more mysterious than ever. (ominous music) But to the dismay of many interest in future - I've talked to a large in this program who are the space agency has no at this time. Is it true? Why is it true? - I think that that the planetary program must get a new infusion of adrenaline or it will die a death through neglect. - [Narrator] JPL was worried Having Viking operations conducted out of the lab's mission control had been a great windfall and at times misplaced credit. But the outlook ahead seemed bleak. NASA's budget was under severe pressure. And the pipeline for was reduced to a trickle. As for Mars the United States would not (ominous music) - This is an example. It's a bit of the Martian weather that we've reproduced for you. No, it isn't snow. It's a different kind of weather that scientists have predicted This is the theory. If the Martian atmosphere and methane, and they are exposed to of the sun, they may produce sugar. In other words, there may be We know that Mars is very dry. Life forms on Mars may of preserving their water content. There may be a kind of plant, an ice-eater. We know that water bearing And creatures that to extract water from it are possible. - It's particularly important for me, if I can throw a personal note in, because right at the same right at the time we whether or not there is I am also going through which is considerably interesting. I'm having my first child. And the two together has caused me to be in a state of wonder at life and excitement about what's going on. That I never would have