Thank you to Brilliant for supporting PBS. with general relativity we'll pretty much win to do this, but it's notoriously difficult experiments like a particle collider the size instead of physicsing harder. Let's talk about can be done on a non-galaxy-sized lab bench, It's been almost right on 100 years since quantum relativity. Together these theories explain almost subatomic world and so the building blocks of forces, and GR gives us the the background in the force of gravity. Despite their incredible to contradict each other in deep ways. There both and resolves these contradictions, but general relativity and quantum mechanics, our The common approach to reconciling general to quantize gravity--to make the gravitational strange rules of quantum mechanics. And why not? made the electromagnetic field "quantum", photon--and that was a stunning success. But difficult. The hypothetical force-carrier for it's hard to even conceive of an experiment that fact that the field of gravity is the fabric forces of nature with respect to a continuous challenging to quantize that background itself. and loop quantum gravity, may have made progress, So what if we've been looking at it the wrong way we should be trying to "gravitize the quantum". properties to gravity, we should accept that to understand how truly quantum matter Now we talked about approaches in which when we explored the new Postquantum gravity fluctuations in the gravitational field act on We also talked about the Diose-Penrose model different spatial distributions mass and such distribution consistent with There are compelling reasons on but which is it? Is gravity quantized or is the quantum gravity, this one may be possible Let's consider the two scenarios and see what predictions they make that One: Gravity is quantum - this means gravity and various weird properties of quantum world, can experimentally demonstrate one of these Two: The quantum is gravitized - this can be like the Diosi-Penrose theory or Oppenheim's this first because it's shorter, then I'll In both the Diosi-Penrose and Oppenheim for collapsing the quantum wavefunction. In these only one spacetime, and quantum systems do One of the things quantum systems can do is simultaneously in multiple states at once--like quantum wavefunction is to describe this range "collapses the wavefunction" - it forces the If gravity is classical, then the superposition of the gravitational field. A superposition mass--which normally would mean different spacetime But if gravity is classical then there's only one lead to a tension between the gravitational The Diosi-Penrose approach says that the wavefunction collapses. Another way in the matter distribution is within a certain And in that case it can stay in superposition. But range then the superposition collapses Oppenheim's postquantum it states that the gravitational field gravitational diffusion--that mess up quantum Both the Oppenheim and Diosi and that there should be a stochastic quality This gravitational diffusion might be the most would imply that there's a fundamental limit measured. So if we can build a set of scales weights it measures appear to fluctuate outside uncertainty in the gravitational field. The most so far has led researchers to rule out versions implying that any gravity-induced collapse from propose other tabletop experiments that Rather than look for the funky we can also approach this from the other the wavefunction happens. If we can see where matter we may be able to figure out Both the Oppenheim and Diosi-Penrose models, as objective collapse theories predict that likely as an object grows in size or mass. If be a limit to how large an object we can put into So far we haven't found such a hard limit, things in superposition--for example, getting double-slit experiment. Based on the largest we can rule theories where the So we have some constraints on these ideas the quantum wavefunction of matter, and that may turn up something. Of course, it in the way these theories propose. It may just like matter. If that's the case then, Two of the strangest properties of quantum talked a lot about--and entanglement. two quantum systems that each may but the systems are also correlated so that the For example, if a "quantum coin" was in while a pair of quantum coins could be both in the opposite state to each other. Even though its state. If the first coin is measured so that tails, its entangled partner's wavefunction Quantum entanglement sounds like an exotic constantly getting entangled with each other. generates entanglement, even if it doesn't last when the interaction happens via the quantum exchanging the photons of the electromagnetic become entangled by a gravitational interaction? that the gravitational field itself has to be spacetime has to be in a superposition of states. One particular proposal for this type of known as a Quantum Gravity-induced Entanglement original version proposed by Sougato It uses a Stern-Gerlach interferometer. the existence of quantum spin back in the which have a single unpaired electron in the quantum spin of that lone electron. That This causes the atom to be deflected when it the Stern-Gerlach device. It's deflected upwards if its spin is down. Because quantum spin is either spin fully up or spin fully down (reflected there are no in-betweens for If the atom starts in a superposition state of up in a superposition state of being physically screen. So we've turned a spin superposition the superposition collapses But we can also remove the screen and superpositions back together, in which back into a spin superposition. Now it collapses completely randomly If we were to run a second Stern-Gerlach we'd measure at the end of the second device at the end of the first. Atoms in the different But now let's move the devices really, of interferometer one is right alongside Let's pretend for a moment that the silver spin-up-one and spin-down-two atoms while the other paths are too far for the atoms at the output of interferometer one versus two up-down, down-up should all be equally likely. Any so now, if gravity is quantum, the outputs correlated. For example, depending on how this is produce opposite spin results to each other very Now single atoms are way too light to produce could do this with many atoms? Specifically, with widths measured in nanometers. A little can be created by removing one carbon atom and This leaves an unpaired electron which same technology is actually a candidate So we create nanodiamonds and put their then shoot them through the pair of Stern-Gerlach superposition of these relatively massive get entanglement between the devices that will be What would all of this mean if it proved to work? Well from the point of view of particle gravitons are exchanged between the two masses. photon exchange leads to the electromagnetic made a video before on how hard it is to so this entanglement between the two masses in evidence for the existence of gravitons--the From the point of view of general gravitational forces could be interpreted as spacetime itself would be exhibiting one of a positive QGEM result would be strong These are just some examples of experiments that some of these ideas about the link between quantum effects in the gravitational field, to be truly quantum. There are lots of other and there's a good chance that some unlocking that century-old mystery Thank you to Brilliant for supporting PBS. with thousands of interactive lessons Brilliant helps build your critical thinking Each lesson is filled with hands-on problem And if you're fascinated by AI, "How that lets you to experience and harness the You'll Get hands-on with real language models their next word, and more. You'll Understand models trained on Pop lyrics to models trained on Finally, you'll get learn how to tune an LLM to poetry or a cover letter. To try everything 30 days, visit brilliant.org/spacetime or click you'll also get 20% off an