Sweden. Lion of the North, probably the biggest industry out of all the Nordic. So they should make for a very interesting However, national spirits not great that if you get less than 65% stability How bad you ask? Oh, I bet you'd like to know why, but you'd like to know indeed this bad. It's not going to be great. We also don't have any ammunition, The king is still around. More on that later. But he's a bit annoying in terms of It is what it is. And fuck it. I think this represents Sweden's Good for stability, bad for war support, and civilian factories, bad At least this offset That's nice. You can build some saves early on. Sweden has a very thick folk tree You for all the Nordics on the right here Let's see where this run goes. It all starts with the Defense Act to reshuffle your political leaders. More on that later. On the left, here is the military branch in terms of armor and infantry equipment Here, for instance, defense in depth leads mostly focus on infantry and finally getting mobilization but massive hits, disability Air warfare starts giving you bonuses Then down center here, urbanization. This mostly focuses around your civilian That civilian industry giving you some support for fascism and on the line But you lose out on stability, bonuses. And on the left here, this is mostly focus but it boosts your democracy Depending on what path you want, to balance out that war, support because it's very important and then to do political branches The second industrial Revolution, the historical path pretty much the historical Swedish option, if you're a player. But I never will or rather shouldn't. And on the left here align more closely And this is communism. You become discount Soviet Union essentially, The Nordic defense Council. This is a democratic Sweden to defense Very noble, very interesting. But today we will be looking closer This leads to nonaligned pretty much monarchy or straight up fascism, being Germany's Options. Many options. But today I think we'll meet with the king Yes, the lion in the north will roar I'm thinking we lead to follow that up with some civs there up north, mostly because of the vast Now, I'm not filling the infrastructure because there is a focus that boosts So that would be a waste where we go and then just straight down to more Once we get to 40 civilian factories, at least we don't have to worry about our Just do the basics. Military factories make more guns. Always need more guns. And forget the sign. Those military industrial organizations, all the ships I don't expect to use these submarines Then I'll build some convoys. I think I'll build 25. Yes, I have plans for these Destroyer. So because the fleet, well, it's a big fleet, but it's almost We're going to need some screens for that. We'll get those eventually. Then the army will group them all up 12th. The vision is not bad, not great. And we'll permanently exercise these Get some army experience out of them to this template, which is horrible, If you were to train them in the template a lot of support, equipment and artillery, So everybody gets to be military comrade. I don't know how to pronounce any of this. Let's get going I'll also sell off of deletes I don't intend to use them And I love the international market. I'll sell all of my airplanes at the Let's see, Switzerland And I wonder if anyone. Yep, The French I just need to get everything else sold. Know Germany wants to buy my cars. All right. You sold all of our airplanes for a profit Once it gets sold it adds to my economic capacity. Surplus. Essentially, this will boost It doesn't give us extra saves, depending on how much stuff We do have work more efficiently. First focus completes We're not getting elections, but our glorious leader He's pretty mid anyway. He doesn't get any bonuses. Now we have three options Farmers Party. We get a little bit of war support, Our infantry equipment becomes cheaper and everything else becomes Not great. I might try it to see where it leads And then the third option is not bad But I don't want this ability hits. I'm thinking we go with the top option anyway, so he doesn't need to stick around Congratulations. We now have Axl here. At least our guns will be cheaper Now focuses I cannot go to the enemy stirs will tension need war support. Let's start work towards Urbanization is the key here. This will allow us to balance war, support And eventually we can work towards 16% stability but get 16% war support. So we need to find somewhere Easiest way to do that is going to be certain political advisors and maybe This is the kind of run I think Urbanization is done. I think we get hygienic housing next. It doesn't look like much, but it also gives us a bonus 12% construction speed to service and it will expand out from our capital So pretty good. And I'm actually It wasn't really giving me. The taxpayer would have liked dispersed I don't know. So I'll just go to the next election The 1936 Swedish general election in May, Okay, then either we bring back Petra more political power, more stability, But we get a hit to war support So not terrible actually. Pretty good we can keep Axel. I didn't think we'll do that He will give us 6% research speed. That's actually also pretty good But I think I want this guy. Yeah, he will help us make Sweden Now with him in charge, So I'm going to hire this woman. Yes. She costs stability, which is bad. Yes. She only sticks around for But while we have her, So I'm going to hire her. I bias stability and we're going to take She unlocks these decisions. The first two aren't that impressive, but the last one reduced This is massive conscription laws, trade become so much cheaper we can now AP limited conscription are significantly cheaper as well. So I think this woman is worth the cost. I could also go up the free trade because it would definitely be funny I should probably exercise so we get some Navy experience. I want to make some destroyers. Let's go grab work projects and then we can start making some choices We got enough Navy XP to design This isn't fancy. It doesn't have to be. It just needs to protect my heavy And cheap is good. That's more stability. Now we got to make some choices. What I think we'll do is take defense. Above all, give up stability for worst port and some mills, We're going to need that. Then we'll take state paid more stability, more production efficiency goods, privately managed vacations And then we'll reject the South shore bad for a little bit of stability hit And from there we'll see. I'm probably of Technology for the research slots because I want to sell everybody my balls. It has some really good bonuses I'm thinking we get this guy, because political power It's already not great And from there, maybe we get like improve We need to get stability. Okay, I'm This could have been a mistake, We got our state paid vacations. Let's reject that agreement. 5% stability, but we can afford the hit. I think it's been some political power experience, get it early. That's good. And I think my next choice is probably going to be improve worker We're so close to that. Stability markets We don't have an economy anyway. Now it's also work on some air stuff. We might want to use our mighty industry Oh, Saab. They made some really good cars making really good cars and went bankrupt. But, you know, Let's move on and work Very soon, China is going to do its thing or other Hal spark world tension high enough We'll try to hold on because I would very much like to switch over to at least partial mobilization As well as getting a limited conscription. It's the should be all right especially now that I'm doing Let's get this got African I think what I want to do to bully everyone around me. So we'll use this mighty focus three here to get Denmark, and to get Norway. And then with our powers combined, and then we'll piggyback off to our crusade against Bolshevism Union and get reclaiming the roots, And let's sell Germany some ball bearings This gives us a little bit of stability not much, but it could be what you need Military expertise is pretty nice. It gives you 20 XP of all things Knowledge ships, radar, synthetics or support tech, talked to them in the first place. Maybe I can design some airplanes. Sweet. You can give mine ball bearings. We start the old enemy stirs. Now we prevent a red dictatorship who's That's also higher. The Minister of Defense. So we can start pumping out a significant We will need a lot of mills Our only five servers away Maybe tanks would be a good investment. Let's You know, Sweden can be a full fledged Let's let's try to aim for that. And now we move on to undermine the London organization These are all terrible. So for two years And then for another two years we get another hit to political power All of this is pretty and will make Something more to my tastes. This I will add some artillery I think this should do it Hammarskjold should be gone. Yes, it's gone now 40 civs, we can definitely start We're going to start making trucks. We're going to start making everything We will flip to nonaligned. We will be the royalists I might want to switch out the Army reformer cheap army organizations. Probably better. I'll switch out for you First thing we do when we get I would like to take out the Baltics, and then we'll start So let's prepare to bully the Baltics We'll also go superior firepower. It's just better. Okay, and I can't remember I'm so sorry. My head is not in this so what did we do? Let me make a quick rundown here. We worked our way down here essentially getting rid of the democracy down to the counter-revolution for the Baltics that gave us war goals Mills are coming in nicely. We're getting a little bit of cast, The usual good stuff is being built Sweden does have a nice industrial base We had a lot of civilian factories You need 40 for that, and now we're just building and we'll sprinkle in some synthetics Once we get some more built slots, Congratulations, Latvia. And another virtually uncontested up, stake everything, confirm an exit and In theory, Yeah I think I'll eat you know. Yeah. No guarantee there. So goodbye Lithuania. You are now joining the glorious Yeah. This is not. Not a real problem, I think. Goodbye, Lithuania. Goodbye. I want to say you put up a good fight, Just puppet them. Take their industry, There we go. Just make sure that if you do this You never want to take Lithuania If they still have mammal, Plot twist. Let's bully Denmark Now that we are mobilizing more manpower, we can afford to make All right. Denmark gives up Bornholm. Great. Let's keep building them So Iceland, Greenland photo. And as per usual, after our lovely channel members. So these first the 24 will be named You want to see yourself and you want to help out the channel. Feel free to sign up I have to do this manually But hey, So anyway, Always a good idea. Germany's doing its thing down south now. Germany is eventually going to turn north. We do have a non-aggression pact, So building up a spy agency that does nothing but apply Hopefully that way they can be persuaded Soviets are going to fight Finland's. That's good for us. Why? We can do the all issue here and threaten the Finns And it's been a long standing dispute about those islands. But this one only works is substantially smaller We could, however, also go up here Not only do we get the island, we also get a civilian factory over control in this scenario in exchange And I think when they're at war, and probably consider that Raoul Wallenberg, for those of you He saved a lot of Jews in Hungary. Diplomatic pressure on the Germans. Yeah. All right. Denmark agrees to be bullied Right? What that does is give us Iceland And Greenland as controlled territory. Iceland is a bit of a problem. Currently. There is no check in place to stop them I hope they fix that or change this, not a subject to Denmark, is democratic They can just ask to be a puppet So when I go to war, I lose Iceland. I don't want to lose Iceland. So we're going to Russia First, let's get the all on the question Obviously, Let's also bring the Swedish army home. I don't need them sitting on that border. I can instead We're just going to keep asking people for divisions and make our army Let's go grab some better tanks as well. We have a lot of stuff to research. Finland accepts for a price, and a free civilian factory we build a little slower for a year That seems worth it. Yeah, well, bully the Danes, This will allow us to start And I definitely want to integrate Iceland That seems like a good idea. Let's start putting them into production. I want the tanks to lead the charge here. We don't have the manpower Well, not yet. I just don't want to risk losing All right, let's see. People always complain very well might be, but let's This is probably not the world's It's relatively cheap, It's got enough armor. I think its speed isn't what I like, later, so congratulate Feigin 41 should also make some better We've improved our airplane design, I can a like cannon Can I afford this? Yes. Can I afford adding something else? Maybe armored plates? They tend to be what to do? Well, you and armor plates. That's all I can afford. We are now dead. Stolen or discouraged. Gets nice color of Prussian blue, And we have a bunch of new decisions up each and every one of our puppets And it takes 180 days. We will annex them and cover all the land, And if we have annexed and Latvia, we've conquered Lucca, We can proclaim the restoration in which we will proclaim King Gustav Yeah, that's going to be a long way off. But I think we've found the goal Fortunately, Norway decided to agree which will build up four more mills Kingdom's of Sweden and Norway If you want to play this, it's important After joining the anti-Soviet pact before Germany will do Operation Visible. So Vesuvius is this one. It's where they declare war on Norway They will delay this for a year If Sweden has done that focus, I don't want Germany because if they do, What do you say, old pal? Yes, they said yes. Congratulations, Norwegian Army. You're part of the team now. Guard I guess. And now we deal with Finland by first I could make a faction and draw them in and be like two Nordic brothers But no, today Sweden is top dog. All right. And the Finns agree is to fully integrate them as a puppet. Finland shall be Sweden again. Hopefully they'll agree. It appears we have integrated All right. I'll just disband these troops. Let's I want to change them Yes, I'll change them And we shall send them to the front lines. Of course, we must rename these All right. I'm thinking we start a collaboration All right. I'm going to let you guys in safe's coming this a little bit because So this event should make Finland because there's a couple of things Well, speaking of military, just by requesting troops there. That should make the army even bigger. Relationships are high. I am a player. They aren't I. That also tips things into our favor. They have given up all land, They have demilitarized lumpy, They're not in a faction which adds to the They should cave. But again, I've done this three times now. They haven't caved, We should apply some diplomatic pressure their independence. The question of Finland. We are going to give them the event, a They agreed. So third time's the charm, so it appears Anyway, Now we can continue on. I could do the crusade against Bolshevism, to open the attack. That way I can come in and back door While we wait for that, We can allow Lund's work which is even more beneficial to us, And they we can work on these things our everything We can make this country great again. A lot of good stuff here, Landsberg to operate independently. Oh, there They just got their war goals on Denmark Denmark's going to be no problem. We annexed them and their war goal will go away, And it's going to be 180 days So we need to finesse this non-aggression And Denmark has been integrated. We got a little bit of manpower, which means I have to rename to channel members And the non-aggression pact, our two days, in efforts to keep the Germans from I've stocked my border, They're there just to look intimidating, And then I have put all of these guys over on the border with Lithuania in case I just need to buy enough time, A month is what I need to buy I definitely regret doing this. This was so risky. I don't even have enough political power to hire Oh, God, that is a lot of Germans. Oh, that is a lot of Germans. Oh, God. I'm going to need to stack and everything has to get stacked there Oh, I have made a mistake. I made such a mistake here. Oh, they went for the Soviets. Okay, okay. We might still. We might still have this. Okay. We will grab Crusade And it looks like Finland They just do the continuation war anyway. And one day Norway should flip. So I'm going to delete these units. I mean, return them all And we have integrated Norway their many, many divisions that's convert Okay. So that gives me a couple of armies. Germany no longer has a war goal, What I do have to worry about very, massive Soviet presence on my border. We're going to start putting MAXINE and Hendrik, you are first It's not exactly what It's not optimal. I'm a little short on organization, I should get more doctrines as well, drive the Soviets back. Maybe I will need to upgrade the railways. Oh, this is all falling apart. Because Finland's bugged, They wouldn't be in this war Yeah, I think Finland's going to be able I Germany, I don't care. I also have somewhat of an Air Force. Let us make sure they do their jobs. I usually just assign them to a front line because I am admittedly a little lazy Our crusade against Bolshevism starts now. Sweden will have its vengeance, Northern War. We will reclaim the roots And I need to hoard because I'm going to burn manpower Ideally, I'd have a very conservative because I don't want I need to push back fast A little luck. We can still get a nice offensive going. We have Murmansk encircled. Let's mop that up And if I use my armor appropriately, towards victory and then cut off It's always easier to just destroy I was the Air Force doing All right, then. All right. We have to go to surface buy requirement because we are out of manpower Isn't isn't too great either. So we have a pretty massive boost And every time we take a major city. So Leningrad, Stalingrad, Moscow guard Germans are already not even going to get I have to fight the Germans. The absolutely ridiculous isn't really helping our offensive either. But we'll get it done. Still could be worse, I guess. Tanks are still carving through the Soviet and at least they'll have the area around The hell out of it. So I don't think they will be able I may need to ease up on the offensive, spam at all. I mean, counterattacked as I would have liked, probably deep snow, very cold, not able to take It is it is very much not fun right now. Come on now. I have to watch as Germany walks through because apparently the entire Soviet army Could definitely have gone better. We're getting there. I'll make a smaller encirclement. I'm now getting into terrain and we'll retake Helsinki. It's not amazing, but it's something It's. It's just not going to work. Nothing I've tried works fine Then I now also have all of the Finnish All right. Now let's see if I can get to Leningrad service by requirements. All right. I guess we're doing that. And now I'll need to save manpower Actually, no, I need to. I need to get stability up. Nice little encirclement there. It's more Russians gone. So you want to destroy the Russian army, because that is going to end up And at least we've killed off But there's so much more of it Yes, our armor Get the Volkoff as well. A small win. It's better than nothing. It is better than nothing. Skip It is important that we push past now. Great encirclement and then hopefully take I'm somewhat tempted to join the axis asking for land so I can grab it Let's grab political loyalty here. We get our stability up a little bit more, If I join the axis, and I can leave the faction at any time. As long as I don't join the war, I'm not going to join any of their wars, and I can leave the faction Okay. And I can ask for some stuff. All right. They'll give me some stuff. That's nice. Push the Russians out. We're going to set up a small defensive This the terrain is is way too terrible The tanks have done well in pushing. I'm conserving as much manpower as I can. I've already wasted too much of it. I need to find the supply hubs and push So if I can go from Yaroslavl to Vologda I can create mayhem for the Russians Let's try that mine. Breakthrough. Breakthrough. Come on up. Here is a massive delay here crossing But it doesn't matter. I am going to overcome it any way. You're going to do it, Mom. We're going to meet. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come Make it happen. Come on. Done it. We shouldn't have. But we did it. Make sure it doesn't just collapse Attack, Attack. Crushed the pockets. That's a good amount of Soviet When we can kill them off, up there. Maybe Arkhangelsk make a naval landing south. I should probably help out Okay. Okay. I'll use my tanks for that. But everything's I think we kill off a reasonable number That was nice. That was very cool. Now, while the North is going terribly Baku, take the Russian oil, and then maybe That is going to be annoying As always, again, I know that it's I've said it before and destroy, reduce the German I've just not had as much success Destroying the Russian army. It's it's still quite big. I'm resorting to stopgap measures. I'm not proud of this. But it has to be done. Now, in today's episode just trying to cut as much of the Red Army not allowing them to withdraw too far. I still need to take Stalingrad, Supply is an issue I'm out of fuel, I'm burning through equipment and tanks, When they're built. I will give the Soviets a piece of my mind We have more stupid things so I just want to destroy even if I'm fighting in terrain I don't care. I can probably get what I want I'm stabbing them in the back anyway, It's division, I am burning equipment and manpower, I've got a little bit of a buffer going. I just need to collapses pockets one another one of those supply of sets So if I can take that wonderful. Having made it to Kazan, I deal. I make these pushes for my own terrain, Supply is what it is. It's it's never going to be great here. So let's try to cut off Am I deploying more units? I probably shouldn't. Six tanks isn't a huge amount, but I think one or two more victory points albeit I don't think I'll be able but I will try to take as many of our columns I need longer, I need Leningrad. Everything else is nice certainly not something And because nice peace deals I agree. It's okay. So I have created a patchwork of Swedish Wonderful, beautiful. I love this. I just absolutely love this. And I'm going to start We are now going to go to war I just need to reorganize everybody and then we can So I'll put my puppets divisions here and my own army. I'll put on my own border and we'll rush everybody down here. We have business to take care of. Oh, my God. Germany That is bad or bad? Look, look at this. This is bad. All right? I need to bring all of my divisions home Now I'm going to leave the faction And my military axis. There you go. Germany has canceled I don't think they have a war goal on us, Well, let's justify a war goal Also, make sure the Air Force is aware and we've got our war goal. I am going to declare And yes, I am aware that this is drawing I honestly I don't care. I put the Navy on strike force again And now we're going to walk really can't do much to us all, Oh, the fall of London. That's not good. Ooh, I wonder how Germany managed Still, it doesn't matter. Those troops are now not home to defend, Let's just drive to Berlin I'll be honest, After that hard fought campaign in Russia, They're all still here. Garrison The massive front line with It's hideous. Yeah, I think the German Reich is Not a whole lot of fuss Oh, to just take out forces here, And there we go, piecemeal. Let's grab our Baltic coasts I really don't want any more than that. And that was another disgusting But I think we got so we may not have gotten and the world looks a lot more disgusting But I think the Swedish Empire We've retaken everything All I have to do is integrate Estonia and Latvia, It took me a little longer than expected and decided to sidetrack Sweden leads the African Union, but here we are. We can proclaim Clickety click click. It does nothing on the map. But now we have Gustavo. Adolfo is the second and he is the great. By the time you can click this button, but I got to click the button and Gustavo Sweden is where it belongs weird and wacky world where Like Germany are still here. Yeah, apparently Hitler just got exalted. Mongolia. That has been my preliminary I hope you guys enjoyed it. It needs a little bit of work, one of the focus trees of all times. OP You guys enjoy the video. I hope you guys will enjoy