- Do you all urinate here? - Yes, then we throw away at the back. - Do you have a container? - Yes, we have a cup. - Do you have cigarettes ? Send me the wire - Wait, let me send you a rope and we'll both be plugged in. - Okay go - Are there people sleeping up there? - Yes, everywhere. In the hammocks, on the floor, Get out! Get out! Get out! Get out! -Have you ever used it? - Yes, sure. Gentlemen, - When was the last time you saw, for example, a tree ? - In 1998, eight years ago, I saw a tree Quezon City and its children's prison. Today, There are 168 boys The girls are apart. For the boys, There are 80 in each cell. Mickey has just been sent here Mickey is fifteen I have been accused of theft There are thieves who have entered a shop. They did a hold-up. There was a murder and I was accused. One of the prison guards notices That tattoo is Sputnik. The name of one of the gang in the disctrict. All members wears a symbolic tattoo. But in Quezon City, having a tattoo is prohibited. It's an offence. This tattoo makes me a part of the gang, This is the first time - Are you scared? - Yes, I'm scared. Sodomy or... the sexual abuse of children, happen very quite often in jail. There are adults offenders. There, in the City Jail, and the provincial jails who have comitted rape cases. Does it seem normal to you that Not really. They are not suppose to be here, all. Little children like them are very young. This one is like ten years old, If you guys can help them to give their freedom. Do it. Give them freedom, let them go. It's almost 5am. The temperature is 30 degrees celsius. To the left, one of the boys' cells. To the right, the girls' cell. Boys are benefiting from the fan However, it is hotter at theirs. Around the jail, an employee is trying to get rid of the urine stains. There is a two-prong fan in there. Unfortunately, when it's 50 degrees outside, So, it doesn't really do you any good. It's, actually, beneficial to have it off than to have it on. Because, all it is, it blows hot air on you. It's like having a blow dryer on you. Gregory, 35 years old, his first offence. He's going to spend six months in the tents. This is where we live. All day, everyday. You've got Adrien right here. It's the homey right here. How are you guys doin' ? We've got Mike right here sitting on the bed. Hello. And the oldest, OJ, right here. All are minor offenders. Drunk drivers, They were sentenced To make them not want to come back, all these prisoners are dressed but in addition, under their zebra stripes, Sheriff Arpaio has perfidiously We have pink pants on. Pink underwear. I think he's just trying to make an example of it. We don't want to come back. Right? It's working. I feel really humiliate to be on TV. In 2006, this jihadist was recruited of another Iraqi prison. At that time, According to the death row inmate, It was here that part of the strategy of what would become the world's largest terrorist Abu Ghraib is a symbol for jihadists. It closed its doors in 2013. Today, the jihadists want to destroy it. - This is the entrance to the cells? - On your right. For fear of reprisal, None of the site managers dare to appear in the picture. I'm asked to do the inspection alone. Since its closure, it's the first time a camera is allowed to enter. Remember the images of Iraqi detainees It was here. Humiliated. Some have been radicalized. Inside, nothing has changed. Decaying walls. 2400 prisoners were locked up With only one pastime, books now dusty. The only reading they allowed themselves was the Koran. The holy book of the Muslims. I will show you the cage where Daesh locked up And this in front of the population. And here is this cage. The inhabitants don't dare to destroy it. This is where some of the jihadists' of Syrians being herded They were throwing people into this cage for a day or two, They'd lock that door. They were terrorizing people. They humiliated them - How does it feel to be inside? - I feel bad. I really don't feel well. Can you imagine being there in front of everyone? Who deserves that? To be punished so savagely? Thieves, murderers, drug dealers. All mixed up together In the middle of this court of miracles, a smile under blond hair. Katrina's, 26 years old, the only European imprisoned here. In this prison, right now, I think we're around 120. All of them share one bathroom. Katrina has been arrested with half a kilo of cocaine in her bag. That's what we call a mule. A small hand in drug trafficking. She has been living in this cell of We live here at 13, together. This is my bed. Up here. I sleep up here. It gets really hot at night time. When we are all closed in for 11 hours. - What's it like to live here? - It's good... Well no, it's awful. I mean, I'm in prison. Let's go outside. - Do you feel safe here? - I feel safe because no one steals in there, no one does drugs in there, - And in the other cells? - Yes. This is our courtyard. Patio where people most of the day, they just sit around in the shadow. When you're moderately rich, They are 100 metres long - How many people live here? - I don't know. You have to ask the supervisor. The deeper we get into this tunnel, the hotter it gets, the less air there is. - Here we pay rent. - How much is this? - 2 per week. This is the widest point There's no more air. The only exit is from where we came. It's hotter here and the air doesn't circulate anymore. This is the poor people's dormitory. Slums have been created In general, a cabin houses five or six prisoners. - Why don't you have a cell? - Because we are poor. We have no money. - What about the administration? - Nothing. We can see the overcrowding The people you see are also there at night. A concrete hole of barely 5 metres wide This is the prisoner's, Eddie Mills, Prisoner number, C 30 000 008 - When was the last time - A tree? The last time I went to court, Eight years ago, I saw a tree. It was in a car, in a bus actually. Mills is allowed just one hour a day to stretch his legs. He is serving his sentence in what is considered of any prison in the United States : the so called Supermax. Maximum security system Eddie Mills was found guilty Here where he's serving a life sentence, Just go against the back wall. he's considered a well behave prisoner The camera was allowed closer But still from outside his cell I think the biggest thing I probably miss is just the human contact. Being around and joke and play shaking hands with other humans. Eddie's done himself no favours in prison, a member of a neo-Nazi gang, And he's been in solitary ever since. All these years being confined, I've seen individuals like that too They won't say anything to anybody else looking at the walls. And they let their minds If we let ourselves deteriorate, Sentenced to lengthy terms of life they are unlikely to ever leave the prison. Life in Pelincan Bay is marked by clashes between rival gangs Race riots, attempted stabbings in the exercise yard Settling accounts. Since the prison open, 18 prisoners have been killed. Five of them were shot dead It is 10.30 a.m. and the shooting is not outside the walls, Get out! Get out! When the police and military finally entered the prison, I think that death is always around. In the corridors, in the rotundas, As if she wanted to remind us The ones holding the gates are these men. 200 guerrillas detained but armed, who control the buildings We have to be armed in the prison. That's why my bodyguards - But are you ready to fight? - Yes, we are. We must always be ready for war. Wherever we are. In prisons or outside. The government takes away our freedom. This is our only way to survive. - Have you ever used it? - Yes, of course I have. Televisions, pens and a few books In theory, paint brushes are banned. And yet somehow Eddie Looks like he found a feather Maybe he's using that for some fine details calligraphy work But that is considered as contraband, That feather can be dipped and thrown through that hall 85% of the inmates in this institution I don't want to have to go home To worry about my family This cell is occupied by Blake, at 33, the prisoner has already After the search, he checks Including the ones discreetly stuck You know. We gotta try to keep it out of sight. then they're gonna take it Blake is not an angel. He was convicted of armed robbery in 2009. We don't have real pens. We have flex pens. You can't do any damage with it you know, maybe try to hurt someone. it will just bend. We don't have real toothbrushes. We have little miniatures ones. and they are only, you know, this big. So we can't fashion any type of weapons. And here I can never go on an other block. if I went in an other block here, Prison guards find weapons almost every day. They are kept here, In an administration room. This is a piece of metal It has a point to it. or handmade weapon. These actually came from the lights fixers If we were selling to a gang member, or somebody who needed a weapon. He could probably make 50 dollars because this weapon would actually They make knives out of glass or even plastic. They got smart and decided because plexiglass won't set off Some of them are actually found Hidden in their pocket, their rectum. It's 6:30 in the morning. Time to wake up. The day begins with roll call. Which ID man? IDs young man ! This is a headcount roster I check that they are in the tent Where is your ID man? A difficult wake-up call to the sound Then, to speed up the pace, the cavalry charge is sounded. They are all wake up, Just a single blade razor. Inside, just a large refectory where up They have no privacy. - They don't give you shaving cream? Oh hell no, that would be too nice. Joe Arpaio tries to make it so miserable so degrading You know what I mean ? when you are in this company Joe Arpaio, the county sheriff. At 79, he likes to be called His credo: zero tolerance. The question is : You do something wrong, - That's your policy? - That's my policy. I think it's common sense. Roughest county in America Hey ! Go shave man! Go shave. You can't keep anything but a moustache that's it. Go shave man ! You too. It's a paramilitary guideline You know we have to enforce them. I think that some of these guys, they had... this earlier on in their lives, a little bit of life-respect for themself, they probably wouldn't be there to be honest. Right now we are gonna lined up They fought among themselves In reprisal, these prisoners are put in chains. Gentlemen, take your marks. With their chains on their feet, they have to walk in time. March time march. Forward, march! Here we go again! &quot;Here we go again!&quot; 4 more weeks and I'll be through! &quot;4 weeks and I'll be through!&quot; I'll be glad and so will you! &quot;I'll be glad and so will you!&quot; Pull the weeds out of the sidewalks The goal is to set an example. An amazing way to do If you driving down the road you're gonna point to your kid and say : &quot;Look, don't cause problems. Don't do drugs, She tried to she's grounded, she's in solitary. - You're staying five days? - Yes, we're locked in. - Are there two of you here? - Yeah. We're going to be locked in here for five days. Can you smell how it stinks? This is our cell. We lock people up for crimes theft, debts. Please, You have to let me out. Sunday is the visit. I haven't been out for fifteen days. I have to wash up for the visit. Let me out. Okay, okay, I'll fix it. When we went in, trapped in the tunnel. - Are there people sleeping up there? - Yes, everywhere. In the hammocks, on the floor, on top. - And what's in there? - It's the food. - Is it good? - No, it's bad. - What's the worst thing here? Lices. There are eight other boys but a cage. A cage where they struggle for air. They're all receiving punishment, He is in the cooler because he aggressed young kids. But he's going to be release later. - Are you urinating here? - Yes, then we throw it out the back. - Do you have a container? - Yes, we have a cup. - Fleury, shitty prison! Hate lurks behind our smiles - F*ck you ! Justice, f*ck you! - The administration, screw you! It's easy behind a window. Face to face, it may be a bit more tricky. Nadine Picquet is the Head The biggest prison in Europe. 4000 detainees. A cruise ship. - Hey, neighbour! - Hey, neighbour! - Hey, neighbour! - Yeah ? - Please, turn it down a bit - Yeah - In less than an hour Then you can put it back on. In Fleury, the 1,400 prison guards, bars, locks are not enough to prevent the ties that bind - Abu ? - Yeah ? - Do you have cigarettes? - Yeah. Got any grass? - I have nothing bro. From a cell to another, the prisoners often chat Hey Corsica ! - Yeah, yeah! - Send me the wire. - Wait, let me send you a rope and we'll both be plugged in. - Okay go Thanks to their rope, they deliver items I send it straight down, don't I? - Well yeah, then you bring it down. Go down a little more. - I see it. - Pull the slack man! They trade cannabis, mobile phones and notes. The prison administration and limit the phenomenon. Cells are searched on a daily basis randomly. Have you done the inside of the fridge? - Yes, I already have. - Behind? - I've already done that too, and there's nothing there at all. - So what have you found so far? - A tampered power cable. - And you couldn't find a phone? - Not yet, no. - You can open this, as I haven't got my gloves on. This radio hides a forbidden object yet one that is very common in prisons. - Perfect. - Is it a smartphone? They will face disciplinary sanctions Prisoners who can't afford eat what they find, This is an image of - Don't you have anything else to eat? - No, sir. The prison administration takes care of one meal a day at 11:00. To go there, you have to be hungry. Very hungry. Only the poorest come. Around this place, there are several restaurants The baker comes from Europe. He was arrested for fraud. The baker's neighbour is the best restaurateur in the Modelo, It must be said that Giancarlo, the boss, which has led him to know some other prisons. He says he used to stay in the one in Nice and was arrested here in Colombia Strawberry juice, blackberry juice, bananas, apples and pineapples. Two years ago, launched an original project, They opened a restaurant Only model inmates There are seven of them in the kitchen. Katrina is serving. Now, I'm here every night because I ask for. Some of the girls don't come every day, Because it's more relaxing for me I feel happy I communicate with the people who come, Shut up, stop laughing. - I feel like you're laughing a lot. - Yes, and even more so with this handsome guy. That handsome cook. This is a household appliance shop. There are 35 craftsmen and merchants. Merchants are common law prisoners All these businesses are It is thanks to this that that we earn our living It's with the agreement of the administration. On Sundays, is visiting day. I've been here so long. When I was home, I made a new life book for her. And one day I'll give it to her. That's her She looks like me now right? Oh don't make me sad, don't make me sad. She doesn't have these things. I just want to her to have, you know, We've lost so much. And this is a ugly picture of her, But I love it. Oh, no. This is why you don't wear makeup. - Why are you crying? - Because I want to get out of here. - How do you see the future? Nothing. Nothing to look forward to. I have no projects for after.