Long live the Imperial Army. Long live the Imperial Army. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America. The atom bomb. We will arrive at Yokohama at 0930 hours. We will arrive at Yokohama at 0930 hours. Debarkation priority will be in accordance with the debarkation schedule. General Douglas MacArthur arrived at Atsugi Naval on August 30, 1945. As he emerged from his aircraft, he paused at the top of the steps, stuck one hand in his hip pocket, tightened his jaws around his corncob pipe, and surveyed the conquered lands. This pose was repeated several so that all the press photographers Democracy was to be instilled as though they had never heard of it. Our problem's in the brain inside of the Japanese head. These brains like our or bad things all depending on the kind of ideas that are put inside. Kabuki plays featuring loyal samurai were banned or heavily censored, as were books and films about the bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Satirical cartoons of MacArthur and mention of occupation censorship The commission finds you guilty as charged and sentences you to death by hanging. Yamashita himself thanked the commission for the fairness of his trial. Prime minister at the time of the war in the Pacific, General Tojo, remarked during his trial &quot;None of those Japanese would dare act&quot; &quot;against the Emperor's will.&quot; The cross-examination was and a week later Tojo dutifully stated that the Emperor had always General Hideki Tojo, who assumed official of the war and did everything possible to exonerate his emperor. MacArthur would later remark to the U.S. Senate that in the Japanese were like a 12-year-old boy. You are interested in the unknown, the mysterious, the unexplainable. That is why you are here. When the war was over, bank loan books had deteriorated. The assets the banks held and loans to destroyed industries as such the whole banking This problem was easily All it had to do was buy the with newly created reserves for assets which were often worthless. The first two postwar were nominated by the U.S. occupation. Eikichi Araki was appointed of the Bank of Japan, but soon after taking up this post, he was indicted by war crime's prosecutors and had to resign. Then in 1951 after a general amnesty on suspected war criminals he was made ambassador On returning from his post Araki was again made After the 1951 amnesty for war criminals, much of the Japanese wartime bureaucracy was returned to their wartime positions. This included wartime politicians and most home ministry bureaucrats who had been in charge a number of which moved Japan is the key to Once again for the second time in the march of modern history, those words have urgent reality. In order to avert the kind of rural unrest that was helping the communists in China, the Americans initiated the redistribution of land from big landowners The capitalist elite in were purged as supporters of a criminal war and prohibited from Basically the fascist policies of the 30s that the reformed fascist bureaucrats could not implement during the war even, the U.S. occupation managed to complete like the land reform Yeah, it's a very funny encounter of Japanese wartime fascists and American New Dealers. The Diet, home of Japan's Senate and House of Representatives. In Japan fanatic students and leftist groups rioted for days on end, seeking to block the mutual The socialist deputies staged a riot in the Diet itself. The police in restoring order The speaker was carried to the platform and called to order the session In 1957 the former Kishi Nobusuke became He had been General Tojo's during the war where his responsibilities had ranged from munitions to slave labor. While Hitler's wartime war minister, war economy minister, was in Berlin Spandau prison, Albert Speer, his Japanese wartime colleague was prime minister of the country. Although Kishi became a defender of democracy after the war, before and during the war as a national socialist. With money from crime syndicates, industrial corporations, Kishi built the Liberal Democratic Party into a powerful political machine. In Japan many of the most important postwar economic and political leaders came from an elite group the very same people who had The Liberal Democratic for almost 40 years. &quot;Welcome home&quot; in Japanese to these American soldiers. After a tour of duty in Korea, they are returning to their base in Japan where once a short time before they were stationed as occupation troops. And how do they return? How are they received by the people whose land they occupied? Not as overlords. Not as antagonists. Not as men who are distrusted and feared and resented but as friends. In Tokyo's Central Chiyoda Ward, the Ministry of Finance From here the ministry of economic life in Japan. The Ministry of Finance was and the Bank of Japan had to report to the Ministry of Finance. Ministry of Finance officials elicited deep and hushed and former ministry bureaucrats as heads of private and But in one area the ministry and that was the quantity and its allocation, which was decided by the Japanese central They told the Ministry and the journalists, &quot;through interest rates.&quot; And they let the Ministry their interest rate policies. But the rule was done through which is the price of the quantity of money. It worked this way. It's called window guidance. The Bank of Japan just told the banks how much they were gonna lend, they will have to lend and who, which sector of It's credit allocation, credit control. The Bank of Japan to individual banks on the value of loans and which industrial sectors All loans were broken down and large-scale borrowers The Bank of Japan could should be encouraged and by dictating to whom and for what banks could issue loans. This was the war economy system, adapted to the production The 95 million people of Japan now enjoy a national income second only to the United States and of Western Europe. It's not a good system for capitalists, you know, shareholders but for the population it very even income and wealth distribution, very high growth, and very rapidly raised quality of life and standards of living. In 1959 alone the economy expanded by 17%. But a result of the war economy system was that entire industrial not for profit but for market share. Companies would fight until bankruptcy to gain market share. This phenomenon was soon recognized and called &quot;excess competition&quot;. The solution was the creation of explicit, or implicit cartels. In the banking sector window guidance acted as the cartel control mechanism because the Bank of Japan could dictate the number and value of As a result bank rankings never changed during the postwar era According to one banker, &quot;If it were not&quot; &quot;for window guidance, we The U.S. current account deficit surges to its highest level in nine years. The size of the increase took While cartels controlled competition within Japan there were no such limits when it came to international markets. Japanese corporations soon became dominant in many markets in the world. In America formal congressional under the title &quot;Japanese Productivity Leading economic theories free markets can lead to success, but Japan rose within decades to become the second largest economy in the world, without relying only on the Japan's postwar economy war economy with production shifted from weapons to consumer goods. Since the Bank of Japan presented itself as a champion of free markets, window guidance was an embarrassment. Official publications or downplayed its role by voluntary. Whenever the Ministry about the Bank of Japan's credit creation and allocation policy, Bank of Japan staff would full of technical jargon appear impenetrable to non-experts. In November 1965 the first batch of Japanese government From now on when politicians they would no longer put but instead exert it on So the ministry would ultimately preside over an ever increasing The 1980s was an era of in the industrialized world. Most industrialized countries on the movement of capital. In Japan, Tadashi Sasaki, a former governor of the Bank of Japan, for the transformation and liberalization of the Japanese economy. Then in 1986 the Advisory Group headed by the former Haruo Maekawa, proposed a 10-year economic reform plan designed to of Japanese more comparable The proposal stated that, The report read like a wishlist It started with calls and the abolition of bureaucratic powers. The goal was the transformation the abolition of the war economy system, and the introduction of a U.S. Those members of the advisory group who uttered dissent were Reports in the press were highly critical. Observers recognized the It seemed far too ambitious. It was calling for a wholesale revolution of all parts of the Japanese economic, political, and social system. Although the report was it was embarrassingly silent about how these goals would be achieved. The only clue hidden in the report was, The Bank of Japan has arguing that this typical so familiar with should be scrapped. It just should be entirely scrapped, and U.S. style capitalism Now, whether you agree with that or not is an entirely separate question but the Bank of Japan certainly thinks it should be scrapped. Now the next question Well, the Ministry of Finance for most of the postwar era. We've got entrenched politicians, and all That was the old system. Well, history teaches a system changes only fundamentally if there's a crisis. The commission proposed that monetary policy should be used to promote a historic crisis sufficiently large to of the Ministry of Finance, politicians, and corporate Japan. Every system has groups and hence have no desire to change it. There is probably no country in the world that has changed its economic, social, and political system in a It is the crisis that convinces citizens and interest groups of the need for change. Well then how can you achieve this? Um, well you need a crisis, and the best way to create because that's how nobody stops you. The Bank of Japan began to significantly increase Average yearly loan growth in the late 1980s. One city banker would later remark, &quot;During the bubble we &quot;of loan increases&quot; &quot;but the Bank of Japan The credit boom caused not only a boom in real estate but Between 1985 and 1989 stocks rose 240% and land prices 245%. By the end of the 80s surrounding the Imperial was worth as much as the Although Japan is only 1/26 its land was valued at four The market value of a single one of Tokyo's 23 districts, exceeded the value of the whole of Canada. Economists who are trained to believe in market outcomes tried to Some thought land scarcity was the reason. Shiny new corporate posh business districts. The labor market boomed so much that there was a genuine fear Companies started to invite final year university students on expensive to entice them to sign up. The politicians loved it. The Ministry of Finance loved it. We had a boom of tax revenues going up. The companies loved it. Everything was wonderful in the bubble era. With asset and stock prices rising inexorably even traditional manufacturers could not resist the at playing the markets. Soon they expanded their to handle the speculation themselves. These company hedge funds, know as Zaitech, used borrowed money to engage in property and share speculation. The frenzy reached such proportions that many leading manufacturers, such as the car maker through speculative investments than through manufacturing cars. Literally thousands of on the new Japanese miracle economy. A common explanation by economists was that high and rising productivity explained the impressive Books on Japanese management techniques became international bestsellers. Western businessmen on samurai strategies. In reality Japan's stellar had little to do with Instead of being used to window guidance was used I conducted research actually interviewing Bank of Japan officers and bankers both sides on, you know, on tape. The result was the Bank of Japan did continue its informal guidance. In fact it was the Bank of to increase their lending so much. The Bank of Japan knew that the only way for banks to fulfill their loan quotas was for them to expand In the words of one banker, &quot;for credit from low-risk borrowers&quot;, &quot;and we want to use up the Another banker is quoted as saying that, &quot;A side effect of the window guidance rule&quot; &quot;of loan increases was that &quot;even when there was no loan demand.&quot; Like all bubbles the Japanese bubble was simply fueled by the rapid creation of new money by the banking system. Between 1986 and 1989 Toshihiko Fukui was the head of the Banking Department at the Bank of Japan. This was the department for the window guidance quotas. When Fukui was asked by a journalist, &quot;Borrowing is expanding fast.&quot; &quot;Don't you have any &quot;on bank loans?&quot;, he replied, Why were the banks lending so much? Well, they were lending forced to do so by the Normally banks choose clients from among a large turning down a significant percentage. But from 1987 onward the tables had turned. It was the bankers who potential customers. Anecdotes abound about how the banks were soliciting loans at pursuing clients like street peddlers. Bankers made increasingly exaggerated assessments of land value so that the actual ratio often jumped to 300% or more. To the public this was People soon dubbed it &quot;excess money&quot;. Only economists, analysts, in the financial markets knew better. They dismissed such simplistic analysis. Land prices were going up due to far more complicated reasons they claimed. Ordinary people simply did not understand the intricacies of advanced When a country creates too much money, some of that money spills out abroad in the form of investment. In the 1980s Japanese from a net inflow of more to an outflow of $132 billion in 1986. Assets including art all over the world became There were high profile purchases such as the Rockefeller and Pebble Beach Golf Course. Japanese money bought a staggering 75% of all United States Treasury But it is not easy for a and then go on a shopping Japan was able to do did not devalue its currency. The value of individual currencies is set by currency dealers. If the traditional indicators watch do not pick up the in the country concerned, then creating large amounts of money and trying to exchange it for Japan had pulled off the same trick that the United States had when U.S. banks excessively Corporate America used this hot money to buy up European corporations. While the United States had the cover of the dollar gold standard, Japan's cover was a significant trade surplus. An early warning indicator of the buildup of systemic risk in the banking system is a ratio of loans for to total loans. This ratio increases that are subsequently It was this same process that fueled the mortgage lending and house price booms in the United States and the United Kingdom in the 1980s and the 2000s. The same process also In the 1920s United States banks lent with stocks as collateral. The principle remains the same. As each bank took the it created new money. With more money in the stock market, stock prices had to rise. Each bank thought it was percentage of the value of but the actions of all banks together drove up the overall market. In Japan total private sector land wealth rose from 14.2 trillion yen in 1969 to 2,000 trillion yen in 1989. At his first press conference as the 26th governor of the Bank of Japan in 1989, Yasushi Mieno said that, &quot;of monetary easing had &quot;rise problems, real &quot;would now be restricted.&quot; He looked around, looked at the bubble asset prices rising, the is getting bigger. Let's stop it. His name was Mr. Mieno and because he fought against But the fact was he was Deputy Governor during the bubble era, and he was in charge All of a sudden land and asset prices stopped rising. In 1990 alone the stock Then in July 1991 window This took the window guidance officers at the Bank of Japan Bankers were left almost helpless. They complained that they did not know how to make their lending plans anymore. In the past when a certain branch had said they would like to lend more, they would respond that had been used up. Now they couldn't do that anymore. As banks began to realize that the majority of the 99 trillion yen in bubble loans were likely to turn sour, they became so fearful that they not only stopped lending to speculators but also restricted loans to everyone else. Well it's a bleak the stock market on Monday sinking to its lowest close in over two years. Last week's collapse of food traders was the ninth time this year that a listed company went under. More than five million Japanese lost their jobs and did not Suicide became the leading cause of death for men between the ages of 20 and 44. Between 1990 and 2003, 212,000 companies went bankrupt. In the same period the Land prices in the major Some economists seemed relieved. The downturn was evidence was not so successful after all. Meanwhile the governor of the Bank of Japan Yasushi Mieno said that, &quot;everyone is becoming &quot;to implement economic transformation.&quot; The Ministry of Finance were the main policy tool put pressure on the Bank of Japan until the official rate reached 0.1%. Most economists predicted But despite frequent assertions and by central banks will stimulate growth, and higher interest rates will slow growth there is no empirical evidence Japanese and American businessmen are meeting here with a for a lower yen. Only 6% of Japanese with the dollar at less than 100 yen. On average they need the American currency to rise above 117 yen to break even. The Ministry of Finance asked the Bank of Japan to sell large amounts of yen and buy U.S. dollars so that the exchange rate of the yen would fall and exports would pick up. We all know that two of them the Ministry of Finance, MOF, in Japan and the Bank of Japan they and what has been happening also again this month is that the Bank of Japan has been sterilizing its own intervention, well to be precise the intervention ordered by the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Finance to go out and buy well we had to figure roughly 20 billion worth of U.S. Treasuries but the Bank of Japan is sterilizing this which means it is from the economy to fund this purchase. Most researchers agree doesn't work. The BOJ is again sterilizing. That's why it doesn't work. That's why the yen has remained strong. A central bank can withdraw money from the economy by selling its assets just as it can inject by buying assets. When central banks buy and sell assets, they increase or decrease circulating in the economy. Officials at the Bank and instead claimed that, Independent observers suggested that domestic demand had to be boosted by government spending and then loan demand would also rise. For a decade the government boosting government Between 1992 and 2002, worth 146 trillion yen were issued. Mr. Richard Werner is Chief Economist at Jardine Fleming Securities in Tokyo. He joins us now to share his views on where the Japanese economy is heading. Mr. Werner, good evening to you. Thank you for joining us. The government was putting money into the economy but the fundraising was and therefore it took the same money out of the economy with the left hand. There was no increase in and that's why the government spending couldn't have an impact. By 2011 Japan's government debt would reach 230% of GPD The Ministry of Finance Observers began to blame the and started to listen to that the recession was due But how difficult would it have been to solve the problems of bad debt in the banking sector and deflation? It turns out that this would not have been so difficult after all. The financial system There's no loan growth so so there's no loan growth so Well, there is one thing this circular argument. That's the central bank. The job of the central is to print money. What we need now is more radical measures and there are some painful ones, but there're also painless ones. The central bank could for example just buy all bad debts at face value. Japan would have the To bail out the banking sector, a central bank can buy up the banks' bad financial assets with newly created money, giving them face value for assets, which are often worth significantly less. This is what the Bank of Alternatively money could by helping them make sizable profits. One way this can be achieved to corner a market in effect in a certain market in providing large profits for them. This turns out to be a by central banks to help Other proposals include zero-risk borrowers to banks, or introducing accounting changes that help their balance sheets. In Japan the authorities as did the Western powers that the taxpayer should foot the bill. In March last year as you may remember the government injected into some 15 major Japanese and we were one of them. That helped us write off bad debts and also to beef up our capital base so that we would be prepared to lend. Tax money has been used to recapitalize banks. However there is no evidence that taxpayers have been responsible therefore such policies have The money supply is in money creation by banks If moral hazard dictates should not be bailed out can still be avoided by the central bank to do this the central bank A central bank can increase in an economy at any time without limit by simply buying assets and paying with newly created credit. The Bank of Japan could for instance have bought real estate and And there is an opportunity here to solve three problems in one stroke. The economy needs money creation. The banks need to get And the real estate sector Well, what you can do is print money, buy the land from the banks, turn it into parks and actually quality of life in Japan. Even if the Bank of Japan had later sold these parks it would still have made money, because it costs the central bank nothing to create the money in the first place. Another option for injecting is quantitative easing. Despite having all these options available, the Bank of Japan at every stage refused to implement policies When I was at the Bank of Japan, '92, '93, as a visiting researcher I was convinced that this recession was so any Bank of Japan guy who I would ask, &quot;Why aren't I noticed they were not I met one guy who was quite open about it and he says, &quot;Richard, &quot;printed more money.&quot; &quot;We could have created a recovery&quot; &quot;but then nothing would have changed.&quot; &quot;Japan's economic structure Now at that time I still that the Bank of Japan was seriously prolonging the recession on purpose in order to get structural changes that just seemed a bit too wild. Finance Minister Masajuro Shiokawa has turned to the Bank of Japan asking it to help stop deflation or fight deflation at least. The Bank of Japan consistently defied calls by the government, finance minister, and prime minister to create more money to stimulate the economy At times the Bank of Japan the amount of money which worsened the recession. The Bank of Japan's arguments always came to the same conclusion namely that the blame lay with Central bank staff even monetary easing could cause harm by inducing a further delay in the progress of structural adjustment. The early postwar Japanese leaders knew that they were running a war economy, but they chose not to talk The Cold War propaganda message was that postwar Japan had adopted a U.S. style political and economic system. Unwilling to tell the truth took their intimate of Japan's miracle economy A generation of bureaucrats in the 1980s and 1990s the true character and purpose of their own country's economy. A whole generation of Japan's economists had been sent to the United States to receive PhDs and MBAs Since neoclassical economics assumes that there is only one namely unmitigated free market where shareholders and many Japanese economists quickly came to regurgitate the arguments The U.S. and Japan closed two days of insurance talks on Tuesday. Primary sector deregulation is needed to overcome the entrenched interests of large insurance and the Ministry of Finance bureaucracy. They need to reach an After that date the U.S. has threatened to impose trade sanctions. The key move analysts are expecting the securitization of real estate. But will the package be enough? For more we are talking to Richard Werner. To have meaningful and that's already the To get deregulation you of the Ministry of Finance and obviously the Ministry In the 1980s persons who could introduce themselves with a business card from the renowned Finance Ministry elicited deep and hushed But by the mid 1990s attitudes had changed. There now seemed little that the Ministry of Finance The frequent demonstrations were held outside the Ministry's doors by citizens disgusted by the bureaucrats' actions. In early 1998 public raided the most powerful Both banks and their regulators for their actions. Scandals highlighted some that existed between and bankers. Many bank staff and even were arrested and imprisoned As central banker Masaaki &quot;It is not easy to change &quot;and promote structural reform&quot; &quot;since it necessarily &quot;of all the related While Yutaka Yamaguchi a Deputy Governor of the Bank of Japan had said that, From the mid 1990s onward the government began to dismantle much of the Ministry of Finance. The Bank of Japan on the other hand saw its influence grow significantly. You have written just in your mind the central will be cut loose from and become pretty much independent putting it on a footing Briefly why are you so sure? Basically the Ministry controlling legally at I mean that's what the law says has lost all credibility. The Ministry of Finance is being blamed for the creation of the bubble, for the long recession and we had recently in Japan, whereas the Bank of Japan has been out of the spotlight of public criticism and it's using that now to say, &quot;Well, the MOF has been bad.&quot; &quot;We need independence now.&quot; Richard, thanks very much. I have been speaking to Richard Werner, Chief Economist at Jardine Soon after his retirement from the position of in 1994 Mieno embarked on a campaign giving speeches to various associations and interest groups. He lobbied for a change His line of argument was to subtly suggest that the Ministry of Finance had pushed the Bank of Japan into the wrong policies. To avoid such problems in the future, the Bank of Japan needed to be given full legal independence. According to Mieno making reflected the human wisdom by history. In 1998 monetary policy of the newly independent Bank of Japan. So you're saying that politicians as well as economists should towards the Bank of Japan in but a lot of critics are going to say that that is intervening into the What do you make of that? I think that's exactly right. That is intervening in the and that's exactly what we need. The numerous scandals that followed the bursting of the the 1955 system of one party rule by the Liberal Democratic Party. In the old system by proposing different policies. Policy was made by the bureaucrats, and politicians merely focused on appeasing local constituencies with In October 1997 for the first all policy initiatives originated from politicians Then in early 2001 a new type of politician was swept to power. Japanese government bonds this month as Junichiro Koizumi emerged as the hot favorite to become the country's next prime minister. Junichiro Koizumi became prime minister. In terms of his popularity he is often compared to Margaret Thatcher and Ronald Reagan. His message was simple, &quot;No recovery without structural reform.&quot; At the Geneva Summit in July 2001 he said, &quot;Some say recovery comes &quot;but if the economy &quot;will disappear&quot;. &quot;Therefore, after the &quot;with the plan of no growth During 2001 the message without structural on an almost daily basis Now everyone believes we We need to scrap Japanese style capitalism to get a recovery. Why? It seems we tried all the policies. It seems we've tried everything. Nothing works. So the system itself the Japanese style economic system must be to blame so we'd better get rid of it. Japan was shifting its economic system to a U.S. style market economy and that also meant that was being moved from To entice depositors to pull and into the risky stock the guarantee on all bank deposits while creating tax incentives As U.S. style shareholder unemployment rose significantly. Income and wealth disparities rose, as did suicides and Then in 2002 the Bank of to worsen bank balance to foreclose on their borrowers. Until then Hakuo Yanagisawa, had resisted the Bank of to inject tax money into banks effectively nationalizing them, taking over their management and using this power to thus triggering many Mr. Yanagisawa was duly and replaced with Heizo Takenaka. Takenaka was a supporter to increase foreclosures of borrowers. Minister Takenaka was to actually dramatically of the banks in order and allow him to nationalize them. Takenaka appointed a task force to oversee the banking policies which included two former One of them, Takeshi that accounting changes be implemented which would worsen bank balance sheets and render nationalization unavoidable. Takuro Morinaga a well-known argued forcefully that the Bank of Japan inspired proposal by indigenous beneficiaries but instead would mainly benefit U.S. vulture funds of distressed assets. These vulture funds had that despite over 200,000 bankruptcies few firms sufficiently to be interested were bankrupted. When Kimura's and Fukui's was voiced the former that advised on the securitization And the latter was an investment firm Goldman Sachs one of the largest operators Mr. Fukui also his mentor Mr. Mieno, and his mentor Mr. Maekawa these are some of the Princes of the Yen that the book is all about, they have said on the record in the 80s and also throughout the 90s what is the goal of monetary policy? It is to change the economic structure. Now, how do you do that? Well, you need a crisis and that's really what they've done. Richard, we're just out of time. I have to cut you off. Thank you so much and we apologize. The department responsible for the window guidance was called the Banking Department. And who was in charge of this? The man at the head of inside the Bank of Japan during the bubble from '86 to '89 was Toshihiko Fukui. Mr. Fukui the current he's the man who created the bubble. When Fukui had become governor of the Bank of Japan he would say, &quot;While destroying the high-growth model&quot; &quot;I am building a model They have succeeded on all counts. If you look at the list of it was more than a wishlist that they mapped out they wanted to achieve they've reached all those goals. Destroy the Ministry of Finance. Break it up. Get an independent financial Reach independence for by changing the Bank of Japan law. And engineer deep structural by shifting from manufacturing to services, opening up, deregulating, liberalizing, privatizing, the whole lot. In the 1920s Japan's economy in many ways resembled today's U.S. economy with fierce competition, takeover battles between large corporations few bureaucratic controls, that demanded high dividends, from the markets, not banks. Yet throughout the postwar era Japan's economy had been the opposite highly regulated with bank financing and cross shareholdings reducing shareholder power, no takeovers, and a frozen labor market and seniority pay. It was claimed that to end the recession and improve performance Japan must shift from welfare capitalism back Yet it remains unclear why a country that had run a consistent and significant balance of trade surplus its economic system to Japan was not the only high performance economy in Asia that in the 1990s found itself in the deepest recession since the Great Depression. In 1997 the currencies Tiger Economies could not with the U.S. dollar. They collapsed by between The causes for this crash In that year the Asian Tiger Economies South Korea, Thailand, and Indonesia implemented a policy of of the capital account of international banking facilities which enabled the corporate to borrow liberally from abroad the first time in the postwar era that borrowers could do so. In reality there was no need to borrow money from abroad. All the money necessary could be created at home. Indeed the pressure to came from outside. Since the early 1990s the IMF, and the U.S. Treasury had to allow domestic firms They argued that neoclassical economics had proven that free markets increased economic growth. Once the capital accounts the central banks set about creating irresistible incentives for domestic firms to borrow from abroad by making it more expensive to borrow in their own domestic currencies than it was to borrow in U.S. dollars. Domestic local interest rates were high were higher than the and the exchange rate was virtually fixed. It was the government and &quot;We will maintain the exchange rate.&quot; That's right, that's right. Central banks of Thailand and other East Asian countries resisted exchange rate adjustment, and they tried to send a signal that they would protect the exchange rate. The central banks emphasized in their public statements fixed exchange rates with the U.S. dollar so that borrowers did not have to worry about paying back more in than they had originally borrowed. When I went to Thailand I was actually on an ADB mission as an outside consultant. I went straight to the Bank were there any informal and they were surprised Because of my study of Japan something similar and they told me it was a young staffer who politics involved. He said, &quot;Yeah, yeah, we have Banks were ordered to increase lending but they were faced with less loan demand from the productive sectors of the economy because these firms had to borrow from abroad instead. They therefore had to resort to higher risk borrowers. Imports began to shrink had agreed to peg their The economies became less competitive but their current account due to the foreign issued loans, which count as exports in the balance of payment statistics. When speculators began the Korean won, and the Indonesian rupee, the respective central banks responded with futile attempts to maintain the peg until they had squandered virtually all of their foreign exchange reserves. This gave foreign lenders ample opportunity to withdraw their money at The central banks knew ran out of foreign exchange reserves, they would have to call in And once the IMF came in what this Washington based for its demands in such for the previous three decades. The central banks would On the 16th of July, the took a plane to Tokyo to At the time Japan had in foreign exchange reserves more than the total resources of the IMF. They were willing to help but Washington stopped Japan's initiative. Any solution to the emerging Asian crisis had to come from Washington via the IMF. After two months of speculative attacks, the Thai government floated the baht. Well the International has promised almost $120 billion to the embattled economies of Thailand, Indonesia, and South Korea. Immediately after arrival in the crisis-stricken set up offices inside the central banks from where they dictated what amounted to terms of surrender. The IMF demanded a string of policies, including curbs on central major legal changes and sharp As interest rates rose began to default on their loans. Burdened with large amounts of bad debts, the banking systems of Thailand, Korea, and Indonesia were virtually bankrupt. Even otherwise healthy from the widening credit crunch. Corporate bankruptcies soared. Unemployment rose to the The role of the Fund of ailing nations has Some have even accused the IMF of actually making Asia's economic crisis worse. Even if they have to subvert our economy they will do so just to The IMF has not been very helpful. The IMF knew well what the consequences of its policies would be. In the Korean case they even studies prepared that had calculated just how many Korean if interest rates were to rise The IMF's first agreement a rise of exactly five percentage The IMF policies are clearly not aimed at creating economic recoveries They pursue quite a different agenda, and that is to change the economic, social, and political systems in those countries. In fact, the IMF deals prevent like Korea, Thailand, to reflate. Interesting. You're saying it's making the crisis worse, and you're suggesting that Well I mean it's not because the IMF quite clearly demands that the Asian countries so that foreign interests banks to lands and in fact the banking systems according to the IMF deals which is not necessary at all because as long as these they could just print the banking systems. You don't need foreign money for that. So the agenda is clearly to crack open Asia for foreign interests. The IMF demanded that troubled banks would not be bailed out and sold off cheaply as distressed assets often to large U.S. investment banks. One positive coming out of Thailand is that they'll be auctioning from 56 finance companies. In your view should some of the owners from be allowed to buy back their assets? In most cases the IMF dictated letters of intent explicitly had to be sold to foreign investors. Let me emphasize in that respect that these reform programs are the key the absolute key to restoring For the first time ever South Korea closed five banks in a major step toward meeting its IMF mandate. The number of commercial banks has declined has been reduced as a result of closure mergers and acquisitions and the foreign strategic which is a remarkable change. In Asia government organized bailouts to keep ailing financial institutions alive were not allowed but when a similar crisis a year later the very same institutions reacted differently. The Connecticut based hedge fund, Long Term Capital Management which accepted as clients individual investors and institutions had leveraged its $5 by more than 25 times borrowing more than 100 from the world's banks. When its losses threatened to undermine the banks that had lent of a systemic banking the U.S. financial system and economy the Federal Reserve organized by leaning on Wall Street to contribute funds so that Yeah, you're right that and New York seemed because soon after they told &quot;No bailouts for financial institutions,&quot; when Long-Term Capital in New York almost went was organized just to the Asian countries. But they said that no public money used to LTCM. But the meeting was held famously inside the Federal Reserve, right? Why would the United States make demands on foreign nations in the when it has no intention within its own borders? The examples of the illustrate how crises can be engineered to facilitate the redistribution and to implement legal, Today similar events are at Countries within the Euro currency block have forfeited their right and handed this power to With me here in the He's a professor at Southampton University. Richard was an advisor to the Bank of Japan and the Ministry of Finance at the end of the bubble era in the 1990s. What's your advice to the ECB? They meet tomorrow. What would you be telling them? Um, well again they have to focus on the quantity of credit The ECB has a lot to learn because basically I think carefully enough credit creation where in Spain, Ireland we under the watch of the ECB. They didn't look at that. Interest rates of course but the quantity of credit There's one interest but in 2002 the ECB told the Bundesbank to reduce its credit creation in its history and told the Irish Central Bank to print as much money as What do you expect is gonna happen? Same interest rate. The same growth? No. Recession in Germany, boom in Ireland. Which one tells you that, which variable? Credit creation. From 2004 under the ECB's watch bank credit growth in Ireland, Greece, Portugal, and Spain increased and property prices skyrocketed. When bank credit fell developers went bankrupt, of Ireland, Portugal, Spain, The ECB could have prevented these bubbles just as it could have ended the ensuing banking and economic crises but it refused to do so until major political concessions had been made such as the transfer of from each sovereign state In both Spain and Greece youth unemployment has been pushed up to to seek employment abroad. Greek doctors for whose have paid now work in Germany. The deliberations of the are secret. The mere attempt at influencing the ECB, for instance through democratic is forbidden according The ECB is an international organization that is above and outside of any individual nation. Its senior staff carry diplomatic passports and the files and documents inside the European Central or impounded by any police The ECB is well known among economists as one of the world's most powerful and least transparent central banks, yet its former president dealt with this problem by merely asserting that there was no problem. The gentleman over there. Yes, please. My name's Richard Werner. I'm an economist. My question is for Monsieur Trichet, who's also been for years a member of the governing council of the ECB. The question is where or ECB statutes does it of the ECB to back structural reform or any other political agenda? I said very very clearly very very clearly that in this domain. We have a voice and we say in this domain and in some others what we think and perhaps if we can help to the general people that perhaps it would help Europe embarking in this implementation which is so important and The diagnosis again is a very very very large consensus on this point. The European Commission an unelected group whose aim is to build a with all the trappings of a unified state has an interest in weakening and the influence of the It turns out that the evidence that was relied upon in derived from a single by none other than the published in 1992 under the The study purported to demonstrate that central bank independence James Forder an Oxford academic has since demonstrated that this study was manipulated to obtain The story we're being just does not add up and there is evidence differently from what they as to how they work. The world over central banks hold significant yet Often independent, central banks operate in the shadows yet their actions affect us all. Central banks in almost and the IMF has helped they've become totally independent and in practice not accountable to any democratic institution and accountability to and in practice meaningless. Whether it is the Bank of Japan, the Federal Reserve, the Bank of England, or the European Central Bank examples of central bank deception abound. In the United States in the 1920s banks were encouraged to create money and give it to speculators. The resulting depression persuaded the freedom loving Americans federal system without could not work. In the 1990s the Japanese were persuaded that their economic system which had brought considerable needed to be changed into a And while Japan's transformation the central bankers struck again with an IMF led raid on The present European debt crisis is yet another example of To create a public consensus for the need for structural reform by purposefully creating a recession and must constitute an abuse of power. Do citizens really want to be manipulated in such a costly and dishonest manner?