The universe provides so much power, yet we Instead of being powerless, let's get off So today we continue the Upward Bound series and easier, and what we can do up there once Of course, if you're up in space for a while that generally means either solar or atomic. In terms of the latter, fusion is a good option is not something folks want in orbit overhead The big weaknesses of ground-based solar are night, but this is an area where being in When we refer to the dark void of space, we're Space near Earth is constantly lit brighter have to get out beyond the Asteroid Belt before is on most of Earth. The equivalent of darkness in space depends in between you and the Sun, placing you in While any object in a classic Low Earth orbit large shadow of the planet, as you get further shadow. Additionally, various non-circular obits, little to no time in shadow, eliminating most panels situated on the Earth. As for wearing down over time, solar panels snow, hail, sandstorms, thermal fluctuations in the vacuum of space - and, needless to The total benefit is about seven times more solar panel. Perpetual lighting also eliminates most of All of which makes solar an excellent choice It's much more attractive than on Earth, that energy to Earth, whether beamed down in space. This idea has been looked at a lot for decades, that launch costs are plummeting. For this to be practical though we have to by laying those out. First and foremost, getting stuff into space Doing that cheaper is, after all, what this A solar panel in space might be several times needed to spend hundreds of times more money useful for powering things up there, it wouldn't Not when you can far more easily deploy and down here. But down here you have to add energy storage, PV panels, if you want to compare apples to Second, there is the question of how you beam of problems. For instance if you're beaming down with through all that air and clouds. There is also an additional effect called be absorbed by the atmosphere over any significant with the atmosphere. You also lose energy at every stage of the then into lasers, then down to Earth through back into electricity again. We'll be looking at these problems, some light today in greater detail. But that brings up a third issue, which is A big giant laser is also known as a death are directing a lot of energy into a potentially This is a serious problem if your beam goes a city, be that as a result of an accident So we will be looking at ways you'd be trying It is also worth remembering though that a like blowing up incoming asteroids or space push spaceships up to high speeds, so we will uses of power-satellites later on, though At this point, we have to start considering At present, humanity uses energy, from all of about 18 terawatts, 18 million megawatts, and evaporation. That's about 2400 watts per person, day getting a lot more efficient with power usage, regions who don't use much yet and hopefully or too soon though because our main method up the planet. We should start with a note there then, as the planet by adding more energy, which of The thing is, it isn't our direct use of While we use energy at an 18 terawatt rate, energy from sunlight. The extra heat we add would be trivial on The concern is with greenhouses gases being of the solar energy, not the extra energy However, power satellites are solar-powered, them block incoming light to Earth, cutting Not that you'd bother, since you could easily thinner, and a lot less complex for such a 18 Terawatts is a huge amount of power, and panels, those still being worked on in the meter, in orbit. To get up to 18 Terawatts, you'd need 30,000 single panel 100 kilometers in radius. That wouldn't include any losses in transmission Fortunately, we can assume high-efficiency to deploying a power satellite is launch cost, Solar panels will continue to get lighter, as times goes on. But for the moment, if we use our top end with thickness as low as 2 millimeters, massing generating about 600 watts per kilogram in To get 18 trillion watts out of 600 watts square meters or 30,000 square kilometers, At current launch costs, that could run nearly include any losses in transmission or other However, these would likely have a lifetime is several trillion dollars a year, with estimated years this would already be approaching a As manufacturing continues to improves and the economically feasible zone for power satellites time to start prototyping to see if this can However, this is SFIA so we're less interested and the earlier episodes of this series discuss tech for that can drop launch costs to a tenth Heavy can do. As a reminder, stuff like Jim Powell's StarTram Birch's Orbital Ring are not all that high billions of dollars, which only looks big small space budget on launching truly massive Our annual ground to space launch volumes through any major airport, and same as you to a small village, you don't build these to up your game and a launch a lot more, not When you are thinking about replacing a multi-trillion those launch alternatives suddenly become See those episodes for details, but even the costs smaller than the production cost of It's also worth noting that much of their to say is altered when you're launching Additionally, most of the weight of a panel element on the Moon's Surface, right after Nor are solar panels incredibly tricky to isn't much of an issue, and the moon is so any factories there don't need much personnel artificial intelligence. Before we move on, I should also note that the way a solar panel does, is not the only We could, for instance, just concentrate light and turns a turbine... a Thermal Powersat, This is a viable way of generating power, and sunlight can be made incredibly intense. Thermal methods are how most power generation for heat instead of sunlight. If you can't make cheaper solar panels, mirrors and non-imaging light funnels to focus a fairly standard heat engine. Getting rid of the waste heat during the cycle a system in space by radiating it, but you convection inside it. The back side of all those mirrors can also Even surfaces exposed to sunlight can potentially surfaces. Okay, so we can collect it up there, but how The traditionally suggested method is microwaves, we all use those to heat up our food and they'll We'll get to the safety issues in a bit. First, why microwaves? They are not the only option, but in terms good job keeping out virtually all gamma and of Ultraviolet too, so they're not great the atmosphere. Visible light goes through pretty well, obviously, and clouds obviously are murderous on visible Don't discard it just from that though. Power satellites all around the planet can obscured by the clouds, and only on the cloudiest some powersats could use to get an angle on I should also note that we always want other in any power grid anyway, so that some ground is not really a deal-breaker for visible light. Nor do you necessarily need to beam light A big parabolic dish concentrating light on which gets around thermal blooming that happens like air, that's absorbing some if it and This, by the way, is a really big issue for or using lasers for ultra-high-bandwidth data Since part of the point is to get power down in broad diffuse beams could cause a lot of might be advantageous. Of all the spectrum, radio waves are the ones the most over all, and microwaves, which are is where the name micro comes from, are quite or not. You might wonder about the danger of this, a wireless network, I should note that those as your microwave oven. There's nothing very special about that the FCC leaves free for non-broadcast purposes. Equipment operating at these frequencies is electricity and microwaves, especially compared You can do better than 75% with a magnetron laser efficiency, as much as it's improved, Our best new laser designs can almost match less efficient. Microwaves remain better, but not by the same Here's the thing though, a Rectenna, a specialized and turning them back into electricity, has than our best solar panels. This means that any side-effect environmental much less as well. Now as to safety concerns, the general notion per square meter, non-coincidentally what amount. To get 18 Terawatts, and keeping in mind 15% require about 200,000 square kilometers of Sounds big, and indeed it is, that's about Not that you'd be putting them all in the More to the point, that doesn't really seem with solar panels. Of course you could just increase power density, be blowing birds away left and right and potentially Though, realistically you could ramp the beam producing too much of either problem. Birds would tend to avoid them as uncomfortable This is mostly just raw heat damage like being However, the neat thing about a Rectenna is a wide area, and this area is not entirely like chicken wire than an opaque glass panel, Indeed you could beam it right down on a city you'd want to be careful about concentrating Incorporating solar panels into roads and with durability, while sticking a layer of isn't difficult, nor is it that hard to them on target, nor will they torch a fiery But the optical considerations of microwaves necessarily be large, usually several kilometers Safety is easily achieved by having the emitter shuts off if it goes off target. I should probably note that an optical version called the Nantenna, shows promise of achieving frequencies to electricity. The impact of this emerging technology on be immense and very near at hand. Again though, this is SFIA. In this series, it's only been a few episodes the great big rings around planets for getting of people and megatons of cargo back and forth An Orbital Ring is far cheaper, kilogram for scale it up immensely if you want to, unlike also produce enough pollution and heat to If you want to do a lot of travel from ground put a ring on it. While the massive drop in launch costs is some benefits from being directly connected You can run tethers and lines down to the like graphene. Though you may still want to use graphene being made in producing it in bulk, and it's But the important point is that tethers going strong, not space-elevator strong, and don't Because of this, they can be built with some power, bringing people or cargo to and from a lot of the hassle of something like a rocket. You can't launch a rocket anywhere near that kind of speed and acceleration, not without so you'd have to commute to a launch pad Alternatively an Orbital Ring tether can leave a train or subway, allowing direct transport And for that matter, they can also transport the future, but this is interesting in the or their little brothers, arcologies, in that better than fusion, because a fusion reactor the process of making electricity. Power plants generally lose over half their even before it hits the power grid, where But a solar panel in space running electricity matter a reactor in space doing the same, Earth that isn't in the grid. So no heat is being produced due to electricity electricity will end as heat, either in the half or more back at the power plant. Orbital Rings a major investment, and they the whole planet. We do have another option, which can be done Karman space-towers. I call them that because they reach the Karman between our atmosphere and space. Even with our material science today, we can fiber materials. We might even squeak by without having to As many of you will be aware though, here active support systems to build higher and See our episode on space towers, and particularly As a brief recap, we support the tower by through the tower. Our Karman towers are lightweight Atlas Pillars collector at the top. Now, the atmosphere does not abruptly end At the Karman line, which is 100 kilometers less than at the surface. That's handy for power generation, as we'll Should you have trouble building quite that shorter, but taller is better. Atlas Pillars take a lot of power to keep regenerating the momentum of the support material, loop but we're not there yet and these would You might ask what is the point of having it produces when you could just beam the energy The answer is the energy collector is in space. Having the collector in space handily gets other problems we discussed, like thermal and that trade off of concentration for safety. You can skip a lot of the steps by just having point at a large array of solar collectors the panels with as much light as they can to night side collectors just fine as well well or which might degrade the panels. You stick one just north of a city so it never line down it and now that city has a good looking down from 100 kilometers up gives kilometers around. It also has virtually no footprint on the loss, offers ultra-high efficiency power transfer, launch system. See the Space Towers episode for more on this. Another thing that having a direct connection ability to deal with the heat produced at In space, the only way to get rid of heat radiators. It's also less efficient than using convection only available on the ground. If we pipe the heat back to Earth, we can We can also use the heat as a source of power water with coastal Karman Towers. Come to think of it, I like the idea of a We generate steam at the collector and use of the tower itself. We also tap it for energy using turbine generators the collector. The entire structure could be a giant steam as we go. Traditionally you do this with magnets, launching down and deflected back by a receiver up top, So power satellites seems a much more attractive launch costs drop. We've talked about many industries that into space, science, tourism, even filmmaking, A market making up roughly 10% of our global prosperity for humanity in this modern era. Get power satellite operations down to even existing sources, and it not only could power make homes off Earth. And certainly the power demands to manufacture sized for the habitat's ongoing domestic So, even if power generation was the first power could be beamed to construction projects Indeed temporary beamed power for space projects, major space industry in itself. And its applications aren't just for Earth As we'll see next week, when we continue distant stars, one of the hardest parts about speeds necessary to do it on reasonable timelines the Sun, but still needing to keep warm and You can beam power out quite a long way, and Of course slowing down is another matter, Fleet". Electricity is the life's blood of all of will be for those ships too, and fundamentally, rises, power satellites can offer us a virtually ecological problems or supply bottlenecks We had to gloss over a lot of discussion of current, heat engines, and other core topics is actually done, and why some of the methods If you'd like to learn more about those recommend the Regents Physics Reviews. Those courses step through basic physics and and professional fashion, never skipping over but also not dumbing things down either. Those are available over at Skillshare, an assembling classes on technology and has courses of modern software, and I've been using audio engineering, and animations to improve If you want to improve your skills, unlock give Skillshare a try, and a Premium Membership those. If you want to join me and the millions of we have a special offer just for my listeners: To sign up, go to S-K-L-dot-S-H slash Isaac. Again, go to S-K-L-dot-S-H slash Isaac to classes for free. Act now for this special offer, and start As mentioned, next week we'll be returning ways to provide them the power they need to times and to keep their crew alive during The week after that we'll be teaming up look at some of the potential catastrophes can get out and settle the galaxy, and ways or recover afterwards. For alerts when those and other episodes come and if you enjoyed this episode, hit the like Until next time, thanks for watching, and