Translator: Reka Lorinczy Before I start talking antimatter rockets, traveling interstellar, I think it's important That is: Why explore space? We have so many problems here on Earth, we have global warming, hunger, war, why should we spend time, money, when we could be spending I could list all the medical breakthroughs of over four decades but I think the real question is: Why explore? I think simply the answer is: We are the descendants of people who were curious and I think we need But there's a problem, and that is that rockets are too slow. In order to demonstrate that, our fastest object is the Voyager 1 spacecraft, That may seem like a fast speed, at that speed, it would take If you wanted to go to Pluto - which NASA just did, and they spent a billion dollars it just takes too long. The final example, If we want to get to another star, our closest star system Alpha Centauri, is about four light years away, It would take about 30,000 years and, you know,I don't want Luckily, human beings are actually that allow us to explore our environment. In the 1700s, we built very accurate we built the chronometer and allowed for the Golden Age In the 1900s, the Wright brothers and really allowed us to master the skies. If you really want to explore we are going to have Being an antimatter physicist, but it could be something else, it could be laser propulsion, Some physicists even think that we can bend space-time But I think antimatter is actually A little bit about antimatter. It was first predicted by Paul Dirac - He was actually struggling one being special relativity, which describes life and the speed of light, and quantum mechanics, which describes the Earth atoms and molecules. So he was solving this relativistic and he came out with two answers: a positive energy and a negative energy How many times and you come up with a negative answer, and you say: &quot;Chuck that, just look at the positive because that's what makes sense.&quot; But Paul Dirac was a genius, and he saw and he said: &quot;Wait a minute, maybe there's that we haven't even seen.&quot; Some people thought But it was only three years later that Carl Anderson at CalTech He saw the track and it had the same energy but it was curving the wrong way. It should have been curving to the right So this is the first experimental or an anti-electron, So antimatter I like to describe If there was an anti-you in a mirror, except that everything would be flipped. The same is true at the subatomic level. Anti-electrons have just positive charge rather That's why we call them positrons. An interesting characteristic It's quite unique in that if you have an antimatter particle and they get close enough together, they'll both disappear Now this is the Universe's most efficient and it's quite powerful, and that's what got me interested What does that mean if you had a clump of antimatter? Antimatter has about I know that doesn't mean much to you, but to put that in more familiar terms, if you had a gram of antimatter, then you have the same amount of energy or alternatively about 10 million liters about a full tanker load. So not only does antimatter as a fuel for spacecraft, but this has some pretty in the future of energy research, especially in inertial confinement systems But I'm more interested and so is my company. The original concept it was actually developed And what he did was, he said: &quot;What if you had a clump of antimatter, and then you annihilated it and you're able you're able to direct those gamma rays This was cutting edge at that time, but there were really three problems, one of which was production. You can't create enough antimatter The other is that you Of course, that property of annihilation is really bad for being able to trap it. You need very high strength and it just wasn't feasible, to trap large amounts of antimatter. The third problem was directing that energy. Gamma rays are much higher Of course, if you go through the TSA X-rays tend to go through everything, Reflecting gamma rays is something So, I started thinking about finishing up my PhD in positron physics. I realized that the real issue, was when you went from hot positrons Now state of the art in 2011: You had your source of hot positrons, to run it through What this does is, it's very thin, so that most of the positrons a very small number will actually stop Of course, a large number because our matter and they will lose it. A very small number, will make it to the surface So, you have to be able in order to work with them. They come out at a million times hotter so you have to be able to cool them down. This process was very inefficient, so we started thinking My lab partner and I We came out with a napkin sketch Soon after that we made it and then asked and we were funded by the Steel Foundation to do the initial proof of concept This moderator now forms the heart and that little piece up there but it's the source for all When you are developing a concept, So back in 2012, I asked whom I was working on another I said, &quot;Well, let's give up Why don't you guys come help me Who's going to say no to that? (Laughter) So, we rented a little office, brought in a bunch We quickly realized that the landlord so we got kicked out of there. In the next year, we moved into and then, last year, finally, to a nuclear fallout shelter This new facility will allow us and integrate them into a CubeSat, very easy to launch, very easy How do we get around those three issues: production, trapping and directing energy? The first two, production and trapping, are got around by having We use a radioisotope source of positrons We run it through and we can create The third challenge is directing In order to do that, we transfer the kinetic energy via fusion reactions. And now we have a charged particle rather than a gamma ray. And that's important because charged particles as you know from the Aurora Borealis. So, we use magnets like to actually direct the energy In about two years, we were hoping that little tiny spacecraft - into orbit. Why is this useful? What is it that a really small Well, it turns out, that about 4 billion people don't have access to Internet. So there's a lot of companies that want to launch into low Earth orbit. They will create a global network so that anyone can I think that would be A little bit further down the road, what we want to do, and some private companies like SpaceX, they want to send things out to Mars, and our technology and cut the transit time significantly. And then, kind of a far-out application I know you've probably never heard but it turns out that very small asteroids is worth a lot of money. With chemical rockets, you need something In terms of extending this technology that will require, of course, It turns out that our squishy bodies can only really handle and even so 1g, 9.8 m/s/s, NASA took ten years if we go at 1g, we can get there which isn't that bad. If we want to go to Alpha Centauri, and we start bringing in If we want to go out there at 1g it would take about five years Once we start getting toward a significant we start getting time dilation, which is an interesting phenomenon, but really it's the thing that allows us While five years nine years has elapsed on the Earth. It's getting weird, but still feasible. If we extend this out to Kepler-452b, Kepler-452b is an interesting place It's a little bit bigger than Earth, it's in the habitable zone of its Sun. A lot of people maybe there's life. I think there is a good chance although it is 1500 light years away. With our 1g spacecraft on the spacecraft. Unfortunately, 1,500 years So things are getting a little weirder. If we look at the ultimate exploring to the edges of our Universe, at 1g we could make it there Now, we are going incredibly fast, but the only problem is, that 13.5 billion years would have passed What I'm trying to say is that, with the transformative we have to think seriously and new questions that arise. The first of which is: If we want to really explore beyond we are going to have to do it ourselves: if we do send a probe or a robot, we will never hear back And then the second issue is: If we do want to go out beyond our galaxy, we're going to essentially And you know human beings used and so one of the questions Do we want to become nomads again? Thank you very much. (Applause)