[narrator] Greenland, 1959. Close to the North Pole. Heavy loads crawl across the ice The United States into a nuclear fortress and station their missiles here. No matter the cost. The U.S. government And that happened just after World War II. The price tag [narrator] Two hundred soldiers The Cold War is heating up, and the U.S. wants to show the Soviets just what its military is capable of. But the underground settlement is merely cover for a far crazier and top-secret American military project. This chapter in the ice-cold war sounds like a plot But the story is true. Soeren Gregersen was just 18 years old and straight out of high school. He becomes an eyewitness And he keeps a diary of his experience, I was invited to Camp Century by the U.S. Army. [narrator] A nuclear reactor with heat and electricity. It becomes operational 1960. -[radio transmission] Three, two, one... ...zero. Launch commit. [narrator] After World War II, the United States and the Soviet Union It's a race marked by new technology and ever-more-lethal weaponry. The Cold War between In 1950, the Soviets help the Chinese in Korea. In 1957, a triumphant Soviet Union marks the 40th anniversary The celebrations The Red Army uses the May Day parade to showcase its new military technology. The Soviet Union successful leaving American efforts in the dust. The communists also send 1957 becomes For three whole weeks, transmits an acoustic signal America is forced to take notice. The world looks on in amazement as the Soviets Their success is the best propaganda the communist leadership In November that year, the United States Sputnik 2 carries a dog, named Laika. The world follows Another unmistakable PR coup American efforts and finally launch their own satellite, end in disaster. Despite this humiliation, stand by their president. To drive back the communist threat, Eisenhower adopts a policy May the turbulences of our age yield to a true time of peace, when men and nations shall share a life that honors the dignity of each. [narrator] Situated halfway American missiles with much greater accuracy. In the U.S. government, that the Arctic areas would play a crucial role in the new Cold War. For that reason, if they controlled Greenland completely. [narrator] The Danes reject the American offer, but approve the construction In a logistical feat of strength, it takes the American soldiers to build their airbase at Thule. Amphibious vehicles to quickly unload It's probably the largest when the United States sent lots of cargo and many thousand men that would allow It had about 12,000 people there. [narrator] and the Air Force has trouble willing to live Chuck Rose, a military doctor, in this freezing wasteland. And so I just got my orders. Where's that? And the sergeant that answered and laughing and laughing and laughing. I said, &quot;What's so funny?&quot; He says, He says, &quot;You're going to live and you'll never get out and see the sun.&quot; [narrator] In 1959, however, the United States begins not far from Thule. They call it Camp Century. At this new site, the U.S. will carry out needed in the deployment But where exactly should Camp Century be built? A human settlement nearly 100 feet has never been attempted. Colonel Kerkering, commander is chosen to lead the project. [Nielsen] And then you would have of tunnels under the ice with railroads, and on these railroads, running back and forth between [narrator] The U.S. Army invests in the first ever subterranean Supply shipments are soon crawling up the freshly laid road where they are transferred to sleds The whole operation is filmed in color. This footage to trumpet the strength and capabilities [army film narrator] We called these &quot;Heavy Swings.&quot; Crawling up the icecap a &quot;Heavy Swing&quot; would reach the camp if everything went well. Caterpillar tractors pulled the Heavy Swing. Each tractor could pull Finally, like a wagon train the first Heavy Swing got under way. [narrator] It is still officially summer Construction will soon be put on hold. Fortunately, the workers already have Camp Century will be built The glacier underneath The engineers build To do so, they must first dig 23 separate trenches. In the middle, the main trench with channels branching off and various technical facilities. A small nuclear reactor will provide the settlement The snow ploughs where they are used At Camp Century, into the snow. In a matter of hours, to provide the tunnels with sturdy roofs. These are covered in snow The builders work around the clock Thanks to the Arctic summer, The nighttime Due to the constant sunlight, the workers are plagued by headaches The Army feeds its soldiers well. Every day, they get double-sized portions One hundred men live together which will have to be dismantled is finally complete. Black flags mark each finished tunnel, which years of fresh snowfall In summer 1960, the soldiers start building On a foundation made from wooden planks, prefab houses, designed especially Each house was put together They are heatable Each kit can be assembled in a day. The temperature inside the ice tunnels And it must remain so The lateral tunnels each fit three houses, with 15 men to a house. In total, The openings are walled off with blocks of snow. This ensures Camp Century is completely The blocks support each other, A narrow entranceway Each tunnel has an emergency shaft. The exits are the only part that can be seen above ground. The Army sees to it is captured on film. Especially the fun side. The documentary footage will be shown on American television screens The Army wants to show how far it will go even in the most inhospitable They thought that if for some reason the nuclear threat to continental homeland U.S.A. then people might want to live under the ice or in other places. At least that's how it was presented. [narrator] But the opposing side is While the U.S. builds Nikita Khrushchev to visit the enemy on home ground. The most powerful man brings his &quot;whole damn family&quot; with him, as one New York newspaper puts it, including his son Sergei. In September 1959, He is the party leader's only son. Today, he lives in the United States. Before that, through Soviet propaganda, we thought that Westerners were living in much poorer conditions Of course, it was a shock when we saw [narrator] Khrushchev masters the art and stages a PR coup he surprises his hosts that the Soviets had sent into space. He attempts to unsettle the Americans with talk of Moscow's which, supposedly, He was focused on the missiles. The one possibility, really, But we had no missiles at that time. So he created this missile gap But it was a bluff. [narrator] Khrushchev's missile bluff of international politics. The Cold War is also a war of words. By the end of his two-week visit the Party leader has more than satisfied [Khrushchev we produce missiles like sausages. And I told him, &quot;How can you tell this? And he answered, &quot;I do not care because this would be important but I want to prevent the war. And I want America to believe much stronger than we are.&quot; [narrator] How strong remains, for the United States, A spy plane on Soviet military capabilities. The U2 can fly at a height of 20 miles, way beyond the reach At least that's what the Pentagon thinks. U2 pilots repeatedly and uncover one secret military They also blow the cover off Khrushchev's Each reconnaissance flight is a flagrant breach and as such, must be personally In May 1960, one U.S. pilot He has been shot down newly-developed anti-aircraft missiles and miraculously survives. He is to stand trial in Moscow. And Eisenhower's administration When we... admitted publicly and that it was we were doing something was the only way on a closed society. [narrator] But the United States in this propaganda war. At the United Nations, discovered in the U.S. Embassy in Moscow, proof of Soviet duplicity. The Marine Fiddler, She brings with her the pieces Unlike the prefab houses, however, The first assembling and tests once it reaches Camp Century. It was also seen So the idea was that if you could in this very difficult then you could also establish a base And so... This was science fiction in some ways, but presented through a real project, [army film narrator] The vapor container, was carried built expressly for its transport. Everything seemed fine But unfortunately, that one of the worst storms [narrator] Getting everything ready on time September 1960. The soldiers in Camp Century in 14-hour shifts. Fortunately, the steel housing is almost complete. Due to the storm, to reach the camp. It takes over a week to make Its arrival at Camp Century They really wanted people a comfortable life under the ice. You must remember: This happened right when the Sputnik made some people think that we were So they did everything &quot;We have the technology, the manpower, we have everything. And American values will prevail.&quot; [narrator] What the Army's camera team is any testing of the nuclear missiles. Also not mentioned quartered next to the reactor, are sleeping very badly. [Nielsen] You have a nuclear reactor, and you have to live close to it, I don't think that's a very nice feeling. I mean, they didn't know and they thought of a nuclear bomb or something that could explode any time. So that's why they didn't And when they installed there was a radiation problem. So they measured and this radiation was far too high. It was unacceptably high. So they shut it down, and this is during winter time. But they asked for big lead plates, so they could have, sort of, They started it up again, and this is when You must ask him. [narrator] In October 1960, two young men, One of them is Soeren. Both have been chosen and will spend the winter as military I really didn't have a clue I only knew and that a few people were living there. [narrator] Soeren Gregersen is 18, He barely speaks any English, but has a keen interest He first travels to Thule, Soeren may take photos It sounded exciting, like an extension of my time as a scout. [narrator] Kent, the American scout, becomes a good friend to Soeren Our journey lasted 24 hours. Although we slept on the way, Our route was marked by a series of flags, These are my memories I took hundreds of photographs, and I was also given photos In this picture we can see two scouts There was so much snow. My English was school English. It was not a strong point on my exam. I have diary entries for any of the days. It was typed a long, long time ago. You could say I practiced typing I had never used a typewriter before. So... There we are. It says, in Danish... &quot;Monday, 12th of December, 1960. Breakfast in the reactor zone. The 'swing' transport We receive the order to bring After lunch, back to the control room.&quot; I guess I was maybe, to say this is very exciting. There is a nuclear power plant and it meant it was supposed And that is what we were getting in words. And I took that. I simply accepted that we are going to be protected. Things are being measured around us, so it is shown that this is not dangerous. [narrator] Soeren Gregersen despite his involvement To this day, around the reactor were safe. Each fuel rod, was carefully unpacked For modern audiences, as is the apparent lack Starting the reactor I was never concerned It was new technology for me, and I was very curious about it. [narrator] The workers where they could take hot showers. This was something new Camp Century consumes In doing so, they tap into what is Underneath the camp, creating an underground lake. It provides drinking water, and flushes the toilets. If you wanted you simply had to get out of bed and put some clothes on, enough, so that you could survive [narrator] The underground settlement as well as recreation rooms and a chapel [Gregersen] the leader of the whole team that was taking care He was a captain, If the camp was in need of something, it would get it within a day or two. Sometimes flying in whatever vegetables Well, they were delivered. [army film narrator] And it boasts Here is enough food to feed Everything from steak to fruit salad. [Gregersen] &quot;Saturday, Christmas Eve. Breakfast. We worked flat out to clear all the snow. The tunnel was quite full. Then Dr. Zhivago The new book of Dr. Zhivago, to read.&quot; It says, &quot;Christmas menu: Chilled tomato juice with lemon wedge. Roast turkey. Cranberry sauce. Mashed potatoes, browned sweet potatoes. Buttered green beans. Buttered parsley corn. Assorted crisp relishes. Assorted rolls with butter. Pumpkin pie and whipped cream or mincemeat pie. Assorted fresh fruit.&quot; [narrator] In January 1961, a new American president John F. Kennedy He must contain the Soviet Union without provoking a new world war. He swears to... ...preserve, protect and defend So help you God. So help me God. [narrator] The communists have a special the Soviet cosmonaut Yuri Gagarin becomes the first human In April 1961, Gagarin's capsule, completes one orbit of the Earth. The spaceflight lasts 108 minutes. One hundred and eight minutes [Khrushchev] than the launching of the first satellite. It can be compared to May 9th, 1945, So I remember when his car was moved through Moscow, the people standing on the balconies, in the windows, on the roofs, and then the reception and the fireworks. It was a great celebration. There was no similar celebration later. I do not regard the first man in space as a sign of the weakening But I do regard the total mobilization of men and things for the service over the last years [narrator] The U.S.A. responds And, like the Soviets, they expand They focus on missiles traveling on the high seas. Now it's the Americans' turn The U.S.A. sends the Nautilus The world's first nuclear submarine. Parallel to the Navy, the Air Force the Minuteman. And there are plans for a similar rocket, to be stationed in Greenland Before transferring any rockets the scientists in Camp Century the physical challenges involved. For this purpose, they build [Nielsen] for a much larger project that involved building of tunnels under the inland ice to have nuclear missiles installed. [narrator] of these railway tracks beneath the ice. The only proof of the top-secret There was a long, especially large tunnel a bit away from the other tunnels where you were pulling a wagon from... A train wagon on rails back and forth, loading it in one way, doing it a bit faster, testing, testing. And we were thinking from one town [narrator] Camp Century becomes both military and civilian. Glaciologists extract one from deep inside a glacier. A fascinating archive of past climates. Soeren takes part in many of these tests. The U.S. soldiers study everything Even testing hovercraft In Camp Century, experiments but also on people. It was a social experiment, and the U. S. Army conducted to find out how these soldiers felt about living in Camp Century and in very different, So they were not sure: Or would there be riots [narrator] The Army's documentary footage [jazzy music plays in propaganda video] [narrator] In the outside world, however, is threatening In 1962, Soviet ships right on America's doorstep. A threat on a scale hitherto unknown. The country is put on a war footing. Atomic bomb shelters Grocery stores, are stripped bare The Army is on high alert. The president is openly threatening [Kennedy] to regard any nuclear missile launched from Cuba against any nation as an attack by the Soviet Union requiring a full retaliatory response [narrator] Kennedy's resolve Realizing he has overplayed his hand, the Soviet leader His ships turn back. For Fidel Castro and his ally in Moscow, 1962 becomes a turning point. The future of Camp Century is also at stake in 1962. But the soldiers stationed there [Nielsen] Project Iceworm was evaluated in 1962 under the Kennedy administration. And we know that this evaluation, the Department of Defense, in the end, [narrator] Camp Century is close to collapse. Despite the insulation, is causing problems The shifting glaciers The piles of snow The ice cap is not a solid piece of ice. It's quite dynamic, in fact, It flows from the middle And this movement caused the tunnels of Camp Century to deform and eventually collapse. [narrator] In 1966, the U.S. Army The road from Thule as is the icy path to the camp, The Army take their nuclear reactor but everything else remains But in an era there is no forever any more. Station North, a Danish military base. It's the northernmost From here, climate scientists around the North Pole. Polar researchers are analyzing the sea ice, while others study the ice on land. Greenland's ice caps are melting, with repercussions for the entire world. But the melting ice some long-forgotten secrets. According to climate predictions, may yet be felt, 50 years after the project When Camp Century was abandoned, most of the radioactive waste with other toxic by-products and vast quantities of diesel. Scientific forecasts predict that, a moving glacier towards the bay near Thule. The ecological threats are very serious. Any nuclear waste is of ecological danger, regardless whether that's on ice or land. And nuclear waste just left behind, is not okay. That's a risk environmentally, that's a risk to the world ecology and that's a risk of violating our rights and polluting our country [narrator] Aleqa Hammond and represented her country When glaciologists wrote about the risks Hammond appealed to the government But instead of answers, all she got back To this day, nothing has changed. [Hammond] I see a big cover-up on this. Because if it's not a cover-up, why is it that we take so many years for us to try to get Why is it that Denmark is not raising for polluting the ice cap in this sense? Why is it that we have to struggle lots of energy and lots of time to try to get any answer If that's not a cover-up, what is it then? [narrator] Aleqa Hammond is a campaigner for Greenland's independence The next generation should not, suffer the consequences The toxic remains of Camp Century must never be allowed [Hammond] I expect surveillance. I except cleaning up. I expect scientific research to check up and give an answer to all the questions [narrator] The Swiss glaciologist together with the Canadian researcher the first scientist to point out the environmental risks In 2017, Denmark caved to pressure from Greenland to investigate the claims. Machguth joined the researchers A chartered plane drops the scientists at the spot They spend two weeks here, studying the ice From above, there is no trace The tunnels and houses That's what's so exciting. You're standing and beneath your feet, [narrator] Summer 2017. The weather only permits Everything is still there. But because it's up to and buried it's all as flat as a pancake. [narrator] The glaciologists record data and measure which they pull behind them on skis. This way, they can locate They then extract ice samples in order to test them for radioactivity. Drilling into the waste itself [Machguth] We had to promise We weren't equipped for that anyway. It would have been a huge risk for us. [narrator] Will Camp Century free itself and end up in the sea near Thule? Studies show that the ice around but dangerous levels of radioactivity It will take further research expeditions and clear answers from Copenhagen, While the authorities have published interview requests have been turned down, and the leaders of the expedition to talk about their findings. Denmark's silence on the matter around Camp Century As does the missile research project which was carried out at the camp, but whose details But for better or worse, will keep Camp Century And it's an achievement the first ever human settlement that accomplished At least for six whole years.