Oh , Tang Mu, you are seeking death for the Benevolent Emperor, but you are the successor of the contemporary Benevolent Emperor. How dare you, a mere maid from the Infinite Palace , dare to try to imbue you with your favor? It is a pity that the person involved in the Imperial Palace has died in the Black-clothed Palace. The Divine Lord, the Benevolent Emperor, naturally deserves to be strong. The strongest person in front of me, the Benevolent Emperor, is the one who deserves it. It's mine, so I'll kill you first. Zong Sheng, today is the 5th wedding anniversary of Aoxue and I. I 'm about to finish sending my family off. Why is it so late ? Someone is here to stew my people . Huang Jian, I'm going to leave. Am I dazzled? The Human Emperor Sword is suppressing the heroic spirit at the Immortal Platform. You are worthy of burning fat. Just say a few words, Lord. Why are you here ? I like to watch beauties fighting the most. These two cowardly thieves dare to come and snatch the Human Emperor Sword. Hey, how can you touch someone's breasts? How can anyone wear high heels and fight? Just look at it and you are wearing black stockings . Who are you? You can pass the capital even if you don't change your surname. When the courier from the sixth department of the company died , I still have another body , which is the Liu Huang you call you. You are the ruler of the Human Emperor. If you pretend to be like the Human Emperor, you can overwhelm the strong men at that time . Even if he is the God Lord of the Po Yuan Temple, there is no way he can be easily destroyed. It seems that I am too naive . Who gave you the illusion that the Lord of the Kunlun Temple is the god who wants to take action on me? Indeed, both of us were used as weapons . So you With your strength, even if the God Lord of Kunlun Temple takes action himself , he cannot be your opponent. From now on, I would rather not have any more news about the position of the Benevolent Emperor. Xiang, please forgive me. Now you are also being deceived. This crime can be avoided . You will be punished by being beaten to death in Xiantai . Qin Yunfa, but Qin Yun once swore that as long as there is a man in the world who can defeat me , Qin Yun will marry him as the Goddess of Wife. Your Majesty, Qin Yun is convinced that he lost today. If you are willing to marry me because of the drama , then my general, Wuliang Sword Sect, can't drive the Emperor Ren to Qingyun in Shanglu. I, Tang Meiyao, can give you several times. I only want to be with Emperor Ren to resist the God Lord of Kunlun Palace. Wait, you are trying to blackmail me. We don't mean this . It's fine. I already have a family. Don't force me to make mistakes . This young man got married young. Dare I ask whose daughter is so lucky to be the wife of the Human Emperor? This is none of your business. Fengjiu Yuwaijiuguo We have gathered 100,000 masters. Where did you get this news? Do you think I just like a security guard , a delivery person , and an excellent courier like me ? The extremely important role is that you can't imagine the good subordinates. Understand. Go and investigate the matter clearly for me to see who is instigating it. Moving the two Holy Lands to attack Lian Huangjian, today's incident may be sending a message to the accident. Also, let's see who is spreading the rumor, saying that I will kill you to care for the latter. His subordinates have been talking about the rumor a few days ago, and now they have some clues. It is said everywhere that the Human Emperor has been slaughtered by the Divine Lord , so many people who do not know why come here. The Human Emperor regards himself as the Human Lord. You are the Human Emperor in the Palace of the Human Emperor first. Finally, the reason why the rumors about you, God Lord of Kunlun Temple, is because you haven't appeared for so long. After all, it 's still my fault. I thought that someone from the Great Xia Dynasty would be able to abdicate and fulfill my duties. Who would have thought that after 5 years, there is no one who can replace you? I'm in my position . As soon as I leave, nothing will happen. Find it for me within three days. Muhuo Guishen is a subordinate who understands. Lord, why don't you raise it in three days? Hold a pro-camp banquet. At the banquet, you reveal the common identities of the Ren Emperor and the Divine Master. This way you can completely resolve those little calculations. Since the conflict has been so excited, I can only take action personally. The saints of the two holy places cannot help you. How can a guy who can be subdued with just one move help? I will handle this matter myself. But in the past five years of marriage, I have been anonymous except for supporting Lin Aoshuang as the God of War in Jinghai. I didn't let the God of War of the Lin family go outside . I feel a little guilty in my heart . How about we directly set the location of the Qingyun Banquet in Qinghai ? Then the Kunlun Group will directly present a naming order to Madam on the spot. Anyway, I want to return. Tomorrow will be the investiture ceremony for Lin Aoshuang, the eldest daughter of the Lin family. I will go there personally to support him . If something happens to my eldest sister Zhuye Aoxue , please call me right away. Come back, come back right now , don't you tell me that my sister is waiting for me here? Er, the master of the house has gone to Haizhou next door to ask you to meet in Haizhou to discuss in detail. If you have anything to do, you still have to go to Haizhou to discuss this point. Go to Haizhou tonight. I shouldn't be able to come back. I'll call my husband first. Why is there no signal ? The equipment department is debugging it. Let 's go first. We 'll talk about what happened to the elder sister later. Shut up and don't let my sister see that on the table. There are no documents signed . What do you mean by the divorce agreement ? Hurry up and sign the divorce agreement. Then pack up your garbage and get out of the Lin family. Get out of Jinghai. Don't appear in Aoxue's affairs again. Why do you let me follow you? Why bother you with Aoxue's divorce ? Be realistic. Aoxue accepted the girl next door, the most beautiful CEO of Jinhai. You are a bad courier. You are not worthy of being kissed by Aoxue. Tell me otherwise, I won't believe anything you say. Aoxue doesn't want to have anything to do with you anymore, so he gave me full authority to handle this matter. Didn't you see that the divorce agreement also has Aoxue's autograph ? Haoxue is Lin. The president of our group has to sign a large number of contracts every day. Maybe this is why you cheated him out of money while he wasn't paying attention. You dare to question who you are. Hey, listen to me. You are usually more unruly and willful. I can withhold it . But you treat Aoxue and my marriage as child's play. You are welcome . You still dare to hit me. I agree . I hope you are not ignorant. You came just in time for me to handle this. There is 1 million in the card, which belongs to Aoxue. Sign for divorce immediately. Who do you think you are ? Haha, what qualifications do you have to laugh? I'm going to marry Aoxue in three days. Tell me if I'm qualified. It's impossible for you to marry Aoxue. Hao Xue, I heard her say it myself. You kowtow three times for me and imitate a dog's bark three times. I can consider it. Think about it, tell me, let me go, do you want me to know that you are a murderer, you bastard ? The professional young man, the young body, the industrial man, the big summer has to shovel three shovels and four shovels. If you dare to touch him, kneel down and die quickly. No one in this world can let me come down and give you coins. My martial arts, my martial arts, he is worthy of him, but he just left. Shit. Yun picked up two red fruits on the mountain and ate one to get this body. He is the one who can help you open up. Zhuge, who established the master realm in Ren Du's second line, was right. If this bitch hadn't eaten one without the eyesight , I would have collected two and now I would be a grand master. If I had known you were such a wolf-hearted person , I wouldn't know how to feed Zhuge to a dog . You think you can be arrogant if you have some strength, right? Let me tell you that today If God doesn't divorce me, I'll kill you. I'll let Aoxue go from divorced to widowed . I want to die. You can try introducing this kind of trash. There's no need to dirty your hands . Come on , hurry up. I don't have time here. Hua Chuyi, there is only one way in front of you now, that is to sign the divorce agreement, otherwise today will be your decision . If you two don't believe it, it's because people of your level simply can't understand the way I do things in the upper class. I want you to die. It's just a matter of words. It seems to the upper class that you are not worthy of being the God of War who guards the Golden Sea. Unexpectedly, I want to become the God of War who guards the Golden Sea . You can also know that it is confidential and it is no longer confidential to me. I tell you that you can't be the God of War guarding the Golden Sea. I 'm not ashamed of my words . I'll send you a message and you'll know everything I personally arranged for Mr. Fengzi. You canceled the Human Emperor with just one message. I was the Human Emperor at that time. Hahahaha, my cooking skills, my cooking skills. I thought I'd give you some money to kill you, and it would be a good time to get together with Aoxue. San, I didn't expect you to dare to risk someone's death. Are you here to seek death? Listen to what you mean. You want to take all the credit from me. Three days later, I prepared a Qingyun Banquet for Captain Lin's family. How about you take the credit? Hahaha , Chuyin, did you know that you were going to be divorced today and then you went insane ? Ha, what are you talking about? The Kunlun Group is going to give the Lin family a trillion-dollar order at the Qingyun Banquet three days later. You can't really be His Highness Ren Huang, are you? You're such a small head. It's Kunlun Group's trillion-dollar order. It seems that Master and The God Master of Kunlun Temple has reached a cooperation and is preparing to fight Emperor Ren together. He is just delivering express delivery. How could he hold the event for the Lin family? Qingming Festival, this is the letter I signed. Okay, I was almost deceived by this piece of shit Chu Yi. It turned out that it was Ye Shao who took the credit . Ye Shao, he is trying to steal your credit. Lin Aoshuang , we have lived under the same roof in the countryside for five years. Why don't you? Believe me but believe an outsider who doesn't know that Kunlun Palace and Renhuang Palace are two different forces. Even if you really It's the Emperor Ren, so you can't command the Kunlun Palace. You're insulting my IQ. It's hopeless. Forget it . No need. Thank you, brother. Okay, you still want to trick me into dreaming. Why is he wasting so much money? I 'll drag him out with his salary . Forget it, feed the dog. Come here, take this piece of trash out and beat it to death. Get out of here . Make it for me. 1 0 Grandmasters are just rubbish tonight and will be cut into pieces. Hey sister, I'm waiting for you in Haizhu. You tricked me out of Jinhai. You tried every means to make me unable to contact you. You must have wanted to distract me from doing something to Chu Yu. What did you say earlier? He is about to become the guardian war god of Jinhai and he despises Chu Yu. I know, but the person who married Chu Yu is There is no need for you to interfere in the affairs between us. Pay attention to whether your attitude towards talking to me is good or bad. Now I am going back to Jinghai. You are my assistant, but you are drifting with my sister. He carries a signal drum with him and makes it impossible for me to make calls . Now Walking back to the Financial Supervisor , I wanted to leave some dignity between you and Aoxue. Since you If you are so ignorant, then I have to call Aoxue to come out and let you give up completely . Aoxue, come out. Wife, you are here . Your sister wants to persuade me to divorce you. Just say it here and don't step forward. Ruyi , I divorced you after careful consideration. The decision I made I hope you don't blame me for thinking deeply about why and where you made it No, you are very good, but you can't keep up with my pace of development. You and I are not from the same world. We are forced to be together and destined to be unhappy just because of you Lin Jiayu. Is it just a day that you think so? I can't help our relationship. A year ago, I said I would have a baby this year. I was planning to have a baby this year, but the baby was Father, I can only be young. Young master Ye and I are from the same world. Only the union of the two of us will make us happy. You should recognize the reality . You and Ye Feifan are from the same world. Don't you just want compensation? Tell me. You want it. How much do I care about your compensation? I just hope you don't regret it in the end. Then you can sign the divorce as soon as possible. Okay, from now on, I hope that we can talk about anything again . I want to laugh. Starting tomorrow, I will make you laugh. This Thousand-faced Jade Pot is indeed well-deserved . One hand and one banyan tree are so wonderful and even. If I hadn't known about this plan, it would have been almost impossible . I really thought you were Aoxue. This is a good job. I will be rewarded heavily . Thank you, Mr. Ye. Lord , who made you unhappy? It's none of your business that I tortured you during the summer vacation. How is the investigation going on what I asked you to investigate? It has been found out. At present, several forces in Yuhao have gathered in Qinghai. They may have Lin Aoshuang tomorrow. I will inform you of Lin Aoshuang's investiture ceremony tomorrow. I will personally attend Lin Aoshuang's investiture ceremony. I have taken a fancy to you because of your strength and status. I want to die . Then I will make a box. Why should I lie down and spare your idea? You know, as far as I know, behind the rapid rise of the Lin family is the hand of the Renhuang Palace. Although their relationship has not been figured out yet, as long as we can capture Lin Aoxue, we will have the opportunity to get close to you, Lin Aoxue, Lin Aoxue, why do you need to find Lin Aoxue? The married woman Lin Aoshuang's physique and the skills he practices are very strange. She has been in contact with him for a while. Of course, it must be Lin Aoxue who has a negative impact on me . Now Kunlun Palace is also affected by Lin Aoxue. She must have forgotten the influence of this rumor. This is a good thing for us. It is a big sign that Master has been planning for many years. Marrying a second-married woman is nothing more. Besides, he is so beautiful. Han Mengyao should stop the internal fighting for the time being and kick out this woman Lin Aoxue. Bureau Chief Lu, Mr. Tang, hello, you actually recognize that we are both businesswomen worth hundreds of billions. I must have admired your name for a long time. That will be easy. There is 50 billion in this card. As long as you divorce Mr. Chu, all the money will be there. The 50 billion you and I add together is 100 billion, but you actually want to spend 1,000 Yi asked me to divorce my husband. Why is it so simple ? We fall in love with your husband. Are you mistaken? My husband is a courier. No matter what you say, as long as you nod, you can get 100 billion. I bet you won't refuse. Okay, 100 billion. Even if it's 200 billion, I won't divorce my husband. There is no way to call you with so much money, but it doesn't matter. We have plenty of ways to deal with you. I said, why don't you want the money ? It turns out that you and Mr. Chu have already divorced. Why didn't I know that I divorced my husband? You did so much without even asking. It's too much to cheat on cooking skills and divorce me. I've told you so many times that you are two. People in the world are destined to be together reluctantly, and they are destined not to be happy. I am doing this all for your own good , not for my own good. Where can I go to find Chu Yin? Tomorrow will be my investiture ceremony. Three days later, it will be a Qingyun Banquet that can make people soar to the sky. At this time, If you don't do your business and look for Chu Yin, you're a loser. I hope you understand one thing. It's me who married Chu Yu , not Chu Yu . The person who saved Chu Yu of our Lin family was not a son-in-law. This was just a fake evil intention. He came back to me. It seems that he is keeping or feeding Chu Ye. What happened to Chu Ye ? I called you all night and I divorced you. Why are you looking for me? I never told you about divorce. I don't agree with it . I'm too lazy to talk nonsense with you. I have to attend the birthday party today and I have to send you goodbye for a big event. I am so impulsive that I am looking for your brother-in-law now. It is really you, Sister Yun. I divorced your sister. Don't talk nonsense . Don't talk to me about these useless things. If we can't be relatives, can we still be friends? In fact, when you divorced your senior sister, I I have persuaded you , but my sisters are not allowed to say more. Do you know that all the dignitaries in Qinghai will be here today, so you come here to look for opportunities? The rich and powerful can't stand my sight. Why are you pretending to be in front of me ? Haha, I 'll take you in later. After we go in, we hide in a corner where the two sisters can't see. After leaving, I will introduce a few powerful people to you. Hey, let's go, let's go , go , let's go, Wang Xiaohan, see you, see you . This security guard is really enthusiastic. It seems that the two sisters are now My status is really rising, and even I can join in to take advantage of it. My stomach hurts a little. Brother-in-law, please go in first. Remember to hide in the corner so that the two sisters don't find me. I went to the toilet and went in. I haven't soaked in it for a long time. Yinhai Zuojia Yinhai Sijia Jinhai Zhao My family, all the rich and powerful people in Jinhai, have seen God of War Lin. I have seen God of War . Everyone is so good, but the title of God of War, Lin, is better. Huh, I can't afford it yet. Lin War God is over a thousand. The ceremony for the investiture ceremony has been arranged. Isn't this a sure thing? Zuo Zuo is right, and word has spread from the Renhuang Palace that the legendary man tonight The benevolent emperor will personally confer medals on God of War Lin. He will personally confer medals on one side's guarding God of War. This is an unprecedented thing, you God of War. Don't be too humble. This kind of thing can never be changed. It 's not just that. Even the Kunlun Group has sent a trillion orders to the Lin family . The Lin family is going to break out of the small Beijing sea and become the top family in the building. The rhythm, and what's more, Mr. Ye is the strong backing of the Lin family. In Jinghai, we will recognize Lin War God if it were someone else. Come and be the guardian war gods of our Gimhae. We cough. Everyone, please tell me. Is that right? As long as we feel it, thank you for your love. In short, if you have anything to do in Gimhae from now on, just come to me. I still have some things to deal with. Everyone should eat and drink. Don't be restrained . Find me. Aoxue didn't find out. He was looking for Chu Yi. Currently, there is no whereabouts of Chu Yi. The idiot who fell into the water really doesn't know what Chu Yi is good at. That 's Chu Yi's cooking skills. Who allowed you to come here today ? If I didn't come today, I wouldn't be able to hold your medal ceremony. Chu Yi, don't brag. You are obviously just kicked out of our Lin family yesterday, so you are holding a grudge , so you deliberately came to make trouble for me today. You understand how stupid your Lin family is. By the way, look who wants to disturb the elephant. You are looking for death. Lin Zhenshan, today is your happy day. To deal with such a small character, we will teach you a lesson. If the boy knows his face, kneel down and get out of here. You are so arrogant. If you dare to hit the Xiao family, please note that these three elders are from the top wealthy families in Jinhai. If you dare to hit them, you will live. Are you tired of a bunch of chickens and dogs ? They dare to step on me without beating them . Liu Zhiwen , you are going to make an enemy of the entire top wealthy families in Beijing and Haihai today. The top wealthy families in Beijing and Haining are nothing more than a bunch of ants who are unworthy and will die. If you are arrogant enough, I will take a look at your bones. Are you so stubborn ? Let me see how you deal with the whole Jinghai today. Then open your eyes and watch carefully. Well , I heard the Haizuo family announced that they have decided to make a living. The Zuo family is not worthy of delaying things. Plus, my Zhao family and the Zuo family are also unjust. You saw it. These dignitaries control the entire scene including food, clothing, housing and transportation. They are the Golden Sea. To you and them, they are the light of grains of rice and the radiance of the bright moon. I am the bright moon and they are the light of grains of rice. Okay , then I will see how you die today. You all want it. You show yourself by stepping on me, but you have found the wrong person. I am something you cannot afford to offend. Since all of you so-called powerful people think that you are the god of Jin Hai , then I will let Jin Hai change the sky first. Hahahahahahahahaha, a useless son-in-law who was kicked out by his neighbor is still trying to go against us, the powerful people of Jinhai . Do you know that we, the powerful people, have joined forces to calculate that you will not be able to buy a drop of water or eat a grain of salt in Jinhai? At the end of a car, you will be trapped in the ban. Hahahaha. In one minute, the medal ceremony includes the Zuo family, the homesick Zhao family, and the so-called economic and powerful people. I want to let these self-righteous fools live for a day. Our Zuo Si Zhao San family alone is bigger than Li Qing. Your Lin family's equipment can make us bankrupt in just one minute. Just one second longer. Are you trying to laugh us to death and then plan to inherit our credit cards? Hahaha five. There are only two people in the world who can change the world with the sea of gold in one minute. They are the Renhuang of the Renhuang Palace and the Divine Master of the Kunlun Palace. Which one are you? My boss, then I will tell you . As both a benevolent emperor and a god, Chu Yi relies on you You dare to cause trouble at the Medal Ceremony with your own brute strength . You are seeking death. Why don't you release the Zhao family leader quickly ? Since you want this dead dog , I will fight with you today. Who will come today? The Human Emperor came to the scene and impersonated him in public. Are you looking for death? Chu Yi, I will come today to see how you died. A group of frogs at the bottom of a well think that the sky they see from the mouth of the well is the whole world. In a minute, you will understand how fast you are. This dare Offend Renhuangda Drag the human waste out and beat him to death. What are Chu Yi talking about? The trial has come in one minute. Hey, what are you talking about? How could this happen ? How could he be bankrupt? Who did I offend yesterday? How could he be bankrupt in an instant? What are you talking about ? Zhao Jia 's stock collapsed and his bank card was frozen. Who did he offend? He went bankrupt all of a sudden. He went bankrupt. How is it possible? How is it possible ? Mr. Zuo, what's the matter with you? The Zuo family is over. The Human Emperor has cut off my life. Our Su Home too God is going to destroy our family. No, God is going to destroy you. Please explain. I beg you to be noble and let my brother go. I was wrong. Just now when you wanted to cut off my income, did you ever think of being noble to me? Mr. Chu, I was wrong . I made a mistake. It is the greatest gift. You are so arrogant that it will not bring harm to my family. Can you please let my family go? The premise of not bringing harm to my family is that it will not benefit my family. Since they enjoy the benefits brought by you as my concubine, they are not innocent. Mr. Chu, I will count to three . out of my sight 1 32 How could this happen? Are you really the one from the Renhuang Palace? With your eyesight, how would you know? Is everything really brought about by you ? Are you really the Supreme Human Emperor? You still have things up to now. Obligation is simply hopeless. I really have no vision. How could this be possible ? You are really good at lying. Young Master Ye, what do you mean by that? He lied to me. But I just saw him holding his cell phone. After making a phone call, I testified that it looked good Okay , so it turns out that I was really deceived by you. His Royal Highness Renhuang issued a notice saying that the corruption of Jinhai's powerful people must be dealt with seriously , so the Si Zuo Zhao Zi's family was dealt with . You actually said the actions of Renhuang Palace were controlled by you. How brave are you? It was only after Chu Yi gave the order to Renhuang Palace that Renhuang Palace started this Ci Jinghai's actions Chu Yi, this waste, can give His Highness Renhuang. He can only circulate information at best . But why did he know the internal news of Renhuang Palace in advance? Jin Haiqiong would not know this kind of information in front of Renhuang Palace . Will he deliberately forget his principles? He is an all-round gangster. It's normal to hear the news. Then why didn't Lin Aoshuang and Ye Feifan know the news in advance and invite Zuo Tianquan, the target of Renhuang Palace's attack, to participate in this matter? Young Master Ye and I called them here to make it easier for Renhuang Palace to deal with it. Dead Leaf , I am the person responsible for issuing invitations. I remember that I didn't seem to be with you. How dare you show up in front of me? Today is my great opportunity to become the God of War guarding the Golden Sea. If you dare to come and fight me, don't blame me for being ruthless. Come here, drag this dog and goblin son out and beat him to death. Remember, you are not strong enough to fight me. Doctor, doctor, this is the first time I heard of someone. You dare to go to a nightclub with such a bad talk . You really don't know who is coming. Break his hands and feet. Stop it . Stop it . It's a misunderstanding. It's all a misunderstanding. What 's Lin Jie doing here ? Jie, you have misunderstood your brother-in-law. Shut up. Your sister has already divorced him. He is not your brother-in-law. Get out of here. Don't hinder Mr. Ye. Get rid of this loser who sneaked in. Who wants a divorce ? Why don't I, the client, know what you mean ? I have never thought about divorcing you, let alone said the word divorce to you. But you didn't say that to your face yesterday . Yesterday, I didn't. I've seen you but haven't contacted you. Today is the big day of my investiture ceremony. Do you really want to embarrass the Lin family in front of so many dignitaries in Jinhai? I will definitely give you a satisfactory explanation after the meeting is over , okay? Forget it, I'm going to catch you today too. After the hero's sentence of son and daughter's love, let's talk about it. What's the hero's traitor doing standing there in a daze? You didn't see me being beaten, did you? Go and smash this trash to pieces for me. No! Don't panic. The sky is falling. Don't be impulsive. I brought my brother-in-law in. I just wanted to let him get to know the dignitaries on the top floor. I have no other intentions . It turns out you brought this bastard to me. Everyone, please calm down . Don't make things difficult for me because of my face . You're a fat man and you want me to give you face. OK, I'll give you face. Kneel down and fuck me like this. Licking your shoes clean for me, I will forgive your stupidity. Even if I find a place for this person at the scene, Ye Zhou, then you are true to your word. Then find a place for him. That's all I say . Black Wardrobe Death, what are you going to do, brother-in-law ? You have been the best to me since the old man passed away . Now that you are in trouble, I should help you. I accept your kindness, but there is no need to say goodbye. Brother-in-law, Mr. Ye If I arrange a place for you in such a high-end occasion , it will definitely be of great help to your future development. I kneel down, please be careful . Since I am not welcome here , let's just leave . Don't be in a hurry. The show is still to come. Young Master Ye is so kind. I have the kindness to arrange a seat for you, but you still don't know. If I want to sit, I need someone to give me a seat. Ye Shaoan is the one who holds all the seats here. Every seat in the row does not have Ye Shaokai. You also have a seat . Of course I have my seat. Where is it? What are you going to do ? I tell you, you don't have my seat. You are too lawless now, right? That seat is Fengjiu. It was specially prepared for the Ren Emperor. You are trying to get your hands on it. It's just a chair. I want it to be his honor. Husband, don't be ridiculous. But it's the throne of the Ren Emperor. It is the exclusive property of the Human Emperor, Young Master Ye, and I will be defiled by this trash if I don't go to the Human Emperor's throne . The Human Emperor's throne has spirituality. Except for the Human Emperor and the Human Emperor's sword holder, anyone who comes within three steps of the throne will be threatened by the throne. It's no wonder Lord Fengjiu wants to escort him directly to the town . It's a pity that I won't be here when Lord Fengjiu comes to meet Ruyi as I wish. If you have Sit down. Husband, don't listen to them. He wants to harm you. Ye Feifan, then open your eyes wide and watch carefully. How do I sit with my hands and my position ? If you dare to sit today, I will kneel down to watch Brother Chu. Don't be fooled by this chair. It seems that it will You murderer , ah , ah, why don't you kneel down in front of me ? Hey, doctor, you are okay. I am sitting in my own place. How could something happen? Even I have to kneel down directly under the pressure of the Renhuang Throne. Within one minute, he will definitely be suppressed by the Renhuang Throne and disappear. By then, it will be too late to run away . There is no life for evildoers. Chu Yi, this loser, has done such disrespectful things to the Human Emperor. Do you still want to save him today? Either he is a real person . Does he have the supreme treasure of protection, Muchen Lord, otherwise he will definitely die? Where can you find this Mu Chenzhu ? Mu Chenzhu is the treasure of the Wuliang Sword Sect that protects the sect. Now it has been passed to the hands of Wuliang Saint Lu Qingyun. Yesterday, I contacted Miss Lu. He will come to attend the awarding ceremony today. I didn't expect that Shengyu of the Infinite Sword Sect would also come to praise me. Master Ye, thank you for your help, Master Ye. Please help me contact Lu Shengyu. As long as he is willing to lend me Mu Chenzhu, I will give him any amount of money. I am dreaming. Legend has it that Mu Chenzhu can help people overcome thunder tribulations. In fact, it can be measured in money. You I watched Chu Yi being raped by Renhuangbao with my own eyes We have 10 seconds left to kill. 987 Husband, don't do it instantly. Yao Xue, are you crazy ? Are you going to die with the bastard Chu Yizhi? Yao Xue, you bitch, how dare you ruin my plan ? Is your Lin family crazy? Are you not afraid of Ye? What Fei Fei said is that if you really get close to me, you will die. Even if I die, I will be with you. Oh no, this minute has passed a long time ago. Brother Chu has not been suppressed by the Renhuang Throne . Is Brother Chu the owner of the Renhuang Throne? He is the Renhuang. Shut the hell up! You dare to trade with Emperor Ren ? You are not a bastard. Ye Shao is a young talent appointed by Emperor Ren. He won't recognize who Emperor Ren is . Then you guys are fine when you watch the anchor. Hey, you are all watching. It's fine. No, Master Ye, he really has nothing to do with sitting on it. He can't really be the Human Emperor, right? Husband, why am I fine? How can something happen if I sit in my own position ? Your position on the throne of the God Emperor is really wrong for you. Master Ye, he really sits on it and nothing happens. He doesn't. He must really be the Human Emperor, right? You don't have any brains, right? It's not the first day you've met cooking skills, but he's been sitting on the throne of the Human Emperor for so long and nothing has happened. He didn't see that bitch Lin Aoxue sitting on it. Is everything okay? Does this mean that Chu I was the human emperor? This can only mean that This throne is fake. I just heard them say that this throne was sent by Master Fengjiu himself. And it really shines with golden light. It doesn't look like the fake one sent by Master Fengjiu is just the throne of the Renhuang. It's just a replica. How powerful is the Renhuang Palace? Even if it is a replica, it must have some mystery , but it does not have the function of killing the impostor . If Chu Yi was really the Emperor Ren , you would not have been the son-in-law of our Lin family for 5 years. It turns out that this chair is fake . Ye Feifan, why don't you try it? Let's see if you will be married by me. Do you think that everyone is as reckless as you and dare to offend Renhuang Palace boy Dingzhu? Hold on tight. As long as you sit on the throne of the Human Emperor, they will take advantage of you. Shut up and eat the food inside and outside. Pay attention. Don't think that you will be safe and sound if you sit on that throne and we don't dare to get close to you. I tell you, hunter, be sure. We have prepared a team of snipers who can kill you from a distance. What do you want to do? If you are a man, don't hide behind a woman and cause trouble yourself. You have to bear the responsibility. But every sniper is a sharpshooter who can shoot through the enemy with a hundred steps. Even if Lin Aoxue is standing in front of him, If you can pass through and kill Chu Yi directly, why don't you have to because you are not afraid? I told you not to panic. They beat me through a sieve of armor. Ye Feifan only has this little pen. Don't dare to come in front of me and embarrass yourself. Maybe they are using Barrett. Even armored vehicles can be beaten through . I can't beat this waste. I know that this must be this waste. The pig that ate The bone you gave me is very old. Maybe his current martial arts skills are above those of the Grand Master. It turns out that's how it is . Don't be complacent about my cooking skills. You are about to arrive on the road to the Infinite Sword Sect. When I see it, let's talk about it. How will you end up in Infinite Sword Sect? Sword Sect Saint Lu Qingyun is right. Shengnu Lu has already announced to the public that pursuing the Emperor Ren will be his life. His friendship for the Emperor Ren is a testament to the world. What would he do if he saw someone pretending to be the Emperor Ren ? Of course, he would be furious and take action. Note I mean, this time you are trying to make love before your death. He is only worthy of kneeling down when he sees me. You are so stupid to use him as your backer . Lu Sheng, you are the close disciple of Infinite Heavenly Lord. You have already reached the peak of Grand Master at a young age. I hope he will come. When you can still do this So arrogant, Immeasurable Heavenly Lord , you are left to be a prodigy all the way. Okay, really speaking of Cao Cao and Cao Cao, you are determined to die today. He and I are both disciples of the three supreme disciples , so we have some friendship. Ah Sheng, I will take you to greet him. The Saint of the Infinite Sword Lord is him. Have you never seen Jin Hailin? My family, Lin Aoshuang, has seen Saint Lu. Your Lin family's vision is really that of a high- land Saint. What you are saying is that Junior Sister Lu has not seen you for a long time. She is still elegant. Your senior brother Wang Yu refuses to call you a playboy in front of me. You deserve to call me Junior Sister? Since Lu Sheng You don't give face Then I won't say more, but today this person dares to sit on the throne of the Renhuang. It is clearly an insult . Please ask Saint Lu to punish this person. If this is too much , it seems that I have to join Saint Lady Lu today. We are all waiting for you to speak out for justice. The Human Emperor cannot be humiliated. Dare you insult the Human Emperor? Drag him out and break your legs. Yes, you dare to do anything. Wait until you are in a wheelchair. Miss Lu can't kill Yijin just by breaking his legs . You can only fulfill your filial piety by killing him. Girl, my brother-in-law is a good man. He didn't mean to take the throne. Shut up , you sitting here, you are a rip- off , you have no business talking. Please be careful on the way. Emotionalism, emotionalism, emotionalism, emotionalism. Shut up. I have my own way of punishment . It's not your turn to teach me a lesson. I don't know Saint Lu. What method should be used to punish the evil thief who dares to do anything to the throne of the benevolent emperor? It is an insult to the benevolent emperor and Weiyi. The benevolent emperor cannot tolerate this kind of thing. We must kill a policeman and punish him severely. So I The method of punishment is to punish him by marrying me. Mr. Chu, please marry me. I don't agree or disagree. Miss Lu, it's up to you. What do you say ? What do I say? The master needs to know. It 's fine. Mr. Chu knows. Mr. Chu, please marry me. You don't really think that the throne of the Ren Emperor is on the throne. This cooking skill belongs to His Highness Ren Huang, right? Saintess Lu, this cooking skill, he is a liar, you idiot , you are really capable, Saintess Lu, please forgive me for letting Chu Yi sit on the throne of the Human Emperor and deceive people. I really can't manage it. It's all Chu Yi's fault. That slave, Bao Tian, who is this blind person? He seemed to have given me Yuanbao Lu, Lu Xingyun. I only called you Lu because of the fact that you are the saint of the Infinite Sword Sect. In terms of status, I am Bai Mei. Ancestor disciple, if you don't accept, I can't interfere. If you don't accept, I can challenge you and me to a duel with me, a newcomer who hasn't practiced martial arts for a few years. Showing off your strength is nothing. Wait until my senior brother Wang Yu comes. I'll see if you still dare to be arrogant. If you dare to talk nonsense again, I will kill you right now so that your senior brother cannot see you. Believe it or not, Miss Lu, what are you going to do here today ? I am following everyone's trend. I see, you still haven't been beaten enough. My wife is right next to you, but you Already divorced? Can't we remarry after divorce? In terms of appearance, wealth, and status, you are inferior to me in everything. Why should you argue with me ? Don't bully me too much . I just want to ask you why you are loyal to him. I'm honest, you want to know, but I didn't tell you about the little barbaric waisted Young Master Ye. Lu Qingyun likes Renhuang. I'm afraid it's just an excuse. In fact, the person he really likes is Ye Shaoning. You are making fun of me . What do you think if he is the one to propose marriage? If it is really Renhuang, then why did he wait for Renhuang to arrive before taking action ? Besides, Renhuang can defeat the three supreme beings, but his age is also higher than that of Lu Qingyun. Seniority , do you think his attitude toward me is like proposing to me? Mr. Ye, you don't understand women. He does this so that he can take the initiative in the relationship between you and him . That's why he behaves so strongly . And according to me It is inferred that he specifically contacted you to attend the investiture ceremony that has nothing to do with him to confirm whether you are present today. He chose this time and place because he wanted Ruhong to witness the marriage. You said Yes, who else can be worthy of her except me , right? You are the one who handles this well. Hey, don't worry. For your sake, I will also let your sister be my concubine , okay? I will accompany her well. Thank you Ye. Stop contacting my sister . Actually, if you have this intention, why didn't you tell me earlier? You are sick. Stop pretending. In fact, I know you like me . You are here to plead with me today, right? I like you and I have already exposed your thoughts. In fact, you Dake Yi Ming said, I am still very happy to marry you. When the time comes, our world will join forces with your Wuliang Sword Sect. Get out of here. I propose to someone who is on the throne of Renhuang. Isn't it? You won't do it because of me. Just tell nonsense to expose your mind . Is he, a good-for-nothing divorced son -in-law of the Lin family, worthy of you? If Mr. Chu is not worthy of me , then I, Lu Qingyun, may really end up alone. Mr. Lu, you can't mistakenly think that he is the Supreme Benevolent Emperor just because he is sitting on the throne of the Benevolent Emperor . You are really laughing at Mr. Chu's joke just now, which seems not serious enough. Now I am formally proposing to you as a bone-setter of the Wuliang Sword Sect. Please marry me. Miss Lu is not only a saint in Wuliang Sword, but also the president of a trillion group. How could you fall in love with her? How is this ruinous Lin family so good at cooking? Isn't he just more handsome than me? How can he get the favor of so many top-notch white and rich beauties ? Chengyun can like cooking. This is impossible. This is impossible . And listen to what he said. Meaning he is no longer For the first time we get along , there is an overseas oil field, a Beijing mansion, a private jet test drive and a cash check version, and 51% of Wuliang Group with a market capitalization of trillions. These are all Mr. Li. As long as you agree to marry me, everything here, including me , belongs to you. I said I won't marry, why is my dowry not enough? If it's not enough, I can remarry. As long as you agree to marry me , everything about me will belong to you. Do you think I lack your money? Since he can refuse someone worth trillions for me, it's good. well What a big drama, Mr. Ye, you mean it's very simple. Lu Qingyun is acting. She has always wanted to marry Lord Renhuang. You mean Chu Yi is really Lord Renhuang. I have investigated Chu Yi and he has been in Jinghai for five years. And Emperor Renhuang has been out fighting chaos for five years, so it is impossible for them to be the same person. Dao also has moral principles . Jin, you are a young talent favored by the Emperor Ren. However, it is about the Emperor Ren's birthday. How dare he lie? Ye Feifan, who is so shameless, can win the favor of the Emperor Ren. He clearly doesn't know what I am doing with the person I am in love with. He must be trying to use his cooking skills as a fake human emperor to propose marriage and thereby bind his morals. You're a good-for-nothing, so you can rely on your cooking skills by pretending to be the Human Emperor. You know you can't agree to this kind of thing, otherwise it will be a hundred times more serious than pretending to be the Human Emperor. You are really looking for death, Mr. Lu, as long as you agree to marry me , I can help you prove your identity immediately. Let these idiots know how stupid they are. After all, Loss didn't let me be cruel. Well, then I don't care about you. Hey, why are you exposed by me ? This is what you want to do. A good dog can beat me out of the way . My father has never beaten me. If you dare to talk nonsense again, I will kill you. Just wait until my senior brother Lao Yu comes. He will also come today. Wait for him to come and let him cut you into pieces. Your master Baimei Ancestor was beaten by me and his whereabouts are unknown. Your senior brother, brother. Senior brother, who dares? You are disrespectful to your master . Senior brother, you are here. Qingyun, this bitch, beat my junior brother first. Stand next to me, senior brother, to help you get justice. Lu Qingyun, you are so brave to hurt me, a member of the Tianxiahui. Do you think that the sword in the hand of someone in my king is not good? sharp Well, Wang Yu, how dare you ask me to kneel down in front of me, His Highness the Human Emperor , Wang Yu, senior brother, don't be deceived by him. He is not His Highness the Human Emperor at all. He is not His Majesty the Benevolent Emperor. Why is he sitting on the throne of the Benevolent Emperor? Senior Brother, the throne of the Benevolent Emperor is actually a vodka. The Chongyi sitting on it is actually a bold liar. His identity is He is the good-for-nothing son-in-law of a famous family in Jinghai. How can this be unreasonable? This kid dares to pretend to be King Ni. Hurry up and tell me to die. The world will also dare to die. Senior brother, don't worry about the throne of King Ni . Killing him is just to protect the dignity of King Ni. He took his life to save me. Wang Yu wants to kill him. Young girl , why are you here? Mr. Chu is single again. Do you think you are the only one who knows what you mean? Of course you are here to beg. Please don't be so outrageous when kissing me, okay? Mr. Chu, Lu Qingyun's attempt to propose to you with something external like money is simply humiliating you. But I'm different. What I have in my hand is the Piaomiao Order . The one who holds this order is the head of the Piaomiao Palace and can call on Piaomiao. Grandmaster Gong Baqian, this is my betrothal gift. Please marry me, Grandmaster Eight Immortals. This is to compare with Tianxiahui and Wuliang Sword Sect. On the background of the Piao Miao Palace , why does this Piao Miao Saint value doctrine so much ? She is so powerful that it makes people feel disappointed. You are willing to make her pursue Chu Yi Chu Yi. What kind of taboos are hidden in you? Tang Mengyao, do you know what you are doing? Don't interrupt my proposal. Tang Mengyao, my senior brother has been chasing you for three years. As long as you can unite , let Tianxiahui and Piaomiao Gong be strong. Although the strength of the strong alliance is not as strong as Renhuang Palace and Kunlun Palace, it will definitely far surpass Wuliang Sword Sect and become the third in the world. Don't mistake yourself. Yes, yes, Tang Mengyao, you and Wang Yu are quite a good match. Hurry up and get married. Don't compete with me for Mr. Chu. Shut up, there is no other man in this world who can enter my eyes except Mr. Chu. Mr. Chu Mengyao's admiration for you is so great. Di Kejian, if you don't give up, please marry me. I only want to have children for Mr. Chu and grow old together. Silly woman, do you think I'm dead? Do you know how you talk? Is this the reason why I propose this marriage for the sake of the Emperor ? Is this the treatment for a handsome man? Brother Chu is simply my idol. Wang Miaoyao, a woman with such a strong identity and background, is so beautiful and has such good cooking skills. How can I withstand this test ? Is my husband going to become someone else's husband? My heart hurts so much. I told you that we are not suitable for Mr. Chu. Is Shi Mengyao not good enough? I can change Tang Mengyao. Do you think he is benevolent when he sits on the throne of the benevolent emperor? Emperor, have you been deceived ? He is a liar. You are nothing more than a ridiculous clown now. Shut up, there is no such thing as you. A smart person is not qualified to comment on Mr. Chu, Chairman. I can see that neither I nor Tang Mengyao is enough to tempt you. In fact, it doesn't matter. Tang Mengyao and I alone can't tempt you. Then you might as well put the two of us together. The two of us go together. Although 1+1 cannot be greater than 2 , at least 1+1 can equal 2. Tang Mengyao, you have no problem with it. As long as you can be with Mr. Chu, even with this witch, Mengyao is happy to serve together. Two such outstanding women want to imitate Chu Yi like a royal baby girl. Chu Yi can still resist the temptation and go crazy. You're crazy. You bitch has embarrassed me. I'm going to kill this pretty boy today . Yoyo, are you okay? Since you took advantage of the crowd to sneak up on me, it's really disgusting. Mr. Chu won't open. The eye-catching thing is gone. Now you allow me and Tang Mingming to get married in the future . The two of us will be your perfect wife. If you have a better choice , then I will bless you . As long as you are happy, Mr. Chu. Are you worried that Lu Qingyun and I can't get along well? You don't have to worry. As long as we enter a house, we are a family. I will get along well with him . I don't want to disturb you right now. I'm in a bad mood. I don't want to be with your husband. I'm sorry because I didn't protect you. It's too late. Mr. Chu, no matter how long it takes for you to come out of the shadows, I will wait for you , and I, and I , Lu Qingyun, you will not marry my grandfather. My senior brother is angry. You will die today. It seems to you that after the disappearance of Patriarch Baimei, there will be no elder son in the world. It seems that it is time for the Tianxiahui to be disbanded. In this world, except for the two transcendental forces of the Renhuang Palace and the Kunlun Palace, Wuliang Sword Sect and Piaomiao Palace can only stand on an equal footing with Tianxiahui. How dare you rise up against him? If you don't kowtow to Young Master Ye and President Wang and confess your guilt, then you will have better eyes in Tianxia. How can I let Tianxia today? It's 2pm now. :32 I'll give you 3 minutes to let the world try again Ruyi. You don't think that the two saints are fighting for you and jealous. They just want to use your identity as Emperor Jia Ren. You still want to use them to fight against you. Fu Tianxiahui is an idiot. Even these two bitches and the forces behind them will fight against the Tianxiahui. The result is nothing more than a lose-lose situation for both sides. Except for Renhuang Palace and Kunlun Palace, no force in the world can destroy us, Tianxiahui, and you in three minutes. It's really pitiful for these two idiots to go back and rest. You are still talking about this. Tang Mengyao, you are the leftover girl of the Piaomiao Sect, not the leftover girl. But you are so ridiculous for this bunch of bullshit. Don't be complacent. I have already informed all the core members of the Nine Gates and Sixteenth Hall of the Tianxiahui. Today I will make Chu Yi, a pretty boy, crumble into ashes. No one can save his good husband from suffering a loss. Let's go quickly. It's 2:34 and there's this. It's ridiculous that you are still trying to be strong when the deadline is approaching . What's going on? Come over quickly and get Tang Mengyao to do something to me. How could this happen? The world is unclouded. Something happened to Xia Hui, a powerful force like Xia Hui. How could he be exterminated ? Is it really Brother Renhuang ? Why did this phone call say that all the nine gates and sixteen halls of Tianxiahui have been stopped and we have established our own branch ? Isn't that right ? Things in Tianxiahui can only be in a bad state. I want to do it now. It's not that easy to stop them from trying to leave. You don't have to chase him. This waste must be given to Chu Yi first. Are you really the Renhuang Palace? Can you be the Renhuang ? Am I the clown? Ouye, the scam has been dismantled. If you continue to lie to people after wearing it, the whole world will be ruined. If you don't take stock of the inheritance, you are still making trouble here. Li Qingyun, please stop cursing me here. I tell you that no matter how much you put gold in his face, you really don't care about him at all. Who may be involved , Mr. Ye? What do you mean by this ? Is there nothing wrong with the Tianxiahui? It has not been expelled . There is indeed civil strife in the Tianxiahui. However, senior brother has investigated clearly. It is because of the Nine Gates and Sixteenth Hall of the Tianxiahui. The person in charge of the hall has been in place for a long time, but it only broke out today. In other words, Chu Ming's matter has nothing to do with Chu Yi , and it has nothing to do with Lord Nioh. Sister, things are not that simple. If you don't want me, shut up. Chu Yi, this loser, is just a crow's mouth. He is good but not very good. You still help him speak? Mr. Lu, I really can't bear it. Let me help you deal with this idiot Li Ai Wushuang . I have been putting up with it for a long time. What are you going to do ? Don't mess around . Come here , we are here to do justice for heaven and tell the world that you are garbage . What does it mean that the Emperor Ren should not be insulted? You two know that Doctor Chu is a liar and you still help him act. This is the greatest disrespect for the Emperor Ren. This idiot , I really can't bear it. Today I will go on a killing spree. Su Xinyuan, I tell you. I'm not afraid of you I am the God of War who guards the golden sea appointed by Lord Renhuang. Behind me are Lord Renhuang and Renhuangdian. Even if you dare to touch me, Wuliang Sword Grotto and Piaomiao Sword are tied together, Renhuangdian will not let you go. Please stop talking so harshly. Shut up on this road, you bastard Let's see how I can deal with the foreign things. Open your mouth. Okay, the Renhuang Palace has been restored to its powerful and wonderful guard. The God of War will definitely come. Ah Shuang, don't worry, I 'm here today. I'll see who dares to touch a hair of yours. Ye Shao, it's a good thing that I have you today, otherwise I Just sister, can't you see this leaf? Feifan is you in my heart. Lu Qingyun, the Guardian Commander, has brought my Guarding God of War Order to the Sword Order. If I don't see the Emperor Ren, if you dare to touch me, the Guardian Commander will definitely destroy your Wuliang Sword Sect on behalf of the Emperor Ren Emperor Palace. If he really Complete the procedures and become a registered member of Renhuang Palace If I beat him as a guard soldier, my behavior can be regarded as provocation. I hit him and I hit him. He is very familiar with me. Now he is ordered by Emperor Liu to serve as my dead body. What nonsense do I hate? One slap, one slap, one slap. I'll slap you. You're stupid. Mr. Yan, it's okay if he hits me. Long Qing dared to fight even the God of War guarding the Renhuang Palace. Today I will make you famous together with the Wuliang Sword Sect and the Piaomiao Palace. They stopped their orders and envoy Rong Bing. I am the closed disciple of the Baimei Patriarch and the future heir of the Ye family in Kyoto, Emperor Ye Feifan. The history of the palace guardian order and the history of the guardian war god's order If the Renhuang comes to Wanfang in person, he will retreat. I don't care whose apprentice or son you are. Please forgive me. I am also angry at the chaos of today's investiture ceremony. Please forgive me. How can there be such an investiture ceremony at the Renhuang Palace? Who dares to cause trouble ? It is the Saint Lu Qingyun of the Wuliang Sword Sect. He is so brave that he is conferring honors on the earth. Lin Aoshuang, the incoming god of war in the Jinghai Sea, has the Wuliang Sword. The saints of the sect dare to attack Jinghai and guard the God of War . Do they want to be enemies of our Renhuang Palace? There is also one person who dares to pretend to be the emperor of the party , see the people and see the people and see the people. This is Lin Zhi, get high, bitch emperor, I don't know him. Ah, he is fake. Don't be fooled by him . If you are the emperor, please let go and pass on my orders. Jin Hai, Lin family, Lin Aoshuang's morals are not good . I am worthy of being the God of War guarding the Golden Sea. Please send the God of War order back and wait until the next God of War guarding the Jin Sea is chosen before sending it out . My lord , I will convey your order . Mr. Ye, what the hell is going on here ? Is my position as the God of War guarding the Jin Sea safe? What the hell is this idea? What is his background? You have stayed in your Ye family for five years. Don't you know what he is like ? Arrow, what you mean is that these guardians just now were deceived by Chu Yi because they could not clearly see the person on the throne of the Ren Emperor. Chu Yi didn't know that he was so determined to seek death . Yes, it is certain to depose one party to guard the God of War. I want to inform Lord Feng Jiu. His Highness Ren Huang will definitely know about it and will expose the secret when the time comes. You are playing with fire and guarding Lian Jinghai. You can't even keep the throne of the God of War, but you are still making a fool of yourself. This is beyond stupid . Tang Yao, just continue to act here with this trash. When the real Lord Ren is blamed, I will see how you deal with it. The news of the report to Emperor Ren has been conveyed, if there is nothing else. My subordinates, please take your leave first. Chu Ye, are you really the emperor involved? Then you hid your identity in the first place. You married me just to avoid putting pressure on me. My hard work is always misunderstood and you are wronged. I'm sorry, Shen Yaoshuang. Do you have any questions? How could this happen ? Why can Dr. Ye Shaoru remove me from my position as the God of War? Why is this happening? Because you all Everything is given by me . I can give you the sky, and I can step on you into the depths. It's me. First, I took back everything in the Lin family . I understand the bastard bureau's deception . Now, you can still quibble with Ye Feifan. My quibbles are just a deception . Young Master Ye has just admitted it to the Qilin Envoy of Renhuang Palace. How could this be a scam? Although the Qilin envoy 's status was respected , he also insisted on being an emperor, not to mention benevolence. Lord Huang, Shenlong has seen the head but not the tail. He must have never seen Chu Yi's empress. This is understandable. But just now Qin Lingshi has already carried out the order of Renhuang Palace to help me remove him. This was the most hateful moment for Chu Yi. Emperor Wen had great powers. He already knew everything about the venue before he even showed up. He must have known that Chu Yi was coming to the venue. I made trouble and got angry at you, so I fired you from your post. Chu Ye, you are a waste. You ruined my future. Ye Feifan, on this specious night, you believed his words. With your IQ, I will not let you be the leader of Jinghai Town. You really know that the situation is as bad as it is, and you are still here making sarcastic remarks. You must, must, must, sister, calm down . It's a blessing in disguise . Fu, now that the idea has been decided, you should follow the arrangement and reflect on your own mistakes. You may have children. Shut up. You are a rip-off guy. He has ruined everything in our Lin family. You are still helping him speak. Recently, I have been thinking about our Lin family. Is it developing too fast? It's like a building that keeps growing without a solid foundation . It is very dangerous to pile up cages like this. Sister, even if this setback is arranged , it is still a good thing. Please wake up. Everything in our Lin family is achieved through my own efforts and with the help of Young Master Ye. Well , do you still have Mr. Ye? Mr. Ye, you are the young talent that Lord Renhuang likes. Now, Lord Renhuang is dealing with barbarians. This trash is angry with me. You have to help me say a good word to Lord Renhuang. That's right, Ye Feifan , you are not the young talent that Emperor Renhuang likes the most. Didn't you say that everything happened with your help? Now the opportunity has come to kill Lin Aoshuang. Jinghai guards the position of the God of War . Chu Yi, this loser, actually wants to harm Shui Dongyin. Yes, Master Ye, help me go and talk to Lord Renhuang. Please let me continue to be the master of robberies and defeat you. If I get the attention of the Ren Emperor, why would I take the risk to seize the position of the Ren Emperor? How dare these two bitches, Lu Qingyun and Tang Mengyao, dare to attack me on the nose, doctor? In short, let me give you a call and ask. However, Lord Renhuang insists that he change his mind in the morning and evening. I'm afraid it's difficult. Renhuang-sama was very angry about someone pretending to be him and didn't agree to it. Oh , how long has it been? You're still lying to me . As the Human Emperor, why didn't I receive your call just now? Chunyi, you succeeded in ruining me. It's still happening today. Even if you risk offending the throne of the Human Emperor by shouting at me , I will fight you today. Ruyi, you still insist that you are Renhuang is not good. Lord Renhuang can remove the Jinghai God-suppressing Warrior of the Lin family with just one sentence . Then can you let the Lin family get another Jinghai-Suppressing God warrior ? This is not a warrior. Very good. If you can let the Lin family get another Jinghai God-suppressing warrior. Guarding the God of War , I will cut off an arm here to express my apology to you, so you can open your dog eyes and watch carefully for three minutes. Take the Jinhai Guarding God of War Order back and give it to Lin Jie. I want to confer Lin Jie with the title of Jinhai Guarding Xiaoxing. Are you serious? He doesn't even know martial arts, right ? Brother Chu, this God of War is related to the integrity of Jinhai's 3.5 million square kilometers. It is related to Jinhai. The safety of 180 million people is not okay. I can't do it. If I say it , I say it's okay. It's okay. Even now, you're still humiliating me. Even Lin Jie, a damn fat guy, was used to insult my intelligence. I have to die with you to find death. Renwang Palace was ordered to accuse him of carrying the gold medal to guard the God of War Order. Hahaha, Qi Lingshi must have known that Chu Yi was pretending to be Renhuang, so he came to deal with him. Hahahahahahahahaha . Now you know who is making trouble. As long as you Under the command, I am willing to be a pawn to help you deal with this cowardly bastard. We are here under the order of Lord Renhuang to re-canonize the God of War in Jinhai Guard. It seems that Lord Renhuang has learned from Mr. Ye that I have been wronged. The culprit is that idea . Mr. Ye, you really committed adultery with your hands and eyes. I just did what I should do. The most important thing is that the Human King is aware of everything. Although there have been a series of deviations due to the emergence of this waste of cooking skills , the world is finally back on track. Although there is motivation , as long as you help the master become the Human King , the world will be the Renhuang. Sure enough, I am obsessed with becoming a ball . Come on, Qin Lingshi will defend Jinhai and fight. God has decreed that from now on, the safety of these 3.5 million square kilometers of land and these 180 million people will be shouldered by me . Lin Aoshuang, are you crazy? Do you want to listen to what you said? Sorry, sorry , I said Wrong. The safety of Jinhai should not be borne by me alone , but by you, the members of the Renhuang Palace. I shouldn't bring too much heroism. Shut up. Jin Hai is guarding the God of War. Without you, the only one is Lin Jie. I know you are joking with me. Can the decree of the Renhuang be a joke? The eldest grandson, Lin Jie, is noble in behavior, fair in nature, talented and intelligent , and was appointed as the God of War to guard the Golden Sea. How is this possible? How can Neng Yunjie be the God of War, the intelligent beast of the Golden Sea? Jin Shi? He doesn't even have any martial arts . How can he be the God of War? Shut up. If you dare to question Lord Renhuang's destiny, kill me. You really made Xiaojie the guarding God of War of the Golden Sea. Put away you. I have seen the decree of the God of War guarding Jinhai . Please accept the order. Commander , please come to the main door . I said you can do it . You can do it . Take the order. You are still kneeling to guard the Lord. I will be guarding the War Guards Mansion. You can give me orders at any time if you have anything to do. OK, OK. You go first, go quickly. Ye Feifan, the God of War in the Golden Sea, has been delivered. You haven't asked yourself yet . With your little brains, you still want to trick me into hurting yourself. Really? You think I don't know why things develop like this, right? Mr. Ye, you know the reason for things . However, Lord Renhuang is still a warrior of the Aoshuang Party at heart , but he was angry with Chu Yi, the bastard , so he let Lin Jie take his place. This also expresses Lord Renhuang's expectations for Aoshuang. Why didn't I think of this ? If you are smart enough to be noticed by Lord Renhuang, you are certainly not a prodigal son. It seems that you want me to personally take action. How can such a waste need you personally? Just take action, little girl, just do it for me. Don't move, don't move, don't touch me , do it well. I believe you are in trouble. Contact me anytime. Lin Aoxue, Ye Shao are already injured. If you don't stay and take care of me, go run after that loser. Chu Yi can get so much information about Yuan Huang in advance. The palace's first-hand information coupled with Tang Mengyao and Lu Qinyu 's admiration for him It's definitely not false, so even if Chu Yi is not Emperor Yuan , he is definitely not a scoundrel. He should calm down and think about the problem. My wife, don't you mind shutting up. You two are already divorced. What's going on with that agreement? You know better than me. Besides, neither of us has yet. It's up to you to get the divorce certificate . You 're going to piss me off . Don't call me again after you leave. You're really That's too presumptuous. If you take another step forward, the Lin family will have no descendants like you from now on. The trillion-dollar order from A.D. Group at the pro-Yun banquet three days later has nothing to do with your company . Liu Xue, stop bragging. You, Mr. Ye, just let him follow that bastard's idea. He will definitely come back to you and forgive him. I will take you to see him tomorrow. Who can change Lord Renhou's decision? The last Jinghai God of War, Chen Xuanzhi , and his efforts to defend His Highness Renhou from foreign enemies , protected His Highness Renhou's life. As long as he opens his mouth, Your Highness Renhou will be your God of War. The position has been so great. Thank you, Mr. Ye. Oh, by the way, I will take you to the hospital. Don't touch me. My injury can't be cured by ordinary people. Send me home. Send me home. Wait . Where is my husband? Miss Chen. As far as I know, what are you doing with him ? Come here , husband, listen to my explanation. You know now that I was the king of the people at that time. Okay , there is no need for you to lie in front of me. There is no need. You would rather believe in me than Ye Feifan and me. I believe in myself. You have been with me every day for the past five years. How could you be a party to everything? Hey, why are you sitting in? What are you going to do? Chu Yi, I never thought about divorcing you. That agreement was my sister who found someone to pretend to be I signed my notes happily . I haven't seen you since yesterday. Did you let Lin Aoshuang fool you? If you are not smart, you still dare to pretend to be a person. I said it in a panic. Well, that's okay . It doesn't matter. Anyway, I have already broken up with my sister. I would rather go to that place and I won't accept the order. I am no worse than your other suitors. I just want to be with you. I'll take you to the Qingyun Banquet together . As for the order, it's not important. We'll go back to Longwan No. 1 and we won't do it again. I'm not going to the vertical villa anymore. This is the Didi chef you called. Let's go to Longwan. The No. 1 dish is here. Husband, I used to be busy with work and you cooked the food. Now I want to be free and spend time with you. Come and try the tofu I made. What are you doing? The tofu you made , um , which one do you give to that one when you eat ? Brother-in-law, you guys are here, you are now the guarding God of War in Qinghai. What are you crying like? I was so moved once, but they made me lose so completely. What kind of street can you talk about ? I have been in love with the daughter of the Chen family, Chen Xiaoxiao, for three years. Got it It was about to get to the stage of marriage, but my sisters asked me to break up with her and introduce her to Ye Feifan's cousin, the Chen family, who agreed. They now lock the school at home all day long and don't let him come out to see me. You are me. Personally awarded the gold medal to guard the God of War Forest How did Aoshuang and the Chen family catch up with the God of War? Who in the entire Jinghai sea doesn't know that I, the God of War who guards the city, am nothing but an empty airs? The two sisters will not talk about the one-in-a-million female grandmaster. And the situation of the Chen family is even more incredible . The head of the family, Chen Xuanzhi, just retired Yuan Jinghai, who has been guarding the God of War for a year, how can people like me take me seriously? Do n't drink . This thing is not worth your while. Go and wash your face and sober up. I will take you to the Chen family to propose marriage to Young Master Ye. Even though that miracle doctor Zhang can see He looks young but his medical skills are really good He burned the person's arm in just a few strokes. Zhang Yaozong's medical skills were so well-received that his grandfather Zhang Jin passed down his arm. This arm was favored by Zhang Jin from Renhuangdian Medical Department. Zhang Guoyi's grandson, no wonder his medical skills are so good. Doctor, you go to the Chen family. Why did you bring him along with Chen Xuanzhi? Who is the old God of War Chen? Because of his illness, his illness is very difficult , and Dr. Zhang Guoyi has been traveling all year round and his whereabouts are erratic, which makes the Chen family helpless to deal with his illness. I took Zhang Guoyi to the Chen family and cured his illness. My cousin can marry the daughter of the Chen family. I can also let Chen Laozhao Renhuang, the God of War, tell me, Master Ye, you have helped me with this. I 'm so busy and I don't know what to do . Then you can go to my room and tell you how to thank me. Hate it. Since Lin Aoxue has to follow Chu Yi's path for no reason , let me take over Ye Shaozhe's brother-in-law completely. Let's just leave it empty-handed. Can you come to your door? If you don't bring any fruit, can I come to Chen? The family is already a matter for the Chen family, Guangzong Yaozu. Aren't you here to help me propose marriage? This is so insincere. I have come here in person. This is not called sincerity. You are not the Renhuang whom Mr. Chen respects most. I am the person involved. When Shen Xuanzhi sees me, I have to kneel down and betroth my granddaughter to you. Will you say this again to offend the Emperor? Sooner or later there will be big problems. I'm too lazy to explain to you. Lend me Lin Jie. Did you bring people to my house to cause trouble? Uncle Chen, don't be angry. I'm not here to make trouble. We're just here to visit him. Hello . Did you come to visit like this? Who are you? I asked you to sit and stand for me. Get up and reply. You are not qualified to let me stand up and talk to you . I haven't seen you for several hours . You have already swelled up and come to the Chen family's home to show off your power. Why are you here ? I should ask you. Mr. Chen's military exploits are obviously ten thousand. Who is the old hero that people admire, who gave your dog the courage to come here? Sister Presumptuous Fang, we are here to shut up, you idiot. You also want to be like Lin Aoxue, a rebellious woman, and let down the Lin family's upbringing for Chu Yi, a useless liar . Sister Xiaojie is now the guardian war god of Jinhai. Can you give him the most basic respect? He is worthy of being the God of War guarding the Golden Sea. He just took advantage of me. That's enough. This is not a place for you to quarrel. Get out of here. Master Chen , I am Ye Fei from the Ye family in the imperial capital , or Ye Shaoyuan. Haha , I'm here this time just for my cousin and Ling Qianjin's marriage is easy to talk about. As long as you can keep your promise, I will do it tomorrow. Marry your daughter to your Ye family, Chen Zhenghong, you are selling your daughter to seek glory and cling to power. You are so presumptuous. Who are you? How dare you slander me, the Chen family, slander the Chen family, my brother Lin Jie, and Ling Qianjin, who are in love with each other, but you are beating up mandarin ducks to try to get him. Marrying Ye Zi in the imperial capital is not selling a girl to seek glory and cling to the powerful. Who is he and his cooking skills? You, a good-for-nothing son-in-law who was kicked out of the Lin family, what qualifications do you have to dare to talk nonsense in the Chen family ? You are such a humble person. Now kowtow to me and apologize. I will be merciful and let you go. Otherwise, I will cut your body into pieces. Wan Duan kneels down and kowtows, call your father out and see if he dares I dare not come out like this. Chen Xianjun is so disrespectful to my father. Come and kick him out. Mr. Chen, please calm down . My husband has always respected Old God of War Chen. He just said the wrong thing in a hurry. He did not mean to offend the Chen family. Please. I'm sorry that I've ridiculed you by name and it's not offensive. What you mean is that you are insulting the intelligence of the head of the Chen family, right? Just say a few words and let me handle it. The mere Chen family is not enough for me to hide behind you. If Chen Xuanzhi doesn't come out and give me an explanation, the Jinhai Chen family will not need to exist in this world. Beat him to death. Who do you want to beat? Kneel down and redress your grievances . What if God-Emperor Chu Yi is not really the Human Emperor? How could this be possible? Old God of War Chen must have misjudged his father. He once fought with the God-Emperor in southern and northern wars. Even if he forgets his name, it is impossible to misidentify him as the Human Emperor. My lord, brother-in-law, you really are the Human Emperor. The Human Emperor was just now. I was blind. I was wrong . Hey, hey , what happened? How did Mr. Chen's illness get to this point? Why didn't anyone report it to me ? My father didn't want to trouble you and disturb you. It was just nonsense . Minister, this is the Renhuang Palace. If your minister is sick, you must bear it on your own. You know that the water area is nothing at all. Mr. Shui Ye, although you are of noble birth and are the heir to the top power of heroes , our Chen family has always respected Renhuang as a family rule. If you are disrespectful to Renhuang, you are an enemy of my Chen family. Come and drive him out. Master Chen, you. Listen to my explanation. I mean no harm. I brought Zhang Guoyi's today. The legitimate grandson Zhang Yaozong came here just to treat the old God of War. Are you sure that you will miss an opportunity to treat the old God of War because of a liar ? This is not the reason for insulting the Human Emperor. Ren Family Master, please calm down. The guy you think is the Emperor is actually the person involved. Son-in-law of Jinghai Lin's parents He is definitely not the Human Emperor. This point is coming to my mind. Yes, I have also realized what Chu Yi's identity is. As a member of the Lin family, I know very well. But if he is really the Emperor involved, wouldn't it be necessary every day with the respect that Old God of War Chen has for the Human Emperor? Several people came to the Lin family , but my father did pay homage just now. Mr. Chen was seriously ill. Hearing someone showing off in his own home, he got angry. My lower legs went weak and I knelt down. Under a series of blows, I had a misunderstanding. It was completely reasonable to regard this idea as a human emperor. You are Zhang Jin's grandson. He was quite smart and gave birth to you. You are so stupid and presumptuous. First, you are disrespectful to Old God of War Chen and disrespectful to my grandfather. This is obviously If you don't take Renhuang Palace seriously, today I have to destroy you on behalf of Renhuang Palace. You, a fool, dare to represent Renhuang Palace. You don't even know that your grandson has anything to do with the Divine Emperor. Even though you are talking about all the hype , I am willing to risk everything, so let's wait until my father wakes up. You have become smarter. Do you think that the head of the Chen family is worried about you and you can get away with it? Let me tell you, I brought Zhang Shenyi here today. It's just to cure Old Warrior Chen. Wait until he's cured. Old Warrior Chen, let's see how he can kill you with his own hands . Old Chen, this problem is caused by evil energy entering the body. If you are sure, I'll cure you. The courier has some sharp eyesight and can see where Mr. Chen's illness lies. The Chen family has already enchanted him with a bounty on Chen Xiaoxiao's marriage. Is it difficult to get some inside information ? Zhang Renyi, are you sure you can cure my father's illness? One delivery I can't cure the disease that anyone can see through express delivery . I only need three injections. Please help me. I will thank you deeply. I haven't learned the essence of these 9-turn magic injections. The first two injections have disrupted the evil spirit . I'm afraid that Mr. Chen's illness will get worse after the third injection. Is it unreasonable for you, a courier, to teach me how to treat illnesses and save people? Mr. Chen, have you seen this? This trash has a guilty conscience. He is afraid of curing the old God of War. He is here deliberately to cause trouble to Mr. Chen. I dare you. Use my upward head as a guarantee that this cooking skill is a worthless waste. Do you want to believe in a descendant of a famous medical family or a Mr. Zhu who delivers food? It is about the comfort of my husband and wife. Please, you are also a master who will not shed tears without seeing the coffin. What do you want to do? Zhang Renyi , don't worry about it . Save my father first. I'll come to you to settle the score after I cure Mr. Chen's illness. Isn't that right? What's going to happen? I'm afraid Mr. Chen won't be alive if he goes on for a while . Hum, I really need to find the God of War. You're better. Oh, Doctor Zhang , you are worthy of being Zhang Guoshou's direct grandson. Your medical skills are really like a furnace fire. Chunqing , your kindness to our Chen family is like being reborn , right ? Wuhan, you are insulting my medical skills. I have endured you for a long time and I have to peel off your skin and cramps. I love you, Zhang Yun, hurry up and see what is going on. This old man, your sister is despicable to me. Ah, it's impossible, absolutely impossible. What should I do now that Master Cheng is dead ? It doesn't matter. I will take action. I know it's Chu Yi, the bastard. He just It disturbed my mind and caused Mr. Chen's condition to rapidly worsen. The head of the Chen family who died immediately was Chu Yi. Chu Yi was afraid that Mr. Chen would wake up and expose his true identity , so he killed Mr. Chen. Yes, he is still disrespectful to Mr. Chen for losing his virginity. This is simply an unforgivable crime. Hurry up and ask people to drag him out and kill him directly . Hey, his nose is slippery with snot. Oh, grandpa, grandpa, golden claw eats golden claw . What's wrong with master, golden claw? It is gratifying that Old God of War Chen has not only driven out all the evil spirits in his body, but has even returned to 20 years old and can live for at least 10 years. Thank you Mr. Chu for saving me. It is my father. He is a little confused now. Please help me again. There is no need to put him in this situation again . It's really normal. It will take another half an hour , and Mr. Chu's life-saving grace will not be, no, no, you won't really think it's Chu Yi . Is there a courier who cured Mr. Chen? Otherwise, if you have seen it with your own eyes, you can tell you that the reason why Mr. Chen is cured is because of my nine-turn magic needle . You just had to give Mr. Chen a death notice. Now I'm here to grab credit for the people. What do you know? It was Chu Yi who disrupted my rhythm just now. The key to treating diseases is to work hard at one go. Who knows what the consequences will be after disrupting the rhythm. The sequelae are correct. Maybe Mr. Chen is now insane because he was killed by Chu Yi. Zhang Yaozong. I originally thought you were Dr. Xu. He didn't expect your character to be so low. Zhang Jin, this idiot, has such a low family income. You trash, how dare you follow me? Zhang Yinshu said something rude, why don't you kneel down quickly ? Only Zhang Zi can kneel down for me. How dare you insult my grandpa? I have to take your life, Human Emperor. The first level badge of the palace, the scissors, the limitless sword, you are left all the way, Qingyun Dao Grandpa, why are you here ? It's the Saintess of the road who found me. I, Qin, the God of War, determined the path. I rushed here as soon as possible. Lord Renhuang will definitely think that I am a good wife . An Muyao, what are you trying to do with me ? Isn't this a coincidence? I have already cured Old God of War Qin. You see, gold has cured me. All my medical skills are yours. Ah, of course it's cured . Grandpa, someone said something rude to you and asked you to kneel down and apologize. You should do it with your own hands. Over there, Zhang Jin, your good grandson wants to kill you. This is what you taught me. My grandpa didn't come, so you knew he was coming. If you still dare to be disrespectful to him , then my grandfather didn't come here in vain. You heard my UFO Su Chao beat you to death, you beast. How dare you come to take credit for your benevolence and righteousness . How dare you treat others? It's not you. Why are you beating me? It's that kid. Do you want a newcomer to meet me today? I don't know . The sky is high and the sky is thick. He is the Human Emperor. Go away. He is really the Human Emperor. You are here. Look at you. If you are not the Human Emperor, be careful to break your legs. I don't have time to watch. You are screaming here. Hurry up and take Mr. Chen upstairs to consolidate the treatment. I will accompany the elder upstairs until they break up . Thank you so much. Thank you very much. What else can I say now? Now it's obvious that it's Mr. Chu who cured my father. You are the savior of our Chen family. Don't you really think that Chu Yu is the Dragon King? Now my father is not awake yet. Mr. Chu's identity cannot be determined yet, but Mr. Chu is The fact that I am the savior of the Chen family was recognized by Zhang Guoyi. This proves that Zhang Guoyi is Lu Qingyun, and he is just cooperating in a play for the sake of Lu Qingyun. Who can have such a big reputation to ask Zhang Guoyi to co-act? The strength of Wuliang Sword Sect is second only to Renhuang Palace and Lu Qingyun is the saint of the Wuliang Sword Sect. Do you think he has a lot of face? I know it for sure. It's that Lu Qinyun who wants to continue to help Chu Yi pretend to be the Emperor Ren to achieve his goal of becoming the Emperor Ren's wife. That's why he invited Zhang Guoyi to come. Sure enough, Bingxue is smart . Ye Shao has won the prize. You don't have to listen to their nonsense. Today I'm here to introduce my brother Jet Li to me . It's up to you to give me an explanation. No matter what the matter is, What's going on? It's true that Zhang Guoyi came here because of Mr. Chu. So Mr. Chu is very kind to our Chen family. I am very willing to marry Mr. Chu. Come here, call Xiaoxiao, and we will get married today. Wait a minute. Mr. Ye, you still have something to do with this marriage. I am opposed to my brother's marriage. The whole family is willing to marry your daughter. Both parties are willing to have you. The head of the Chen family and I had an agreement before that Miss Chen would marry my cousin. Who am I to object to Mr. Ye? We only made a verbal agreement , and now it has been certified by Zhang Guoying that it was indeed Mr. Chu who cured my father, Chen Zhenghong, right? I really want to fight to offend the Ye family for Chu Yi, a loser. Risking marrying your daughter to this fat and clumsy Lin Jie is the emperor who turned into a deceiver and even a warrior. How dare you insult him like this ? Sister Lin, the dignity bestowed upon you by the empress has reached its peak. Hey, Bai Yefei or Concubine Cui , let's see who this time is. Hahaha, if you want Let this fat pig die early. Just tell me why you have to find so many excuses to break my legs. I'm just standing here. Let's see how you break up my room. Brother- in-law, do n't be ridiculous. He is a master. How can I break up with him ? I said, have you felt it? It's okay. I 've been working so hard . Then go and break Ye Feifan's legs. No way, little one. Ever since he was little, Jie would often get out of breath after running a few steps. You still let him fight ? Xiao Jie, don't Listen to your brother-in -law. Come and let me break your legs. With a score like yours, I can hit you with 1,000 to seek death. I'll help you. That 's great . My brother and my brother-in-law are not trash. I am even less trash. You piece of shit, you still want to hit me. If it doesn't work, you can do it. Do you know how much trouble you have caused this time ? The person you beat was the eldest son of the Ye family. I didn't expect him to be able to knock you off even if he had no head . Isn't he a strong master? I just punched him and fell down. How did you do it? What did you do to Lin Jie? Suddenly he was able to kill the master instantly. In terms of ability, I can only say that Lin Jie is more talented than you. He can kill a grandmaster instantly with just a little bit of talent. And you , I secretly wish you the best. Five years is nothing but a mere grandmaster saying that Xiaojie is the one-of-a-kind martial arts genius. You two, don't sing here and you can't deceive me. It must be Lin Jie, a god who has no intention of overcoming his father and his mother. After that, he secretly wants to be with me. Fighting for the right to belong to the Lin family is not like this , it is not like this, I don't have you talking nonsense, Lin Jie He is the patron saint of the Jinghai Guarding God of War. You have Renhuangdian behind you, and you have the ability to kill a grandmaster with one punch. From now on, you don't have to be afraid of anything. Brother-in-law, I know that I am the Jinghai Guarding God of War. It turns out that Bai Lian is my father, right? Is it true that you taught your brother-in-law and husband Xiaojie's martial arts? If you don't believe me, don't ask me. I'm too lazy to tell you. Brother - in-law, the marriage between Xiaoxiao and I has been decided. If it 's not grand enough first , I'll tell you in public at the Qingyun Banquet. Do you want to go to the Qingyun Banquet? Then I'll do some I'm giving you an invitation letter. Who are these people? It's so nice. Why are you so dumbfounded ? Yes, sister, they are bad guys. I am the God of War guarding Jinhai. I want to destroy the bad guys . Send your sister back to protect your sister. I have something to do . The news just now is clearly a killer sent by Ye Feifan. Come back with us. Thank you, Xiaoxian. See the Lord. How is the investigation going? Everything has come to light. Posted 5 years ago After you defeated the three supreme beings in one fell swoop and secured the throne of the Renhuang, the Baimei Patriarch of the World Association never gave up. He disappeared and hid in the dark just to find opportunities to plan and regain the throne of glory . Baimei's old bones are also a trap. Yes, this is At first, Lao Hutou wanted to be a coward but didn't dare to take the risk. Head, but there has been no news about you since you fell in love in the world , so he thought that you were also seriously injured in the war that year , so he started to make moves again. What does this Ye Feifan have to do with him? Ye Feifan is actually his illegitimate son. He found out Lin Aoxue has your shadow on his body, so he He thought that Lin Aoxue was your illegitimate daughter, so Ye Feifan approached him just to find an opportunity to harm you. Why did he think that I was as dead as Lin Aoxue ? You turned your back to them and defeated them with just one move, so they didn't Even though I know your true appearance, I don't know whether the emperor of Chu, a genius of the generation, actually He is a young man. Today's killer is also sent by Baimei, right? He is sent by Baimei. His metaphor is that he wants to stop his husband first. Lin Aoxue will be arrested first and then make chips. When the business is cleared, he will talk to the boss of Kunlun Town to discuss cooperation . Where are the others? Our people have kept them all under close surveillance. That's good. I'll just take a look at this. How could a white eyebrow persuade me to kill myself ? According to what you said, Lin Aoxue's useless brother turned out to be a master. This further proves that Lin Aoxue is the Human Emperor. Next, I will take action against them. We mobilize our greatest strength to contact the Lord of Kunlun Palace, and I want to join forces with him to destroy him. I am very curious about what kind of bargaining chips you want to join forces with me. Just now you kept asking me to join forces to deal with people. Now that I am out, I don't recognize him. Ancestor, he is Lin Aoxue. The person next to him is Lin Aoxue's ex-husband. You are Lin Aoxue, who is chasing her? No, it's not you, otherwise I won't be in front of you. I'll see you again. Who am I? I am the Master of Kunlun Palace. Hahaha, it is impossible, absolutely impossible. The fame of the Master of Kunlun Palace has been resounding throughout the world for more than ten years. How could he be a young man and the husband of the Silver Emperor's illegitimate daughter? Unless, what? The person next to Lin Aoxue is not the Ren Emperor but the Kunlun Palace. I heard that the Kunlun Group will give the Lin Group foreign investment orders on Qingyunyan . Is it true that the Kunlun Weir is fake? Deep down, are you here to ask questions about the killer ? I can completely explain this to you. I just want to cooperate with you. This is completely a game. If you and I join forces to adjust the assets of the Human Emperor Glory Group, I will divide it into 28 points . Er Yin Ba, you are still quite big. But if I tell you that I am both the God Lord and the Human Emperor, what should you do ? Emperor, how could it be possible ? Renhuan and Kunlun Highness , who will win Renhuang five years ago ? It was still daytime to five years ago , but why do you avoid eating even though you know I am so powerful? You still want to avoid eating with this little strength, but you still want to claim the position of Emperor of the People. Lord of Kunlun Palace, I was wrong. Give me a chance. Please spare me. Forgive you. God, I am responsible for sex. Tell me what else. Don't go online. I will give you all the world's society and get you a rag that I don't like. You are really naive. You know it . You should go and conquer the Lord. Annihilate the enemy in one fell swoop. From then on, the world will be peaceful. It is a trivial matter, but it is worthy of congratulations. The old lady asked you to go back for dinner after the Qingming Banquet. By the way , this is the imperial green jade jewelry set he just spent tens of billions to take. She also said that if you don't take me back, he will I don't want to eat anymore. How old is this old mother of mine? Forget about going on a hunger strike . It's time to take my second sister-in-law home and collect her things. The peanuts I gave to my second sister-in-law at the Jingyun Banquet are peanuts. Please go in first and let me make a phone call so I can contact you. I haven't contacted you yet. I went to the Ancestor's residence and searched the Meixiang Courtyard. There was no trace of anything. Master planned it and waited for so many years . It's just that people can't be found today . Well , I'll wait for you here. Hahaha. Doctor, you don't need to wait for my master. He should be playing a big game of chess with my reinforcements. Today has arrived, we must put pressure on the Lin family to force Emperor Ren to show up. Together with the God Lord of Kunlun Temple, he will kill Emperor Ren in one fell swoop and divide up Emperor Ren's resources. Young Master Ye is worthy of being an ancestor, and he has taken a fancy to his disciples. Sure enough , all of them have been killed. You have specifically passed this. The third party sent a scene to Lin Aoxue and Lin Jie because he was worried that Renhuan was not concerned about Lin Aoshuang but the other children of the Lin family, so he planned to Let's catch them all in one go. It's great. You're still a little full. Push me into the ileum. Xiaojie , please send your sister in first. I'll take care of some garbage. You'd better come with us so that you won't be able to enter the venue later. I'm not here. Qingyun Yan, let's go on. Black Palm, who has already contacted White Rose, and the God Lord of Kunlun Temple will bring out the spiritual light. The old and angry person will be punished no matter what. Damn it, damn it, report your shit . Three years ago , when I smashed 30 of your warships with one sword, I told you that the building is a forbidden area for the monks of your island country. The Queen of China was the Emperor of Ren three years ago, and you are the Emperor of Ren because of your Daxia. There is an old saying that takes practice as truth and a gentleman. Now the four evil gods of our island country have united with Bai Mei, the emblem of the world. What should I do with you, the God Lord of the Ancestor and the Lun Temple ? How dare you try your best to do this? The God of War, the good God of War, is here , my dear sister, the God of War. This light music scene is really big. This is a grand meeting held by the God Lord of the Kunlun Temple. All the rich and powerful forces from all over the world will come to participate. Even that The Rothschild family, which claims to control the lifeblood of the global economy, will also attend the event in person . Isn't the scene too big? Then who is more powerful, the God of Kunlun Temple or the Renhuang of Emperor Ren? This is not a question you should think about. You are now the guarding war god of Jinhai. Pay attention to your aura, raise your head and chest, and don't act like you have never seen it before. The way the world looks like today, this lucky hospital is the field order of our Linjiahui Group. You two idiots are no longer here. It's our forest workers who allowed you to come over. Lin Jie, the God of War in the Golden Sea, although his name is not worthy of his name . Qing Yan is in the Jinhai Dojo, and his dojo is reasonable. Lin Aoxue has left the Lin family because of his good-for-nothing husband. I'm afraid he is here to cause trouble. The Lin family has obtained an emergency order this time. Lin Aoxue, who is about to soar into the sky, must also want to try it. Let 's see if we can fish in troubled waters. Someone , please drive these two away. Wait a minute. I asked them to come. Young Master Ye, this is Liang Aoxue. Do you want to be my concubine or not? I just said that Qing Qingyan's invitation has already cost hundreds of millions. How can I get Zhang for free ? It turns out you did it behind my back. I'm suing If I tell you, you will give up. I love my husband very much. I can't leave. Lin Aoxue, Ye Shao, give you face. You don't want it. You simply can't believe it . Xiaojie, this place is so smoky. Do you think you'll take care of it? Let's go and find your sister. I advise you not to leave. I just say a word. What do you mean by letting you face the river ? If you disobey me today, I will mobilize hundreds of billions of funds from the regional industrialists to suppress you with all my strength. I guarantee that I will leave home within three days. Ye Weifan advises you not to go too far. I know that you are very deep in the city and you are a master above the master level. But your humble status compared to my Ye family is nothing but wishful thinking . Don't be afraid that our debt will be settled later. Today I am here to suppress Lin Aoxue, Lin Aoxue and me. One sentence can make you bankrupt . And I promise to let your good-for-nothing husband even deliver the express. He can only support the meal. Don't go too far . Can you do whatever you want if you have money? Hahaha, I'm sorry. Money can really go against your will. Ye Feifan, you are rich, do you dare ? Let the man I, Lu Qingyun, like go begging for food. You are sitting in a wheelchair because it is too comfortable. You want to go to bed. Interview Lu Qingyun. You don't really like Chu Yu's pretty face. Well, you don't want to be the wife of Ren Huang. Stop talking nonsense. Today I'm here to announce something. Wuliang Group will spend 100 billion to fund the Lin Group. Ms. Lu, thank you . Please don't thank me yet. I just can't understand that some people are disdainful of Mr. Chu. You also Go against me, right? Hey, don't tell me that I really don't like a guy like you. You 're so crazy that you mobilized all the funds of the 5-car group to fight against me. What do you think ? Can you beat me like this? I tell you that the four major families in the imperial capital and the other three major families have signed investment agreements with me. Each of the other three major families will support me. The second generation of the Ye family , I now have 160 billion in mobilizable funds. Your 100 billion. Why are you fighting with me? Ye Feifan, you are tired of living. I am not tired of living. I am the law. Today Chu Yi must go to Tangmen for me. No one can protect him. I said that. When Jesus comes, there are no four major families in the imperial capital. It seems that there is no need to exist. It's only 160 billion. I really want to insult Mr. Chu. My Piaomiao Group has added 200 billion to Wuliang Group. Demon girl, this is the first time I have seen you so powerful with each other. Tong Mengyao, you are also crazy. Do you want to follow that good-for-nothing Chu Yu and go to the dark side? Mr. Chu is my lifelong pursuit, so I will let you go soon. You know what it means that there are people outside the world, and there is a world outside the world. Why do you still want to use the Tianxiahui incident to rebel against the world? Have you forgotten that the Tianxiahui has been famous in this world by Mr. Zhu? Because of that trash, the Tianxiahui not only did not, but also ate it. After a good meal, you will soon know who is going to end up. Ye Feifei, our Lin Group, and your Ye family had no grudges in the past and have no grudges in recent days. We are proud of each other. I'm just doing business, I hope you can let it go . I told you that I will eat your food. I told you that Chu Yi will be guilty of this. Even if these two stupid women are committing nymphomaniacs here, I will keep the dog's mouth from spitting out. Ivory, why are you hitting a disabled person? If his mouth is not clean again, I will kill him. Time is running out. Hurry up and you will realize that your counterattack is meaningless . What happened to make you so angry? Mr. Rothschild, welcome to your arrival. Who can make you angry? Your master and I are good friends. If you need help with anything, just ask Mr. Roth. My Xia Kingdom's Wuliang Group and Piaomiao Group have joined forces to try to suppress me with money. Please ask Mr. Rothschild. Help me fight back. Haha, I won the money. It's moldy . Let me fight and sleep. Is this the contemporary head of the Rothschild Foundation? Jason Rothschild has tens of trillions of funds in his hands. If he colludes with Ye Feifan, we will have no resistance at all. Mr. Fourth, these two women are trying to use money to stop my master's plan . Feifan, it's so shameless for you to drag foreigners to deal with us. I told you that I would eat all your blood. Haha, Third Aunt Lin, you'd better not do anything for your family. To attract wealth, otherwise you will know what it is to be a human being. Even if you say money for a day, it is not everything. Hum , the fact is that there is one person who can threaten me. That is your hero, His Highness Ren Huang. But he is no longer here. No one can threaten me now. This check can be withdrawn at the World Bank. 500 billion will let you understand today that although money is not everything , it can help you recover. Jason , who gave you the courage to flaunt your power in the building? You, a loser, are here too. How dare you disrespect Mr. Jason and not kneel down and die ? Then ask yourself if Yang, the patron, will be bullied . Don't worry about me in the first year of junior high school. If I don't kill you, I'll make you a beggar for the rest of your life. You'll have to pay back the food. Go on , you want to kill me? Mr. Jason, what are you doing that 's disrespectful to you? It's not a leaf beast , it's a cooking monster. I was wrong. I was really wrong . Mr. Ross, you got the wrong person. How could there be a human emperor? Your Highness Ren Huang killed thousands of my mercenaries in one day. I was almost dead myself. Will I admit the wrong person in the hands of His Highness Ren Huang ? What Jason said five years ago, you forgot to hit me every time you saw me , but I have an explanation and I don't need your explanation. The first protector of the Imperial Sword Renhuang Sword Chi Sword Ren Feng Jiudao See the Lord Renhuang Sword I have brought here He is really the sword holder of Renhuang Palace This is really Renhuang Sword How could this happen My husband is Renhuang We said you don't believe what a foreigner said Just believe that it may be that foreign monks are better at reciting sutras. See the King of Hell. See the King of Hell. See the King of Hell. To make people angry . Your Highness is because that white eyebrow lied to me. He said you were dead , so I dared to come to the building to make people angry. Baimei lied to me. Jason, do you want me to do it or do you do it yourself? I will do it myself for any object . Besides, I am willing to give 90% of my family property to protect the safety of my people. Your Highness, in 10 minutes, someone will donate 90% of my family property, 12 trillion, to Your account is under Yue Feifan. You are really a hero. A person with a physical disability and a strong mind is in such a state, yet you come here to jump up and down. Tell me how you want me to become a beggar. Excellent. Even if you were me , I wouldn't be afraid of you saying it yourself. It would save me a lot of trouble. I'm telling you that I've already set up a dragnet and I'm just waiting to catch you in your dream . Jason, this coward, is right. My master, the ancestor Baimei, has no idea. He's not dead. Anyway, he's in the dark, ready to be on call at any time . Then tell me where you are if they don't contact you. My master, he's an old man who counts things. Yice has united a group of masters and is ready to kill you at any time. Your master, I have already killed you in Meixiang Courtyard. Didn't you notice that you can't contact him these days? It's impossible for you to lie. My master is very powerful and he is useless. How is it possible? If you can kill him, he has already contacted the masters outside the prison and is ready to be that island country's fourth co-inspector at any time. I sent him to see you in the parking lot just now. Master, how could this happen? Are you a man of great wisdom? I, the Four Evil Gods, are also powerful. How could you possibly kill him? How is it possible ? The strong man in your eyes is like me, the great elder of the Dragon Kunlun Palace. Mr. Zheng Yueming, the president of Kunlun Group, haha, the trump card. My biggest trump card is here, Mr. Ye, why are you still going against the Human Emperor? Shut up, you coward. You know the Kunlun Palace? Why do you want to send trillions of orders to the Lin family? It's because the God Master of Kunlun Temple has long wanted to kill the Human King . That's right. The enemy of my enemy is a friend. Even if the cooking skills are really benevolent, we don't have to be afraid of him. We, the God Master of Kunlun Temple, are with him. They are equal beings. Lord Renhuang , I, the Three Thousand Grandmasters of the Infinite Sword Sect, are waiting outside the door to dismantle them for you at any time. And I, the Misty Palace San Grandmaster Qian, are you crazy? You actually dare to openly fight against the God of Renhuang Palace. The God Lord is coming and will kill you all. Nie Feifan, what if I tell you that I am both a human and a God Lord? Ha, the God Lord of Kunlun Hall, these people may act in a low-key manner, but they are also very powerful. You If you want to be the God Lord, you have to ask the God Lord if he is willing. Mr. Zheng, you are here. This person is the Human Emperor that the God Lord has always wanted to kill. He still has something else to do. Mr. Zhang, please quickly report your intention to annex the Kunlun Palace to the God Lord and kill him. Mr. Zheng, I am Lin Aoshuang, the person you want to send a trillion orders. What Mr. Ye said is true. I can prove it to him. Who are you? Do you deserve our Kunlun? The group's billion-dollar order. Our billion-dollar order is for the God's wife Lin Aoxue's idea. Isn't he the Human Emperor? How can he be the God's wife? See God Lord, this is impossible. How can it be possible in the first year of junior high school to be both the Human Emperor and the Kunlun Temple? God Lord, if you don't believe it , then I will let you see my body. Pass on my laws, gold medals, family ethics, and evil deeds. The rich and unkind women's football team will be sent to purgatory, labor reform, and will never leave prison. Master, Master. I was wrong, Master, Master , Master, Master, chasing you, this woman, Lin Aoshuang, has evil intentions. I want to be transformed into purgatory and reformed through labor. No, no. Please help me. I am your sister . I don't want to do labor reform now. Please help me. My husband, the Lord, has never said that you will never be released from prison. If you behave well, you may still have a chance to be released from prison. Go in and reform yourself. Lord. This is the three-piece jewelry set Qi Gong that the old lady took. My mother wants me to bring a wife back to Aoxue. What one should I bring? Three wives, now I have three. Your Highness, the Human Emperor, only children make choices. I want them all.