a jazz rendition of Jingle Bells &quot;Finally I had the answer. And the answer is Sharpies." Nope! Welcome to the second installment of No Effort I noticed that many of you thought, uh, that um so for this one I'm going all in on not Also, I'm painfully aware of how my new I'm still working on it. So. As has apparently become tradition, around Yes, I'm a sucker for Christmas lights, when we waste just that extra bit of energy silly sums of small, shimmering string-suspended Since striving for savings seems sensible slick se... uh, ok that's... that's enough of that! LED holiday lights have become kind of a thing but I still cannot find the multi-colored I'm getting kinda used to them, I'll admit, and nobody's gonna change my mind about that. Honestly if it could just be toned down just this as I am. But sadly, the Blue Lobby seems to have a firm grip on the industry. Anyway, because the Christmas light market nightly ritual of projecting intense mental doesn't seem to be working, last year I to recreate the look of colored incandescent I had a few things I wanted to accomplish. One was to get a set in my preferred color which is simply red, yellow, green, and blue. This is now the third time I've expressed I want NONE OF THAT orange and NONE of that Eugh. Those are Easter colors. I also wanted to have a set of lights that And by that I mean, a set which didn't appear Colored incandescent lights aren't as pure friends the diodes that emit light, and while for not wanting color purity, that's just Perhaps I'm simply overly nostalgic for or maybe I'm just right about these things, you decide. Last year, I tried acrylic paints which ... didn't The blue was simply too hard to control and I also tried spray paint and... again. Same result. But then I thought to myself, what if sharpies So I tried sharpies. And they worked! Except, unsurprisingly, they weren't super This... [ silent struggling ] [ oh you thought he was gonna talk 'cause he looked up but you wrong ] is what's left after just 6 weeks Not great. Happily exposure to rain and snow seemed to It was apparently just fading caused by ultraviolet the sky. So maybe I could make them less prone to fading But the sharpie solution wasn't quite perfect, This blue, while certainly not as bright as of LED Christmas lights, still had that rather This wasn't super surprising given that activate a red and green phosphor to create " white " but it was still a little unexpected. Perhaps it also had something to do with the Also, the yellow was a little bit too much I wanted it to be just a bit toned down. Anywho, one of the things I said I wished that I could mix the blue paint into to hopefully Well, the &quot;fine&quot; people of the comments section a trip to the craft store, I picked some of This acrylic medium looks a bit like Elmer's this with the blue paint, it should produce If that makes sense. Another thing that y'all suggested was to So, I picked some of those up, too. Luckily they can be found in the four colors And a third thing I thought I might try was That dries sorta clear and maybe it would I don't know I'm just spitballing here. So. I first tried the acrylic medium. I started with a very low paint-to-medium than I started with. But again, that should be fine, it will dry Perfect! But, actually, no. Not perfect at all. Drat! The blue is still way too hard to control just abandoned this idea altogether. Poopsicles. I also then thought there's no use trying Boo-hoo. On to the transparent modelmaking paint I And, as luck would have it, that totally works! I figured it would be easiest to dunk the drip off, but it turns out this was not only than just using a brush. A little backwards from what I thought was The result is definitely superior to the sharpies. The color is closer to what I'm trying to and on a positive note the blue doesn't Now it's possible that the actual LEDs are the one I used Sharpies with. In fact I'm certain they are, but I don't it comes to the difference in blue. But I have two slight quibbles here. First is that the red isn't quite transparent, I just picked up whatever paints the craft paint is available online in a better assortment A second coat (or just a thicker first coat) and I was pretty happy. A slightly more major nitpick is that my bottle and it doesn't really want to mix together Possibly a result of that, the color of this I really like the pop of the yellow, that's multicolored holiday lights, but this is just I would have liked it to be a bit more towards "oh well" but then I remembered that you So, I put just a tiny bit of the red in with I got... a... (I don't know why he's talking like this) In fact, I think these two are a comparison No red. Bit of red. Woo-hoo. However, it should be noted that the paints that down to the weirdness of this particular In any case the end result was pretty good. One thing I learned was that there doesn't of the bulbs from the strand. I did this thinking that A) I was going to that this would be easier, but it seems like Having them on the string itself means that and this gave a better idea of how the coat dang point of the exercise is to produce colored looks like that'd be kinda dumb. It also is useful to paint the lights in situ (how pretentious) because you can make sure you space (but he said &quot;place&quot;, the dingus) the colors correctly. In my case, paint one bulb, skip four... three! Paint the next one. The fourth one. That's what I meant. So you might be able to save a tiny bit of into groups of 25, then painting them all that would be worth it. Fun fact! I wrote the previous line before I had put highly advise against it. You see, I hadn't realized this, but not There are a few sockets in this strand that that go in there have a wider base and cannot However, the smaller bulbs will fit fine there. And this caused me some headaches. I figured it out, but this bulb is now dead So maybe, just leave them in. If you are painting them on the strand, pro to quickly dry each bulb. You can hold it in front of the heater for of a dry film on the top that by the time (which is probably going to be something like An even better idea would be to bundle a bunch and paint them all at once. Just come up with some sort of thing to hold can quickly paint them, I dunno, eugh, just you figure it out! So. Wow. This went a lot more smoothly than I thought So now let's talk about the weather. Because this is, after all, an experiment, and see how that would interact not only with What I've done this year is make a completed strand - you can't see it but it's fully done - mostly colored with the transparent this strand, and I'm going to clearcoat Then, we'll see how well it lasts through When I take them down, I'll make an update That's right, it's now called Technology * light drop * Deal with it. There's a link in the description that will I'm hoping that they do well, and if they But, here's a better idea. Listen up, all of you people out there who Can you please make this a thing? I know, here, you can sell make-you-own-color Sell the light strands without the little in different colors! You can just make a ton of the same white weird pedants like me can skip the teals and the Just sell the colored caps in 50 packs for Then, we just pop the tops on our sets of Custom sets! I bet this would even tap into some sort of The little caps are kinda similar to Lite-Brite enough people who are like "aww this reminds and INSTANT PROFIT! And you could sell them all year! Now, I know you're probably not gonna do makes you excited about giving the people I'm gonna plant that in your mind! You could revolutionize the holiday light Mmm! And use the same factories and everything! WHY ARE YOU NOT DOING THIS? It's a free idea, c'mon, just... like... DO IT!!!!!11!! But until you do, I'll just sit in my corner The end! drums kick in Wait a minute, this isn't the usual smooth jazz! What is this blasphemy? Well, it turns out it's a jazz rendition of "We Wish You A Merry Christmas Hey! Thoughts from the Credits! I went through the comments again on last that's only one. [laughs] Heugh! Hey! Thoughts from the Credits! I went through the comments on last year's Someone suggested using nail polish clear of other nail poilish that I might I like. I am totally gonna do that, but I'll save That is, of course, unless the Christmas light my telepathic thoughts I've been projecting for the last two years. One thing that I did try was using stained-glass Now, I used one of those goofy little kits I would have had a better result going with work at all. It was way too thin and didn't produce nearly I might try the real stuff next year, but upon the appearance of the products I found At the store. That one time. And, there were other ideas, too! But I'm not gonna spoil any more of next To everyone out there, I hope you have a very I'll be back with one more video for No conclusion of the CED Saga. At least I hope it's the conclusion. I don't wanna have to do a part 5. the jazz! It swells! Woah, that's some snazzy saxophoning! oh no! the jazz is fading again... Well, the fine folks of the comments section So if I mix this with the blue paint, it should [ here he completely loses his train of thoughts, then shakes his head AT HIMSELF ] But hopefully this is a... honestly. Not hopefully! We did it! We did it! I'm caught up in the Christmas... ha! Alright, those are off now so they're not If they did this video would be lit! Did you catch at the beginning that he wasn't wearing socks? At least he was wearing pants...