I see a dumb girl, but now I don't know if I should tell her son or not. She's always married to her grandchildren. Have you found your daughter yet ? What are you laughing at? It's strange that I don't see it anywhere. I don't see it. Yes, Mom, if my wife and children were at home. Having this baby, my wife and children would love it very much. My daughter has a grandchild at home and she likes it very much. She's very happy. I went down to the place you told me the other day. Look back there and see? You have to go find me, otherwise you won't survive. I miss my daughter so much. Or should I ask my colleague to come with me to look for it? Well, my co-worker now has a lot of work to do at the agency so I can go look for it myself. Now, if I only know that I'm in that area, I'm sure I'll find it right away. I have to go look for it so I can find my daughter. Yes, I'm sure your wife and I have been rescued by someone, so it's definitely okay. We don't have to worry much anymore. This baby hasn't been found yet. Now call your colleagues to see. Is anyone here looking for the baby? Yes, I'll call my co-workers to see. Yes Hello, I asked you to find the baby's parents. How are things going? I'm looking for you. Yes. Then please try to help find the baby's parents. I think the baby's parents are also very worried. Yes, I will try. Yes, let me know if there's anything. Yes. Yes, I asked but I haven't found the baby's parents yet. Then just leave the baby here. Yes, this child should be given to his mother. Yes, just go find your wife. I'll be happy if I find your wife. Then I'll stay home today. Yes, I'm going to find my wife and children. Yes, today I'm going to search really hard to find my wife and children. I'm really trying to find my daughter . Yes. As for you, I'm okay with you. I'm going. I love you very much , I love you very much. I don't know where your mother is. Your mother must be very worried about you, she loves you very much, but Mrs. Chong is here, she loves you very much, she loves you very much, please stay home. Yes, please go. always here. Yes, I'll go. Go slowly. Yes, I've never been able to eat this happily. Now the creditors have taken it away and I'm so happy. Now I'm comfortable and it's okay. If you have money, just buy and eat. I'm so happy that yesterday I went to buy a phone and met a mute girl . Now I don't know if I should tell my son. I'm not sure because he's lost his memory. Let him stay there. He'll stay there. Tomorrow he'll marry someone. Otherwise, it's better. Tomorrow, if you stay there, marry someone else, then your son will come back to live with you. Otherwise, leave this big empty house alone at home. If you're dumb at home, then you're dumb and he won't let you be a son. come here. Now that I've had my fill of rice, I'll go upstairs to check on my son to see if he can find his wife. Now I know but I won't tell him. Let's go and see if he can find it or we'll have to figure out a plan to see if tomorrow we'll kill the mute child to keep it away from our son. Knowing that, I'll go raise chickens and ducks. Tomorrow, the children will grow up and eat them . Let's go home , my love. Let's go home. Is the carrier not willing to carry you? Honey, give me a bag so I can take it in and cool you down. Are you tired? Are you still in pain ? The sun must be very hot like this. I'm very tired. If you're tired, sit down and rest so I can cut it myself. If you're quiet, I'm sure there's no one at your house. What are you doing here? I'm going to visit my son's house. I do n't come up. Whenever I see you, I just ask you to come up. What am I doing losing to you ? Why don't you know how to cry? Crying for your happiness doesn't make you cry. This child is so good that he doesn't know how to cry. Crying and peeing at the same time, how good is it ? It's already smiling. But every day I sit here with my husband and grandchildren. Have you found your daughter yet? Haven't found it yet. So how can you find it if you sit here all day without looking? The son-in-law just went looking for it himself. I'm at home with the baby , why do you keep smiling like that? What are you hiding from me ? You're smiling like that . There's nothing wrong. You like to laugh, just laugh. Now you 're happy, now there's nothing, you're not happy and don't smile. There you are now. I'm home now. I've been eating very happily these days. I've had 3 delicious meals of meat and rice. I have money. Now I can eat freely and happily without laughing. For a few days, when she ran out of money , she didn't have anything to eat. She stays at home like this every day, she sits here and looks after her grandchildren. Why can't she go anywhere? She always says she misses her daughter so much and doesn't go looking for her. Just sit here with my son-in-law, then you laugh at something. You hide it from me What's going on? Tell me if you want to laugh, I'll just laugh . You must have something to hide from me to laugh like this. Tell me my business I like to laugh, I laugh, I won't tell you where. She had something she was hiding from me, so she always laughed and told me . Just sit here with your children. It won't be long before you find your daughter- in-law. Tell me to stay at home and raise my other son-in-law. I don't have to look for her to understand, but only when I die and live will I know? Oh my God, my daughter is dead. She's not dead yet. She says she's dead. I'm still angry with myself. She's dead, so we have to have her body. If she's not dead, then we have to have her body. I'm going to look for it. My son-in-law went to look for me and then he told me to stay at home. You always say you're worried about what to do now. Your daughter must be as happy as anything and eat well and wear well. I don't know if I'm happy or miserable. I don't see my daughter's face. I know she sits in this broken house all day. I'm sure she's happy. Why doesn't she have anything for her son? Son, why do you lie like that? Doesn't it hurt so much my son? My son is poor but I still love him. She didn't feel sorry for her and even said that the house was poor and ruined. Why did my son buy a two-story house and he didn't live there? What are you doing in this dilapidated house? It's because of that woman that she's so cruel that her son can't live. It's because she's so cruel that her son can't live and that's why he 's moving out. But mother and son did not do it. It will be a long time before my son returns to this ruined house. You always say that, so where are you? I'm not looking for you. I'm here all day long. My husband and I can't find you. Otherwise, I'll still go. Now I don't have to be with you anymore. I mainly come to see you. Have you found your daughter or not? You deserve to always scold your daughter-in-law like that . I see that she is dumb and I won't tell you. The dumb daughter is still married to someone else. No, my daughter would never do that. You always lie to her daughter-in-law like this. You're talking too much. I already know that she's already married to someone else , but she's happy. My daughter doesn't marry anyone. She only knows how to marry this son-in-law. If she marries someone else, she'll be happy. Tomorrow, my son will also be happy. I have to go back. I don't want to talk to you much. You go home. I don't need you to chase me away. I'll just go home to see how you're doing. I'm always so sad that I just come home to watch. Go home. I don't want to talk to you. I'm even angry with myself. I don't need to talk to you now . I'm going home now. I don't want to tell her too much. Go home. I've seen it for a long time before I tell you. She must have married someone else. The rich family is already sad and doesn't want to talk to her. She hates it so much that she can't stand it. Maybe This woman saw her daughter but she didn't tell me. She even said something like &quot;It's been a long time since she said she saw her but it's been a long time since she's home&quot; so she told her son-in-law to go ask her, honey. Wait for me. I borrowed a scale that's enough for two kilos. These two kilos are a lot. Let's buy some coffee, my dear. 10,000 per kilo, baby, are you thirsty? Can you weigh enough for two kilos? Can I weigh enough for you? Two kilos, thank you . How much is this one kilo ? Uncle, I'm going to fake weight. Let's go home. I'll go down to that shop. I'll buy you a pair of slippers . What did you buy? I bought you slippers and said hello. Miss, can you tell me if you've seen this girl in this area? Oh, I'm very strange here. I can't find it. I can't find it. Yes, thank you. Why are you looking for this girl? My wife was kidnapped and is missing. I've been looking for it for several days now. don't see. No one has seen anyone in this area, right? No. Probably not. If you don't come down here, why don't you go to people's houses and see ? Hello. What's going on? Have you seen this girl in this area? No, I haven't seen it. Yes, did anyone in this area say they saw a girl here? No, I can't hear anyone talking. I can't see it either. Yes, thank you. Why did this police officer come to find someone? Or is he looking for a criminal? I don't know where to find a wife . Ask anyone. I don't know. Now I know how to find him. where is the wife? Now the lower area is all searched but the upper area has not been found yet Go take a break so I can cook dinner. In this area, no one told me that I could see it. I didn't see it. No one told me. Yes, I asked many places and still haven't seen my wife. It's getting late. It's getting close. If you don't know where to find your wife at night, you'll probably go to another commune to find this commune and find it all