$52.9 billion. That's the total revenues made in 2022. But despite its impressive dominating the credit card Its domestic payment volume and MasterCard, and it lags number of cards in It's a difficult business in, given the threats posed What they've leaned into are lot, spend a lot of money, willing to cater to that perks, whether that's at can use every day. Whether that's a Walmart or things that keep you the top of your wallet. Armed with impressive base, Amex has achieved The company's revenue has 2017 and shares of the resilience and growth in a Amex, I would think of them call a quality compounder, business. Growing revenues, then they get a little bit of that. They grow earnings They've learned a lot They've diversified their They've sharpened their their customers. And it's coming back strong. So what is the secret to it headed next? American Express began as a in 1850, transporting rapidly expanding nation. It wasn't until the late its transformation into a It began to introduce travel services. Then, in the 1950s, from traveler checks, it card to offer customers a Where the brand truly begins opinion. You know, they've out, the gold card, the focusing on the consumer business. What sets Amex apart from the way in which their Most credit cards from MasterCard function in system. When a cardholder network to make a purchase generate revenue by from the issuers, usually the cards to the acquirers, Amex, on the other hand, system where it functions as and the network combined. Amex is different from Visa is a lender. Visa and MasterCard are they process transactions, issuing credit. American Express is both. They are a lender of credit processor of transactions. That really enables them to customers are spending down that extra data where they different reward spans That's going to be very MasterCard can see, which dollar amounts. It allows them to tailor especially on the merchant If there's a reason why merchant's business, they terms in order to fit that They don't have to worry about what those terms MasterCard would. This closed-loop system also from interest, unlike Visa The company generated about income in 2022. It's advantageous to be So they get paid any time a then there are also other annual fees or carry debt charges. But interest income is just it comes to Amex's total Discount revenues, or fees accept its cards brought in 2022, contributing to more revenue net of interest They charge a premium to their cards, and the that premium because them the most affluent, They make the discount and so they charge the rate, two and a half or so, This can vary by merchant their revenue, unlike their this swipe fee versus net Because of its reliance on are Amex's most important Recent reports claim that average three times as much members. Amex targets these a spend-centric model that revenues primarily by cards. That's where rewards In just 2022, Amex spent services and rewards to its When they talk about a They're really talking And I think a really good Platinum Card, one of their On the face of it, this is lot of travel benefits with and all that fun stuff. But you can also get a free you can get a whole bunch credits. They're trying to day, not just something times a year when you're That high spend-centric can provide such strong the customers are willing fees than for other cards benefits of the spend and Because the people that are this up in their spend Having a closed-loop system cardholder spends is the number of transactions Amex also utilizes the through its closed-loop attract and retain A lot of the tricky part kind of big, kind of more rewards are a little bit of have very cool, interesting be things that you as a In American Express's case dynamic and because they merchant, they can create the consumer, like this for me. Like they can go top hotels and all of the specialized offers and stuff to bring consumers, those hotels, to those sees benefits from their connecting those dots. Having an affluent customer advantage of decreased Delinquency rates for Amex lower compared to other Credit losses through the closely with unemployment, If you think about the they roughly go up between a recession, and the prime roughly that same sort of over that time frame, could actually see a little So if it was to go up two American Express go up 1.8 And so that makes a big cyclicality of the to earnings, and returns. It's really one of the of focus on this stock in a It's considered a safety outperformed with the stock In recent years, Amex has customers further, mainly underbanked Americans. I really think that Amex is over younger customers as They've talked about how acquisitions are Gen Z and they've done some creative experiences, whether it's exclusive concerts, like Harlow. And, you know, a younger audience that heavy spenders of tomorrow. Amex has also made scaling and improving its offerings to be more of alternative premium They continue to make They were actually the issuer to win approval in partnering with local into that increasingly In Europe, this is like adoption, both by affluent businesses, is much lower, in the US, the UK and high. And so there's a huge opportunity. I think increasingly they're that whether that's the that they provide or all of gathering. You know, some like buy now, pay later Amex model. They actually were the card issuer to unveil their A few years ago, they came It, which I think again for everybody. The biggest threat for Amex the credit card industry. To me, the biggest weakness Express really is that and MasterCard and what it, which may or may not be Express can control. The value that they are able closed-loop model is But as things like data better and the whole managing card programs their technology advances, programs can better Express is able to do So they can run better consumer spending so they rewards. But while loan loss following a period of high that Amex is more than recession. They're not by any means But at the same time, with customer, those credit significantly lower than more focused on average borrowers. And so there's American Express won't have the next recession.