Hello, I'm Dr. Robert Bastian of Our topic is muscles, general idea of muscles, and do you keep muscles strong? Everyone knows it's by or you use them in the course of your daily life, able to do what you ask them to do repeatedly. Well, and their muscles. Think of the bodybuilder with a trainer to build and sculpt muscle. But and their work requires muscular use. Think of a hammering and lifting sheets of drywall. Or in who is lifting children all day, getting down So those are all people who would But then think of the third group of people, who drives to work to a desk job, uses the He or she drives home, walks into an apartment and maybe spends evenings reading, or in front office worker--might not have sufficient strength in the overhead rack of an airplane, or in trying Well, let's switch from this concept of muscles in help us make voice. The larynx and vocal tract on a model, this is the larynx, my larynx is right sitting here with the windpipe going down into on the outside. This is only part of them. There side. But down deep inside where the vocal cords using this drawing. You can see here inside the and here's the other, and they are made up of when this person produces voice, those vocal cords sufficiently strong, to produce a strong voice. If a are pinched together--here's an example--you can together completely, creating this little dark very little vocal cord muscle, and you notice cords don't pinch together as well. And when muscles, the vocal cord muscles and the muscle difficulties vocally. They may say, &quot;My voice becomes noisy places.&quot; &quot;It sounds thin.&quot; And that kind of thing. It could be because of introversion and due to aging. A person who's 80 or 90 might have general muscles, they may have some weakening very ill at any age, has been in a hospital that weak fuzzy gravelly voice can't be heard all the time. Well, what I want to talk about assuming (of course) that you've been examined and nodules, polyps, various growths (benign So all of that's been ruled out, you've been well what would be a do it yourself strategy Now, obviously, it's great if you could do this with who live 30 miles from the nearest one, or you and start the process, and this is something The regimen is three simple vocal tasks, each Each of the three tasks needs to be done not going to do vocal tasks like this little more aggressive, more effortful, like this to strengthen my arm in different ways, this would sort of works a slightly different set of muscles. muscles. And so in that sense, we're going to do different ways. First one is what I call the &quot;voice AGO, PEOPLE FOUND THAT IS WAS EASIER TO TRAVEL ON WATER THAN ON LAND!&quot; It's emphatic and it's loud and you should have this sense that you're the &quot;ship ahoy&quot; voice. Now you're calling across the going to step in a hole or something. You would the third is simply a siren from lowest possible to and I'm not doing them quite as loudly as I would Well, how when and where would you do these in the shower, driving to work, in the basement. And done for about 20 seconds. That's not a long time. You could do a minute per exercise, but let's in the shower, driving to work, driving home and you're standing like an oak tree, or you're And if you're in a car, you're gripping the wheel could be counting, it could be reciting a poem, it and you do the tasks--20 seconds--really loudly. and not really in touch with your big voice--and never made a loud vocal sound in their entire a family or friend to observe you doing these three come on! That wasn't very, you know, convincing.&quot; loudness that comes out, it's the attempt to be muscles are straining, that your veins are bulging, very intense. And as an aside, it's good also to is articulation. So we're going for loud, but more Now, purely to get across to my patients the I humorously tell them that if they live warn the neighbors so they don't can still do this, because in their hotel room their face and do their voice building directly Now, what can you expect from this voice building I do my very first exercise session with this to myself, &quot;Wow, my arm feels stronger!&quot; In fact, it actually makes my arm feel weaker. It feels your voice can seem worse immediately after doing commit to doing this voice building. Remember like you to do that four to six times a day. Don't for a minimum of two weeks. At the end of two Now, if you notice even a small improvement, you can time a little bit. Maybe they'll do a minute, 20 seconds, 20 seconds. But at some point, at the time you're willing to do--you're going to plateau. changing.&quot; That's when you take final stock of what because there will be a few with severe bowing or But that group has still accomplished something, possibly has no real potential for you. Or you will if a speech pathologist can help me will say, &quot;Yeah there is some benefit.&quot; Well what do speaking voice sounds more or less the same, but I I remember--for example--a man who said, &quot;I used to out of there because I found that when I was in me, they were straining and I felt awkward and it Now, he said, &quot;I don't have that problem.&quot; &quot;I still have a sort of fuzzy voice, it's have better stamina. I used to really fade and and now I can kind of make it through the So after voice building, it could be that your enough to meet your needs. Now if not, then we the speech pathologist. Or you could go to a or someone near you and talk about surgical the front of the neck, or by injection through or through the mouth. Now at this point, and I don't need to hear any more.&quot; So feel free part summary--here it is. Number ONE: just like arms by challenging them. The larynx, the short bursts of intense and even aggressive times a day--can effectively build vocal tract THREE: while it would be ideal to do this with for you to use your voice very aggressively on even if you're a bit clumsy with it, because the And in hundreds and hundreds of people who I have I've never seen an injury. FOUR: the that low-loud-low voice of authority, &quot;LONG AGO, PEOPLE FOUND...&quot; like that. The second is the &quot;ship ahoy&quot; &quot;LONG AGO PEOPLE...people found...&quot; like that. (and much louder than that). FIVE: you don't do your brief bursts of voice building in in the car alone, at home down, in the basement re-weakening of the voice, keep up these short Maybe you'll find that just a couple of times or at that stronger level. SEVEN: if voice building quest for a better voice the next step; to a voice And EIGHT: if the entire process from having that than weakness, to your own do-it-yourself process, all of that together fails to take you where Dr. Richardson, Dr. Hoesli or someone near you And it will help them to know that attempt of voice building because that Well, thank you for listening to this video. All the