Claudia Romeo: We're and we're about to visit Macsween, a third-generation What we're about to see which is encased in animal tripe and stuffed with meat, spices, salt, and a few more ingredients. So let's go and find out which ones. I've always been curious about haggis, and finally I get the to find out how it's made and why it matters so much to Scots. Leading me in this who has turned his grandfather's into one of the most successful James: Being a boy in a family business, I never get tired of eating haggis, from when I was old enough to, you know, 40-plus years later. I love haggis. I love haggis. Claudia: There is no steadfast rule as to what specific animal At Macsween, the base is James: I'm the third-generation managing director of Macsween's. We're still using that same recipe that we started with in 1953. You can have a pork haggis, You can have a lamb, beef, and pork. Some people make venison haggis. We've made venison haggis in the past. But as long as this business we have always made lamb and beef recipe. Claudia: How many lungs are there in here? James: Oh, hundreds, hundreds. They've all been, it's a big block of But, you know, there's hundreds. Claudia: OK. And how many haggis are James: By the time Connor has lifted everything for this batch, it will make 2,000 puddings, or 4,000 portions. Claudia: Each pudding is meant to serve two to three people, so that is about two portions per pudding. It looks like marble. Claudia: It looks like Tuscan marble. James: Travertine. Pink travertine. Claudia: Yeah, yeah, yeah. James: Some manufacturers and then they cook it in the casing. We don't do it like that. James: We cook our lungs. Others, some don't. Oh. makes our haggis light and fluffy. So we... actually. it will smell like it. It doesn't taste like it. Claudia: And lungs, are they... they are safe to eat, I guess, but why is it that they are James: According to Canada and America, they think that you're Pretty much every butcher in We eat a huge amount Everybody is OK. It's really well cooked. We cook the lungs. They then get, once they've been mixed with all the other ingredients, it goes into the casing, And then for the consumer to It's very safe. Claudia: What James is referring to is a 1971 US ban on imported animal lungs that is still in place today. But while haggis cannot there are still some local producers feeding those hungry for Lungs are cooked for about two hours before being mixed with onions and salt. Meanwhile, in this other room, spices and oatmeal are measured to then be blended together They wouldn't share the but from what we can tell, there may be nutmeg, mace, and coriander. James: It's really very simple. Claudia: Yeah. It is, actually. It's just a lot of ingredients. James: A lot of ingredients. It's just like making a Claudia: But you would never just miss out on any of these ingredients? No, you wouldn't. without, like, spices, then. James: No. Haggis needs spice. Claudia: Now it's time This is done with beef intestine. So this is the intestine you use? James: Yeah, this is This is what we call a large This end here is the Claudia: OK. James: So it's that part of the gut. And along here, there's a small hole. Claudia: Where is that? James: It's there. And that's where the large intestine joins the small intestine. James: All these casings you would see being used for mortadella, which is what this casing's for, or salami, or chorizo. The small intestine is for a narrower caliber. James: But for haggis, that's Claudia: Haggis is quite wide. James: Haggis is very wide. Claudia: OK. James: These are 454-gram haggis today, but we do make haggis that are 2.3 kilos. So they feed 10 people, and they're very wide and very long. Claudia: And is there as well, you know, at the end? James: Yes, very good question. Yeah. Like real cheese. Mature cheese, there is a that gives it a more traditional flavor. Claudia: Oh, OK. James: It's a more mature flavor. Claudia: The freshly to let out the air as they cook. They will stay in the and cook at 100 degrees Celsius. Oh, wow, look at that! There's some yellow water coming out. Is this for the spices? James: Oh, no, that's the, that's the fat. Claudia: OK. So it's not water? James: No. Well, some of it's Claudia: OK, wow. James: Because the casing's porous, it's just any, it's some of the fat, the moisture within the Claudia: Oh, yeah. Of course there is fat. You know, you should save it. You should make it, like, [James laughs] James: All the flavors through the cooking process. So you've got the lamb the oatmeal, the seasoning, And then once that's now the casing's now shrunk Claudia: It has shrunk so much. They've just come back, The haggis need about before going to get vacuum-packed. But these are not ready to be eaten yet? 'Cause they need to be heated up again after they're in the bags? James: That's what the consumer would do. Claudia: All right. James: But in the old run the butcher shop, back when my grandfather if there was ever a burst haggis, the guys would take it away and eat it, 'cause it's, right now, the haggis at this stage is so tasty. Claudia: Is it? James: Oh, it's fresh Claudia: Oh, no! So we're just by cooking it afterwards. No, you have the same thing But right now, there's nothing beats the And the recipe has only We changed the blend of oatmeal. My father received a letter from a very well-renowned food and he said, &quot;John, I think but I think you could improve it. You might want to consider And Dad did. Sent a haggis back to Derek, and Derek replied, going, &quot;Perfection!&quot; And we've never changed it since. Haggis isn't Scottish. Haggis in one way or another exists in every culture around the world. So a salami is a bit like a haggis, morcilla is a bit like a haggis, feijoada in a stew in Brazil A haggis is a dish made that aren't whole muscle meat. So it's the original boil because you're just using and you make something that's very tasty and very affordable. Claudia: James isn't kidding about it being in almost every culture. In Czech cuisine they have jitrnice, in Romanian cuisine they have toba, andouillette in France. They're all made from bits and encased to boil. Not only they are tasty, but they're also an economical way to use as much of the animal as possible. Despite this style of Scots have a unique passion for haggis. There is even one night which acts as a sort of It's called Burns Night and Scotland's national poet. A Burns supper traditionally kicks off with an address to the haggis. To show you how seriously they take it, I'm going to play James while I also show you a collection of people across Scotland acting it out. OK. Take it away, James! James: So, &quot;To a Haggis&quot; by Robert Burns. [audience applauding] Claudia: Oh, wow. It's very soft. James: Yeah. Claudia: Smells quite good. James: Love it. Claudia: Wow. James: It's meaty, it's fluffy. It's got oats, it's peppery, it's nutty. Claudia: And I like the spices as well. It's not that overpowering. James: I'm glad you like it. James: Don't be shy. I'm not gonna be shy.