Why is it that you get something different when you order a shot of espresso from one coffee shop to the next? Why isn't this standardized? At one point we attempted to lay things out clearly and settle the confusion over what classifies as a shot of espresso. But with that - more confusion. Hi, I'm Julia with Clive Coffee, here to talk Espresso basics. What's a double shot? How do recipes change for single shots or different drink types? What is expresso? First, let's make sure we're on the same page about espresso. Espresso is a method for brewing coffee. It is not a type of coffee bean, just like we refer to other methods as drip coffee, pour over cold brew, etc. Espresso uses the same coffee beans as other methods do, but espresso is made on an espresso machine. By definition, it's a one and a half to two ounce coffee concentrate produced by forcing a small amount of nearly boiling water through finely ground coffee beans. As the coffee industry has evolved and we've learned about how coffee extraction works, we have changed how we grow, roast brew and drink coffee. With more experimentation and seeking the best tasting coffee possible a shot of espresso has begun to look a lot of different ways. As we talk through how to pull espresso it's important to know how changing your recipe affects the strength, flavor and coffee extraction. When you introduce water to coffee, extraction occurs, extraction is the technical term for how much of the coffee's flavor ends up in the cup. Water breaks apart the chemicals in a coffee bean and dissolves them into the water, resulting in a flavorful, drinkable beverage. To encourage a proper extraction our solvent, water needs a little help. If we were to put a whole coffee bean into some hot water, we wouldn't extract more than the outside layer. Coffee beans are dense and complex to extract all that coffee has to offer there needs to be a larger surface area so that the water can access these flavors and pull them from the coffee. The finer you grind coffee, the easier it is to and the more you can extract. Espresso was created in the 1800s as a way to quickly produce a cup of coffee that would normally take several minutes to brew. To be able to do this, coffee used for espresso has to be ground very fine to extract everything in such a short amount of time, depending on grind size, how much coffee you use, what you pull and how long you let it brew, or what's known as an espresso recipe extraction will change. There isn't one recipe that guarantees a perfect extraction, but with the right combination of these things, it's possible to find balance and enjoy the flavors in coffee. Espresso recipes have changed and been developed to produce the most flavorful coffee possible. It consists of three things: dose - how much ground coffee you put into your portafilter. Yield- how much espresso you pull, and time - total seconds it takes for your shot to pull from the moment you engage your pump until you reach your yield. You'll often see an espresso recipe written as a ratio. The dose to yield, usually ranging from one to one to one to three, pulled around 30 seconds. Your brew ratio sets the strength of your coffee. Earlier, I mentioned that a shot of espresso, by definition, is one and a half to two ounces. However, the goal isn't to reach a specific volume as much as it is to set the desired strength and find the ideal extraction time for that particular coffee. To keep things as precise as possible it's best to practice pulling shots and brewing all types of coffee by using a scale and measuring in grams, which is the industry standard. Regardless of your water filter, basket size or how much coffee you're using, a one to one will be the strongest shot and one to three will be the weakest. Choosing which to pull should be based on your preferred strength. A one to two is the most common brew ratio, and this is referred to as a normale. Each brew ratio falls under a category of normale, ristretto or lungo. Ristretto in Italian means restricted. These shots are stopped earlier than standard shots to give you less output. Ristretto shots usually fall between a one to one and one to one and a half ratio, and we'll give you a stronger, richer, brighter and juicier shot of espresso. A normale is the standard or normal way a shot of espresso is pulled. The output will be between one to one and a half and one to two and a half. And typically, these shots will have the most balance. Lungo is Italian for long. These shots use more water and time to brew. You'll typically see these between a one to two and a half and one to three, and they'll be more clear, palatable and less intense. With the way coffee extraction works, if you keep your grind size the same for all these types of shots, you'll have varying brew times and a big difference in extraction. If you get your coffee dialed in for a normale and then stop at short for a ristretto, your shot could be under extracted and strong. If you let it brew as a lungo, it could be over extracted and weak. The amount of time needed for each shot type depends on how it tastes and what you prefer. Typically ranging anywhere between 20 and 45 seconds, time shouldn't be determined by a number, but by flavor. We note down the time it takes for a shot to pull so it can be replicated. Don't judge an espresso on brew time. Brew time can include pre-infusion drop time or not. Just make sure to do the same thing every time. It's there to help you not restrict you. Now, to make everything that much more confusing. You can pull a normale, lungo, or ristretto as a single, double, or triple. It's easiest to think of it this way. Normally, lungo and ristretto shots are brew ratios, and single, double, and triple shots are determined by the amount of coffee you use. This means you could end up with the same volume of espresso if you were to pull a single shot as a lungo and a triple as a ristretto, for example. The extraction and strength would be entirely different, even though they are the same in volume. We'll start with the double. This is the industry standard if you go into a specialty coffee shop and order an espresso. Likely you'll be given a double espresso or doppio. These are usually pulled using 16 to 18 grams of coffee, usually in a double basket with a double spouted portafilter. Single shots use a single basket, usually in a single spout of portafilter, and your dose would be between seven and ten grams of coffee. Triple shots are made using 20 to 22 grams of coffee in a triple basket. Usually, these come in a bottomless portafilter, but if a double shot uses 18 grams, how in the heck is a triple shot made using 20 grams? It's best not to get hung up on the terms. They really don't mean anything and they aren't regulated or consistent. If you order an espresso at a cafe, you could be given a double shot or half that amount. There isn't really a standard, and every cafe has the freedom to choose what their standard shot of espresso is. So if you order a triple shot, you could be getting a shot and a half or three double espressos. Though, let's hope not. The main takeaway is, if you want more coffee out, use more coffee in. The type of shot you pull is determined by your basket size and dose. When making coffee at home you can do it however you want. Here's how you should think about shots of espresso. Decide how much coffee you want. Then decide how strong you want your espresso to be by setting a brew ratio between one to one and one to three and then work on your brew time and determine that based on taste and how the coffee is extracted. We've told you what we like to do. Now you've got to decide for yourself what you like. For help dialing in your coffee, finding the perfect recipe and tasting for extraction, see the links below. Leave any comments or questions. And as always, thanks for watching.