Group 1: The Analysts First up, we have the Analysts. These people are to life. They love looking solving complex problems. Let's meet them closer! The Architect If you are the architect, then you love always thinking three moves ahead. The and a little bit mysterious. You'll figuring out how to make If that's you, then you excel in organizing chaos architects are visionaries with the strength their high standards can sometimes make which can lead to a perception of being distant or outwardly emotional, they care deeply about the with whom they connect, preferring meaningful The Logician Have you ever met someone who's always That's a logician! These are the and the people who love to dive deep into could be Albert Einstein. Logicians are constantly philosophy, or even just figuring out If this is you, then your strength lies in your with original ideas that others miss. However, which can lead to procrastination or logicians are more likely to engage They can seem uncomfortable or distant in a casual when they do open up, their passion The Commander The commanders are born leaders. They and making sure everything runs smoothly. whether it's a company, a project, or trip. They are confident, decisive, Is that you? Then you're not scared of tough with a natural ability to strategize and delegate. They're incredibly successful However - they can sometimes come especially when they think that things They thrive on challenges and are always They enjoy meaningful conversations about straightforward, as they value honesty The Debater Debaters are the ultimate devil's advocates. They genuinely enjoy challenging ideas. They're quick things. Their strength is their innovation creative solutions to problems. They're excellent but their problem is staying focused. Debaters aspects of life. If that sounds like you, then of any intellectual discussion. But be careful - however your tendency to challenge others can Group 2: The Diplomats Next up are the Diplomats. These driven by their emotions and a desire to compassionate, creative, and deeply Will you find yourself among them? The Advocate These people are rare and special. They're always fighting for causes they who will stand up for others, even Advocates are insightful and have a strong If that's you, then you're passionate about Your sensitivity and idealism can, however, make you prone to burnout or frustration In relationships, advocates are deeply selective about who they open up to, but when The Mediator Mediators are the true romantics. They see the and deep emotion. They are also guided by their to themselves. They might be a bit reserved, often express their emotions through creative know a mediator as the friend who always listens That's also where their strength lies mediators can be easily hurt or overwhelmed they tend to be quiet, preferring talk. They are the dreamers who might The Protagonist Protagonists are the warm, charismatic selves. They're outgoing, empathetic, Protagonists have a strong sense of a better place by helping others. You'll mentor or guide others. They're often great If that's you, then your strength is your the best in people. You genuinely care about protagonists can sometimes neglect their own emotional exhaustion. They enjoy being in a group They're great listeners and Trust me, from personal experience, it is The Campaigner If you've ever met someone who's full of energy and creativity, chances are spirits, always looking for new adventures, Campaigners are driven by their curiosity and enthusiasm, and the ability to always inspire projects and motivating others. However, their have trouble staying focused as they get easily Around people - campaigners are warm and They love meaningful conversations and emotional connections with the people they meet. Group 3: The Sentinels Now it's time to meet the Sentinels. down-to-earth people who like things to be they are and work hard to keep things running The Logistician These are the people you can always count on. things done the right way. Logisticians They are very detail-oriented and love structure. If you are a logistician, then your greatest to detail. You take your responsibilities and organization. You can also stay calm and However - you can be a bit rigid and resistant In social situations, logisticians tend to be done efficiently. They're not the most emotionally rather than words. Logisticians are often The Defender Defenders are nurturing and protective, always have a strong sense of duty and often do anything happy. They are often the glue that holds families center of attention. They remember all the little a helping hand. Does this sound like you? If and compassion. You make others feel truly cared overextend yourself. Defenders sometimes people they are warm and approachable. Their The Executive I am sure you know at least one executive organize and manage everything around and always focused on getting things done. They're often the ones in charge, whether at value rules and structure, and they're great They're natural-born managers, always smoothly and efficiently. If you're an make decisions. Your strength is getting across as too harsh. You may also find it executives can be forceful and assertive, their group. They lead with confidence The Consul Consuls are the warm-hearted caregivers who for. They love bringing people together and checking in on friends, or volunteering in people and love helping others feel happy and feel. They're also known for being incredibly greatest strength is your ability to connect with supportive, and always ready to too much about what others think and Group 4: The Explorers And here comes the last group - The spontaneous types who love living in getting new experiences, and aren't afraid to The Virtuoso Virtuosos are the ultimate problem-solvers. and love figuring out how things If you're a virtuoso, then your strength in stressful situations. You're independent However, you can sometimes as you prefer action over words. but they can be really fun when The Adventurer Don't get misled by the name - adventurers are their emotions. They often express themselves who love to explore the world around them and have a deep appreciation for beauty and They're the one friend who always notices the strength is their sensitivity to the beauty express deep emotions through writing or art. and tend to avoid conflict at all costs. Around groups better than big crowds. They watch and The Entrepreneur Unsurprisingly, entrepreneurs are bold, live for excitement and are always looking love action and thrive when things move fast. a business or trying something new, they're your strength is thinking fast and taking and orientate yourself quickly in situations when and might not think about long-term effects of enjoy when they can entertain and inspire others The Entertainer Finally, we have the entertainers--the center of every room they walk into. They're fun, outgoing, in the moment and are all about enjoying life to entertainment or any role where they can interact finally you? If so, then your strength is bring joy to people around you. However, you neglecting long-term planning or responsibilities. time. Your energy is contagious, and you're personality type sounds the most like you? Have To reprogram your brain - watch the Thanks for watching.