Hello and welcome to Early Music Sources.com, my name is Elam Rotem and today we'll talk about the so-called Neapolitan chord. THE NEAPOLITAN CHORD The Neapolitan chord is a well-known phenomenon in music theory. It has a special harmonic color and was said to have been especially appreciated by composers of the 18th-century Neapolitan school of music. In this episode we will explore this striking harmony, from early examples in the 17th century through its blossoming and development in the 18th and 19th centuries. We will also examine to what extent the name "Neapolitan" chord is justified historically. Let's start. As is the case with many music-theoretical terms, the so-called Neapolitan chord, or Neapolitan sixth, was first given its name by 19th-century music theorists, although the phenomenon itself can be found in music much earlier than that. The first use of the term seems to be by the English composer and theorist William Crotch. In his 1812 book Elements of Musical Composition, he briefly describes what today are referred to as "geographical chords" - the Italian, German, and French augmented sixth chords, as well as the Neapolitan sixth, explaining that they are so named "after the nations which invented them." Describing the Neapolitan sixth, Crotch writes: "The Neapolitan sixth is a minor third and a minor sixth to Fa, and is never inverted." In order to understand this statement you should know that Crotch used solmization syllables to refer to scale degrees. Each scale degree had a number (1st, 2nd, 3rd etc.), a name (tonic, supertonic, mediant etc.), and a solmization syllable (Do re mi fa sol la and si). This is a useful way of employing solmization syllables. Like this, instead of referring, for example, to "the fourth degree of a certain key", he simply can say Fa. And when describing the Neapolitan sixth, he means that above a Fa - the fourth degree of a certain key, there will be a minor third and a minor sixth. Crotch presents a few examples of how the Neapolitan chord can be used in the key of A minor (here we should mention that throughout its history, the Neapolitan chord was typically used in minor keys). As Crotch shows, the Neapolitan chord is on Fa, the fourth degree, and in his first example is followed by Sol, the fifth degree. If we assume that Do, the first degree would appear before and after it, we get a cadential progression. A very distinct outcome of such a progression is a melody that outlines a diminished third. In Crotch's second example he shows how the Neapolitan may be followed by a cadence with a 6/4. In the third example it is followed by a diminished 7th chord on the raised fourth degree, probably also preceding a cadence. The last example shows that the Neapolitan chord doesn't necessarily have to be connected with a cadence, and might appear in the context of a series of sixth chords. Did you know: in the world of ice cream, the term 'Neapolitan' refers to the specific combination of the flavors vanilla, chocolate, and strawberry. Just like the musical "Neapolitan", this term was coined in the 19th century based on a somewhat dubious idea of its historical origins. Thanks Sean. Now that we know this essential detail, let's go back to the early 17th century to get a taste of the "Neapolitan". The earliest example that I know of (and it is very possible that there are earlier examples) is found in a monody by the Venetian composer Alesandro Grandi, published in a collection from 1625. The text is a compilation of verses from the Song of Songs and overall rather sweet. Appropriately, Grandi composed the text in a sweet manner, until the line "Quia amore langueo" - "for I languish with love", where there is an evident change of character. Let's listen. On the second appearance of the word "langueo" - "I languish" - we see exactly what Crotch described almost two hundred years later: If we consider the key here to be D (as is apparent from the cadence), we have the minor sixth over the fourth degree of the scale, followed by the fifth degree and a cadence. The concept of scale degrees is not found in sources from this time, which, of course, makes this analysis anachronistic. A more historically sensitive analysis might be to see the progression from a contrapuntal perspective: all we have here is a rather typical cadential progression, where the melody proceeds to a cantizans clausula. However, for extra excitement, one note - the E - gets a change of chroma, a change of color. At that time, having an E-flat in such proximity to a C-sharp constitutes an extreme contrast between soft and hard musical elements; an effect reserved for extreme emotions. However, this change of color doesn't essentially change the counterpoint, it is still a sixth above the bass - a consonance, only that it is a minor one instead of a major one. Let's hear it once with a natural E - which results in a typical and not especially exciting effect. And now again with this E modified to be E-flat, which would later become known as the "Neapolitan" sixth. Later in the century, such a chromatic melody was categorized by the German theorist Christoph Bernhard as a &quot;passus duriusculus&quot; - a harsh step. While his musical example is very similar to the passage from Grandi, he does not refer to its accompaniment with a minor sixth, and thus, refers to our Neapolitan phenomenon only indirectly. Another example of some "Neapolitan" chords can be found in the 1648 Oratorio Jephte by Giacomo Carissimi, a composer who spent the lion's share of his musical life in Rome. The "Neapolitan" chord can be found several times in the heart-breaking lament of the daughter of Jephte, as she finds out that her father promised God to sacrifice her in order to win a war. In this opening phrase we find three clear cases of the "Neapolitan" chord: one when making a cadence to E, then to A, and then another time as an echo effect. We know this based on the bass and the singing part. But are there perhaps more cases? In the very beginning there are two cadences that, judging only by the notes at the cadence, do not include the "Neapolitan" chord. However, just before each cadence, in the form a little ornament, the note that would have been used to create the "Neapolitan" chord appears, bringing with it its very distinct and dark color. This might suggest to the continuo player, who has only a few figures above the bass or nothing at all, to realize the following chord with a minor sixth instead of a normal five-three chord, and thus play the "Neapolitan" chord, although it is not explicitly written. Let's listen. If you don't know this piece - do check it out! More or less at the same time, the composer Luigi Rossi was commissioned to compose and perform an opera in Paris, which was in effect one of the earliest cases of staged operas in France. The text was another version of the story of Orfeo, and again, we find the "Neapolitan" chord in a very sorrowful moment: just after Orfeo lost Euridice forever. Let's listen to this phrase which is then repeated like a refrain between the verses that follow. Here, the surprising "Neapolitan" note - the A-flat - is extended as a suspension on the next bar before it reaches a cadence. Really nice. From this point around the middle of the 17th century, we start seeing more and more examples of the Neapolitan chord. As we have seen, the Neapolitan is often associated with sorrowful or even tragic affects. These dark connotations continued to follow it through the centuries. You must be asking yourselves now: 'why is the "Neapolitan" chord called Neapolitan if none of the examples we've seen were by Neapolitan composers?' Good question. Let's see. The Neapolitan school of music was widely influential and much admired in the 18th century. The composer Alessandro Scarlatti, despite his complicated connections with Naples, in hindsight was regarded by many as the mythical founder of that school. He wrote over 500 cantatas, let's have a look at one of them. The cantata is again about the story of Orfeo, and in one of its arias there are no less than 13 cases of the Neapolitan chord. In the beginning it is found on the word "cara" - "dear" - where the protagonist talks about his "dear Euridice". Our Neapolitan lowered sixth appears in the context of two evaded cadences. On the third cadence, which is not evaded, the sixth is not lowered anymore, as evident in the basso continuo figure, and the effect of release is very strong. Some measures later, we find many more Neapolitan sixths. Let's just have a listen and enjoy this highly expressive and chromatic music. Ok, so for some of his career, Scarlatti was active in Naples, and as we've seen, he didn't spare using the Neapolitan chord. But the truth is, that everyone in the 18th century used the Neapolitan chord - it was a valued element of the harmonic vocabulary. Just to get an impression, let's listen to some assorted examples from across the 18th century. Here is a magnificent Neapolitan chord in Vivaldi's Magnificat. Here is another one from Vivaldi - from his famous "Summer" concerto. Here is an example from a piece by Bach for organ. And here is a very dramatic example from Handel's Messiah. To be sure, central figures from the Neapolitan school also used the Neapolitan chord. Here is an example from an opera buffa by Giovanni Battista Pergolesi. And here is a little example from a keyboard fugue by Pergolesi's teacher, Francesco Durante. Durante was once called "the maestro of maestri" and played a crucial role in the establishment of the &quot;Neapolitan school&quot;, more so, in fact, than Scarlatti. The fame of the music of Durante and his students is probably what led Crotch and others in the 19th century to identify the "Neapolitan" chord with that celebrated musical city. Mozart, who by the way visited Naples and met some of Durante's students, was also a fan of the Neapolitan chord. Here it is in The Magic Flute appearing with the words "peace in death". And in this example from the turn of the century, the Neapolitan chord helps create the gloomy atmosphere of Beethoven's famous "Moonlight" sonata. And it appears again, very dramatically, in the third movement. We should probably stop here, although the Neapolitan chord did not cease to be used. On the contrary, it was an essential part of 19th-century romantic harmony. It is quite astonishing how a certain phenomenon with such a distinct color, was able to take part in so many different styles over more than two centuries. In the 19th century especially, it came to be used in further ways. Let's quickly look at two examples. In this example, Schubert uses the Neapolitan chord as a beautiful way to modulate: instead of following it with the typical 64 chord leading to a cadence in the current key (E-flat minor), the Neapolitan chord instead proceeds to a different 6/4 chord than the one we expect, taking us to the key of C-flat major. The Neapolitan chord was often used in such ways to make surprising and bold modulations. Another further expanded use of the Neapolitan chord can be connected to the way in which many 19th-century theorists came to understand this harmony: They considered it to be a major chord in first inversion derived from the lowered second degree of a scale. That is, if you take a scale, lower its second degree, build a major chord on it, and use it in first inversion - you get yourself the common Neapolitan chord. This more modern harmonic perspective, which takes the idea of chordal roots and inversions as its starting point, led theorists, as well as composers, to try using the Neapolitan chord also in root position. See here, for example, how Chopin uses the Neapolitan chord in root position in his Prelude in C minor. As you saw, the term "Neapolitan", in hindsight, was to a certain extent 19th-century "fake news": though the Neapolitan school surely played a role in its popularity in the 18th century, the phenomenon did not originate in Naples and was used by practically everyone. Interestingly, this supposed origin story was already debunked in the 19th century, with theorists stating that "the chord was at no time peculiar to the Neapolitan composers". Emmett Lewis, a scholar who studied the subject back in 1939 suggested that "the name Neapolitan lends glamor to the chord, especially for novices, &quot;and as it really is a chord of striking beauty, we let the name rest in peace." This was our show about the "Neapolitan" chord, we hope you enjoyed it! Special thanks to Sean who helped me write this episode. - Sure!, and to Doron who sang so beautifully. Don't forget to check the special page on our website with all the footnotes and other extra information. If you enjoy Early Music Sources, consider supporting it on Patreon, comment, share, and like. See you next time at Early Music Sources.com