amna: Few journalists have been covering silicon valley as long as Kara swisher. And, even fewer are as respected, like command feared by the tech industry and its most iconic leaders. For the first time, she's opening up about her own life, in her latest book, which we recently discussed, entitled &quot;Burn book: A tech love story.&quot; Kara swisher, welcome back to the newshour. Thanks so much for joining us. Kara: Thanks for having me. Amna: So I think it's fair to say that you don't mince words and you don't suffer fools. Kara: I don't. That is correct. [Laughter] Heck -- check. Amna: In particular with people in positions of power. And in your memoir, it seems like you've always been that way. Even when you were a kid, you were unafraid to question authority. I'm wondering where that comes from, but also how you hang on to that over the years, in a world that often kind of squashes that in women. Kara: It does. I don't know what has happened here. It just won't stop. I was like this as a kid. My nickname as a baby was Tempesta, you know? And of course, that's the name they would put on a woman, right? Like, ooh, difficult. Bossy. I used to get bossy all the time, and I was like, I'm just have executive function, you know? I don't know what to tell you. I just am the way I I kind of am. Get irked when people just tell you or explain things. I'm not one that's easily mansplained, that kind of thing. And so I just was always like, why, why, why was my favorite word. And over the years, you know, persistent obnoxiousness has been a career highlight for me. Amna: Well, it's a good question to be asking in journalism in particular. You joined the journalism world early. I do want to point out journalism was not your first choice for careers, right? Kara: No, I wanted to be in the military. My dad was in the military who had died many years before, and I unusually wanted to do that. I thought it was important to serve your country. I want to do military intelligence. I thought about the CIA. I thought about state department, all those places. But I was really oriented toward the military. But I was gay. And at the time, you could not be gay and be in the military. And it took a very long time, and a ridiculous amount of so many good people could have served. I would have been an admiral, and I think I would have done a very nice job. Amna: You mentioned your father, you are just five years old -- you were just five years old. How do you look back on that now, the impact of losing your father that early on, who you are now, on how you live now, on how you parent now? Kara: Well you know there's not a day that goes by I don't think about my dad. This is some, you know 50 some years hence. And I think about him all the time. When a parent dies at a young age half your life goes away, right? If you have two parents, many people, not everybody does. It's a real blow. And I didn't realize the disaster of it for me at least, because what happens is you often get very highly functional. And you're like, I can do it. Everything bad happened and I'm fine. And so you get really good at running over, running through roadblocks, essentially. But when I had my first kid, I have four kids now, but when I had my first, my son and I remember when he turned five, which is around the age my dad died, he knew me so well and I was like, oh my god, it really was someone I was very close to died. And you don't have memories or your ability to express things as well at five. So it's informed everything I've done, and it's made me realize more than most people that life is too short. That's a cliche, but I don't got any kind of time for nonsense. I think that's what it brings to me. Amna: I was interested to learn in your academic career when you were studying at Georgetown. Your focus in history classes in particular was on Nazi propaganda. He wrote in your book, what -- you wrote in your book &quot;What struck me was how easily people could be manipulated by fear and rage, and how facts could be destroyed without repercussions. &quot; how much of a parallel do you see between what we are living today and what you were studying back then? Kara: It is the same thing. They call it misinformation, disinformation, digital, you know, all kinds of bots. It's propaganda. And so now with it, especially since we're addicted to these devices, it gets even worse. I say this a lot, hitler didn't need Instagram, right? Or mussolini didn't need, you know, Snapchat. But can you imagine if they had these devices? Very problematic. And they did fine with just paper or radio or whatever. So did many other, you know, terrible leaders over the course of history. But this presents tools to people who are bad on a global level, you know, at a scale that is unprecedented. Amna: In your career you've covered, gotten to know and interviewed some of the world's most powerful tech leaders, mostly men. I'm curious over time, if you have found that they all have one thing in common. Is there something that stood out to you? Kara: Besides being straight white men. Let's see. They have different versions of this but persistence, the ability to persist despite mistakes. To be able to pivot, very quickly, to be able to sort of believe the unbelievable in a -- that's a good part. But it can also be a bad part, right? If you are like, I'm going to do it anyway. The really good ones, they have that ability to keep going no matter what and believe the unbelievable, but then pivot when they need to. Amna: Your book is, as you say, a tech love story, and I think tech has undoubtedly made our lives better in so many ways. But there are so many risks and dangers, and those are real. And I wonder what you make of the efforts to try to control those. Lawmakers, in particular trying to regulate them, pressure on tech leaders to have moral or morality infused in their decisions. I mean, how do we get rid of the risks and dangers and still have the benefits? Kara: Well, we haven't tried because it hasn't worked. We haven't done anything. So, I mean, if there was one law, if you could name a law for me that protects us against technology specifically, you can't find it. The law that exists actually benefits them. Section 230. It gives them broad immunity. They can't be sued. You know, you can't have the biggest industry in the world in terms of value and power, not have any liability. It would be unimaginable if it was pharmaceuticals or insurance or Wall Street. But here we are. Amna: You quote the line in your book, babylon was, meaning every major power at some point will meet its end. Do you think the same was going to happen to the giants and tech? Kara: One of the things about tech is the young tends to eat its old. Although in this new shift to agi, artificial general intelligence, it's dominated by big companies and companies that have been around, whether it's Microsoft or meta or Amazon, and of course alphabet, Google. So it's still dominated by the big players because it's so costly. The cost of compute here is so high. And so right now it's kind of an interesting shift. The younger companies, of which they're getting funded, a ton of them, none of them has broken through to beat the bigger companies. And I doubt they will in this in this particular era. Amna: All right. The book is burn book: A tech love story. The author is Kara swisher. Kara, thank you so much. Great to talk to you. Kara: Thank you.