(insects chirping) - [Narrator] Washington's of the kinds of things you'd big trees, lush undergrowth, But there's something something no one had in the western U.S., until Joe Rochio found it one day in 2011. - Came in one morning, I was not expecting to find - [Narrator] Joe is a Natural for Washington's Department His job is basically to seek out and identify the state's natural wonders. - We always feel like we're on a little bit of a treasure hunt and I felt like I found a chest of gold when we came out here. - [Narrator] What Joe found and the first indication that this is a different kind of place is that the peaty, mossy it actually moves in waves underfoot. (shoes thumping) - Some people think like, I think it's more like So when you jump on it, pretty far out from where I'm located. You can see the water moving. - [Narrator] But even that's about this place. A raised bog is different because it sits higher - The water levels over than they are at the top, which is counter-intuitive. (laughs) - [Narrator] The way most bogs are like sinks, lush with grasses and plants What Joe found seemed to defy gravity. Imagine a bubble, holding water and earth together and sitting 9 feet higher than and there are no streams feeding into it. Instead, a raised bog and then drains that water down, slowly, out to the shoreline. - And that's what makes They weren't thought to exist here. - [Narrator] The entire bog It's surrounded by western but the heart of the bog is treeless, because decomposing moss and rainwater create an acidic soil It's an unusual combination of conditions that provides home to an of specialized plants. - There's so much biodiversity that we just lump into the ground surface, or you can stand from here And if you don't get on you don't see the small, little sundew that right now is hidden. There's all these little bugs crawling over the surface. There is just so much diversity some of it, you can't you have to put it under a microscope. - [Narrator] Crowberry Bog and bog laurel, cranberry, and the bogs namesake, crowberry. There's even a type of moss It only grows in bogs like this, and only on the poop of elk or deer. - And so this is, I think, the second or third location in the state where this moss has been documented. Everyone finds their own space. What is it about elk dung here that makes it unique to this but it's very cool, the - [Narrator] In this we saw battles underway between tiny insects called Roundleaf Sundew. And the spongy soil itself is - Peat mosses are the they built this place. - [Narrator] It's remarkable - [Joe] That's all peat moss. - [Narrator] Peat moss is often sold as a landscaping material, and many bogs like this were And historically, it - I came across a paper and it talked about a national effort to harvest peat mosses for World I, because sphagnum served Sphagnum peat moss absorbs so it's very absorbent, plus, it's very acidic, The community would go out and collect, it looked like live sphagnum, and put them in big bundles and send them off to the army for WWI. - [Narrator] At the far end of the bog, Joe spots another oddity, shore pines, standing only - You can see that most of these trees look relatively young and short, and they're actually quite old. It almost takes on like, a just because of the - [Narrator] Some of these as the towering timber of - We pulled a tree out at (gentle jaunty music) - Crowberry Bog is now and Joe had a lot to do with that effort. - This place is near and dear to my heart. I was coming out so often, that my kids started &quot;Dad, where you going?&quot; And they knew exactly - [Narrator] Public to educational visits by appointment to help ensure the bog's health, but also to preserve any unknown wonders still waiting to be discovered. - You know, I've spent 20 and this place still surprised me. We really have just a cursory But if we're protecting of all the different ecosystem types, then we hope by default, we're providing some level of conservation to all these species we have no idea even exist in these sites. (plants rustling) (no audio) - Great people just doing their thing in their own Northwesty way, we love bringing you stories like this. Support what you love, opb.org/video.