[ Music ] Good afternoon, everyone. Welcome to the Whitman School of This is the first one of this semester and who share their perspectives on contemporary If we haven't met yet, my name is Alex McKelvie. I'm the Interim Dean at the Before we get started, I acknowledge firekeepers of the Haudenosaunee, on whose ancestral lands So why are we filming Lender Auditorium today The reasons are actually quite simple. Number one, Whitman's job is to and opportunities in industry and business. In doing so, hearing more detailed to understand the truth about what is Number two, by connecting classroom we're able to provide new and reinforce positive role models. Ultimately, at the end of the day, it's through impactful education, this is what Whitman aspires to do. So today's guest, again, our is no other than legendary basketball coach, [ Applause ] One of the timely aspects of that we recently launched a new dual degree This dual degree program combines so I'm delighted to hear that so many and even some faculty members from the At the end of the session, we'll be having a and this is your opportunity to meet Okay. There was a little bit of hesitancy there, but the opportunity to ask And my next job is to introduce that's Syracuse University's Vice Chancellor the Barnes Professor of Entrepreneurship, of the Whitman School, Mike Haynie. Thanks Alex. So let me -- let me add to Alex's For the returning students that thank you for being back. I see a lot of fresh faces in this audience. So for our first-year students, Alex gave you I'll try to simplify it. This is what great business schools which is come together and have the opportunity of experiences related to So I hope that for our new students, you keep We're going to do one a month, every So with that, Coach, as Alex said, we're of Syracuse University join us, and thank you over many years for the Whitman School. You know, maybe I'll start by -- I who have committed a professional life to a I mean, 44 years? Forty-seven -- Forty-seven years now. Who's counting? And you know, it's interesting, There was a stat I read that and six employers before they're 30 years Can you talk a little bit about, how do Why Syracuse University? Well, number one, I like Syracuse. You know, I'm a big proponent of I'm from a little town, Lyons, New And I was a walk-on, came here in 1962. So I've been here 62 years. Is that right? Is that accurate? Yeah. Pretty. It's close. I don't do public math. You know, I don't do the math. But you know, I came here as a, you know, There was 15 guys on the varsity on the freshman team at that time. We didn't have everybody in the varsity. We had a freshman team. So I was one of three walk-ons. So I had to go through 25 people to get to where which is a life lesson for me, because you if you are going to go at it hard whether it's basketball, whether it's a And the thing you need to learn early that will tell you you can't do something, and that than will tell you you can do something. I was on the freshman team playing there was all these other guys and a friend after 62 years, said to me, You're not going to be good And it was funny because I just So I was like, &quot;Geez, I did all right here.&quot; But you know, I still see and I tell him I was good enough to play here. So you never listen to the People used to say as a coach that They're right. They're a hundred percent right. You don't listen to people. Marv Levy said it best. He was a great coach for the Buffalo didn't win one, but went to four. They like to, they used to criticize but he went to four, and he When you start listening to the You don't listen to anybody. You do what you think you need to do. You learn what you have to do and you do it. And you're going to have criticisms. You're going to have, &quot;Why do you do this? Why do you do that?&quot; And you do what you think is the right And at the end of the day, if it You don't have to blame anybody else. But it was a lesson I learned You know, you have to make up your mind. You're going to do something, There's a lot of different things But the two things I talk about are work Doesn't do any good to work hard And whatever you do, doesn't matter. I played with a guy who was on my team. He was actually in my position. He dove on the floor, ran over here, dove here. The coach loved him. Guy didn't accomplish anything. He just jumped and fell on You know, it's what I call fake hustle. You know, you have to do smart But when I came here as a freshman, I was from a small town. And I remember it took me to We registered at Manly Field House. I went down there 10 times. I walked from Watson Hall to because I never had the right stuff 10 times. But it did teach me a lesson. I mean, I got it done. The other athletes on scholarship, which is what we do today, basically. But that was a good lesson for me. It was a really good lesson. You know, so over that period, you've vice chancellors come and go, And one of the things I was watching a very about that we don't teach How did you, you know, over the course through that have come and gone while you've Well, it's interesting. You know, the different chancellors, I just said hello to once a year or something. And the athletic directors you know, this is what you have to do.&quot; You know, it's really simple. Coaching is simple. You recruit players, and you get And if you win, you'll keep your job, period. The money doesn't matter, the crowd. When I started coaching, The first five years I coached The next five, as an assistant When I started as a head coach, I made 25,000. That was the first year. It's crazy now, the way everything has changed. It's obviously so different, so crazy. And the last two or three But you know, you got into coaching And when you can't play basketball, And that's what I did. And I learned right away, you You have to get players. We weren't really great then. We were okay. And you had to really go to You have a great example unfolding The new football coach is showing everybody, I know the coach. I know him pretty well. He comes to see me. I'm in his wing kind of over there. I mean, Coach Brown gets up at 5:00 AM And at 1:00 AM, before he goes to bed, he's texting 20 different He gets up, he works out, and He's involved in the community, he's involved with his players, and the alumni. He's brought everybody in. And it's a great example I did that in the beginning because, When you get into a profession, and you That's what I know about. It's 24/7, seven days a week, for That means recruiting September And then for three months, you're spending For 47 years as the head coach, I never went a about our team and what we had It becomes what you are, what you do. This is -- this is how you And we all do it. We all do it. There's nobody out there in I'm just doing a little, no.&quot; And every coach will say, &quot;It's kind of funny, we were going to work harder Well, there's 350 basketball programs out there, and you're not working harder You can work. Another thing about hard Everyone sitting in this room, raise your hands. You work hard. Raise your hands. You work hard, right? All right. Put your hands up. None of you do. Not one of them, all right? You get up at 5:00 in the morning, work all day No, you don't. So you work hard to your level. What you understand is working hard, all right? That's what you understand. I'll give you a Kobe Bryant story. Everybody remembers Kobe. I hope -- you're young, but He's one of the great players of all time. We had the Olympic team. We started, they had lost in the Olympics. We took over for the World Championship. LeBron, all the good players, they were young. We got in the tournament. We won a lot of games We lost. We lost in the semifinals The next year, Kobe Bryant came to practice. So he came in on Sunday night, and he got and worked out for two and a half hours. Monday morning, he got him We had a team meeting that day, and he said in the team meeting a couple But we went to practice, and the first Pretty good shot. And LeBron said, &quot;Kobe, what are you doing?&quot; And Kobe said, &quot;I'm going to not say it exactly. I didn't come here to have fun news.&quot; And he played every second of that as hard as you could play And you know what? LeBron James started to play harder. Carmelo Anthony started to play harder. And you know what? We never lost another game. Three Olympics, three World And it was because of Kobe Bryant. Because it's not all about talent. It's about will to win, and and everybody understands around you. This is what it takes to win. He didn't talk much. To be a great leader, you Some of the best leaders I've They just came into work every day, and they go, &quot;Oh, that's what it is.&quot; We had a great coach. Mike Suggs [phonetic], he's a great coach. We had NBA coaches. Kobe Bryant did the whole thing. He said, &quot;This is what it's going to be.&quot; You see a football play the other day. You go the football game's anybody? I hope you get to go. Somebody made a mistake. You see Coach Fran Brown and assistant coach They didn't grab him, but they can't grab him. But they used to be able to grab him. Got right in his face. And the other thing is, I've never met a player who responded to, &quot;Al, can you, It doesn't work that way. Players want you to push them. Every player I've ever recruited I want to be the best I can be.&quot; I say, &quot;All right. Well, I'm going to try to push But none of us, and I'm included in this, none of us work as hard as But I've been around some who I've seen do that, and You know, so Coach, in your role, you're and you've had to build a team, What do you look for in somebody that into the family and, you know, give Right. Well, the whole thing starts with that you are going to work like And when I look at assistant I interviewed -- the first time I hired an And I really couldn't decide. They were all great. And I picked the one that The other two guys had jobs. They wanted to come to Syracuse. So -- but what I learned from that is and interviewed became college So I couldn't have made a And what I did after that is I had a who I was interested in, and I'd only interview, because I didn't want to have which was, because it's not that easy. And sometimes in those situations, And I've hired a lot of people. I've never had to fire anybody. So I haven't made those mistakes anyway. And then with players, you try Talent is always important, but the work and that's not always something you can find. And you try to build that in as you But when you get into anything you do, the A lot of times in coaching, they'll say, And that's important. We involve our players in But the bottom line is whatever you do, you win. You know, I learned the hard way. My father was a tough guy. And I grew up, we competed, You know, we golfed, we played And he beat me as bad as he Ping-pong, 21-1, 21-2, 21-5, 21-8, 10, 12. I finally beat him. He quit. Never played me Being a competitor is a hard thing. I'm bad. I'll admit I'm bad. You know, I'm bad. We play all these games with my kids. I want to -- I tried to win. So I wanted to win so bad. I don't know why. I'm a little better now. I'm still getting mad if I lose at Gin I'm better. But competitiveness is so important. And I just, it was ingrained And through the coaches I had, you We didn't go to play little, It was important. It was important. You know, if you beat a team, somebody's You know, it was just the way it was. But it's important in anything you do to I just had a talk with a player last In anything you do, you can't do it tomorrow. You have to do it every day. You have to compete. That's what, again, I always kind of knew it, and I'll never forget, we had a game with We were together. We were up 110 to 54. Kobe was in the game because He wasn't -- we were playing some guys together. It was two minutes, three He was back in just to get him a little work. And he's pressing a guy full court, takes This is an All-American college player They took the ball and bounced it again, and And the kid just walked off. Of course, the coach had to take a timeout. Kobe came over to the bench. And I really -- I mean, I didn't -- You didn't talk to him a lot. I said, &quot;Kobe.&quot; He says, &quot;Yeah, Coach.&quot; &quot;We're up 50.&quot; &quot;I don't care.&quot; He's out there. I'm going to cut him off. I'm not going to say exactly what he said. But he's out there. He's mine. We're up 58 points. You know, one of the things you hear from successful business leaders, You hear the same thing in sports. Is there somebody that you or more to as a mentor in the context of your career? Well, my high school coach was a great high I've seen some basketball coaches in He was organized. We were a Class C school, which is a low level. We played AA Basketball and won. He was just organized. We had long practices, you know, tough how you walked out, how you, everything. Highly disciplined. I never got to that level because everything And what I've learned over the And you can read the books. You can get, do the black and But if you're going to be great you have to work in the gray area. Now, some military people don't But I really believe, and especially when And a coach once told me, &quot;You know, but everybody's not going They're just not going to be.&quot; Gregg Popovich is a great coach, one of He had Tim Duncan and David Robinson. And when he thought practice, they would kind You know, this is enough today.&quot; And they would just add a signal like, and he That's it. We're done today. Let's go!&quot; Because he listened to his players. You don't do that as much in college they don't know what they're saying exactly yet. But you do have to take into account. And there's differences. I coached 47 years. I never suspended a player for The main reason was because when you're hurting him a little bit, and you're hurting the fans, because that one game suspension might And there's other ways to do But that's always the last possible I might not start somebody. There'll be some form of discipline, but and in some other way than doing it that way. But there's a lot of disagreement And the great thing about coaching, There's some softer coaches. There's all different kinds of coaching methods. You can play different defenses. You can do a lot of different things. But the one thing I've always you have to be flexible when, I coach zone defense. That's what I did. It was what was best for us. A lot of people didn't like that. They thought we should do something else. But that again, goes back to, But we adjusted that defense So you always have to make adjustments. Adjustments is another kind Gray area is important. Adjustments are -- anybody can coach How do you make these adjustments? I learned a lesson when I was a freshman We had one guy on the team who was very good, but he was a problem child. He would be late, he would do this, But I was to the point, I I wasn't as flexible, probably, And my two captains, too, came to &quot;Coach, we need to talk to you.&quot; I said, &quot;Okay.&quot; And they both said to me, we know you're going to do You can't do that. We need him.&quot; So I kind of thought about it a minute. We were 8-0 at the time. And I said, &quot;All right. Let's go with that.&quot; And we ended up 16-0 because I listened to them And we worked. He got better. But my initial response was And two young freshmen, 17 years old, who were through Syracuse, taught me a lesson. So you can always learn. You always can learn stuff. Forty-five years into coaching, I went to a I brought it back and we used it. It was a great drill from a high school coach. So you're always learning. You never know it all. You're never completely as good as you can be. Michael Jordan won two NBA titles. I was with him on a trip in the Every day, Michael Jordan Every day, five days. We played poker at night He teed off at 6:00. And I said -- well, I played golf with Michael Jordan went in and worked This is after two championships. This is in the summer, August. He worked out for an hour and of the days we were there, three of the days. Who does that? The best player in the world does that. Who got cut from his high school So he must not have been that good You learn these lessons all the time. Never think you know it all. Listen to the people you work with. Don't listen to the outside people. Listen to the people you work with, At the end of the day, it still You make the decision of Coach, you talked about making adjustments. Over the course of your career, you've seen come to college athletics, transfer portal, NIL. You know, how do you -- how do you think to use your word, to that change? Well, the changes now are mind-boggling. The changes for my first 40 years were, looking The three-point line or the way the all that stuff is constantly changing. But what has happened now is it's, you know, I doesn't like this, because I'm The problem is, it's like, and they were thrilled to get a scholarship. They were 18 years old. They got a scholarship. Well, one didn't. He went to Cornell. So he was expensive. He tells me the Cornell Business So I'm hoping we can change that. We're going up in the rankings. So that I can tell him. Be Orange. Be Whitman, right? I can -- I can tell him someday that But anyway, the money, it Jay Bilas, who's very smart, went to Duke, And I said, &quot;Really?&quot; He said, &quot;Yeah, they can sign And they can, you know, do I said, &quot;Yeah. Well, what about when some alumni decides to give a guy $100,000 to come &quot;Well, that won't happen.&quot; &quot;No, that'll happen. That will happen. And a quarterback will get a million That will happen.&quot; It was all predictable. Once that door was open, you can't change. You can't go backwards. Some people might think that's a good thing. I'm not on that. The thing that you have to when basketball makes money here, and we do, in basketball, $18 million, that's That's going to pay for all the other sports. The athletic department does We do not make money. We lose money. Without NIL, without giving We have to fundraise because we There's only three or four that make money with their athletic department. The rest all lose money. So it's not like some guy is making money It's not the way it is. And by the way, football players work hard. Crew members work harder, I think. I've watched them. Anybody knows anything about They don't even get scholarships. Nobody is writing stories about It's all because all this money comes in and and people think it should go to the players. Okay. I get that. And now, it is. Now, it is going to. But it's something that is, can't be But once you agree to pay a certain they haven't approved it, well, then the players some guys that played at Michigan. So it's just, it's a mess, and there's I've been in it a long time. I was able to help solve There is no solution right now until pretty strong guess, athletes, of the university, have a union, all that. Is that what you want in college sports? Well, I don't. But that's almost where it's Maybe not even that far away. Fifty, 60 schools could break away it's kind of professional Nobody really knows because, once the Supreme Court said and you can't control how much money it is, that means anybody can give an athlete So it's -- I mean, I don't know where but what you do is you adjust to it. You raise money. You still recruit players. You have to recruit them. You have to get them to like But when they make their decision, You're going to get x amount of dollars.&quot; Simple as that. So you still recruit, you still talk to you still do the same things, there's going to be a monetary value there. And if a kid really likes your school, he It's a big mistake to pick a school because, I don't like those coaches, but That's a big mistake. You don't want to do that. But it's a very difficult world. And what happens is we had one player never played, and it was a bad choice. And he came back. But it's really, it's hard to even You should go pick your school where it's the This is the best place for And if I'm getting some money, okay. That's good. But find the best place to go to school, the best culture, you know, all that stuff. That's the key. And so recruiting is just no different. You still recruit the same way. You just have to have money And recruiting is so crazy because I went to see &quot; I mean, he wasn't quite rated yet, And I went and talked to him in And he said, &quot;Okay, coach, I want to come.&quot; Just like that. Just like that. I said, &quot;Well, no, you've got to wait. You've got to go through I don't need to go through. I want to -- I'm coming to Syracuse.&quot; And that was -- he got many, many offers after And he came to Syracuse because And he came here, and he won a National So he made the right choice. And it wasn't about money. So -- but it's a very difficult world right now. Coach, I want to -- I want to ask a following but first, I want to do a poll in the room. I'm curious. How many -- by a show of hands, how many about Syracuse University, at least in part, Raise your -- show your hands. See, and that's what's at stake for to your point, one of the 60, let's say, Well, it's interesting. Because I remember when Doug this was before your time, Google it. It's a great play. And Boston College was an okay school. The next year, they had 12,000 more and that's when you had to pay to apply. So it was a huge windfall. But you know, I've always I don't know if the universities always Syracuse is a very good school. I'm proud of my degree here. My sons went here. My daughter got her master's here. So I'm proud of the school. But when you go to California, I go to I'll never forget. We started recruiting in The first guy we recruited was Jay Bilas. And I went to see him. I went to the school, and they &quot;I'm a coach from Syracuse.&quot; They said, &quot;Please, what's that? What's Syracuse? Is that a school? Is that, you know, what college?&quot; This is in LA. She had no idea. Two years later, the Big East was formed. We were on national TV and we We were out in California when kids I flew into LA. I got to my bag, and the You're Pearl's coach, aren't you?&quot; I said, &quot;Yes, I am.&quot; &quot;I went to his school and Come in.&quot; In one year, that was the difference, And there's not much to do Come on. Some of them haven't experienced So -- Trust me. Two more quick questions, because I want to But you know, given anyone who's risen to your of a professional career has inevitably some your experience, your training, you fail. And I wonder if you can share and specifically what you Well, you fail a lot. Michael Jordan said, &quot;I missed 50, and my teammates still throw me the ball.&quot; You know, that's the truth. You lose. Recruiting, we used to recruit a lot I remember one year, we brought 24 kids So you know, we failed a lot. But I'll remember one, we He was from New York City, but And we had a good team. We had good forwards, good guards, we And it was North Carolina, UCLA, and so we didn't have a big name yet. We were kind of a small school, So we practiced from 4:00 to 6:00, and at 6 I saw him play every single I drove to Albany. I watched the whole game. I said hello afterwards, because Sometimes, it took two hours. Sometimes, it took four, because it And we were out of the picture, and we got into because of that, and then I He played in LA. He played in Louisiana. He played in New York. I went to every game, every practice. I saw him, minimum, 75 times. That's when you could go. It was unlimited, different time. North Carolina came like 10 times. So I got, he was impressed, and his guardian wanted to go to North Carolina. So I had to overcome that, And I think we just got a little ahead And then his high school coach and guardian And they turned him back. It was a great decision. He was a great player at North Carolina. They won the National Championship. I think we would have won if he'd come here. But that was -- they called me at I never left my room until Monday. That's how crushed I was. That was the worst feeling that I've ever had. So last question before I You know, there was a -- there but there was a time you were their And you know, if you think back, if there's to these students today as they look ahead at Syracuse, but then going out You know, I had no idea, because we didn't I wasn't that good. I was pretty good, but I wasn't that good. So we never thought about it. I just wanted to play basketball, you know, I was, at the end of the four years, I which was what my father was, Or I could stay here, and I got a grad Maxwell School, and play and start coaching basketball here No money but, you know, worked at it all day. And I just kind of started that. And you know, for me, it was And it just couldn't have worked any, I couldn't and be hired as a full-time assistant. And the head coach, we had a good year, to go get another job, thankfully for me. And so everything fell into place. I didn't have to move around. Most coaches travel around, assistant I was very lucky. But I found what I wanted to do, and I And like I said, at the beginning, The problem with -- one of the biggest problems with players not getting money today is coaches That's America. But it does look bad when coaches get That's the key selling point when That's the key. Nobody's saying that the field because the field hockey So there's not a big disparity there. But if -- I was lucky. But the main point from what I've they find something and they go to work at it. They don't take no for an answer. They're committed to doing whatever that is. And sometimes, you start, and you do. One thing that is missing today, I started I didn't make any money. I didn't get paid. I was an RA to get a room. That's how I supported myself. I was a resident advisor in a And we won three intramural I was a quarterback. That was pretty good. They liked me. But you find what it is, You go after it, and you don't take no. And you're going to -- there's I know coaches and business guys that couldn't get something done, They kept going, and they found a way. And you have to -- Rick Barnes is a He was a high school coach. He drove 12 hours to interview for And he sat there for two days to get at to him, and then he drove back home. And then the next year, he did it again. And the coach finally said, And he did. But it's just what you have to do. You have to do what you have And it's like somebody -- I had a player. He was a smart kid, a really good player, and he wasn't the smartest guy on our team. But he was fairly -- I mean, he wasn't dumb. But somebody asked him how much He said, &quot;I study until I get it done. I study until I get it done.&quot; And I know what he did, because he to study until 2:00 in the morning. And he would come early to and he knew that's all he could do, and And he'd come in on Friday and Saturday. And the only girlfriend he ever She rebounded for him Friday and Saturday and played for us and also became a doctor. In fact, he was in a class with a kid that who was a great player, too, They took this biochemical, And at that time, professors would You can't even talk to professors today and he says, &quot;Yeah, I got you two guys. One -- this one guy, he's struggling. He's going to have trouble in my class.&quot; And that was the workaholic guy. And the other guy, &quot;Oh, he's really smart.&quot; I said, &quot;Well, let me tell you something. At the end of the semester, one and one of them is going to He said, &quot;Oh, no.&quot; At the end of the semester, and wouldn't take no got an A. because he didn't want to work hard. So you never know. And you never can -- nobody can ever So we have time for a couple And I'm looking at somebody right Go for it. You talked about -- Introduce yourself first. My name is Jack Johnson. Are you from Seattle, Portland, or Oregon? Seattle. Seattle? You're a friend of P.J. Carlesimo? Yeah. I can't talk to him. He's a bad guy. No, he's my best friend. Go ahead. I love P.J. You talked about competing every day, and you Is consistency like that something that you that you think more comes along with, You know, I wish I was as good I wasn't that good. I wish I was. I didn't get up at 5:00. I slept to 8:00, you know. But you have to. It's hard. It's easy to say, and it's just hard to do. Some people are wired differently. I got to be friends with Michael Jordan. I mean, he's wired even higher than Kobe Bryant. I mean, I've never seen anybody like him. Whatever he's doing, he's going to beat you. Whatever, he's going to beat you. And it's just every day. I did a lot of work. I worked hard. I put extra time in as a I was 6'4&quot;, 150. I played college basketball at 150. So I had to work harder at it. I had to be smart, play smart, you know. I was known as a very smart player. And then when I got into coaching, for a while, but that's all right. But it just -- I just can't than what I have by giving these examples. And I'm sure you guys are good students. You're here at a great school. I'm sure you have great grades, And I'm sure you're motivated But you can do more. I'm just telling you, you can do more. You can do better. And you know, I didn't know I'd be a college You know, I've been happy with that. I almost took a Division 3 job. I would have been happy doing that. I mean, I was lucky to get to this place. You know, I'm in the Hall of But I'll tell you, this is a great story. We play Cincinnati. I've gotten the Hall of Fame the year before. It's hard to get in the Basketball Hall of Fame. It's everybody, every basketball, So six or seven people get in there a year. So it's not easy. But I got in the Hall of Fame. We play in Cincinnati. We come back. We make a great comeback. We make two great plays in the end of the game. We win the game. And I'm talking to everybody, I'm Now, Oscar Robertson was the best He averaged a double-double, a That's what he averaged. So I stopped and talked to him. And he said, &quot;Coach, you did a great job.&quot; He didn't like his coach. So he said -- I said, &quot;Well, It's Mick Cronin. He's the UCLA coach now. But Oscar didn't like him. So I said, &quot;Okay.&quot; So I'm walking out. Everybody's out. There's one guy standing up there. He goes, &quot;Mayhan, you may but you're the worst fucking guy in there!&quot; I said, &quot;Okay. Thank you. I'll take that. I'll take that.&quot; I shouldn't have said that word. That's what he said. I've got to be accurate in my quote. We're all adults here. Another question. Okay. Let me look back. Okay. Oh, there you go. Back in the corner. I was trying to get out of the front. My name is Josh. Are you familiar with the younger We're what? We're done with the 90s. I thought we were done with Okay. Where's this going? Yeah. Do you believe this generation of And how well do you think past Yeah, you can't -- Michael Jordan can't come If Michael Jordan was Michael Jordan he would beat the shit out of everybody. Just tell you that. But I never compare errors. They were the best in there. Athletes today train better. They eat better. You know, LeBron is unbelievable. He trains. He trains year-round. He eats, he scripts almost everything he eats. He's a phenomena to play at 41. Players used to play till they they smoked, they didn't train year round. Guys didn't even train in the summertime. They just took four months off You know, you can't compare errors at all. And -- but if Michael Jordan was today like he wouldn't even have to do any of the training. He was that good. But -- so you can't compare that generations. Bill Russell won every, won 11 World two National Championships, undefeated seasons. I mean, they don't even talk about Bill Russell. But my kids laugh at me when I My boys, they laugh. I said, you know -- I just because you don't know shit, but that's okay.&quot; But no, I mean, the players You know, they get better coaching. Their coaching is better today. They train year-round. My boys train year-round to get to where they It's very difficult to make. You know, one's playing in for no money, but he likes to play basketball. He just took an eight-hour I said, &quot;Well, that's just He came to Syracuse and he chartered everywhere. He thought he was in heaven. But everything is -- these guys are great You just can't. I mean, Aaron Judge, I'm a big A game fan. He's a great hitter. He's not Babe Ruth, but he's a great hitter. One more, last question. Young lady right there. Hi, my name is Mia. My name is Mia Gottesman. You talked a lot about, you talked about but how do you bring yourself back from failure? It's hard, I'm not going to kid you. How'd you get out of that room It was hard, and it took me a couple of days. I got out. But when we lose a game, you know, especially I mean, it's hard, you're at the bottom. The great thing about sports highest peak of the mountain when you win. You're at the highest peak. And when you lose, you're at And the thing, I remember once walking out in 34,000 people, national television. And I looked around and I thought -- I usually of looked, I said, &quot;Well, Jim, you know, 34,000 people here are going If we lose, 34,000 people are going to go And that's life. But yeah, I got -- I would say, I but I definitely was depressed a lot of times. I mean, if we lose a game, I might not get Like, if I didn't have to get up, I That's probably some form But it's hard. Those things are hard, but We had some horrendous losses. The year we won the National a team that wasn't very good And we just kind of turned it back around. We went back to work and we won a And all of a sudden, we're right there. But I've lost a couple of And you know, it's hard, you're one of the two best teams in the country. That's pretty good, but it's still, you lose. It's still crushing. And -- but you know, that's sports. And that's -- I think that's life. You know, if you're a teacher, you I taught for a little while and I You know, and you just come back the In business, you miss deals, you lose deals. Happens all the time. Friend of mine has got a big business He almost lost his business. It was close. And -- but he got through it, you You know, if without failure, you don't But it's hard. I'll be honest. It's hard. I hate losing. I hate -- I'm not -- I might've cheated once but I won't, I don't like to talk about that. Well, on that note, Coach, thank you. On behalf of the Whitman School, our students, Thank you. [ Applause ] [ Music ]