[MUSIC PLAYING] Good day, everyone. This is Tim, and I hope you're doing well. This is a beautiful but windy day here in Waikiki. And I'm just exploring by myself here today because my good friends, Kristine and Rishad, left for an early flight this morning. And mine is a little bit later. So I got the day to explore. And thank you so much for joining. Hopefully, we get to see some new places and also find a fantastic place to eat. And we came across this amazing buffet, and I can't wait to show you. But trust me, it is not all about eating. We got a chance to explore the island, go on a couple of fantastic hikes, catch the views, and got a chance to snap a few pictures or more. And after all the hiking and the photo taking, we got to drive around further and explore all the good food from the amazing garlic shrimp at Giovanni's. So really fun to explore. And here in Waikiki, this is a touristy area. So there is a tourist premium, and we were actually caught a little bit off guard with the sticker shock of some of the prices here. You do pay a premium here, and I think the fellow lost his wheel. But we do pay a premium here. Food, expect to pay a little bit more. It is a premium. But the other day when Kristine and I were exploring and she wanted to try something called a Mai Tai, and we had our first Mai Tai over at Duke's, we came across a fantastic deal. And this is a buffet at Duke's for lunch. Not extravagant, but they offer all the Hawaiian fare, from the kalbi beef to the garlic shrimp to the wonderful poke bowls, and it is an incredible deal. It's about $30 and change, and it is a fantastic spread. Especially considering the prices you pay here, just for the poke bowl alone, it's close to $30. So it's worth it just for the price of that. So we had a fantastic time there, and I can't wait to show you. It's just right up ahead, and it's about lunchtime. So I can't wait to show you. I hope you're hungry. Come on, let's have a great meal together. (upbeat music) And while it was windy, it is actually pretty warm outside, and up ahead, you can see the sign that leads you to the fantastic buffet. That is Duke's right up ahead to the left. Oh, and there is a lineup. Whether it's the weekend or the weekday, there's always a lineup at Duke's, but don't worry, the line moves pretty quickly, and lo and behold, here is my table. Oh, thank you. Okay, so I think this may be the best table in the restaurant here, because we are situated right next to the buffet, and we are inside, but with a beautiful view of the outside. So the best of both worlds, being in the shade and looking at the sun, and it's getting kind of late, so I think we better go for the buffet. Come on, let's check it out. So pretty cool here. On the left, some beautiful hot entrees, and on the right, a lot of the salads, and I think I'm gonna start off with a bit of salad first. So let's see what we have. All right, a little bit of greens. I will start off with some of this for a change, right here. And this is a build-your-own salad station here, lots of toppings, a little bit of cucumbers, a little bit of cheese, maybe a little bit of croutons. A little bit of egg yolk, and a bit of blue cheese. And for the extra flavour, a little bit more blue cheese. All right, let's see what they have, my favourite. A little bit of macaroni, but this is the potato salad. Let's go for a little bit here. All right, and I can't believe this, a poke station. Hey, Milano, how are you? - Good, flying thank you today. - Oh, this is great. So I can't believe it, a poke station? - Yeah. - It looks so good. Can I go for the spicy poke and a little bit of the Shoyu? Do you have a little bit of rice as well? - Oh, you like the white rice? Spicy. - Oh, thank you. - Shoyu. - Oh, sure, let's give that a try, all three. - Try all three pokes, so that you know how it all tastes. - Oh, wonderful. - Garlic topping for the rice, Some furikake nori on top of everything. - Oh, thank you so much. - That's it? - Oh, that's it, thank you. So really great folks here, and let's see what else (crowd chattering) Oh, so this is a nice creamy soup of what? We'll find out a little bit here. And we can top it off with some cheese, and a little bit of croutons as well. And I think that's it for the appetizer round, because the poke shouldn't wait. It is nice to get back to your table and find something new. So this is the Kona Crush, and as you can see, it is a hot day, I am sweating, and so is the drink. And let's give a little bit of relief to a beautiful buffet. Oh, very nice. A little bit of tequila, a little bit of this hispisicus, very floral, and very tropical. So I think with the cheese melting, and I'm not sure if it's from the heat of the soup, or the heat of the day, let's give this a try. Oh, a nice cheesy pull. All right, no mistaking what that is. That is cream of broccoli with the wonderful garlic croutons as well. Very nice, and really grateful for Milano to create this wonderful plate or bowl of poke. I asked for a little bit of rice, because you kind of need that with all the different pokes, especially the spicy one. And I think we better try that while it is still cold. A little bit of nori on the rice, or a little bit of the spicy poke. All right, let's try that together. Mm. Very nice and fresh, chilled and spicy. And the nice thing is it's got a little bit of a mayonnaise sauce with a bit of tobiko for that crunch. For more crunch, that fried garlic. I think a spoon is in order, and let's try the salmon poke. Think it has a little bit of freshness with the green onions, and I think this is shoyu, so a little bit of soy sauce. Let's give that a try. Okay, get that on there. (people chattering) It gets better and better. A little bit of salmon is always nice, and with that freshness of the green onions, that perfect combination. And I'm finishing the poke bowl in relatively quick time. And I forgot to mention the buffet is like $31. So some places, the poke bowl is nearly that price as well. And the heat of the original spicy poke is catching up to me. Mm, oh, much needed. And finally, let's try the Hawaiian poke, the original big bite there. (people chattering) Very fresh as expected, mild, not a lot to cover it up, just the freshness and sweetness of the fish. Very nice. I'm gonna try the potato salad that's hiding over there. And I think I'm gonna use the chopsticks here. Mm. That is a good potato salad, but in Hawaii, the standards for potato salad is very high. Soft potatoes, creamy dressing, and the freshness from the onions and the herbs, very nice. Mm. So this is just a very short appetizer round, and I really love the poke. And there's more hot food there. I think there's garlic shrimp and kahlua pork and all that wonderful stuff. I'll take you back to that. And this one. (upbeat music) So a very nice buffet and all the essentials for the Hawaiian dishes that you need. Let's go for the hot food now. All right, and let's see what they have. A variety of hot food, and there is a spot missing over there, but that is soon to be filled with the wonderful garlic shrimp. Oh, thank you so much. So I can really fantastic folks here. Everything's stocked up, and let's see. A little bit of the plain rice, and I think we will go with a fried rice here. All right, not too much, because there's many things to try. And this is interesting. This is Okinawan sweet potato. Just gonna try a little bit here. Next to the rice. Oh, and there is some good looking kahlua pork, but it is on the other side. Let's see. All right. Oh, look at this. Next to the rice and a little bit more. And I think it's got a little bit of the fatty parts, and then let's see, a bit of the kalbi short ribs. Another piece here, and a massive teriyaki chicken. All right. (crowd chattering) And we'll add a little bit of the steamed rice, the plain, because coming up next is the garlic shrimp with that lovely garlic sauce at the bottom. Here we go. And maybe one more, soaking the sauce, and one more for backup. And this is a plate for the mains. All right, so I couldn't help it. I got another bowl of poke from Milano, and he does make it look beautiful here. So I can't wait to give that a try, but we've got this amazing plate here, and I think this is kind of Hawaii on a plate with the kahlua pork and the kalbi and the wonderful garlic shrimp. And I think we're gonna give the kahlua pork a try. (crowd chattering) That pork is phenomenal, nice and tender with a little bit of the fatty bits and the sweetness of the cabbage, nice and soft as well. Very good and very messy. And I've never tried the Okinawan sweet potato. So let's give that a try with a sweet purple potato. They taste just like it looks, but it tastes purple. It's kind of delicate, a little bit sweet, and a little bit floral, hence the purple. And of course, the kalbi short ribs, and there's no way to do this except with our fingers. So a little bit of chopsticks and the fingers. Nice and sweet and sticky, a little bit smoky, and a luscious, fatty, porky goodness. Very good, and it's kind of like the stick to your ribs goodness, but you gotta try the garlic shrimp. And I think we can use our fingers and these shrimp are ginormous, covered in garlic and butter. And so meaty, and there is a crispy coating that is used to soak up all that buttery goodness. Mm, a bit of chow.) As good as the shrimp is, it's the sauce, and that's why we got some of that white rice to soak up that beautiful garlic butter. So, really nice buffet here, and I think I have a bit of work to do with the chicken and the poke bowl. So there is a little bit of work to do, and then we'll go back for some seconds and thirds. And last time when Kristine and I were here, there were some amazing desserts, so I can't wait to take you back with that. Not included in the buffet, but I think it's well worth it. And it is getting warm. Few rounds and I'm already calling it quits, and they're actually closing up the buffet, and you see Milano there cleaning up that teriyaki chicken. Very heavy, very delicious, but I think that's what did me in, or what really did me in was that second poke bowl. Milano does make that look really good. And I forgot this with the first bowl, but make sure you go with the avocado. Very creamy and smooth and a perfect balance for all that poke. And while I can still go for a little bit more, as they are just cleaning up, but I'm gonna restrain because last time I was here, I got the Hula pie. It was phenomenal and I ordered it again, and I see it coming here. Bruno, thank you so much. The famous Hula pie. Thank you for all the great service, and this is humongous. - Thank you, I know, we love that. This is our famous Hula pie. It's a Oreo cookie base, Hula macadamia ice cream in the middle, dark chocolate crust on top, our melted fudge and our macadamia nuts, and our homemade whipped cream. - You got that memorized to a tee. - Yeah, we have to say that every single time. - Oh no, well thank you so much. - Thank you, enjoy it. - Will do. So look at it, this is absolutely ginormous here. And I remember last time when I was here with Kristine, it took four people to finish this. And normally if it was on my own, I would not order this, but for the videos and to share all the great dishes here, I kind of overindulge. So I've got all day to finish this up, and I can't wait to do it together. Let's dig in. (crowd chattering) Making a wonderful mess. Mm. A nice crunch from the macadamia, luscious ice cream and gooey chocolate. Mm. That is so good, and we need to go for a little bit of the whipped cream. Mm. (crowd chattering) Very nice, and as big as it looks, I don't think I should have a problem finishing this. After all, it's just kind of water anyhow, once it melts. And that's my reasoning, and I'm sticking to it. So this is Duke's and a fantastic place here. You can get a la carte, and I think to the, it was Taco Tuesday, so I see a lot of people ordering tacos, but really great food here, and even better views. And a Hawaiian buffet, $31 for the poke bar, the all-you-can-eat Hawaiian fare, and all the soups and salad. Incredible deal. So thank you so much for joining, and until we see each other again, hopefully after I finish this, and it really will be a challenge, and I wish you were here to help me finish this up. So again, thank you so much for joining, and until we see each other again, I hope you're keeping well, I hope you're eating well, and I hope you're traveling well. Bye bye for now, and God bless.