I was one of the poorer students at a rich It was an art school, and students were expected I was always the one who had to borrow materials beg to be allowed to use cheap knockoff brands. I rich sphere, but at the same time i was always day a professor straight up told our class, called my friend Mel to vent, and he passed on &quot;Rab? These places aren't made for people like us. Our job is to get in, steal what we Pixar's Ratatouille is about...a lot of things. Or class mobility within a capitalist system. It's (those who have to dumpster-dive for their food) who can afford to dine on haute cuisine, a symbol rags to riches tale of an artist from here...who rats as the poor--or, how the rich see the poor--a start back at the cottage and work our way through aside work and chores and the rest of life's less money you have, the less time you have for all else. Material costs are also a problem. substitutes, but at some point you'll hit need to experiment with more expensive foods get that money? We see Remy struggle with all of To survive he and his family have had to Remy's dad has learned to focus only on survival, waste of time. REMY'S DAD: &quot;So you can smell about Remy's passions when they become applicable his passion. He yearns after the humans--the I'm supposed to hate humans, but there's something discover, they create!&quot; And so Remy makes do with materials around him to create kitchenware and he and whatever food he can forage from the backyard. the moment where he realizes he's hit a wall. He dish&quot; he has to cross a boundary. REMMY: &quot;A little I get the feeling it's--&quot; REMY: &quot;In the kitchen!&quot; Remy says he's been to the kitchen &quot;a million past his station, and the film punishes him for evacuation, Remy loses both his home and his never tried to steal the saffron, the clan never have never emerged to find-- REMY: &quot;Paris? At the time of Ratatouille's release, Paris was planet. This year the Economist Intelligence Unit with Zurich and Hong Kong. In either year Remy as they say. He finds himself at his favorite a pot of soup. And here's where I want to talk Hmmm...who else has no social status? Who else has dare you hire someone without my permission--&quot; to the wealthy. Like a rat, Linguini is forced to Rockin' view aside, Spaghetti's apartment is upright. Macaroni barely seems to own more than a some plants. He goes shopping later--presumably point--but the morning after Remy's arrival he Stupid! He's stolen food and hit the road!&quot; Remy This was how the fridge had looked before then: some canned drinks and a bottle of sauce. hot. LINGUINI: &quot;I need this job. I've lost so metaphor, Linguine is much more like a rat be a cook. But you know what I think, Linguini? I We're gonna talk about empathy and allyship a world of the wealthy, these two poor characters us can do this alone so we gotta do it together, the embodiment of capitalism. GUSTEAU: You must be imaginative; strong-hearted. You must Gusteau's love for food and creative drive and cheap knockoff frozen food products. He only and elitist. Gusteau was always ready to take bold nail against any sign of non-conformity because to maintain the status quo and mass produce. because it turns Linguine into a competitor and Gusteau's face sells millions of burritos, not the scene Skinner reacts with cold disgust, then that role holds no power--but the second Linguine Even when he finds out the critic liked Linguine's fire him.&quot; SKINNER: &quot;W H A T?&quot; Skinner only and realizes everyone has sided against him. Yay rest, but you can tell he doesn't expect (or want) &quot;Welcome to hell.&quot; SKINNER: &quot;But you will need to kitchen, boy.&quot; Then skinner discovers Linguine's attention! If I fire him now everyone will wonder into this...&quot; Skinner can't fire Linguini because restaurant as Gusteau's son. Skinner nods when in three days. Then you can fire him whenever know.&quot; Skinner's agreement here shows that he only the general public--to a certain extent. In the end and why employ a competitor whose work will talented enough to usurp you? Bloodlines are Skinner and take over the restaurant. Without that them around so long? I'd bet my hat Ratatouille reflects real life quite well. The success on their ability to keep people like Remy out of to create systems where the poor can never advance ways to fight your way up through that system as and require an enormous amount of work, allyship, work as a sort of cheat code to shoot you straight the film doesn't totally disregard those I feel like Ratatouille says you should always remember to help others from the same background. turns back to help Remy and Rotini. COLETTE: &quot;Why I'm sure. But I also think Gusteau's book reminds wasn't she also told she couldn't cook? That she to carve out a place for herself in a world that an antiquated hierarchy built upon rules written impossible for women to enter this world.&quot; Colette empathizes with Remy and Linguini's situation, she alone comes to their aid. That's how the characters of Ratatouille achieve their dreams: Bloodlines, yes, and also the support of In this antiquated hierarchy, any outsider says, EGO: &quot;The new needs friends.&quot; It's hard but he did come from rural France, and the designates as a peasant dish makes me suspect he peasant dish.&quot; For whatever reason somewhere and became an authority on high society. Remy wins reignites his empathy. At the end of the film able to provide many other rats like him with he got...the money...to do that. Why would become a small business investor if not Because of Remy's reminder, Ego has reshaped off the ground. So we get a story about a but with the help of friends from similar that system where they can be themselves this poverty metaphor through the whole film Great. And maybe that's to be expected. I mean, mobility metaphor? You make your hero someone dive for food and then make him serve old cuisine that premise, there's no way to avoid some kind of was made to be ABOUT prejudice, first and almost as a side effect of its premise. So I as I can tell, the creators were aware of this Why did they take this stance right here? REMY: don't know when I'll find food again--&quot; GUSTEAU: A cook makes. A thief takes. You sense for Remy to be punished when he lets the I can also accept that Remy gets punished when he didn't NEED the saffron. But Ratatouille Ever. Full stop. In this scene Remy hasn't eaten get his next meal. He's only going to take a would miss, but ghost Gusteau tells him that would moves on. The next time Remy gets a chance to eat, No! Because he stole the herbs from a neighbor's permission. Remy only gets to eat once Manicotti I get the desire to play with the whole thieving this poverty metaphor at play, but okay. But I choice when really, due to factors like the cycle survive. Now, Rab. A family film can't endorse isn't yours just isn't right.&quot; &quot;Now I know!&quot; &quot;And at another famous street rat. GUARD: &quot;I'll have &quot;All this for a loaf of bread?&quot; Aladdin (the because as Aladdin (the character) spells out: we'd get along!&quot; Gotta eat to live, gotta steal to he'll starve to death. These street children would This scene shows that Aladdin is kind and he has no other option. Compare that grey where you're either a moral person or a thief, that. You are a cook! Cooks make. A thief takes.&quot; high horse and donate to a food bank or something. This film's moral priorities are so...odd? Like, lying? Sometimes necessary. Stealing a bit of bread to stay alive? So that's a moral that grates against the class Skinner's paperwork...but does that even count as to begin with? Every other time Remy steals, else--and the film takes a very firm oppositional How could you? I--I thought you were my friend; I that way. Check out this twitter poll: nearly believe Ratatouille says stealing is okay pollers were still torn. Years later audiences moral. My friend Hazel left a fantastic comment &quot;I think the urgent takeaway here is that however aftermath of Ratatouille is very pro-theft [not ratatouille but the place Ratatouille occupies a positive spin on a story that maybe deep down What did I say a couple minutes ago? &quot;So we get a system, but with the help of friends from similar system where they can be themselves and pursue Yes, Remy has taken a step forward with help from the rules of a system that hates his little guts. rat-wise. But we have no reason to believe Remy got shut down for health violations. This film audiences remember most. REMY: &quot;Change is nature, when we decide.&quot; But when all's said and Remy and his family have been lifted out reviled by society. As far as we know, Remy's and his family are only allowed to share space of plants. The lines between the classes remain So does Ratatouille promote changing the prejudicial constraints? Fans seem to remember applicable to me upon reflection. It's not like or &quot;We're not done yet!&quot; Remy seems content contradicts the much more revolutionary tone many In all, Ratatouille says some stuff I agree with: people out of positions of power; remember where and luck and maybe even some subterfuge. Stealing food makes you a worse person; you should pursue your passion. Whatever. I don't know how ramble about rat chefs and systemic poverty for MAXIMUS: &quot;Is this not why you were here?&quot; We We can still rally around Remy, and relate to And bread. Let's take a lot of bread from Happy new year, squad. Goodbye, 2020. Love to allies who make my videos possible: my friends, DAne, Canbekoi, Lunas Aurum, and and I'm so grateful for your support. May