- This Nvidia GPU has no display outputs, can't play any games, does not exist on Nvidia's website, costs upwards of 5,000 U.S. dollars, and it doesn't even have a cooling fan. And yet it's sold out nearly everywhere. What the heck is going on with this thing? It's like a big block of aluminum. Thanks to iFixit for Whether you wanna upgrade your own toolbox or give the gift of repair you can find huge savings, and get free shipping on orders (upbeat music) Now the canide and brain Dimon. You might've already figured out what this card is designed And yes, yes, I know. But hear me out, this video isn't about promoting or selling you on crypto mining. We're really just incredibly curious about these Nvidia CMP mining GPU's. And because of the cost of these cards, very few of them have made their way into the hands of tech Full disclosure then, this was provided to us by but we made no commitment to them or to Nvidia to say anything Not that Nvidia is likely to talk to us. That is the first weird thing about this. While CMP launched back in February with cards like the CMP 98HX, which used a cut down version in a high-end 30 series gaming card. This particular model, the CMP 170HX isn't mentioned social media, or even As far as we can tell, it's Making matters even more interesting, there have been leaks about it on Twitter since early this year, but no hardware made it out into the wild until the last couple of months. So what is it exactly? Well, in line with their there are no display outputs. This allows Nvidia to cut costs, including the royalty that to the HDMI forum. And it prevents people from potentially cannibalizing But there are a few other differences. For one, according to that are provided by Vipera, this card does not use Silicon that could otherwise have been In fact, it seems to use harvested dies that didn't meet Nvidia's standard for their A100 data center GPUs. That could make things interesting later when we try to game on it anyway. The second weird thing is and Nvidia distributed card. Most of the previous mining were manufactured and sold MSI, gigabyte, et cetera. But these cards are made with someone like Pegatron or Third, it draws its maximum of 250 watts, not through an 8-Pin but rather through an Now thankfully, Vipera So this is dual 8-Pin PCIe to And that seems to be included by Nvidia based on these eBay that also appear to come And then finally, let's talk Most consumer graphics cards and a lot of the previous mining cards use inexpensive horizontally oriented fans designed for use in an or an open air mining chassis. This works great for the home but that style requires extra space for the cooler to operate properly. So it's not really ideal for So borrowing from the the CMP 170HX removes the and orients the fins You throw a couple of and you no longer need to space them out. You can just pack them right in which can vastly increase density. That's awesome for crypto people, but for me or rather for Jake, it meant spending some time figuring out how to cool the stupid thing. And since we don't have a compatible server chassis lying around that we aren't already We opted to design a that can take a 120 millimeter fan and then direct all of the which we're gonna use to bolt onto the back of it and not weren't gonna just If for whatever reason you end we're gonna have the link in the video description. You're gonna need one heck this is an industrial PPC from Knoxville that runs at 3000 RPM and does some pretty good Of course, there's not much need for me to put the shroud on now because before we fire it up, we're going to in true LTT fashion. Take this puppy apart. - [Jake] You strip it already? - A little. - [Jake] Really? Oh, boy. Whoa, it's what? It's fake black. - What the heck. Now hold on just a gosh darn minute here. They put aluminum heat sink here and here. Is that even metal? This one's not connected to anything. This appears to actually be for looks. Holy crap. This thing is fricking jank, Jake. Look at this. It's just like low key, the solder of the PCI express connector to the fricking contact What? - Yeah, that's weird. Is it like that on the cards with the... No, I guess not, right? So they could have made that had the power connector at the end. - Oh, I'm sure they could have. This is not a 3090 board You can see it's actually got Hold on. Does this come out of here? - What the (beep). - Hey, language. There are minors watching - Yeah. Is it gonna come out? - Oh, yeah. There it goes. Come on little mining boy. That is a fricking expensive, just like cosmetic piece Maybe I'm missing something, but it looks to me like Nvidia started with a fricking hunk and just milled away other than to just have a on a GPU that nobody will ever see 'cause it's in a data center. - To be fair, I think that would have ended up on A100, just on a different edge. That's an $11,000 card. - But still why? - Yeah, it's just for looks. - You can see they've reused of the consumer board design because they've got the weird fan cut out for the pass through cooling. - I think the A100 is also like 'cause we don't have - Should we take the copper cooler off? - Oh, hell yeah. - We kind of have to, don't we? It's our responsibility. Don't get fingerprints on the copper, it edges with the finger acids. You people drive me crazy. - I just touched all over it. Oh, gosh. Oh, gentle. - It's normal epoxy. - [Jake] The whole thing? - The whole GPU. And the GPU is fricking this big. - There's gotta be a way. - It's not worth it. I'm sorry, Jake, we can't. - Oh, I say we just send it in strike. Give it a little bit of force. - Hold on, Jake. No, it might come up. - See that there's - Everyone just be patient. - See the plastic thing right - No, I don't want to twist against the component on the board. - It's a big component. It'll be fine. Look at the shutters that bad boy. - Oh, my God, we're not doing it that way. Alex, will a heat gun help to get off the thermal compounded thing? - I like his style. - It's five grand. - Well, it's his five grand. Not yours. Can we twist a little bit? Wait, does it twist it all? - I can try to twist. I want a glove. I'm not putting more fingerprints on it. - [Jake] There's a cloth. Use a cloth - [Alex] Did have him twist it? - I tried, he wouldn't let me. That was easy. Jesus Christ. Holy (beep). Wait, it has an IHS on. - Yeah, it does. - What the hell. - It needs some alcohol. - Alex, do you see this? - [Linus] It's fricking enormous. - [Jake] It has an IHS. - It looks like the lasering was done using two different processes, probably at two separate times. - That's really weird. Does an 100 have an IHS? - I would think so 'cause they've just reused just about everything about the A100 for this card. - [Jake] So the XXM from what I understand. - The ones where you But the PCIe ones, maybe - No idea because - Well, they can put a bigger So maybe they need the more efficient thermal transfer for the other ones 'cause that's why they did away with-- - [Jake] The other ones - Again then, that would - The other ones are like 400 watts. - That'd be why they'd want I get such a kick out of this This is hand soldered, for sure. So it's a different kind You don't see any GDR 6X or This is all power delivery And then there's nothing on the back. That's because all the memory is gonna be under this heat spreader and there's only eight gigs of it. This is really interesting. The A100 has 40 or 80. Also a little bit more. The advantage of HBM2 is that it's higher bandwidth, hence the name high bandwidth memory, HBM. But the disadvantage is of course cost. So that's why it hasn't into gaming cards except for one generation, I think, maybe two. - So the GPU code name in this Nvidia doc, all they say is GA100. So presumably, it's or something like that. But yeah, this is 105F. Weird, very weird. - I hope this thing still works. All of the cooling appears to be done by that copper heat sink because these black fins are and this back plate is like thermally. - I see the copper now but I never noticed it before. - No, me neither. Crazy. I'm gonna tighten them anyway, but I just don't think they do anything. - [Jake] No, they do go Like they go through the PCB. - No, I know they do. They don't serve a purpose other than to enclose the Yeah, exactly. That's all they do. Well, are we ready to Script calls for hydration. V2 LTT water bottles now lttstore.com. You're ready to fire that up? - I'm putting more tape. I like tape. - So Jake's sealing up our ducks here. Well, not duct tape, but it's fine. - Make sure you seal your ducks. - Here it goes. I see what you mean about the blowback. Oh, well there's your problem? - Oh, I was just gonna but whatever. - Nope, if it was a $50 The crazy part is this is - Well, the one that's based of, depending on the price is - It also has five to - I don't how much the 80 gig ones are. I don't know. - Probably more. Now this is interesting. A card that is not present cannot have drivers downloaded In fact, this entire - [Jake] Nope, it's not - [Linus] So we ended up where we can find out on mining GPUs. Here it is. Nvidia CMP 170HX Windows Drivers. And we tried. You cannot use the regular G-Force or studio drivers with this card. They just don't do anything. - So from what I recall, I think this is the same version that you can download for the lower end CMP cards. - Oh, crazy. It doesn't even show up - It's a 3D video controller. - It's kind of trippy to me that it even has a windows driver because who in their right mind would be running this thing in windows. - That's true. - Hey, this is crazy. So this mining specific still has G-Force experience and stuff. - Yeah, and you can use it It wouldn't be an up-to-date but you could game on it with a 30 series. - Which we have. - Yeah, 3090 for comparison. - This thing is so weird. OBS crashed while the Nvidia That makes sense. - Wait, why don't we - End bank? You're getting ahead. It's an option, but it doesn't - GPU is zero probably. - No, probably it'd be one. - Dude GPU is zero. I bet GPU zero. - There's no way it's GPU zero. Lunch. I bet lunch. We're doing GPU zero now and it's going to be There it is, RTX 3090. I told you. Got 'em. GPU one. - It's going to crush, I bet. Scammed. - [Linus] It used GPU zero, anyway. - [Jake] Can you enter like GPU 10? - Wait, what's it even doing? Why is this one's like I wonder if it's like a where like the mining but it's like it's gonna pass-- - Also doing encode. I'm more thinking it's like you want the GPU core or the end bank core to do the encoding maybe. - Let's try setting it to GPU 2. Oh, you've selected GPU 2. Set was back to zero and try again. - [Jake] So it doesn't work. - Well, that's weird because do have any hardware as far as we know. - [Jake] It seems like it. - GPU-Z then. Here we go. GPU-Z does not know this This is an entirely new one guys. Good job. Help the community by for the fourth tab. Heck, yeah. Well, we'll start with that. My name is Sinus Lebastian. I've never gotten to - [Jake] I think it's already listed. - Let's have a look at this thing then. Technology, unknown. Die size, unknown. Release date, unknown. Transistors, unknown. Oh, now this is fascinating. - [Jake] Is that 1.1? - It is a PCIe 1.1 by 4 interface. Now hold on a second. That may not be quite right, because even though it might if we hit it with a load, it might change. - It says it supports up to 16, but it's still PCIe 1.1. - That's really interesting. Now to be clear for mining, there's not actually much data transfer that takes place over the You're just sending the GPU work. It's turning through it and That's it? So there's no reason, I guess, for Nvidia to enable the full that this GPU would - In fact, there's a that makes it harder for repurpose this as a card - Even if they could get that Nvidia has put in place, When Nvidia puts a driver What are they up to? Like 70% efficiency on - 71%. - 71, hilarious. - It doesn't increase when you're mining. - Oh, you're mining already. Hold on. I want to look at stuff. We've got HBN2 memory with a 4096 bit bus, 1,493 gigabytes per second - Curiously, that bus I think an A100 is 5120 And the A100 bandwidth is higher. - That's still a lot of bandwidth compared to a gaming GPU. - [Jake] For sure, like a 3090s - [Linus] Clock at 1140, boosts to 1410. - [Jake] Same boost as an A100. - [Linus] No Nvidia SLI. - [Jake] Higher base clar interestingly. - You've been talking a lot about DirectX. DirectX Support. - [Jake] Go to Advance, I think, you can like try it. General, power limit, DirectX. Try that. - So if you were hoping and make your own Cloud Well, it doesn't have any HDMI connection. You can't plug a monitor into it directly. People have reused for purposes like that. You will not be doing it on this one. - [Jake] It supports CUDA. Not Volcom. - Let's fire up Blender. It's gonna start at some point here. - [Jake] I think it's frozen. - [Linus] It's really locked up. - [Jake] You try optics. It does have tensor core. - It's trying to do some things. - [Jake] It's doing a It's trying to do nothing. - [Linus] So the clock speed goes up, but the GPU temperatures It's just still not doing anything. - [Jake] Is it the base clock? - Yeah, it's just a base. It's all its base are belong to us. - [Jake] I think Blender to switch power states. - Gear it up to do work This is a giant disappointment so far. Only because we got our and wanted to do something else on it. - [Jake] It's a $5,000 mining GPU. - Is now the time to find out - This is gonna mine on both cards just so we can compare them. And we haven't done any tuning. - [Linus] We hit boost clock for a second and then dial back a little bit. - [Jake] There power 245 So the interesting thing but you can't tweak the memory speed. You can't do really anything. The only thing you can which we should do. Because when I was messing by default, it draws 250 watts and mine's like 164 megahash in Ethereum. But if you turn it down to like 80%, it does 160 megahash at 200 watts, which is way more efficient. You're barely losing anything. - So there you go. It's all locked down. - [Jake] You can choose the - [Linus] I give the to figure out how to change. - [Jake] It's hard with Nvidia cards. - [Linus] Wow, look at that, 200 watts. - [Jake] The temporary tubs - I guess that's one is that your HBM is now gonna be cooled by your main GPU cooler. - There's no things on the back. - There's hardly any difference in temp between the HBM2E and the GPU. So the 3090 is 275 kilohash per watt. And sorry, what is the CMP? - 804. - [Linus] 800. - [Jake] And I've seen that's a little bit more efficient, can get like around 850. - That's insane. - Mind you, a tuned 3090, you could probably get It's still double. - And that's with us tuning - 372. We can definitely get to 400 - How can this be 40% to 50% faster than the top tier G-Force GPU and double the efficiency while on the same MPR architecture? - Yeah, that's crazy. - Let's talk about that. There are a number of reasons, but the main one is The Ethereum mining algorithm is almost entirely bottlenecks So if you have a approximately 50% memory bandwidth difference, and that correlates to a 40% that mostly checks out. As for the power drop, while they're based on the the A100 Silicon is manufactured on TSMC's seven nanometer process rather than Samsung's which is what's used on That's gonna help you So there's no doubt that this for crypto miners, but there are still a couple With the looming proof of stake migration for Ethereum on the horizon. Does it make sense to at current profitability to pay itself off and outside of mining crypto? Well, if Nvidia's shortfall are anything to go by. Most people think probably not. Reselling old mining that miners will recoup their or a legislative change. I'll let you guys make the final I guess it's also time on Nvidia's claim then that CMP products would not affect the because they would not that could have ended up in a gaming GPU. And in this instance, it actually does appear to Nvidia's claims. This GPU is clearly compute only with no meaningful gaming utility. Though, the same cannot of the other CMP cards. Let us know if you'd like to see us take a look at those in the future. Whether you've been to repair your own devices or just wanting to take your iFixit got you covered, and now is the time to get kitted out 'cause iFixit's Black Friday For a limited time, you can get 20% off all laptop batteries, get discounts on the Maaco and Moray kits and you can get free shipping on orders over $50 with code FORYOU. iFixit also launched their new bundles where you can get kits matched and they're on sale. This is the only time of the year that you can get these sets and everything is still covered by iFixit's lifetime warranty. So go to ifixit.com/ltt and If you guys enjoyed this video, maybe check out the video on how ASICs work for mining. That was a very interesting one.