The ocean's depths Amongst them, The sea serpent. Beachings have enabled scientists of this bony fish, Its head, crowned with a tuft of rays, has earned it the name or more commonly, the oarfish. Because it had rarely been observed alive, little or nothing Until today. Off the coast of France, the world's first pioneering anchored in the very depths of the ocean, was to accidentally enable and reveal the extraordinary habits Until the turn of the 19th century, the sea serpent belonged mythical creatures which haunted the imagination of men Its amazing appearance, size, rarity, to sailors' superstitions It had been seen attacking ships and was even reported which made it resemble a marine reptile. In the 19th century, thanks to the descriptions Nevertheless, their observations Over the last two centuries, or atrophied oarfish have been reported The longest ever found Recently, through an incredible this giant fish had been observed In the south of France, with its yachts, citadels, Every year, more than 12 million tourists of the warm waters Who would have thought of a strange scientific apparatus would make sea monsters reappear? It was nevertheless to be of an incredible experiment. In the heart of the summer the Oceanographic Observatory in association with the top international undertakes the deployment of an oceanographic buoy Its goal seems more poetic It's intended to collect and transmit data This data will permit the calibration The color of the water, which varies according is a good indicator Thus, in the spring, microscopic algae This is called a planktonic bloom. The algae's chlorophyll Here starts the vast food chain To study the evolution the observations of La Boussole buoy The buoy must therefore and periodically checked. To carry out this maintenance, My name is David Duke. I'm a scientific diver and work where I am in charge With tools as efficient he intervenes only near the surface Beyond this, he hands the work over of underwater projects. To be at the heart of plankton production, scientists decided to anchor the buoy The problem is in the chosen location, Therefore, a heavy mooring attached must be laid down. Lost in the immensity of the ocean, the buoy's structure and chains Barrelfish. Amber jacks. Pilot fish. Finally, the Atlantic wreckfish. These fish live in the photic zone. That is to say, sufficiently exposed to light By the buoy's shadow cone, Most swim by sight. Some come to feed on algae and the smallest Others, such as pilot fish, are specialized Feeding on leftovers of meals or parasites of large predators that visit the buoy. Including the most feared. The great white shark. The shark has been observed only swimming in vast concentric circles A small population estimated survives in the Mediterranean. What have they come to look for here Most likely, other visitors to the buoy, such as tuna. No one has ever seen white sharks and their visits are rare and brief. David can expect during his monthly maintenance visits His mission is to clean The equipment is still just as rudimentary solidly fastened to the diver Risky dives, David is alone In less than a month, render the buoy's 20 measuring instruments To every sensor, a specific brush. Cleaning creates vibrations Sound waves which are perceived They awaken their curiosity. These sounds propagate along the structure Fish do not know man. Therefore, do not fear him. Their curiosity is reciprocal. David, under the buoy, One day, in April, during the planktonic bloom, the water was really very cloudy. I had just finished my work, the bottom of the buoy at And there... I saw a very long silver ribbon The king of the herrings. Curious but fearful. For the first time ever, An ambassador of the deep David discovers that it swims vertically, like the sea serpents in ancient prints. Curiously, Could this be the result of an encounter To answer this, and observe the bite marks. Unfortunately, his bubbles This accidental encounter After a few minutes, to the orthotic zone. Depths where so little light penetrate To be able to anticipate other encounters, how the giant oarfish manages to detect and half-darkness Luckily for him, a series of extraordinary events to reveal unknown facets In Japan, the giant oarfish goes by the strange name meaning messenger Over the several months of winter in 2014, more than a dozen were deposited by marine currents According to Japanese mythology, the beachings of the messenger announce an imminent earthquake. These sudden appearances to seismic activity in the region. They offered Dr. Tyson Roberts, an unhoped for opportunity to carry out Its anatomy would beat all records. This is an oarfish of eight meters longer with perhaps one of the smallest brains, To prove it, he's going to use in a veterinary clinic. The Japanese provided him with a magnetic which produces images of a living body The veterinarian MRI, enables them to create images indispensable to isolate the brain with its ramifications. I'd like to know more about its brain It basically has nearly all and organs of human anatomy. This really is the first concerted attempt to learn as much The MRI images The brain is only about an inch long, A pea in the head. Here is the size but however fine it might be, MRI resolution cannot discern the nervous Fortunately, the x-rays will enable Dr. Roberts How does the giant oarfish find its way Fish can use sight, sometimes sound, However, in the giant oarfish, I've examined now around and I've never seen a nostril. The external opening Nobody's ever reported nostrils in oarfish With these large oarfish, The nostrils are not on the side they're at the absolute front The nostrils are thus situated so to catch the giant oarfish must keep its jaws Now, it's quite possible which are elongate slits and at the top could close. Opening and closing of directional sensation. The consequence is surprising. The giant oarfish is capable of working in the vastness of the ocean. Simply by making pirouettes. If you're receiving in your nose you face in the direction If it's weak, then you close the nostrils and then you turn to another direction If it's stronger, then you home in on it by successively moving your head It's a real underwater game When the eyes see the giant oarfish and remain around the La Boussole buoy, thanks to a particular smell. Could it be the smell of the buoy? That of a food source? Or another scent altogether emitted To make a clean breast of it, David must dive to the very limit As this is beyond his capacities, David calls upon a specialist italian cameraman Roberto Rinaldi. I really want to but as soon as we left, feel a little lost in the We're going to be little and it's going to be really To approach it, which combines performance The rebreather. Today, thanks to the rebreather, We will recover the gas When we film, we don't Fish are used to With the rebreather, time and luck to approach the regalecs. On the way to La Boussole buoy, David suggests diving equally moored at a depth of 8000 feet. A meteorological buoy It's a sophisticated instrument and wind speed, Under its metal skirts, seems to attract more fish Its creaking carries over a great distance Nothing is left to chance. Gone are the short monthly dives Henceforth, David and Roberto at the meteorological buoy, They've synchronized their visit of plankton production, Thus, if the giant oarfish that gives off a smell they increase At the surface, velellas. These are not jellyfish, but polyp colonies For his first dive, but with a stick This is intended to take mucus samples to conduct genetic analysis. David at shallow depths with his air tank and Roberto deep down with his rebreather, thus organize the methodical quest These serpent-shaped creatures nor jellyfish, but salps. Animals who filter bacteria and develop their chain by hermaphroditic reproduction. At a depth of 120 feet, where the warm and cold waters meet, where their food is abundant, they clone and proliferate. In this organic soup, Roberto made a record-breaking encounter. A 15-foot giant. The largest living oarfish The longest bony fish Its tail isn't split unlike that A unique opportunity before it heads back to the depths. To be able to take a mucus sample, Roberto relies upon the discretion and upon the fish's curiosity. About him and about the buoy. Curiously, the smooth, scaleless skin to this rough contact, to any contact. Once its curiosity has been satisfied, Covered with its precious mucus, the scraper is sent in alcohol to the University of Western Brittany. Eleanor Muir tries to extract and compare it In fact, there is very little We can learn a lot from a genetic study in their natural environment. After quite a few technical challenges, from the mucus samples and we analyzed it. We found a 10 percent variation from the same species. It's quite surprising In fact, it looks two different species of oarfish, This data seems in keeping who believes that there isn't one In the Mediterranean, the giant oarfish belongs to the species present in temperate waters In the warm waters of the Pacific Ocean, it's the species Regalicus Russelii The differences in the morphologies of the two kings of the herrings Glesne possesses on its crown than Russelii. The University of Western Brittany focuses less than on a most puzzling enigma. What does the giant oarfish feed on We even initiated We tried to reconstruct the food chain Instead of getting some stomach content, we used the fat as a direct link between the composition and that of its predator. Unfortunately, the mucus did not provide Ideally, we need real tissues like fins. A mission that seems impossible, Not from one, Another difficulty, even during the plankton bloom, When the weather allows it, divers make several dives per day David's statistics are eloquent. Out of more than 120 dives he saw a giant oarfish only twice. Luck does not exist. Only perseverance pays off. A giant oarfish and it is not alone. How can these open ocean fish Probably, thanks to their sense of smell. Still, they need to emit a substance over long distances with the currents. But what might this substance be? A pheromone that is a specific chemical to attract another oarfish. Thus, the giant oarfish is capable only detectable by other giant oarfish and when they're close, the giant oarfish communicate What is the significance and of the pelvic fin or oars, They look obviously like intra-specific The divers are going to confirm To be seen by its fellow creatures, adopts an astonishing posture. The cross. These static postures should allow David But he'll still need to be able and force it to remain near the surface. Easier said than done. And with its little fin that vibrates, it He is capable of You could call him a trap fish but he does nothing, he And is that for a fish, Verticality, does it mean something, like for us? For the divers, descending is easy, but they risk the bends One solution remains, passing gently Over the course of several months, David and Roberto carry out more Each time they return to port, they send the samples Just like the giant oarfish most have mutilated bodies. The great white naturally appears This time, divers were able to observe Dr. Tyson Roberts puts forth based on the numerous animals The oarfishes typically undergo Meaning, they undergo a consecutive series It's like in a lizard except the lizard The oarfish can drop starting from just in front and then progressively that are either short or long It can do it all the way up to the vent, We can get oarfishes in which Unlike the lizard, to escape a predator, Autonomy, the extent of autonomy, is totally a matter of individual history. It's energy conservation where you're only conserving your gonads It's very rare in fish, To be able to prove one must observe or find pieces of giant oarfish bodies One might as well try to find fish bones Nearby to the village of Maserati a geologist had a stroke of luck. Professor Patricia Bronzy a curious fossil which had surfaced This is the only known example This is the rear She is withdrawn into The principle of autonomy in ancient maritime sediments Other clues, notably its feeding habits, Thanks to the fins Still, it's now necessary of the giant oarfish We're going to sink some special traps. One is going to be near the surface and the other one deeper Like an underwater beacon, arouses the curiosity They swim around the net During the day, the catches are meager. When the trap is immersed the morning collections These small shrimp This species, present in abundance makes its bioluminescent organs of the Mediterranean. Better; after sample analysis in the lab, the lipid signature of this krill is found in the flesh At night, krill make towards the surface to feed on plankton. Thus, they avoid diurnal hunters, like most of the fish In their wake, they lure all the predators Among them is the giant oarfish. To observe their feeding habits, Roberto and David in the open ocean, using rebreathers, without any bearings. You really have to be attentive. And we have no way Strange ghostlike visitors out of the infinite darkness. Like superorganisms, each and every night It is the largest In the stinging traps, krill is a promising sign, but where have the fish gone? They seem to fear and huddle together. Likewise, faced with ghostly threats, to keep a better watch in all directions. A sunfish, false alarm. Diving offshore at night is with the beams of light, we cannot see during the day. We We see very little, but it's enough The king of herrings in all its splendor. The diver's underwater lights What use is this shiny skin Maybe to mirror the dim lights It's a mystery. All the more so, as the oarfish Nevertheless, it partially opens its mouth as if to catch invisible prey. The diver's light seems to disturb it. A closer look reveals tiny visitors which swim in and out of the mouth Parasites. These are external parasites which do not remain permanently Internal parasites, on the contrary, These give scientists a clue This is the opinion specialized in the study At the University of California the stomach contents of stranded oarfish to make astonishing discoveries. Parasites offer a really great snapshot The information because most of these parasites so they go through multiple hosts. For instance, we've found at least This is interesting like a species that uses marine mammals After further DNA analysis scientists at the University of California deduced that the oarfish such as sperm whales because they found and some adult nematodes in sperm whales. These nematodes They're picking it up The krill also provide oarfish Until now, no bioluminescent organ for a good reason. No one had ever dived in the twilight zone David and Roberto suggest with ultraviolet ones, Notably, the bioluminescent Unfortunately, is far less than that of ordinary lamps, The task is both dangerous and difficult. David is going to have to spot the oarfish then turn them off and let Roberto A daring challenge. A success. The UV lamps reveal on the oarfish's head. One on the forehead, Like luminescent miniature traps, these organs enable the oarfish Its beauty can also prove fatal At one point I realized that And I realized we were When I looked at the It's a trap of this little fish. He The sea serpent is no longer Its only menace David and Roberto looked deeper of the oarfish. The rare, eerie, yet harmless ghost of the open seas.