The National Bureau of Statistics released the March report on residential sales prices in 70 large and medium-sized cities today . According to the latest survey report released by the Research Institute and Bank of China and Private Bank, 14% of China's multi-millionaires have immigrated or are applying for immigration, and nearly half are considering it . The average sales price is 5,520 yuan per square meter, an increase of 15%. Under the current housing price environment, 85% of urban households can not afford to buy the new houses they need. Ah , a building collapsed at the two-star construction site of Diefengge this morning, and workers fell from the building Accident Now , let's rush to the scene together to take a look at the situation. If you have an accident, it will directly affect the reputation of our Peak Pavilion. If our Peak Pavilion lets the media change its name and explode its pretense , we will deduct your project money. Don't worry, Mr. Chen . Now The construction site is like an iron barrel. Except for our own people, no one else can come in. Audience friends, this should be the scene of the accident where the collapse occurred. We can see a few pools of blood on the ground. Don't worry, Mr. Chen. You can leave everything to me. These two people are What are you doing, no actually, don't let the two of them run away, hold up the camera for me, catch the two of them, hold up the camera for me, hurry up , hurry up, Mr. Li , thousands of families have successfully immigrated under my guidance So my successful experience is that everything is detailed and carefully arranged. Okay , let's start by saying hello at the door. I'm sorry , I have to answer the phone . Hey, tell me what , where is the person? Okay , I'll come and deal with it right away. Hey, you have to leave. You can take care of it at the company. Something to do, but we're just getting started, but I have to go , I have to deal with it myself, I 'm sorry , I have to leave for a while, Haizi Haizi, Haizi Haizi, don't forget our plane at 4:00 p.m. I remember, uh, 4 o'clock, right ? Four points, do n't worry , what happened to the injured workers and reporters? They have already been sent to the hospital. Which newspaper reporter is it? Li Hai Kelin from City TV, your people beat my reporter. The one who beat him was the construction company, not mine. People, I have already made them turn themselves in . Do you think this matter has nothing to do with you? Of course, it is the case. It happened on my construction site. Of course I am responsible. The collapse of the construction site and the injured workers can not grow first. No, you see. Ah, the one who was injured was the employee of the construction company, and the one who hit was the security guard of the construction company. But when you reported the damage, it was my Brother Peak . The second phase of Brother Peak is continuing his class. There can be no negative trust . What do you order? I'll treat you to dinner. You want to gag me during dinner , don't you? Bury this matter , then it 's not a big deal if you bury it. Let me tell you, Li Hai. Everything is a big deal. Besides , you have a problem with your production safety. Violence obstructs our normal public opinion supervision. This matter is even bigger. Shaolin and I Chenghai Night are the creators of your column. Which hospital did you send the beaten reporter to? It's called the administrator. The Ministry of Public Security and the Ministry of Public Security are waiting for me at the hospital, my god, you go to the advertising department right now and tell him to cancel all cooperation between us and Cheng Haiyeye Relationship , let me take down all their advertisements. I will take the responsibility. I understand . What about you? Go back to the station immediately and tell the editor on duty . Go to you right away and do me a favor, hurry up and collect some links for safe production in the recent period, and the second is the normal interviews of reporters, eh , these links that were beaten, go , hey sister, what about me , you, just give me a good rest Today 's news is made by Ma Chao. I know the news best. I 'm the one who does it. Hey, is your body okay ? Ah , here it is, here it is , the nurse , the people in the hospital bed, just left, just walking, leading slowly , to pick up the second child You said , uh, wait a minute, is your relationship with the TV station's detainer okay? It's always been good, so can you call him immediately , uh, there's negative news in the style, do n't let him send it? When I was a reporter, the thing I hated most was people Come to kill my news. This is different from yours. It happened to the construction company and I was implicated. It's not like you do n't know Kou Lu's temper . Meet me , I'm at the gate of their radio station right now, okay, Sister Kou , do you want to make a notice to continue tracking tomorrow ? Yes, let's just wait like this and go back . If they report it, do you have to report it? Let's see how capable they are. It's 55 degrees. The tense is good , but it's positive. I'm sorry to bother you. Is there anything wrong? It's okay. Someone was injured on the construction site. Is it serious ? If it's a small matter, we should go now, but I haven't finished dealing with it. You deal with it. It's over, we can't catch the plane, what about tomorrow 's interview, wait a minute, yes, I'm catching up with the airport after 3 o'clock, you can discuss about the shipment, Mr. Li, do you still want the information on the land of 118? Is it a piece of land? That was in the past . I'm afraid I won't have the chance to shoot again . How far are you going? Come back tomorrow afternoon. Liuliu , how do you solve the problem with us? It's too late to lie down here. This morning , the building collapsed at the second phase of the Diefeng Pavilion . The injured workers have received effective treatment, but for these types of collapses , Chenghai Real Estate, the developer of Yifeng Pavilion, has not given a clear explanation so far. Is this an accidental accident or an accident with deeper cause and effect? Tomorrow At the same time , please stay tuned with us. Come to my office right away, are you hot? Accept? Is this accurate? Absolutely accurate . A friend of mine happens to be working in a construction company that Li Hai cooperates with. He gave it to me. It is convenient for us to cooperate with this company. Without Mr. Zhou, you can rest assured that our company is absolutely tenable in this respect. I want to be called by that reporter today. I will go to why do you now. ant to immigrate to Canada why do you want to immigrate to Canada because Canada is a very beautiful place we like it very much i've heard that a thousand times before please just answer my questions directly sir why do you want to immigrate to Canada Not very interested mainly because of daughter about moving to Canada ready answer answer all right i see here your last employment was with a bank you were a bank teller your first job was a bank clerk through your income should be less than DBM fifty fifty fifty the business that you've registered it has funds in excess of Eighty million and the total income for three years is no more than 50,000 yuan , but your company registered fund is 80 million yuan where did you come up with Eighty million million please , can you explain where the 80 million came from? Well, I came from I. After I resigned from the bank, I went to Hainan, China. I did a little business and earned part of the money. One type of business is that I bought a piece of land Then it was sold to someone else i do not see any record of any property transactions here do you have any paper trail regarding the purchase of the SLAM what about taxis where is this land where is this land now in the sea in the sea is this sea reclamation oh not then why did you purchase this land and how why did you buy a piece of land in the sea I was in the same situation at that time and all the people were crazy, constantly taking land, constantly buying, constantly in For sale, no one cares about the specific location of the land and what the situation is, I can't explain it to you in a sentence or two. Chu because the situation at that time was very complicated so it's fraud no i'm nope a fraud What did you do when you came in ? What did you do when you went out? What do you have? You told you a long time ago whether our family can be together, it depends on today Liar, why don't I talk, why can't I bear it, you are 40 years old, I can bear it, can't you control yourself, you can't change your temper, what's wrong with my temper ? You don't know what kind of temper I have , of course I do, but I don't know that you are so irresponsible. It has nothing to do with responsibility. Why is it okay ? Let's be a family together I've worked so hard for a year and now it's all gone What you screwed up the interview Yeah how did this happen I 'm sorry Yingzi don't listen to you I'm sorry you can't come Who will talk to me Who will take me out Play, of course it's your mother, let him continue to accompany you, I don't know that you don't get along with him , I can't say a few words, he annoys me, I also annoy him, do n't talk nonsense , what's the difference between you and your mother, really you're not with her My temper is getting worse and worse, so hurry up , Mom, oh, don't worry , it's not the worst place yet, so there's still hope, right? I 'll try again , then hurry up and apply, I'm right , okay, then I'll wait Good news, audience friends, this should be the scene of the collapsed accident, we can see a few puddles of blood on the ground, although the security guards have sealed off the construction site, although everyone is silent, but these shocking bloodstains seem to tell us that here There was an accident just now and some people were injured . Closing down and standing can solve the problem. Let me tell you about the current situation. I refused the visa on the spot , so I want to reapply. It is very difficult . I think appealing is more promising than reapplying , and the time is faster. Lee There are always many reporters waiting to interview you, so that you have some opinions on yesterday's news, Mr. Li, just tell the reporter that the worker in the accident is from the construction site, and the security guard who beat you is also from the construction site. It has nothing to do with us . The lesson is to strengthen the supervision of construction sites in the future . Mr. Li Zhao Xiaofei from City News came here. He came once this morning and told him that you were not there, but he didn't believe where you are now. He is now downstairs without your order. The security guards dare not let him come up . Let's see. Anyway , he spilled blood on my construction site. I have to apologize to him. Hey , if you really want to make amends, come to the consultant company now and tell Consultant Zhang that we still have hope , but there are some materials that he must Check with you personally, okay , I'll come over right away. Hey, Mr. Li , look at the reporters. Let's talk about it. Tell them about Mr. Li No, we have been waiting here for more than half an hour, can you just make a call, we are very sincere, okay, hey, hey , don't go , don't go, follow me, please come in, Mr. Li came so fast today Well , shouldn't I come here soon? What's the situation? This guy wants to immigrate. I mean, these real estate developers want to run away after making money, and they want to run away even if they get caught. Hey , this group of people is like this. The Canadian government attaches great importance to the legality of the source of funds. So we have to submit a supplementary document to prove that your first pot of gold in Hainan is legal. The problem is that there is not even a blueprint left for that transaction . How can I prove it ? I will answer the phone. Hello, I am Xiaofei . When will I be alone, let's meet somewhere, let's go, so we have to prepare a wealth story , a logical wealth story , we can prepare the relevant evidence of this story, but the main elements of it can only be provided by you, what you mean is You help us make up a story , okay, okay, as long as I can think of it, okay , I'll tell you , the chairman of Chaoyang Real Estate Company, it's kind of interesting, you call me and say you want to expose the shady real estate industry, but in your capacity, you too Part of it was revealed in my capacity , it must be more professional and more authentic than others, continue this is what you have been looking for, where did you get this information, you keep it secret for me , I will keep it for them, of course I will abide by it, but sorry Let me bluntly say, Mr. Zhou , what is your purpose for doing this? Do you want to use our media to suppress your competitors? Or , Ms. Zhao , I am a real estate developer, but I also have my own conscience . I have no selfishness other than my conscience. I don't think Zhang Yaoyao treats me very well. Trust me , I only believe in my own investigation, and I will verify it. You will not be disappointed. Sister Kou , take a look. I have verified all the data and materials, and they are all true. Where did I get it? It was provided by an insider . Who is the insider? I promised him not to reveal my name. Go up. Go up tonight . I'll tell you all the stories in this story, what happened to each character in which year , so much has to be memorized, yes , my God , I know, it 's hard for you, and I've got a headache, but I ca n't do it for Yingzi, right ? He is already used to the way of life and the way of education there. If you let him come back, you might as well kill him. Then I don't want him to come back . Come back, you can't , just let me treat him alone over there. Hey , it 's not what I said, your daughter is really too difficult to manage, plus puberty, I'm really a little scared. Besides , he was not the most obedient to you since childhood I know that immigration is necessary for Britain, for you, and for me . Well , next time, next time I go to apply for a visa, you can see that I will work hard. I will try my best. Well , you actually have this temper. Never mind, let me stop. Next time, no matter how angry I am , I will bear with it. There was a collapse. Fortunately , only one worker was slightly injured. The injured worker should have recovered and the construction site has resumed. Normal production, but a huge safety hazard has not been eliminated . Please see today's reporter's investigation. Dear audience friends, we once again came to the construction site of the second phase of Gefengge to see what kind of steel bars they used. It was measured just now, and it was called 25mm. The inner diameter of the ribbed steel bar is only 22 mm , and the inner diameter of the ribbed steel bar that is said to be 22 mm is only 20.5 mm. Boss, the money is here. Come on again , boss, um , boss, get out of the way , boss, boss, boss, I tell you less, do you hear me? Ah, what are you doing ? Let's get ready to do it, right? Let him go , ah , okay, eat a meal, take a shower , buy some clothes, thank you , boss, thank you, boss, thank you , yeah, after Li Hai read the news, he must kill me, he will kill me too Kill me , I'm his friend, he must hate me the most, why do you have such a friend, Sister Kou, what 's the matter, he is a real estate developer, there are not many good people in real estate developers , classmate Zhao Xiaofei, you and Li Hai have never met Face, don't be so subjective , you don't have a comprehensive understanding of him, and I don't know either. Anyway, I don't have a good opinion of real estate developers who make them make me unable to buy a house . So what will this thinned steel bar bring to our buildings? What kind of impact will it have? In the news later , our experts will bring you a detailed analysis . It's as bloody as this story. Hey, don't be so angry . You just said that you will endure it. It's not that I offended them. I want to My reputation is ruined, you wait, I must seek justice, Zhang Yong , you represent the company and the TV station to make representations, their news reports are seriously inaccurate, and have seriously damaged our image of Chenghai Real Estate. The level objected to the TV station and we asked them to correct it immediately and apologize for compensation. My good man will contact all the media in the public relations department and hold a press conference tomorrow morning at the construction site of the second phase of Peak Court. I want all reporters to see what kind of system we use. Bricks, what kind of cement , what standard are we building the house according to, three Mr. Li, do you have any suggestions? Mr. Li , I, I, I think this matter should be handled the same way as last time. These two times are completely different in nature and we don't need to Mr. Li , if we make things big, it 's not good for us , why not, no , this matter is a little complicated, how complicated, Lao Chen , what 's going on ? You're hiding something from me, Lao Chen, tell me now, the TV station Is the news report comfortable? Chen Yongliang , as the vice president in charge of engineering, you are now clearly telling me what kind of signal the steel bars of Dingfengge 27 are , Mr. Li. Our main frame structure complies with national standards. Outside the main frame, Mr. Li, Mr. Li Mr. Li, Mr. Li, Mr. Chen , Mr. Li, Mr. Li, Mr. Li, Mr. Li, Mr. Li, Mr. Li Mr. Li Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Li , Mr. Li, Mr. Li, Mr. Li, Mr. Li , Mr. Li, Mr. Li, Mr. Li , get out of here, don't go, it's so heavy, shy, shy, auntie, is uncle back? Go to sleep first , I'll wait for him ahhh back boy with my 10 years of experience in TV they wouldn't have aired the news if it wasn't true then the news has no facts right the news is all true how can you do that I've been asking They strictly abide by the national standards. It's Lao Chen who wants to save costs. Don't you know that you are the boss? Hey, Lao Chen has always been in charge of the details of the project, and he hasn't made any mistakes for so many years. So what are you going to do now? Go to sleep . I'm tired. Tomorrow I don't know how many problems are waiting for me. Mr. Liu , Mr. Liu, Mr. Liu , hello , Mr. Zhang , yesterday 's news is not good, is it good ? Immediately go to Brother Diefeng's post bar. The owner group spread the news and said that Li Hai wants to run away. I'll go now. Oh , Mr. Zhou, you always want to develop for a few more years before attacking and filing a case. It's too late , Mr. Li . The problem brought us to the court. I know Mr. Li. The Construction Bureau asked us to provide it immediately. They will send a working group to investigate this matter. They will not hide it or hide it. We will fully cooperate. I know Mr. Li . How is Mr. Li doing today? Mr. Li actually This is the unspoken rule of the industry. Many real estate companies use this kind of steel bar . Our main frame is fine, and the house will not collapse. I swear to you, I have no selfishness in this matter . It is all for the sake of the company. The company has saved tens of millions of costs. If you save these tens of millions, Li Hai will die without a place to bury you . You go, you go , brother Li Feng, something happened to the second-level sales office , Mr. Li, Mr. Li, Mr. Li, you better go first Don't go in, what's the matter? There are more than 100 customers who have paid earnest money and are asking for a refund . Give them a refund. The key is Brother Di Feng. All the owners have also come here. They are here. Why do they want to be more rational? They demand to be right Their house is undergoing repairs , and they are making irrational noises and have to check out. What are you kidding, Mr. Li , Mr. Li, Mr. Li, you can't go in, I'm afraid I'm afraid they will attack you, oh, I ca n't , Mr. Luggage, Mr. Li, in case they are irrational They smashed up the sales office, which made it even more difficult to handle. Then, let them all go in, open the big conference room , and invite everyone to go in . Okay , okay, so how do we go ? It's not allowed to go to the head office of the company. Back, a bunch of reporters came to the door , and some of them were media from out of town. They said they didn't see you, and they didn't leave. The construction site was suspended for a day, and the loss is now several million. Now it's naturally effective. Hurry up, why don't you come home ? It's a meeting. Now when it comes to harm, there is a lot of criticism . Others complain. The matter has already happened. What needs to be considered now is how to solve it. I will immediately visit the leaders of the Construction Bureau to explain the situation and try to resume work as soon as possible. Mr. Li, please tell your friends in the government and the media Say hello and let them know about Cheng Don't report on Hai's news, it's too late , the matter has reached this point, nothing can be covered, but Mrs. Li can't let it spread like this How can he afford it? Mr. Li, are you planning to immigrate ? How do you know? Someone posted a post in our post bar today, but that's fine . You might as well go out to avoid the limelight and come back when the situation subsides, or just stay Overseas remote control wisdom has become a sea. How is our capital situation now? Yes, I know. What's the matter? The sales office is afraid that something will happen . Someone fanned the flames and said that Mr. Li is going to run away. Now regardless of the owners of Difeng Pavilion, even the owners of Phoenix Terrace and Phoenix Garden They all came here to gather, Mr. Li , my son, I 'll go with you. Okay , I'm the chairman of Chenghai Business, Li Hai . First of all, I would like to sincerely apologize to everyone. Due to my own management negligence , I used unqualified steel bars in the second phase of the stacking style. I 'm sorry to all the old and new owners of Diefeng Pavilion, and I 'm sorry to the friends who have been caring about our Chenghai Night. I'm sorry , I apologize , don't get excited , don't get excited . I'm Zhao Xiaofei, a reporter from City TV. I have a few questions for Mr. Li, uh, Zhao Miss, right? Yes and then I went to the hospital to see you . You have been discharged . Now I want to apologize to you in person. I'm sorry for making you feel wronged. Thank you, Mr. Li, but I still have to ask you . A few questions, I know what you are going to ask. The second phase of the Cultural Revolution project has now been completely suspended. We will test all the building materials and remove all unqualified ones. Of course , the old owners of our Peak Pavilion also care about the quality of the houses they have lived in. Okay , let me tell you now that we have decided to invite the most authoritative inspection department in the city to conduct quality inspections on all real estate properties owned by Chenghai Real Estate. If there are any problems , we will reinforce those that need to be reinforced, demolish those that need to be demolished, and cover those that need to be rebuilt. In short , we will definitely let the owner live in our safe house. No , Mr. Li, the question I ask is whether you are going through immigration procedures now. It is indeed to let my daughter have a better learning environment and education environment. The whole family is considering immigrating. But today, my thoughts have changed . It happens that my wife is here. Just this opportunity, the two of us make a solemn promise to everyone that our family will never immigrate.