Invading his enemies. Exterminating entire groups of people. Getting rid of his adversaries. Adolf Hitler would stop at nothing and to make the Third Reich In June 1944, while the fighting raged and the Allied forces, commanded by the highest devised a radical solution as well as the terror in which he had plunged They embarked on one of the Second World War's killing Adolf Hitler. The operation was meticulously prepared Assassination was also one of its weapons, and so it did engage Operating procedures, details about places, and the identity of the sniper. Everything was placed in a file for over 50 years There's an impressive amount His daily routine, the way that's recounted, and the details of the buildings You have to find somebody effectively, a suicidal mission. You do need somebody is intelligent, loyal, and patriotic, and can be completely relied If you could get someone positioned there, you could not create for an assassination. The idea of being able to get him Thanks to a thorough investigation and British espionage circles, you will discover all of the details that could have changed An operation led who for a few months and the world in their hands. Among the 11 million documents in London are the remnants Some documents date back and all the country's archives are here. In these long corridors lined In one of the building's storage rooms, a rare document that was written during the Second World War can be found. It's a document for more than 50 years. Its name, Operation Foxley. Its 122 pages were typed and have yellowed with time. Inside, there are maps, This file contains all the information in order to accomplish their mission, Behind the plot, whose existence remained secret The British Special Operations Executive, SOE was created in the summer of 1940, It's built on the foundations The two in particular that are important are something called section D and something called MIR, Churchill's instruction to SOE and it was to do that throughout the enemy-occupied territory, and also by carrying out sabotage destroying German garrisons, carrying out SOE begins life in Baker Street, but it quickly expands Under the supervision the SOE was organized into several boards, Each section handled a geographic area. For example, sections Section X of Germany and Austria. Officers were recruited before being sent on missions. They all prepared in training camps It's broadly two levels The first level is very much what you could characterize It's paramilitary, lots of physical training, When they've finished that training, they then end up at something That's where they learn how to operate That's where they learn how how to pass messages between the network, and so on. SOE also had a special research where they were responsible That's explosives, rockets in some cases, secret weapons, Some of the weapons invented are kept at London's Imperial War Museum. Each was created for specific missions, designed to get as close to its target Some gadgets invented by the experts have become legendary. It just looks like a cylinder, but it is a gun Using this loop at the top, which would go and he could suspend this weapon and drop it down It's a one-shot weapon relief. You fire it and then you let go of it, so the rubberized cord It looks like a fountain pen, you could load it which contains tear gas. This was issued to agents in the hope that they might be able to use it by disorientating You place the cartridge in by pulling back this plunger at the end. Then, when you want to fire it, The existence of these weapons and their perfectly suited design SOE agents were trained to kill. Assassination was also and so it did engage Yet, during the war's early years, assassinating Adolf Hitler To find Operation Foxley's beginnings, That day, Its sender, an agent stationed in Algeria, passed on information indicating that the resistance At the end of the telegram, the sender clearly asks his bosses if the SOE Before a matter can be taken further, In the meantime, but in view of the urgency, The source was a French colonel. We don't know who he was. We've never found out his identity, that Hitler was hiding In another telegram dated June 22nd, the source even indicates He suggests the chateau as Hitler The information to Major-General Colin Gubbins, Confronted with a plan Gubbins decided to refer it military advisor to Winston Churchill, It may be argued that killing Hitler in the eyes of the Germans into a martyr. On the other hand, I feel that his removal would certainly After consulting General Ismay informed Winston Churchill In this letter, dated June 21st, 1944, From the strictly military point of view, that Hitler should remain However, from a wider point of view, the better. Churchill's specific position was not disclosed but it is certain to let his agents work on the project. Churchill was very interested He thought and knew from experience You defeat the enemy on the battlefield, not by removing individual figures. It's significant but Churchill didn't intervene. He doesn't say, He lets the plan run. I think it's fair to say that something to his adventurous, romantic spirit. Colin Gubbins with the French colonel's plan, and the Perpignan attempt However, his correspondence of Churchill's cabinet convinced him On June 28th, 1944, he brought together Among them were Air Vice-Marshal Ritchie, and Lieutenant-Colonel Thornley, which oversaw operations This top-secret memo of the operation's launch, The points of view of the agents present Each of them is identified CD for Colin Gubbins, director of the SOE, X for Lieutenant Colonel Thornley, In this memo, it seems clear Thornley was particularly X said that personally, as he believed the German strategy might be improved Ritchie is very pro-assassination, He wants to go with this. However, what's interesting even though Thornley is a German expert, He's a junior ranking officer. On the other hand, you have Ritchie, but he's a high-ranking officer The meeting's minutes make it clear and plan It was essential all the available intelligence, movements, Despite Thornless reluctance, the preliminary investigation was entrusted to an SOE official He was a major H.B. Court. His name appears but the British Secret Service of this agent. He was serving as an intelligence officer and a special subsection but we know very little else. The first question L/BX had to answer Between his visits all over Europe, and his stays Hitler was in constant movement. Above all, he was known There were a couple of things that account One of them is that his schedule and his reaction Sometimes he arrived late, and sometimes he arrived early. Things that were planned were suddenly shortened. It was very difficult, I think, Between 1921 and 1944, he was the target and survived all types of plots. He sometimes escaped death simply by a fortunate change His assailant's pistol jammed, or was too weak and only injured him. The guy was just lucky. Though Hitler claimed to be immortal, he was not ready to trust For his protection, he surrounded himself with a security detail Hitler's security system with these stormtroopers, and they were basically he had this contingent of ruffians Out of that then evolved this elite corps, We know that that became However, there was a corps of guards who were assigned When Hitler would go any place, When he would arrive, there would be people posted everywhere that there wasn't a bomb planted It was a very thorough operation Although Hitler could drive and it looked very easy, and very carefully controlled. To kill Hitler, SOE agents in southern Germany, Hitler had built his house, and it was where he regularly spent time Starting in the 1930s, the area highly secure compound. Adolf Hitler once said, I spent my most pleasant times here This was the place of reference for him. He spent, in fact, Once you were inside the Fuhrer's house, this closed security zone around Hitler, Hitler lived a more relaxed existence. The SOE believed that Hitler and thus more vulnerable L/BX began to collect information His goal was to find a breach set up around the Fuhrer's house. He was taking that information particularly from MI6 He's getting information but also from prisoners of war. This photo, for example, shows a German soldier as he inspected the troops. Above him, the letters P.W. indicate that this soldier after being stationed at the Berghof. This was apparently a valuable source The intelligence data Some of it where the operation could take place. For example, in Salzburg, How hard would that be? How can you move people around As we inspect the files pages, we find the plans for the ground floor drawings of German uniforms, but also speculation It's a colossal amount of information, The fog machine there They knew about the bunkers that existed, even the location of his personal bunker, There's an impressive amount his daily routine, the way it's recounted, and the details L/BX's investigation but it relied on information lacking in precision, One was the floor plan for the Berghof, It shows the reception hall and then it shows Hitler's study The study was one floor up, and the British intelligence because Chamberlain was in that room. There were public photographs In some ways, of the layout of the Berghof but missed some things that, we're actually pretty fundamental to know. Despite his shortcomings L/BX had to devise Therefore, he explored different avenues. One option involved taking advantage Hitler often used his personal train The train had 14 cars, About 100 people worked on it, including about 20 entirely dedicated On his way to Berghof, Hitler frequently stopped a Nazi command post On these trips, his train stopped A car picked him up and then brought him back The British agents identified where they dropped Hitler off. The idea is that he'd have and SOE team who'd be hiding in the woods and would be able to assassinate Hitler from the car to the train. In this scenario, shooters would use This weapon, which was replaced had been used by British soldiers Although designed to have a maximum range the weapon was only considered effective Extremely cumbersome, and its firing rate of two shots in a combat zone. The kinds of weapons they're using, particularly with PIAT, this very crude, it would be very difficult certainly at 250 or 300 meters The weapon's lack of precision The option of attacking Hitler on his way was abandoned by the SOE. Another idea was to poison the water on board British agents managed to obtain for the fifth train car Here, you can see the location tables, lamps, wine cellar, and kitchen. The plan also shows the tank Located above a sliding door, this 100-liter tank However, this option involves You have the problem of actually We know that a number of French women so maybe there was a possibility but it's not clear. How would you infiltrate How would you get on top They had to presume that Hitler, was using the train water when really he was more likely and that's much more hard to target. This is sealed bottles of water. How SOE hoped to get poison is perhaps harder to imagine. Employing an anti-tank weapon, poisoning, the Foxley file to assassinate Hitler on his train. Some of the options such as derailing the Fuhrer's train. The most favorable point for derailing In Germany, not only is the track itself but neither bridges nor tunnels as in the occupied territory. A sabotage party disguised as von polizei, should be able to take over, and destroy the train in the tunnel. Some of L/BX's other proposals An attempt might also be made as it passed through a station a suitcase filled with explosives. For this, the train would have to pass on which the operative was standing, and the operative be prepared How on earth because the train stations Also, you have to find somebody effectively, a suicidal mission, and also, he's got to somehow arm An agent under extreme pressure in those kinds of circumstances There were so many different elements As I said, even the unpredictability so many elements, that I would not have bet After several weeks of investigation, Their plots to kill Hitler They begin to favor a second way, killing the Fuhrer An air raid is quickly dismissed. The idea of bombing over Salzburg because first of all, you had this enormous of bunkers and bomb shelters, and there were air raid alarms and everyone would have gone there. The idea of thinking and the Berghof was just impossible. The SOE concentrated on what seemed The moment he completely His morning walk between his Berghof located a few hundred meters below. According to local SOE sources, this country stroll was something Thus, from the middle of March 1944, before which date Hitler went to the tea house He would probably be up at 9:00 because he gets his hair trimmed and then walks out down the driveway Then the path would begin and it was about a 15-20 minute stroll. Hitler wanted this private, He wanted to feel free. Most of the photographs show him, accompanied by a couple They would walk along, but there's never They were supposed and be invisible to him because he just It was the one place in the world where he had that sense L/BX focused much of his research The idea here was to shoot him Now, to get people in, to get agents into Germany This is southern Germany, so perhaps they could be infiltrated Switzerland, or other countries Another option would be The plan was to disguise the sniper wearing a Gebirgsjager uniform. This uniform, reserved for mountain troops, including the SS and the RSD, The weapon selected to assassinate Hitler had to be part They chose a Mauser sniper rifle The officer would also be equipped to defend himself Once in position, the sniper needed to follow the path Approach from the LaRosa bark through the woods at which the concrete followed by Hitler in his walk. The sniper's route surrounding the Nazi-occupied area. His objective was to position himself From this point on, the timing was tight. The officer had to pass to avoid the RSD patrol that preceded L/BX had carefully gathered information and distance between the poles. Mesh wire, 200 to 220 centimeters high. Steel tubes at intervals Three to four strands of barbed wire. They planned for the agent to be able to cut a hole in the fence. Once inside the zone, the shooter so that the distance was between 100 and 200 meters. This is probably but in terms of its accuracy, it also has a very large muzzle flash which is not perfect but it had to fit the disguise and at the range that they were intending which was supposed then it was perfectly accurate enough. Once the sniper was in position, By the time the British agent fire, and kill Adolf Hitler. If you could get someone positioned there, you could not create for an assassination. You have this open meadow with this path and no place to run. I think the idea of a sniper and having Hitler moving with at most two, in conversation the idea of being able to get him would be probably close to 99 percent. However, in the SOE, two main obstacles The first is getting the shooter Infiltrating agents in Germany One of the key problems it has no connections with the internal resistance It has to rely often so they're not being received It basically means Or if they're infiltrated by land, clearly they've got to have a story, These are questions that the files These kinds of details further down the line. The second obstacle concerning a key area on the route, where the sniper was supposed Probably the one factor that the British intelligence but would absolutely be vital was the degree because once you're in there, there's so much underbrush to embed someone and have them hiding However, the question is, and if so, how often? This comes down to the fact that it wasn't really how good the SS guards were, It's an unknown factor, when you're up there, this could have been L/BX knew that the sniper could fail. In the event the shooter missed his target he imagined a plan B. He suggested hide in the woods near the tea room. They would take advantage of the diversion to attack Hitler in his car, as he was evacuated The mission was highly risky A crucial question remained: Given the difficulty of infiltrating the SOE considered recruiting agents Choice and assembly No easy matter, but Poles, Russians There's a relatively small number and of course, so they've got and they've got to have At the same time, you do need somebody but knows how to handle weapons, and can be completely Within section X, SOE agents were clear. First and foremost, He would have to be a first-class marksman On March 16th, 1945, another agent with the codename It seems that the SOE had finally found His name, Captain Edmund Haley Bennett, For your private information, we are considering using this man which would require his lying low collecting the necessary intelligence This document, and declassified in November 2014, is the information on Edmund Bennett These few lines about his abilities. IO means intelligence officer. In Washington, Bennett was already His specialty tells us even more. This includes pistols and guns. Bennett was 25 years old in 1944. He was a young Englishman Before the war, and he spent two years working He could speak fluent German. During the war, and he'd fought as a soldier as well The SOE had to first ensure The abbreviation PTC This shows the date on which the SOE in MI5's files. Six days later, meant that there was nothing His application The first meeting between Captain Bennett and the SEO officer took place in Washington in March 1945. On March 22nd, a telegram sent to London seemed to confirm that the recruitment Far from being discouraged of the possible toughness showed even greater keenness. He, however, which is that on completion of the assignment or if the German war ends Since his present interesting and specialized employment He would like to get and says be happy However, on March 26th, four days after the telegram the SOE headquarters to let their liaison officer know the young Englishman Under present circumstances, do not feel justified May revert later. They thought of a different option. They thought It's difficult to tell, the files don't It's almost certain, bear in mind this five or six weeks away from the death I think it's becoming clear that they're really running out of time, If this guy would need training, that would have taken The events of the war, and the advance of the allies into Germany Among all the documents the March 26th, 1945 telegram indicating that Captain Bennett is one of the last records At this time, Churchill was already convinced was only a matter of time. In this context, the risks involved outweighed the benefits By February of 1945, the game was over. They knew Nazi Germany had been defeated. It was a matter of time, and time meaning just a matter Churchill, though, was a believer so I think he probably thought comprehensively on the battlefield the German army was defeated, not defeated but shown to the German population and that there was no way You understand which is we don't want to take out Hitler because he's such a disaster We want him to bring Germany The other deliberation being, Those are good considerations. However, what they couldn't have known is that you had this entire machinery killing as many people per day Imagine, had Hitler been assassinated or even earlier, a million or even more humans from this catastrophe Unbalance, would I've liked Absolutely, better in 42 or even 41, but at least 44. By February of 45, Operation Foxley Hitler committed suicide in his bunker One year after the Allied victory, and all the elements relating to assassinate Adolf Hitler were classified as top secret Even today, many mysteries remain Who was Major H.B. Court, the analyst in charge Would Captain Bennett during his daily walk to the tea room? Above all, who made the decision These questions