Shizuoka / Izunokuni City This time, we will introduce a ramen stall that offers daily ramen that you will want to eat even if you have to wait in line.A day in the life of a popular food stall that you would not normally see, from pre-opening preparations to cleaning up that you will see during the interview. close contact with Please take a look at the shop owner, who has finished preparing the soup and ingredients in the morning and is heading to the business location.It will be unpleasant if it continues for three days.I hope I haven't forgotten anything...I'm worried.I forgot something . There are many So... if I absolutely need something I forgot, I'll go back to pick it up.If I forget something that I can't help but forget, like a sauce, I'll definitely come back to pick it up.As I've started opening stores here and there on business trips, I've been going to places like Osaka and Yamagata at the time . Light truck I used to have a rack truck, but since it was a 3-speed automatic, it was difficult to drive on the highway and I could only reach speeds of 70 to 80 km/h, so I changed to my current truck about 3 years ago. changed The loading work has finally been completed The other day, I ran into a thicket of trees... After completing the preparations, I also have to make preparations such as purchasing ingredients on the way to the business location Arrival at the business location Preparation for business The table area where customers eat is The business space is designed to be a movable table and there is no running water or electricity, so it is difficult to carry large amounts of water . FTJ Staff: It's tough not having running water or electricity.When I went to study food stalls in Kyushu, they had running water and electricity, but the food stall I was interested in was operating in a place without either. sunlight on the roof We have solar panels installed, and we are open with backup batteries and portable power sources.This chair is the only one that has the color scheme of Mt. Fuji.Since we are in Shizuoka, today's ramen is made with whole chicken. salted chili Menu is quite a popular flavor.We change the soup for each business, and at first we start with two types, soy sauce and miso.There are customers who want to eat miso, but it's soy sauce day and they've never had miso before. It was like that, The food stall has started operating. Now that there are about six variations in total, it is difficult to try all the flavors. When you run a food stall by yourself, you have to deal with a lot of trouble, such as going to the bathroom. The landlady is coming today, so I think it's okay.Large size salt ramen with seafood and whole chicken 100 yen, flavored egg 100 yen, spicy menma 150 yen , extra char siu 150 yen , char siu rice ball 150 yen Yen canned beer 400 yen When the ramen is ready, we sample it to see how it tastes.On days when there was a huge line, it was sold out by around 8:30pm.At that time, we tried new flavors. limited to It was the day we were offering ramen, so it sold out quickly, but since it wasn't a new product today, I don't think it was that fast.I love ramen, and at the time I was living in Tokyo, but I decided to move to Okiniwa. Rame There weren't many ramen shops... Customers from overseas came.We're still preparing, but I think we'll be able to open around 6pm.FTJ Staff>There really aren't that many ramen shops in Okinawa... At that time, I was running a bar in Okinawa, and even if I wanted ramen , I had to drive about 30 minutes to a place where there were chain restaurants, so I thought I'd try making my own ramen, and that's how I started making ramen. It's an opportunity When I lived in Tokyo, there was a really delicious restaurant nearby, and I wanted to get the taste closer to that restaurant.I had decided on a mountain to climb, so I decided to aim for that flavor.FTJ Staff&gt;I liked it. What is the name of the shop? It was a ramen shop called Setagaya.It had just opened at the time, but I remember that it became a very famous shop after it was introduced on TV.I lived very close to it, and up until that point, there was a boom in tonkotsu ramen. However, I had no interest in tonkotsu ramen, so I was so surprised by the ramen that I even considered becoming an apprentice at the restaurant and working there. I decided to quit my job at the store and ask for an interview, so I contacted them with the enthusiasm to start working right away.After a conversation between the staff member who answered the phone and the store manager, I was told that they were not currently hiring, and that I was turned down. There was also the fact that I couldn't train.After that, I decided to move to Okinawa.FTJ Staff>How long did you stay in Okinawa? I've been in Okinawa for 9 years. We start our business by taking photos of the ramen we'll be serving that day and tasting them. Usually, customers come in when we're tasting the ramen. It looks like the workmanship is good. Before we start business, We have finished preparing the restrooms and are now open for business.Customers arrive at the same time as we open for business.The first group of customers on this day ordered extra char siu and boiled egg toppings . The shop's custom-made noodles , char siu, are served grilled over charcoal.Customers keep coming.The shop's name, ``Kajimaya,'' comes from the idea of celebrating a long life in Okinawa . It has the meaning of good health and good health when you return home.As we were talking about various things, one of our customers told us that he had eaten ramen from when the restaurant was open in Okinawa. We talked about our memories of Okinawa and felt a strange connection.Since it was getting busy all at once, we decided to try the ramen of the day, ``seafood and whole chicken salt ramen,'' before it was sold out. The basic ingredients are grilled seaweed, chopped green onions and seaweed, roasted chashu pork and chopped ginger, topped with more chashu pork, boiled egg, and spicy menma . The fragrant char siu is grilled over charcoal and is thick, large and boldly cut to give it a satisfying taste.The soup is refreshing and packs a punch with the full flavor of the whole chicken. The chewy, thick noodles go well together, and the ramen is very delicious.The boiled egg, which has a windmill branding iron on it, is the origin of the restaurant's name, and is soft and fluffy with the perfect degree of half-cooking.For menma lovers. The recommended black pepper spicy menma ramen is delicious, and by the time I've enjoyed the crumbly tip menma ramen, the counter and tables are full, and there are so many regulars that people are lining up.The ramen changes daily, so it's popular. Many customers come back on soup days.Customers &gt; Whole chicken ramen, and lately it's early in the day. But it has a really strong flavor.Even if you compare it to the last time I ate it, I think it's different.Shop owner&gt;I'm making improvements every time.Customer &gt;It's very good Customer&gt;This soup alone is so delicious that I want to take it home Thank you for the arrival. After 7:00 pm , the parking lot is full and there are many cars waiting to park and cars with license plates from other prefectures. Shuzenji Onsen, Japanese inns, etc. Since Izunokuni is a city with a large number of visitors, many tourists come here to eat the ramen at the street food stalls.There is no shortage of customers, and they come one after another to eat the ramen. Apparently, they had prepared a lot of ingredients, but the noodles and soup were almost sold out. Many people came to the store after they were sold out, so they announced on social media that the items were sold out . However, due to the amount of soup left, the two of us ended up being the last. Landlady: We're about to run out of soup. Customer: I always drive by the stall, but there's a long line, so I give up and go with my colleague. I came to eat with you today. I'm sorry for the delay, but this is the last ramen of the day . Thank you very much. Please come again! thank you very much! Preparations for closing have begunCustomer >It was delicious! The last customer has left. Even after we close, several groups of customers still come. We also make sure to pick up trash around the business area. After all, we now have more space in the luggage compartment. It's time to clean up . I thought maybe I was getting better at it, or maybe I had more space, so the landlady said: Really? Did you forget anything? Shopkeeper: I didn't forget anything, but I was a little worried. Well then, we'll be closing shop. Owner: Thank you for your hard work! FTJ Staff&gt; Thank you for your hard work! Landlady&gt; Thank you very much! Thank you for your hard work today! From now on, you will have to wash and clean up the used pans and pots, which is a very difficult job.This time, we would like to introduce popular ramen stalls in Izunokuni City, Shizuoka.If you are interested, On Fridays and Saturdays, why not try the owner's special ramen while driving or going out?