[THEME MUSIC] Number one show in late night, Mero, who is in the Oh, man. Usually, this is when I do a But this man needs None. Ladies and gentlemen, he goes It is Denzel, ladies you know what I mean? You might have named you know what I'm saying? Denzel Washington in the house. Make some noise. A living legend in the building! Listen, we would name but our show is So-- --we can't do that. We got to get right into it. Just name the legendary Legendary stops We was just-- What's a legendary Where would you get nervous? Where would I get nervous-- 241st. Because you know what? It's weird because Right. And like, if you're not of New Yorkers have where it goes above ground. Right. So imagine the train just And now you're in a - Mount Vernon. Well, no, you're Well, no, if you now you're in money-earnin' When you come down the - Peppino's-- You know about-- Come on, y'all! Ah, you don't know Peppino's? [LAUGHTER] He's official! Denzel knows! I'm official! Denzel is official! Just in case you thought He's Holly-hood. Yes, there are Peppino's! Now, see y'all young 38. OK. When I was young young, you for 25 cents. 25-- I thought you were 25 cents. My mother would give me-- well, like, first, second, whatever. Mm-hmm. 15 cents for the slice, Goddamn! Wasn't it-- So how much is it now, $2? Man, $2? $2-- that ain't even a slice. No. The slice-- Even the dollar slice If you want a good to be, like, maybe $5 or $7. For a slice of pizza? DESUS: For a good slice, yeah. Yes. I mean, like, if parts of the Bronx, you like, $2.50, $2.75. Yeah. But if you in Yeah, shout out Shout out to Tommy's, still holding us down, Tommy, what's the name of Lucali. Yeah-- oh, that's-- I'm from Mount Vernon. We didn't go to Brooklyn. - Hey, I was about to say-- We didn't go to Brooklyn-- I had a girlfriend And it was rough. The GG Continental-- Uh-huh? You don't even know That's before your time. That was before our time. My uncle was doing On that train? That first time I saw it when you troopin'. --Brooklyn looks different. It's a foreign land. And I'm from Mount Vernon. So they're like, where you from? And then you gotta explain Oh, you from Vermont. You're from New Hampshire. New Hampshire! They think you from Upstate! Yeah-- oh, you're Oh, you take the You told people from that's where Niagara Falls is? Or like, it's not that far? Nah, dawg, this Now, this is before your time. What about the Black Spades? Were they there-- That's before my time. So in the '70s-- They put me on all that. [INTERPOSING VOICES] Yeah, the Black Spades, cut your heart out Uh-huh. They-- then, I was bus because I was at Fordham-- --going to school. The BX 41, ah-ah-ah. I'm legit. I'm in the back of the bus. Here they come with the the whole thing. I'm looking at the bus driver. He's like, you ain't I'm keeping my Nobody on the bus-- - Mm-hmm. Of course, I'm a in the corner on the right side. Here they come. [LAUGHTER] Nice shoes you got, B. Oh! Here we go. Here we go. Don't want to hear that. Yeah! Yo, man, what size is that? Where you from? I just got here Gotta lie. I couldn't say Mount up there wreaking havoc. - Where' you go to-- - Fordham University. Two years in the Bronx, Wasn't-- was the Metro North Oh, yeah, yeah, it's not going to that many-- Go Rams. It's expensive. You know about that? MERO: My wife graduated-- Oh, from Fordham? Fordham University, Shout out to the what I'm saying, taking home from Lincoln Center you know what I mean? So they don't got to get on the Coming from Connecticut. Right, right. The White Castle over there. Yes, murder burgers. Yes, sir. That's what we called The other night, I some white kids walking White Castle back to Fordham. Because there's that bar over Oh, yeah. I'm like, you Is that still It's-- they're But it's very touristy now. It's very, like-- Oh, yeah? It's nothing but So they have to, like, I'll tell you what, pretending to be Italian. Also that. On Arthur Avenue. Mm-hmm. So what's a slice Ooh. It's weird because it's Like, they go authentic-- The Margherita, you know? You know, like, Like, not pineapple on the-- Yeah, you can't bend it and not that kind of New York slice. You go to California, MERO: Yeah! Chicken on it. MERO: I don't want no I got pizza at LAX - This ain't it. This ain't it. Pineapple on pizza? Just nah, man. DESUS: That's not it. Denzel says that's not official. Listen, it's not valid. Mm-hmm. You heard it here, you The man has spoken. Do not put fruit on your pizza. (LAUGHING) Don't put Oh-- one of my favorite &amp; Girls Club commercial. OK. Getting on the bus? Yeah, just the work you've because you were a Yeah, absolutely. DESUS: And you showed your card What made you do that? How could I not? Mm-hmm. The club and my mother-- DESUS: Yeah. --saved me. She'd come get me. Mm-hmm. - She'd embarrass me-- --and come get me. Dad working three jobs, so Yeah, you know how that goes. Yeah. But she'd come get me. DESUS: Mm-hmm. Oh, kept me on the Yeah, my mom-- ooh. DESUS: Your mom Oh, she would and I relate to-- In front of everybody? In front of everybody. Oh, don't even care? I relate very strongly. Because who's meeting me when I Mom, mom right that I ain't smoking doing nothing funny style. MERO: I'm with the right people. Who's laughing now? Uh-huh. Now we on TV, know Now we on-- you feel me? Now we on TV, sit DESUS: With Denzel, - That's all. So I'm in the Mm-hmm. There's your mom here, D. - Huh? There's your mom, D. Mm-hmm. I'm like, whatever, 15, 16. I'm like, man, I'll So I go around the gate. I get in the car, and where the park is right And I'm looking, I'm like-- I think this is where She was screaming. I'm like-- you know, As I turned-- pow! Wow. Just put my head under the-- - Oh, yeah! You were looking at your Because I know Right, cracking up. On the ground. DESUS: Mm-hmm, cooking you. Cooking me. Your face stay burning You like, [GROANING] damn! [GROANING] So &quot;The Tragedy of Macbeth.&quot; DENZEL WASHINGTON: DESUS: Oh. Come on-- all you see the A24 logo, so you This is going to be stunning. You know it's going - OK. - Right. Black and white. Black and white, Coen, McDormand, Frances. You know what I'm saying? And the youngsters are coming. MERO: Yeah! Moses Ingram, young lady, Yeah, that's a little Chopping-- chopping heads off. Because you've been in so how do you-- because we-- shout out to the homie We just interviewed him. Right. That's our guy. And he had so much about how he was watching like, get into the role and - Act. Right, right. How-- I know this is like How do you do it? How do you shoot the shot? How do you-- How does Denzel Denzel? You got to practice. It's too late when DESUS: Yeah. It's too late when You know, one of the lessons I at the Boys Club, now Boys I was running track, the team, Reginald Whitfield. And the coach could see how-- Billy could see I because this guy was faster. He said, yeah, Denzel, But he doesn't have He doesn't know how He doesn't know how He said, your natural ability DESUS: Right. So when I got to the point-- I was about to say, where some of those other things. Right, right, right. I almost gave in. [INTERPOSING VOICES] I mean, listen-- Talk that talk, Denzel. Listen-- it's real. It's real. When I got to that place-- and by the grace I was given this ability to act But I remembered would only take me so far. So I knew I had to study more. I had to get deeper. I had to go to learn more. So that's what I And it's paying off now DESUS: Nice. In terms of acting, a boot camp for acting? Because he's done it all. He's done small screen, - Stage. Stage. You learn how to act on stage. MERO: OK. Because it's like what Right. Once they say Mm-hmm. Now, if the thing fall Yeah. In a movie, you could-- Ah, we've got to reset. Oh, we got to do this. Now you here, you here. Go. Right? If you here, you know, he's Yes. So it's-- theater Mm-hmm. And the theater And it's none of my people, but - Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. --when y'all-- they DESUS: Yeah. DESUS: Denzel! Denzel! He's so handsome! Denzel! I love you! I love-- MERO: Ah! --I love you, too, You trying to do throwing panties onstage. I'm like, this is Fences! This is serious! My mom, God rest her soul-- I lost my mom this year-- Aw. But yeah, 97. She didn't get cheated, I. I didn't get cheated. Got-- she was 97. I got out of her 66 years. Billy Dee Williams played I never saw my mother DESUS: Mm. I was like, Ma, sit down. You see a different side. Oh, Billy Dee's a different-- I don't want to hear that! That's your mom! No, I'm just saying-- listen, my mom, Billy Dee is a smooth dude. So-- so when it my turn, I was like, oh, OK. Now you Billy Dee. DESUS: Mm-hmm. Now somebody mama I was signed-- I did &quot;Julius preparation for &quot;Macbeth&quot;-- Right. 2005, I did &quot;Julius Caesar.&quot; So that was my first time to theater in about 15 years. I was trying to raise the kids, And it was about an She says, boy, if I was [LAUGHTER] would All right, Gladys, calm down. - Gladys! The cougars is out there. And straight looking me-- DESUS: Yo! Checking the package. DESUS: Yo! &quot;If I was about I said, oh, lord! DESUS: Yo! Start sweating like, oh-- DESUS: I was shocked. I'm sweating now I was like, yes, Ma'am. What is one of the most that everyone should know? One of the most important know is to remember of gratitude, of humility. Understand where It's not mine. It's been given to me Use what I have, sound like your mom, right? Yeah, yeah. Yeah, I saw you listening! I just felt it, and My mother told me, I'm very creative. Obviously, y'all very Mm-hmm. On your last day, you DESUS: Yes, that is true. But you can leave it here. True. You'll never see a Woo! Boy-- yo, hold on, Yo-- That's a bar. Hold on, that's a bar. You can run with that. You'll never see-- You'll never see a Now, the Egyptians tried it. That's right. They got robbed. - That's true. Or end up in a museum. Or you end up in a museum. So-- Have you ever forgotten you've done so many movies? Have you ever-- someone ever yo-- - Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. I was, uh-- Some movies that [LAUGHTER] I was about to ask you. Good look. A couple that I wanted You know, I-- [LAUGHS] Because yo, Because you know, when Yeah. --it's not about, you know-- for some people, it is. But for some people, to put food on the table, so-- Well, you do what you can do what you want to do. MERO: Exactly. So the relatives coming Am I-- Well, you know-- Are they eating? Listen, listen, I've been back home. [INTERPOSING VOICES] Oh, everybody in DR, easy. Oh, they eating because you know what I'm saying? They think I'm a billionaire. They think I'm Jeff Bezos out Because I can send them a Right, right, right, right. No, all my relatives well, my aunts are like, you MERO: Yeah. Your people are-- My people were in the Bronx, What part of Jamaica? What is it-- St. Elizabeth. DESUS: In the hills. Nah, I was supposed We couldn't go because of COVID. So I'm trying to go-- That chicken, that jerk. Mm-hmm. Denzel, are we Now? Let's go, man. But let's run the video on the-- on this &quot;Macbeth&quot; first. Let's go! Let's make the money Let's leave-- [LAUGHS] Right? Let's do that So we can get more jeans DESUS: Exactly. --for the DR. More CD-Rs, cousin. You know what I'm saying? Get ready, we're sending you a Oh-- [INTERPOSING VOICES] And we got some know &quot;Macbeth&quot; DESUS: Exactly. Tapes. 'Cause you're-- No, not DVDs, not-- what's You know I ain't-- The little USB sticks? No USB sticks. Not that, no streaming, nope. - No streaming. We sending VHS. We sending VHS. We sending VHS and a VCR. How you know? MERO: What the hell is this? You can't go in Best Buy-- This is-- Do they still They-- they should. I feel like Denzel is What? When was the last time I'm not the person to ask. See? You be going out-- Like, because me-- I been getting out OK-- oh. OK, so-- So people with the But what about when You know what? People recognize my DESUS: Mm-hmm. Is that a problem, you Like, do you ever Especially now with could go out with a mask And you just Unc. Hi, we're from-- Yeah, you can't do that. [INTERPOSING VOICES] I'm behind you. Yeah. I'm gone already. You know, and you Yo, D! - Peace. - Aight, I see you. - Hey-- Yo, do your thing. Black man, trying Yes, Sir. Yeah, exactly. I had a guy Uptown, he yep! Yo, that's him. And left-- didn't say nothing. Yo, that's him! That's Uptown. That's Uptown. I was in the Not even like, yo, No, no-- yeah, he didn't now you get-- well, you know, whatever you did-- This ain't for me. DENZEL WASHINGTON: No, one time, it It was like, 2:30, And this guy goes, And I was like, yeah. He was like, cool. That's it, that's it. He walked off. And I was like, hey, I Cuz, hey, but you know? Hopefully, he was a fan. And that's what I'm saying Because I was-- I And apparently, I have So homeboy just points at me-- points from across the with the show, my G. Stay up. I'm like, OK, thank you. I appreciate that. All right. You know, you train-- ahead of you in New York. You raised to move-- --at angles. You're not walking And then that's the like, occasionally, you So it shouldn't be a big deal. Because you know, you be like this, like-- - Yeah, right. I see you, and Like, other places, they DENZEL WASHINGTON: But New Yorkers will make - Yeah. - They'll humble you, yeah. And you're famous for? Yeah, I know. Yeah. Or here's my favorite-- And I'm like, nah, It's just the vibe, man. It's New York City. I love it, though. I love New York. Yes, we can see it. You're a New Yorker. [INTERPOSING VOICES] This is a great interview, man. You emanate it. How did it feel like, though, Like, is that-- are you there? Like, is that your home base? I couldn't wouldn't use all the lanes. Like, there was that Yo, LA traffic is-- I'm like, why is It don't make no sense, bruh. It don't. LA traffic ain't nothing I was like, that's the So when people are LA traffic, I'm like, y'all Y'all ain't breaking no rules. That's why it's so bad. I saved $2,000. I got a white used Volkswagen. DESUS: Mm-hmm. I'm on the Cross Bronx. And some Dominicans-- [LAUGHTER] --tore the back of my car! And some Dominicans-- Papi, I'm sorry. Papi, no se. Papi, I'm sorry. Hey, you bring it to he'll fix it up We don't got to call police-- Yeah, y'all got to and 130-something so I could-- - Did they fix it? They fixed it? --a few things. Hey-- [LAUGHTER] Denzel, chill! Chill! They fixed a few things. Chill! Denzel went from They fixed a few things. MERO: Yo! Oh, man, where'd you I went to-- you know, I grew Mm-hmm. And I wasn't gonna make it. You know, I was throwing So they-- my mother I was pretty smart. And they sat me down. They said, you know this So they found a school for upstate. But there was a some guys there like myself, Mm-hmm. So there was a guy-- I don't know if Peachy from Bathgate Avenue. Whose father owned OK. - OK. Yeah, yeah. You're making money in the Yeah, for real. Still-- It's a fact, you Still. Shout out to Ortiz. Oh, god. Yo, I-- where's that? I know that. Well, that's like-- - They got a-- Yeah. Low key, that was the flex That was like, oh-- your fam put a little Like-- They knew you was out here so-- Ortiz is so out of you go there, they're like, And like-- they have, &quot;It's So Hard to Say Goodbye&quot;-- MERO: All that. --or like, &quot;Gangsta MERO: You know what I'm saying? Dudes are out in the parking you know what I'm saying? Like-- it's real. Real talk. Y'all are crazy. [LAUGHTER] We got it! Y'all are crazy, man. Oh-- Because we still have time. We just Bronx boys, man. You know what it is. You can't take it out-- Can't take it out of us. Can't take us out of this, yo. And I'm claiming it because Mundy Lane! In Mount Vernon. By Baychester. Outside our window - Mount Saint Michael. [INTERPOSING VOICES] - With the track. Yeah, ran on that track. Keep walking up that Hit the who? There's a Target up Not then. DESUS: Not then, but now. Oh, wow. So we-- &quot;Macbeth.&quot; &quot;Macbeth.&quot; [LAUGHTER] My lord. Do you care how Are you one of those because-- More people will end I directed-- you know, acted Oh, we-- MERO: Oh, we know. We know about I give that same speech to I love you, but I I ain't got to-- oh, oh, Like you? Who said I got to like you? Who said I got to like you? [LAUGHS] When we did &quot;Fences,&quot; we Then I-- you know, I'm producing So then we produced &quot;Ma Rainey.&quot; Netflix has 250 million or Right. So-- Yeah. --now, 250 million - Uh-huh. So I want both. I want it both ways. DESUS: Got you. We want it all! I want it all. - You can't tell him no. You know what? You can't tell me no twice. You can tell me no once. Not twice. Not twice. He'll put cases [LAUGHS] Go ahead, go ahead, go ahead. Oh, I'll put cases on Shoe program. You know what I'm saying? Shoe program-- aw, shit. Shoe program. Shoe program. Shoe program. Yo, I'm feeding you motherf-- Shoe program. 23-hour lockdown. That's right. You motherfuckers-- You think you To me? Jake-- Jake-- go Jake-- You think you You'll be playing-- Basketball at Pelican Bay! When? When I get through with you. When I get through with you. Man, that shit was powerful! It's just like &quot;Macbeth.&quot; This is like-- what you're about It's no different. DESUS: It is no different. It's a different Uh-huh. [LAUGHS] This has been a - Top two-- Top two. Top two, and it's not two. I'm just saying top don't get offended. Listen-- Oh, what, you brought We went down to Oh, you had to come see him. You gotta go see him. He should have been here! Listen, listen-- Barry, come back here. - All right? Maybe you could top this. I'll sell you something. What you need, B? Yo! What you need? For real, what you need, baby? MERO: Come on, we got it all. Give you some Michelle ain't Michelle ain't-- no, Michelle Barry better show. Barry you aren't rolling They-- they trouble. The three of them Listen, all of our and all of our guests DENZEL WASHINGTON: Mm-hmm. What would you like Blessed. MERO: Boom. DESUS: Denzel Washington MERO: Ladies and gentlemen-- Check out &quot;The The attitude is gratitude. And if y'all don't want I don't know, watch the other That's right. 50. - 50? That's like 5,000. Come on.