- This man is spending $2 million a year to reverse aging. I tried his plan for one month, and the results will blow your mind. Now, how many supplements - Over a hundred. - Holy cats. So that's a lot of pills. - It's a lot of pills. - So is youth something we can recapture? That's the plan according He's taken every research study and scientific paper he and used it to create Blueprint, exercise, and take supplements that will help you actually age backwards. - We took on the entirety of all the scientific literature, systematically putting a protocol My responsibility was to that protocol, zero infractions, and that's what I think of concept that we can - Why do this? Because as we learn more our idea of aging gets - 45 years ago, I left my mother's womb. My diaphragm is 18, my left Biologically, I am I think we could be on more revolutionary than - So for the next month, I am going to be trying Bryan I'm gonna be eating the way he eats, taking all the same supplements, which is a lot of supplements, and I'm gonna be exercising every day to see if I can actually Stick around to find out if I was worried at the end of 30 days, I would like not want I'd be miserable and just like, &quot;Take me to the nearest pizzeria,&quot; have some big bacchanal of carbs and meat. God, that does sound good though. Will I live forever or die trying? This is &quot;Hard Reset,&quot; a series about rebuilding Hard Reset is all about rethinking things from the ground up, and it's hard to think of than this product from our Henson Shaving. Henson is an aerospace manufacturer that has made parts for satellites orbiting the Earth. We love the approach they took to rethink something When the machinist at Henson they realized that most as rigidly as you'd expect, so they designed the They also found that microscopic variances on the quality and consistency of a shave. The result is that their the blade out 0.0013 inches. That's less than the or a piece of paper. No gimmicks or multiple It's just a single quality so that you're in control of your shave. This is an incredibly well-made, It's the kind of product that'll last you the rest of your life. It uses standard blades, and totally recyclable, so there's no waste like I mean, the whole thing is solid metal, so it's completely recyclable If you wanna elevate we suggest you go to If you buy a razor and a pack just enter in the code 'reset,' and you'll get the blades for free. A hundred blades like this so this is a great way to hard Okay, the sponsored section is now over. Let's get back to reversing aging. This is Bryan. He wants to be young again, and he is like really, Nice to meet you. I'm Nick. Thanks for taking the time I really appreciate it. Come on in. Bryan has undertaken a to see if he can get back to being 18. That sounds crazier than it really is. - We wanted to pose the question, &quot;Is the Fountain of Youth here right now?&quot; It's just hiding in tens of thousands of scientific publications.&quot; And so what you see here of two years' effort. You like to think it's but really is about something much bigger, and that's what I really with Blueprint is after it's here, meaningfully here. What's coming could dramatically I don't think that we can that's coming our way, and I think the job all - Blueprint is Bryan's open-source project to create a system for self-care that essentially runs itself It's a complete overhaul of his diet, his fitness activities, and how he measures the - What we do systematically in my body. We look at all the scientific evidence, we implement the protocol, Evidence, data, protocol, repeat, and so this diet in me has It slowed my speed of aging My body now accumulates than the average 10-year-old. - For Bryan, or anyone else who thinks about it for the idea that a single number Our bodies are super complex and the different components of this massively complex in perfect synchronization. Your skin might age much or your muscles, or your bones. Your brain might be aging or slower than your heart. And now to a certain how these different systems For each of these aspects of his age, Bryan has taken on the and restore his optimal health. It starts with an intense Also enough supplements to stock a GNC, and a strict diet that I got to sample. - So I'll wake up in the morning and I'll drink this 'Green Giant,' and it has amino acids, of chlorella powder, collagen take 60 pills. I'll work out for an hour. A pro move would be for you however, that comes with some risks that you may find - Like immediately? - There's like some variance, but just so you know, like if you wanna have a full like choose your own adventure. It may be fine, you may find some time in the bathroom. - You should know, like now I'm terrified, but I mean I'll eat it's really good. Yeah, kinda just like apple juice with a little bit of, like a shot of wheat grass at a cafe or something, but yeah, I don't hate this at all. This is quite good. - Yeah, it's very good. . All right, so this one you - and then- - I am a founding member I just wanna say - I have to say I'm impressed. That's courageous. That's pro right out of the gate. - I'm about to go stand for another shoot, so I hope Laura's having a panic attack. This is a lot of fun. - This will be exciting to see. All right, next is what and it's broccoli, cauliflower, shiitake or maitake mushrooms, garlic, and ginger. Take your olive oil, and and then this is an exciting thing is I add the 100% dark chocolate, and I pair it with the vegetables. - Yep, I've got it actually, yeah. - Pair it with the vegetables, okay. - So chocolate with that many people do; however it's bitter because it's 100% dark, right, and so the bitterness paired with this and the olive oil I find to be delicious, so why don't you try that? - I'll try that. - That's really interesting. I never would've thought to and it does add a lot. Tell me about this dish. - So an hour later, this will 'be Nutty Pudding.' - And you said macadamia nuts, what were the others? - Walnuts. - Walnuts? Flax seed, some pea protein, berries and two ounces of freshly - Oh, that's really good. Now you eat basically all of your meals before 8:00 AM, is that correct? - I eat them before 11:00 AM or so. It's in a six-hour window, so by noon every day I'm finished eating. - Wow. - How does that feel? - I love it. This is the thing. I love this protocol more of a previous life I've lived. - One other important aspect to this, beyond just how it affects our aging, is that Bryan is trying to simplify the choices in his life, so he doesn't need to invest kinda like how Steve Jobs and jeans. If you can codify these healthy choices and make it a thought-free set of habits, that could set you up for a better life. - When I wake up in the morning, of going left to right. I'll start here, I'll grab then this guy, and then so on, so I basically never have I just walk through a process Before I was committing these acts of self-destructive behavior of violence: eating too much food, skipping exercise, that was I had to say, &quot;All right, Now what do you need to But importantly, what it no longer has authority I had to destroy my mind before - If you think this sounds like comic book stuff, you're not wrong, because it does require a superpower. Like Batman, Bryan's He spends roughly $2 million and even has his own fully in his house. - So this is a high-frequency it makes muscles contract. So if you wanna sit here, and if you have a cell phone, you'll wanna take it out of your pocket. We'll count down: three, two, one. - Oh, okay, that's not bad. Okay, yeah, I'd have to, from like Burning Man But this is not nearly as bad as, I was worried for a minute there. Oh, yep, there it is. - You have pants on, normally it's done in different underwear. - Yeah, that's for the subscribers only. - Of course, not everyone can afford their own medical clinic, and He's trying the most so that others can take that information and build something that - I took it all the way to and somebody of course can piece together what they can in their I wanted to give an example if someone really wanted to go all in, what could they imagine And if you look at my I mean, it's meaningfully and my biological processes. - So to see how easy it Is for people to do this, at Hard Reset, we decided and do our own version of the Blueprint plan on his site for 30 days. The only question is: Will I survive it? We wanted to see what it was So Rob, Freethink's, Editor-in-Chief, and I both adopted a simplified version of the Blueprint plan for 30 days. - All right, today's - Yes, technically. So, one of the things when we did this was that we don't just do Like I don't think it's &quot;I feel better&quot; or &quot;I I feel like there needs to be some quantifiable data to this. So at the beginning and end, to see what happened to my body. To begin with, I took a biological age test. Now, I know how old I am. I'm currently 43 years old. The question that this answers though is: How do your cells behave? How old is your body behaving based on all the different that have influenced that? So you take a small saliva and they analyze that to that might show what your Well, if we assume this test actually several numbers, but they combine to show a biological age of roughly 36, which is far better It's not all good news though. My brain and my liver are than the rest of my body. I also took a DEXA scan and a VO2 max test to get a and overall fitness levels. - VAT stands for visceral adipose tissue. In my opinion, this is the this whole process. There's a lot of data and statistics out there of visceral tissue with an heart disease, that sort of stuff. So you've gotta score a 205. The high risk range is above 160. Anything you can do, especially of 50, to get that number closer to 100, I would definitely recommend. - Like, obviously I'm not but what is the sort of after a month of fairly - If weight loss is your goal and you really dial in the nutrition, I think somewhere, anywhere between two to eight pounds a month. I know it's a wide range, - Okay, that's fair. This waist brand strap mark is disturbing. It's a lot to take in. AlL right, we're ready to go. - You excited? - No. - All right, let's go ahead and have you step on the treadmill here. You're doing awesome. Excellent. - I got a VO2 score of 34.6. I'm on the lower end of for someone who barely does any exercise, but there's lots of room for improvement. We also tracked weight and sleep. Then it was time to start the plan. Okay, so today is day one of the Bryan Johnson - So this is day two of doing Bryan Johnson's Blueprint. - We started with the supplements. Bryan takes a lot of supplements, so many so, so many. We use the recommended list from his Blueprint Starter Guide, but omitted anything that Buying a month's worth of these supplements cost - It's closer to what you to do in terms of optimizing their body, but also just like what it who aren't eccentric with the attitude that he has, 'cause I walked into the just the ground macadamia nuts. - I couldn't find ground macadamia nuts. I'm gonna have to grind it myself. One of the items that struck me today was - Bro, I was looking all over for that! - It's not that attainable for everybody, unless you have a staff who for you every morning, right? For the diet portion, we for his daily meals, the and the Nutty Pudding. We were also allowed a third to interpretation as long as Bryan is vegan, but Rob and I are not, so we allowed ourselves to as long as it was one serving or less, and accompanied by vegetables We also didn't allow ourselves Then there was exercise. This is exercise. It's just like normal things you might do, except it's not fun, and I don't enjoy it. We did an hour of exercise every of each workout dedicated Rob did weight training. I mainly walked. I walked a lot. In fact, I walked over of the experiment. So what's it like to live Well, once you get used of supplements, that's that impacts your day-to-day life. One weird side note, I noticed that the supplements on my body odor. I think it was the iron supplements, because I noticed I had a metallic smell after working out. Also, more than once I that my skin was glowing, which was super, super weird. The diet was mainly boring. There's nothing unpleasant about the food with the possible in the Green Giant, which does It's just boring eating With a little preparation, it's not too hard to pack to do Blueprint while you travel, but you will need to get used to the idea of watching your family that you can't, just like at work when all your colleagues The thing that I think that it's the same thing over and over again every day, of the point that Bryan's out of this situation. You're just always sort of My only concern is, is a month long enough to have a measurable impact on my health or my biological age? Probably not, but I have it's not unpleasant. It's just boring. - It's Thursday, June 22nd. This is my fourth day. I measured myself before and I was about 232. I stepped on the scale I've only rarely been but the food man, food, the food is rough. I need some flavor, - Also, it's a lot of food. You are not hungry on this diet. Honestly. I was often so to eat a third meal. To break up the monotony, I would change up the recipes a little bit without deviating from the diet. Well, I'm 11 days in to the Blueprint Diet by Bryan Johnson. So far, I have lost a something like 8 to 10 pounds depending on when I weigh myself. Definitely lost a lot of fat on my face, not sure I've lost it in my belly. Finding an hour of time every day for working out was a challenge, but I found that if I it passed the time a lot more quickly. Frankly, I was hoping that after doing this for a month every day, I'd finally have the of endorphin rush but I never did. I am apparently just not wired that way. So the last six days have not been fun. I realized this morning that of my regular prescription medications in to my nightly supplement so that probably contributed a great deal to my overall feeling of and just general confusion and vertigo. Definitely hoping that because I was very much on the - Yeah, feeling good, feeling strong. I'm gonna take these pills, - When I started this that it would work, but that I mean, what's the point in living forever if you just wanna die right now. Okay, so today is day 24 of the Bryan Johnson Blueprint plan. I have to say, I don't think afterwards as is. I'll probably do something similar, but I probably won't and I'll probably try and keep up as much of the exercise as I can, 'cause I feel like it has but we'll see what the But at the end of 30 days, to jump into a deep dish Oddly enough, I felt like I only wanted to change a few things to make it accommodate my Okay, so this is my last day of the Bryan Johnson Blueprint plan. I have been doing this for 29, this will be 30 days, and this is my last green Super Veggie lunch. Had my last Green Giant, and I gotta say, I do feel better. I do feel like I just I don't feel perfect. I don't feel necessarily younger, but I do feel like I have more energy. I've lost a lot of weight. I feel like my energy throughout I just generally feel better. - So yeah, I think that's the biggest hack or adjustment to this is over your body and how to some extent, to the extent that we have free will in the first place, but you can take agency over that stuff and you might as well while you're young, 'cause by the time you're - So the Blueprint plan wasn't The real question was: Did it work? To find out, I took a another DEXA scan, another VO2 max, a blood test, and another biological aging test. Let's look at the data. I definitely saw a steady I lost about 20 pounds over which was more than I expected, but maybe less than I'd hoped. Still, it was a clear win. My sleep data wasn't as clear. I don't think I saw huge or quantity, which is a shame because it's one of the for your overall health. The DEXA scan was another clear win. Looking at my body composition, you could see I hadn't just lost weight, but I'd lost fat where it mattered most. - Your visceral fat area Your last scan was coming in at about 210, so you've been able to drop so I'd say you can't really - The VO2 max test was but I saw a clear improvement going from a 34.6 to a 36.8. My blood test results were also great. My cholesterol and triglycerides than my previous blood test. My triglycerides went from over 300 to just over 70, which is incredible, and my LDL, which is the bad It went down from 126 to 92. So overall, I had lost weight, but had I really slowed For that, we looked at the results of the biological age test, and yes, it appears in fact, much more effectively My biological age went from 36 to 33, and I saw improvements Although we couldn't or VO2 max test for Rob, he saw dramatic improvements as well. He dropped 25 pounds in weight, lost six inches off his waist, and he saw 40% to 70% improvement in his weightlifting performance. Now, we fully admit that around the accuracy of but if you accept them of our body's overall age, by adopting Bryan's Blueprint plan. So having seen these numbers, having seen this dramatic it makes me reticent to go back to living my life the way I was before. It makes me feel like I probably of the things from the Blueprint plan. I'm definitely gonna make a few changes, but I'm probably gonna and be very careful to watch and how my body performs. - Bryan Johnson's Blueprint, that when they interface with this and they see it, they and they think of it's I think when you just like look at it from a macro level, it's not crazy. It's actually just like Eat whole foods, take - It's been several months since we filmed this experiment and I've kept my regular, My diet isn't anything crazy and I'm taking fewer supplements. I've kept the weight off, and I'm actually still losing My wife says I'm still 43 though. - And the hard reset on aging, I guess it's like sort of TBD, right? You have to see what the I didn't feel like I in any real sense, but Bryan's and we've been doing it - I think for me it's more of a hard reset on the idea of wellness. Should you think of your health Maybe you should start and what you can do to improve to just thinking about it when So what will it mean as to optimize our diet and our So, picture a scenario of what foods and activities would extend our healthy lifespans. You don't need to close Just look around you, because Doctors have been telling and exercise regularly for decades, and for just as long you can call that human nature. - This is a hard reset on how It's a genuine attempt at trying to say, &quot;Given the circumstance, what is the most practical in doing that would increase - So the future scenario here isn't a leap forward in For Bryan, this all - In the same way that to my destination more the technology's to a point now where it does all these which goes to your question of: what is my role of decision-making? And I've chosen to opt in and say, &quot;I say yes to an algorithm that can give me near-perfect health, dramatically slow my speed of aging, and keep me going into the future because I wanna play new games.&quot; - What does the world look like when we make the best What does it mean for our health and our happiness when of desperation, or on impulse? - I no longer pantry graze. I don't order from a menu. I don't do a spontaneous pizza party. I don't do drinks with friends late night. I don't miss it. I don't want it. They make me feel awful. I think they're bad, and and we'll see that it does to be doing things that increase the risk of death and disease. - A lot of this comes down to how you define free will. Is it still free will if you like Odysseus lashing himself so he won't succumb to Or does the impulsive version of you need to have some say in how you live your life for it to be fully free? As always, it's a and what you gain are pretty clear. The only real question is what choices will you