If you've watched our channel for a while such as, what to do if your city was a war invasion. In these and many other videos we often advocate In such a catastrophic scenario, cities will all of the food and most of the water that on learning to live off the land. So today we're tasking our favorite wilderness how to survive for three days, eating only Day 1: So I sort of have trust issues with Now they've typically been up front about few in on me. When I got sent to Hawaii because the fans because I kept expecting some bomb to drop, for a day or something equally insane. But no weirdness ever came, and it turned Well, a little bit ago me and the girlfriend week we got an offer to stay for a few days California. Infographics said that they figured they owed had to deal with a pretty tough three day Consider it a sort of thank you and we're By the way, yes we've seen your comments really flattered, but take a look at other we prefer to remain as anonymous as possible. We're already worried our poor narrator and thinks "hey, it's that guy from the Oh and changing clothes? Well, obviously we used a key for that every make us wear the same stinky clothes for three Anyways, we took the offer and made the drive a perfectly pleasant little place. Kind of romantic really, deck with a gorgeous hot tub that overlooks a freaking mountain. Within an hour of arriving though, my spider Sure enough, I got a call from the show: "Oh for you- no, not both of you, just you." Apparently I'm always on the clock, and the is playing favorites here, or maybe they're So, yeah, I should've seen this coming, but up here in the mountains for the next three Honestly, it should've been obvious the moment some very basic survival supplies on the kitchen it's a cabin out in the woods, survival stuff So the girlfriend had a pretty good laugh, to pick up her supplies for the three days, Alright, so at least they're not making me get the comforts of a cabin to come back to, stretch of the imagination. I remember my survival training from the military really don't like getting eaten? They tend to make it incredibly difficult Luckily though, I've had to scrounge with once in my entire six years was I in a situation to scavenge. Using firearms was not an option, because bad guys to find you. So I have a pretty good idea of the wildlife remote area close to Big Bear in SoCal. I spotted several small lakes, and I know I'm at is desert, and at the foot of the mountains That's good, because it means most animals and the cities at the foot of the mountains, mountains since there's only desert there. I'm thinking that most of my sustenance is hunting is incredibly difficult, never mind and arrow. You can make a throwing stick with a weighted mammal such as squirrel or rabbit, but it I am also pretty confident I can whip up a groundhogs, all animals that are pretty abundant There's also deer, but let's face it, venison one without a true hunting tool. It's still late summer, so snake is definitely that inhabit the area. I'm honestly not picky, and if you want to I almost wish that this challenge was closer practically teeming with mussels. This isn't going to be easy, but I'm kind I haven't been in a situation like this for came close. It's time to go mano-a-mano with mother nature! Day 1: So the challenge started on the morning the cabin. I was already up and out of the cabin well I found on google maps that there's a small the cabin, and during summer time fish tend after sun down. During the hottest parts of the day they retreat you'll get a bite then. I took a length of string with me, and the hooks out of wood. The show had included a packet of balloons that they knew what they were doing- balloons fishing. What I don't have is bait, but that's ok, know where to look. I left at around 2:30 am, and it took me two rough terrain. That wasn't good, because it meant I'd have As soon as I got to the lake I did a quick trout, carp, and bass for sure, but it's best Bass will typically hide in areas with vegetation, areas of clear water where they can keep an With that in mind, I did a quick scout and With insects up and about, I knew trout would good that a few bass would tag along. I lucked out and found a rotting log, and to find a virtual treasure trove of large I used these for bait, and set them on my I rigged six hooks on string to six balloons, than the others, targeting fish at different I inflated the balloons a quarter of the way bait suspended in the water and letting me Then finally, I tied each line to a branch one up it wouldn't be able to get away- unless I set up my fishing lines around the perimeter There was plenty of vegetation pushing up was a place insects would frequent, and accidentally The trout and bass would both know this, so Now it's important to note that this type state, but this is technically a survival tab if some ranger managed to find me out I set my lines and waited, and incredibly, Two of them were smaller trout, about eight were likely still juveniles. Well, sorry but a man's gotta eat. The third line I suspect hit a bass though, It takes a really aggressive fish like a bass, made out of wood after all. Sadly, there are no pike in southern california, I reset my two lines and snagged a third trout, guess you can see by now why this technique three fish. Now in a real survival situation I would've smoked the meat I couldn't eat. When you don't know where your next meal is what you can get when you can. This isn't a real survival situation, and food tomorrow I would go hungry for a day fish than I needed, and was confident I could On the way back I stopped and picked up a They're about an inch long and really thick You gotta bite the heads off from behind though, your lips or tongue and that hurts like hell. So I came home and found the girlfriend already She was kind of surprised to see me walk in I guess she didn't think it would be that Honestly, survival really isn't that easy, world of trouble. Typically in a survival situation you spend but sometimes you get lucky like today. The girlfriend was fine with me gutting and saw me dump out a handful of grubs from my She then practically fainted when I bit the Hey, bugs aren't amazing to eat, but food I then chased her around the house with the the bathroom. I knew I had enough fish for solid eating concern. That let me focus on preparations for tomorrow, I whittled more fishing hooks and made a weighted of a large, splintered stick, and then wrapping You can use vines or even long grass to do hunting throwing stick, though I've never great. I decided that tomorrow I'd try my hand at basically, mammal was on the menu. I could probably live on fish for a few days, to see how hard it would be to move to land Small mammals, especially rabbits, tend to can find well-worn paths that lead through method of escape. Rabbits are creatures of habit and will typically and months on end. Luckily, as it's late summer there should otherwise it might be best to look for an To catch a rabbit the best tool is a simple You can find all kinds of complex traps to simple, easy, and pretty damn effective. Well, if your rabbit actually travels down That's where the snare's simplicity works up in several locations and increase the odds Ideally you would use metal wire to create shape needed. I only have heavy duty string though, so I'll The way a snare works is by forcing the rabbit the rabbit will hopefully stick his head through it will cinch the snare closed. You want to make your loop large enough for not so big that the snare might close around You really want the snare to cinch tight around With no metal wire I used long, rigid blades the string. Not only will they help keep the circular the string as well. With plenty of fish to eat, I spent the day several locations that looked promising. Tomorrow, hopefully, I would eat meat. Day 2: The best time to hunt rabbit is early the best way to hunt rabbit is with dogs- I set out at 4 am this time, and set up eight trails used by rabbits. To set each snare I found a part of the path funnel, then further closed the funnel with miniature fences on each side. You have to be careful and not make it super animals, but you should work the vegetation will more likely than not hit your snare as Then I simply hung the snare from an overhead There would be nothing to do until about noon, I wasn't very confident with my snares to path you still have to get lucky enough for itself. Odds are never in your favor when snaring So with the sun rising, I knew that lizards to warm rocks to absorb the sun and get their That's the perk of hunting a cold-blooded them early in the morning if you know where type of rocky outcroppings in your area. For me though, there were not, so lizard was I found a few warming themselves on the sides My stomach was growling and I started thinking This late in the day though odds weren't good Worse come to worse, there was always bugs. Not great tasting, pretty gross, but full be picky. That's when I came across a snake, easily Now years ago I had all the snakes found in but I'll be honest with you- I have no clue All I know is rattlers and that's it, and I had no idea if it was venomous or not, and to do. Was it worth the risk? Yes, I decided, because if this was a real-world You do NOT look a gift horse in the mouth is incredibly fickle and cruel. It must have been around noon by then, which and that's a shame because it would've been while it's still slow after the cold night. I chased it to a tree stump and managed to to do this. It was coiling up, so grabbing it by the tail my weighted stick. I doubted I could hit this thing's small head and found a large rock. Perfect. I grabbed the rock and holding it over my Not pretty, certainly not graceful, but that I picked up my prize and then started heading to find nothing. Just as I thought. Honestly, I can't overstate just how much If the girlfriend nearly fainted when I ate she saw me bring in a snake. She's not typically girly-girl, she is probably but while I was going through survival training she was going to fancy acting academies in Let's just say that all the food she has ever at the grocery store. Snake's easy to prepare, just slice in half a fire. Turns out this thing was a gopher snake, totally reason to take chances. At about two and a half feet long, it wasn't enough to live on. Later I checked my snares and still nothing, bastard probably ran right past it. I fixed it and left all the snares up overnight. Day 3: I did not catch a rabbit. Actually, the snares didn't work at all. I found two of them on the ground, which means No blood though, so it wasn't like a rabbit my lunch. That's ok, I didn't really think I'd have have to get lucky with those things. Instead I went fishing again today, because didn't think I'd get so lucky again with finding Wildlife is a bit scarce up here to be honest, at least have a compound bow for this challenge. I managed to catch two fish, one of them a That's good, because I much prefer the taste On the way back home though I spotted a fat, middle of a branch that stuck out and away It was just sort of sitting there, half-paying throwing stick with me. I threw as hard as I could and... missed by Incredibly, that stupid squirrel just sat again. So I fetched my stick and tried again, this it was perched on. This got it scampering up into the body of Also, the impact knocked the rock loose on I wanted to use it again. I told you, animals really try hard not to I brought the fish back to the cabin and prepared I had no grubs with me before she let me through Later in the day I checked on the snares but on them. I decided to just take them all down since hunt you should always be respectful and responsible. All in all, I didn't do too bad, though I I got really lucky with the snake on day two, lake for fishing nearby the cabin. It's no surprise that early man often set we really wouldn't have survived I think. Without the right tools, land animals are As a big perk though, the girlfriend was totally animals, but she did say that she thought into the woods and provided food. So there you have it guys, if you want girls wild animals in an emergency. Or just buy them food, it worked for me when How would you survive if you could only eat Have any hunting or trapping tips you can Let us know in the comments! And as always if you enjoyed this episode for more great content!