Hi everyone, Stjepan here. In this middlegame ideas video I'm going to normal chess position. This one I've set up first is just an example. I'm going to talk bout that in a minute. And, I'm going to tell you how to maneuver to their best squares or best outposts, and Now, one thing that all strong players do worst piece, and once they improve its position and weaker players often tend not to do that ways to win material instead of trying to Improving one single piece can be a major We are going to look at four examples from The first thing I would like to talk about piece wants to be. First of all, the queen I'm not going to mention. The queen would like to have as much space That doesn't mean that you should develop in the opening, but, generally, during the scope as possible and be influencing as many As for bishops, bishops require open diagonals, many key squares as possible in the position. This is just a random position I've set up Just to show you an example of what you have Now, in this imaginary position it's white Of course, you can see that he has a bad bishop. How to improve the bishop? On the other hand, black has a bad bishop as well. What would white like to do? If you think of bishops, a bad bishop is a And here the pawns are on light squares so get out of that pawns chain. Now, one idea I can see is playing the move of course, black can recapture, recapture On the other hand, you might be able to win So, tactically, you would have to calculate During a real game I would definitely consider The second idea I would have during the game d2, then put my bishop on d1, and bring it This would be activating my bishop. So lets play a move. Lets say we play Kd2. Now it's black to play. What does black want to do? Black has an even worse bishop, and one idea be playing the king either to c6 or to e6, with the king and then playing the move Bb8 Another idea might be to simply maneuver my to put it on this diagonal. So I would say this is the best move. lets continue with white's plan; Bd1, lets can activate. Lets say this is the best square - Bf3, coming Black finishes his activity, attacking the I don't know, the black king can approach Now if you compare the original position; and this position, then you can see that both regarding their bishops. And that is the general way of thinking you This was an absurd example, in which it was was really doing anything and there were no But, generally, during a game, you need to to think about improving your pieces even could win or lose material, or there are other in mind. Lets go on; knights. In this position, and this is another random both sides have the same problem. This time they have a bad knight, and it's Where would white ideally want to put his This is what I wanted to talk about regarding of course, can move backwards and they can In this position if the black bishop is ever two diagonals, and it could bring itself to On the other hand, if you put the white knight knight can only go here, here, here, here Knights require outposts, and the knights which makes them significant, but, on the are really reduced in scope, and they often This is the piece that gets trapped most often, have a square that is defended, is great for I would say that the white knight belongs Now how do you put your knight here? That's the tougher part. Lets look at ideas for black. Which potential outposts does black have? I would say that that's definitely the f4 I would like to get the white knight into these players. How are you going to do that? That's the tougher part, as I said. During the game you need to calculate, so this pawn. If it moves then, ok... Lets say... Lets just play that. The black king has to move in order for the So lets say this happens. Now this pawn is attacked, so lets say king the pawn. If the pawn moves then the knight gets a great defends. Now I'm pretty stuck but I'll continue. How do I get here? So I need to get here either from this square, square, from this square or from these two Could I get my knight into any of these squares? That's the tough question. I could go here and here, but the black pawn The same goes for this square. The same goes for this one, the same goes I could go here, so my next move might be going to jump in here. Black continues his plan, etc. Improving your knights requires outposts. Just let me briefly mention rooks. Rooks need open files. This is another random position I've set up. You can all find the best move for white here. It's definitely to put your rook on e1. If you can put your rook on the open file be better. Piece value is, I would say, pretty abstract, rook is worth five. If the rook were on h1, then it wouldn't be it's not in the game. So a rook on f1 might be worth five, but a is. Improving your pieces is the general way of Now lets look at some real examples. The fist example is from the opening. I wanted just to briefly mention that because by using opening examples. This is the Italian. A normal theoretical position on move 7, after I highlighted this knight on b1. You all know the thematic plan for the knights This knight, if you know these two openings, d5 square. And it either does that from the e3 square Now, this maneuver is well known, so I'm not during a game, you are going to have this a hundred times, and you know that you have This is a very common maneuver. However, during a real chess game, you don't not going to know this by heart and just say: During a real game, in the middlegame, you on your own, which makes it harder, and that's and this is one of the most famous examples, real games. Now lets look at some real positions. Ok. Now, how do you go about improving your position? Firstly, this position is very tense. There's pressure on the a file, and white This is always a threat, and if white at any black's c pawn is going to be passed and white's that it's going to fall. That means that this bishop can never move. Which black pieces are good? These rooks, therefore, because of their pressure They are fulfilling their role. This bishop is amazing, controlling four key This queen is great too, putting pressure sometimes. And we have two bad pieces. The bishop behind its pawn chain on e7 and I would say that these two pieces are both Now lets remember what we were looking at the knights. We need to find an outpost for the knight, bishop. Two of my ideas for the bishop: either get bishop to f8 and then to h6, it will control The second idea: get you bishop to d8 and color complex. Which diagonal you will choose depends solely One might, in conjunction with your other other. So this is what I would want to do with the As for the knight; this square looks great These two look great, but for now they are This one might work. This square looks fine. So I would probably try to find a plan to The player in the game chose this diagonal. He chose to put his bishop on 6, and he played A move which looks subtle but actually solves He played Nf7. now what this does is, firstly, So it can go to b6 and get onto this diagonal. Secondly, it prepares to bring the knight on the h3 pawn. Now, after a few moves (white played Ne3 here, Now, if you compare it to the original position; This is a very much improved piece. At the same time white didn't do much. Very often in maneuvering middlegames, especially the pawns are locked, you are going to have And don't waste your time improving pieces Try to use... I always use what Yasser Seirawan suggested And that's talking to your pieces. Just look at the board and ask your pieces: Are you good on this square? Would you like to be somewhere else?&quot; And this actually works. If you don't ask, you won't know the answer. So this bishop is already improved, this knight else, but black already managed to achieve Lets look at the second example. In this case, lets look at all of black's I've already given up the answer as for which Maybe I shouldn't have done that. Lets look at what the pieces are doing. This bishop is amazing pinning the knight This queen is marvelous putting pressure on This rook as well. So all of these work. This rook is on a semi-open file, putting A marvelous rook! And this knight... I'm not sure if it could be any better. The move f3 would weaken the position too so this knight is perfect as well. The only piece that isn't really doing anything Now, not that it's a tactical liability, the pinned, but it's just a bad bishop. It's staring at this pawn which might be something, This position is much simpler than the last How do you improve the bishop? What do you want to do? The best thing to do with your pieces is to on weaknesses which are already created. And playing the middlegame in a way in which make playing significantly easier and your and he is going to have to think a lot more So creating long-term plans for your pieces either provoking weaknesses, creating weaknesses, I think it's pretty clear in this position wants to attack. My first thought when I looked at this position Now what do you think about this bishop putting pinning the f2 pawn if the d4 pawn moves, the d4 pawn. I think that, after Bb8, which was played twice. It can move but then it pins this pawn. Black's position is perfect. I don't think that any of black's pieces could Now, another subject I'm going to talk about What to do when your pieces are perfect. That's for another video so we are going to your worst piece. Now, once again, imagine this position here Where is the bishop better? The bishop here is controlling one, two, three even count. And the bishop on a7 is doing a tremendous improved. What you have to do is find the worst piece using these examples. Is my bishop good or bad? Compare these two. Is my bishop behind my pawn chain? Is my knight on the rim of the board doing the center of the board? Is my rook behind my pawns or is it on an You can do that. Do that and you will find a bad piece. You don't have to find a horrible piece. Sometimes your position is going to be good just one piece which is unhappy, which could And once you do that your position is going be more likely to win. The third example is... quite... easy to see And... you have one bad piece. That you can see easily. The rooks are fine, definitely. You want to play the move a5, open up the pressure on the remaining pawn, and the rooks You could argue that the queen could be improved, Perhaps queen to f2 or queen e1 and coming The knight might also be improved, but it's It could jump into h4, g6, so the knight is Now lets look at the bishop. The bishop is bad, definitely. It's stuck behind its pawn chain and it needs Once again, you have this position, it's your Look at the position, find the worst piece. You can do that easily, we just did that; horrible! Lets do something about the bishop! Once again, look at the diagonals, where do You can either go Bf2, Bh4 controlling this this diagonal. In this particular case, tactically, it might you have a rook on f8, so it serves one more So I would definitely do that. White to play, I would play Bc1. Lets give a move to black, lets say putting move. You don't really want to move your g pawn. You can play, I don't know queen here. And once you do this... ah, sorry, lets give Once you do this your bishop has improved Remember that during a real game you need of your pieces. Once you find yourself in a middlegame position, calculate, and I've made a video on calculation video on creating plans which can help deepen And once it's your own move, you need to calculate, variations; does this work, am I losing anything, Just go: &quot;I go here, he goes there.&quot; Just calculate. And when it's your opponent's move, during plans like these. Talk to your pieces. I usually, when it's my move, I try to use do hard calculation without too much general start thinking about my pieces and I do this. And I think about: &quot;Ok, where would this piece Where would this piece want to go?&quot; And once my opponent makes a move, I will up with and which my opponent hasn't destroyed Remember to try to find plans like these when wiser way to use your time. Ok, I hope you liked this video on how to Please let me know what you think. Let me know if there are any great game examples And thanks very much for watching! Stay tuned for more chess! Bye, bye!