All right. The project right now is doing So I just bought this thing. I haven't pushed any dirt with it with the blade, I had a hose blow You can see someone's been changing hoses like that, let me just change I want to give it a quick service This winch has come in handy a few times, no roller fairlead So if you'd let that happen, you know, you end up with a situation like that. So let's fix that These guys are being so good right now. Right? You're not running away. You're being good. You think we should bother with these? I mean, this one's new, I don't know. There's no rot on that. This one is a little messed up here. Right here. Look at this. Yeah, you. You jerk Stay still Oh, boy. Don't kick a porcupine. Holy. Come here. Here. All right. Yeah. Cody What do you want to do with this porcupine? bite it, right? Okay. I'm not hurting it. I am not hurting this animal. Can I grab this This is my new pet His name is Porky. My current pets want to meet him, but they probably shouldn't. Hey, Porkey Porkey the porcupine, Ough Yeah. Let's take Porky for a walk. The purpose of that, I'd like to teach these guys not to touch those guys. What do I have here? Cody. What? what do we have? Yeah, what do I have? What do you want to do with Porky? Did you guys learn about Porky? This is a learning excersize Cody, Cody Dude, we're teaching you guys, Guys. I don't know how well this is working Guys, just chill. I think they're learning, Lacey, what do you think? You've never been Porcupined in your 16 years of doing things. You have once I am going to let let this go in a minute. He likes it. Blue, is that your friend? Cody. You see this guy right here? So now you know. When you see one of these Don't chase it. Did you guys learn anything I don't think you learned anything. Getting these hoses made it's there Is there better hoses than others? How about, like, longevity too? That's why we mostly use the because it's tough cover Yeah. pressure is higher than most If this didn't happen, where the coating rots If you're worried about that That's Okay. I kept the old ones, too, I can kind of figure out what it is. so these are on How does it look? You being good? I put orange on. Put that over there. All right. All the hoses are brand new. That is nice. There's a right and a wrong These are short. Maybe that's the trick. Slide it up These are too short. All right, check that out. That's together. Better than that was when I got this you know, it's not perfect. There's actually a special tool that It's hydraulic. I think a log this is that's going to be fine Lot of trash in here. I don't think I want that way cleaner than it was. this thing runs good. Where is the frisbee? Go get it It's out there. I did put a saftey stand there It's like it's right where it should be. Good thing I checked that. That was sucking in dust right there. That is my angle. Okay. Every grease fitting took grease. That's nice. It does let you see the ground right behind yourself. Just topped off the transmission fluid. But look at this. So these batteries. Move, moving around. And arking very bad. And I don't know how Oh, there's nothing holding these down This came with extra seat parts I think that was worth taking the time and make that protect that oil pan missing bolts like that and makes stuff rattle where does this go well that's. Very important because I've seen batteries get holes in them or the terminal shorting out on something like it was right there. This piece of trim has been off Looks better. Okay, so this hill right here, my plan is just to fill in this section. with some rock The slope a little. All right. So that looks pretty good. That It made the whole thing overall This dozer So that's a pretty good size. six way blade, winch new enough where you can run the tracks different directions at the same time So that worked. Perfect. That is all ready to roll. That is nice. All right,