Welcome to the white village. and I have a whole team with me. We are in the heart of Bresse. Bresse is an area that is above all and here we obviously have an There are many recipes but I chose Brest poultry in a salt crust which we make in a typical way So Matheo and the whole knows this recipe well and a demonstration that you will like. Matheo, action! It's time to make a Hi everyone, I'm Matteo Rossatto, I'm the chef of this restaurant, inside Georges Blanc's kitchen. A three Michelin Guide star restaurant for 40 years, 43 to be thanks to ItaliaSquisita, we are here to propose one of Monsieur Blanc's de sel, meaning chicken in a crust of salt. The Bresse chicken is native breed which is the chicken in the world Great chefs like Blanc have managed the highest levels What makes this poultry and mainly this fat under the skin that is very present. The meat is very white and therefore unlike our Italian chickens eating normally, it melts in your mouth, meat is very very tender differently from we're not used to My brigade is made up of approximately 30 guys, of which 25 are Italian. Andrea and Alessandro. Andrea is responsible for meats, while Alessandro the sauces. He will precisely this sauce that will accompany our chicken: Here's Andrea as he flames it to remove the superfluous be left, as later because then the very melting. After that, make a small cut on the joint in order to remove the tendons and prevent the chicken from moving too much, as in doing so it At this point, let's cut towards the to remove the see all the fat under the skin already coming out, part of the head - this very yellow fat, cleavers, choppers, none of this, let's just follow along the anatomy of the the final part of the let's move on to the from the liver to the We already see, however, the fat that comes all fat that we use in the restaurant because anyway we melt it and we use it as a flavoring in sauces such as, for example, the Vin Jaune sauce Once we have gutted it perfectly, Andrea pepper in such a way that in the meantime, as we prepare we will then put it minimal marination. stuff it with some unpeeled garlic, a white onion cut into quarters, a generous bouquet of thyme of our vegetable garden. And then we make our job easier by inserting the legs and indeed create something round and very compact. Once the chicken is seasoned, it is placed in a that the meats become so we avoid cooking a chicken in a crust at where it may end up being overcooked. we move to the pastry section to prepare the dough, which is probably the most important and crucial part of this recipe. As Monsieur Blanc anticipated, a village. This nicknamed Blanc Village by gourmand as well as gastronomic restaurant, Relais Chateau, an area where you can have petit dej, meaning breakfast, a boulangerie that makes bread both for retail after that we have are we going now. A laboratory from the restaurant take care of making all of the preparation of the day and after which which they move with us Let's now start the preparation of the salt crust. So let's start placing all of the ingredients We have 3.2 kg of salt, 2.5 kg flour rosemary and chopped sage. Let's start the mixer low and insert the yolks in various steps. Let the mixer run for about a couple of minutes a little more warm water in order to obtain of the dough that we want. We must obtain a dough that is not too hard prevent it from opening We're moving it we wrap it in film and and then we are ready to go to the kitchen to stretch it fresh pasta to then cover the chicken. We're back in the we're going to take the film meantime has rested in the refrigerator and has slightly a little harder. As you can see, is nice and soft and easily and this will especially during the chicken to as closed as possible, since the technique of this to try and seal as the chicken so that there are no air drafts because to uneven cooking of the chicken. Then Andrea, as we can see, rolled out the dough to a quite thick and he's rolling And we're giving it the first shape, let's say dimensions of the pan where the chicken how the dough and malleable, and holes, it has no cracks. This is essential for this preparation, Now let's cut it approximately Once our chicken has compact again and very cold, we're going to place it dough that we have is going to put underneath two small supports that will serve an chicken a bit more upright and then above all to cooking phase to become of the salt crust. a little yolk cream to help the dough cover that we are going to add now to adhere perfectly, following And then we will cover it, trying to eliminate as much as possible the chicken and the dough. for the success of this recipe. As you see, Andrea to plug with other some small holes that he's using small patches. Then he's using his hands to make the dough stick See how, having placed the shape of the chicken this means that there is very little air homogeneous and this chamber which will allow the chicken to cook evenly throughout. Now Andrea will define the crust with a knife and We don't want a squared shape, but a rather rounded shape, so we'll give it this pretty oval shape. Once we have given the shape to our salt crust, let's start with the first create these waves by helping tip of the knife. Meanwhile I take care of the decorations that will then embellish our volaille en croute de sel. We mainly use these two shapes, which are a leaf and this wheel. We will only make two wheels because we will ends of the chicken, hand, as regards the completely cover almost Now Andrea, always with the help of a little yolk, which the shapes perfectly adhere to the dough, will surface of the crust. from the outside legs and then move part which in any will come in front needs to be visually Here we also need to give it a Once we have decorated all our chicken crust, the last step before going to the baking is indeed the polishing. a classic sprayer with yolk and cream the complete polishing of our chicken, you can see, the amount of yolk and cream that we really very abundant, because it really needs to soak in and enter inside the of the crust, inside the dough and then especially with a the excesses they formed too thick of a layer of egg. Before cooking, it is very important to let so that the yolk becomes And now it's time to place it in the oven at depends on the size of the chicken. This was a chicken of about 2 kg, From the moment the chicken is cooking, we focus on another the sauce. This is Maison Blanc - we're talking The base is this PDO butter from Bresse. We start with abundant butter. Then we add some We add a large generous dose and pepper -it is essential to in such a way as to flavor our base immediately final product where be bland. The pepper is obviously white. Let's gently simmer these shallots until we almost get a compote, so they must be really tender, almost They must stick for several of the casserole and be to get all the juices, all of the part in all the sauces that make this sweetness/acidity and especially the caramelisation, because it is much much more than an onion. Here, after having we are ready to start because in any made of reductions So let's start indeed with Vin Jaune. Vin Jaune is a wine from the Jura Coast. because it has being matured after fermentation for 6 years inside oak barrels. Once we add the Vin Jaune, we let it come to a light boil and the moment the alcoholic part will is mixed well with the stewed shallot and we can add some Porto or Madeira, cover the aroma integrate the complexity that Let's bring the sauce to a light boil and let's take time to remove come to the impurity of the wine, it can be a part of fat from the butter and let's take advantage meantime as it blowtorch, we flambe so that the alcohol part evaporates In this first phase, always eliminates all the impurities, first and stick to the edges and moment the sauce catches fire and then using a wooden spoon to scratch and detach parts which could get stuck to the casserole to prevent them from burning, because in is now very very high to then having the This is a very, It's not just about lighting the torch and lit up a fire, but it's the the sauce needs to be kept under closer scrutiny Once all the alcoholic part has evaporated, melange of peppers black pepper, white pepper, peppers, with plenty because we always need Thyme, fresh thyme always from our garden, juniper berries, cloves, dry bay leaves. We give it a stir so that when we go into the oven all the parts we placed inside do not burn. Once the sauce is ready, Alessandro is placing the casserole in the oven at 160degC for an hour and in the meantime we wait for the chicken to finish cooking After the sauce comes out of the oven, we let it consistency, so it stays quite liquid. And we need to flavor it though, because right now it has still a fairly bland taste. So all the parts that we are going to add inside are give it this almost like a mirror, flavor it by recalls the Bresse chicken, so we have some fat from the chicken, the subcutaneous fat that we melted then cooled and we're using it as if it were our clarified butter, and then all of the fat that comes to the So here at the restaurant when we make these terrines that are left to rest in cool down - all the the boys collect it completely and we use it as a We let the ingredients we put inside then Alessandro will filter it to eliminate any impurities or sediments that may also be there because what we want is a So once the sauce reaches the consistency, we inside these copper serving gravy a little walnut reflects the flavors of the Vin Jaune that we used as the starting alcohol, as the main ingredient of this sauce and then it is served in the dining room by the maitre. And after two hours, the salt crust I would say it turned out very well this time! - Thank you. let it rest for about 10 minutes In the meantime let's take advantage of this which will then be the side to our chicken. tamarind cream cooked in orange has a chestnut pastry, a vegetable ratatouille and a butternut from the pumpkin and whipped this shine to the rose. Then we have an apricot stuffed with stewed and the shape of a classic Italian 'maritozzo', A confit garlic, therefore clarified butter, a potato classic Neapolitan 'sfogliatella', in this case in a savory version, stuffed with a brunoise of vegetables and to finish a ???Cron, this tuber cooked entirely in Vin Jaune sauce, sauce that we which gives sweetness We have reached the final of this very long now with simple clarified an aesthetic factor that as soon as it is customer, it has this shine straight away enhance all the work that went into achieving this And now we cover it and we're ready Once the crust has portioned by our hotel maitres and served on serving plates with the various garnishes we have explained. They finish the dish with this so that you can mop up your plate after finishing the dish. We have brought you inside our kitchen in the white village, showing you one of, or perhaps the most emblematic preparation great chef who nevertheless made and continues to make culinary Special thanks to ItaliaSquisita, to the whole Blanc, to monsieur Blanc. see you soon, a bientot,