Transcriber: Yasushi Aoki All right. Thank you very much This is the first time So, you know, you guys have I've never passed anybody else's So, I'm flattered. And perhaps we can make So, a little bit of my background. I worked for Apple I was Apple software evangelist. My job was to convince people How many of you use Macs I love to see that. Yeah. And the rest of you what? (Laughter) So, I worked for Apple, I started some software companies, and I became a writer I returned to Apple This is in 1995 time frame. And I had a great time with Apple as we all know, And I worked for him twice. One of the few people And he had a monumental effect As well as really the Valley I think you'd have to rank him with Walt Disney I mean, who are truly visionaries. You'll hear lots of people and there are I think in my estimation and it would be So, I created this presentation because I wanted to get on paper, what I personally learned I'm not sure he intended but this is what I learned And so, I would like his memory and forever to influence people. So, the first thing that I learned &quot;Experts pretty much are clueless.&quot; And this is a very important because there's a temptation to default to, people with big titles, people who have declared and if there's anything that is that the experts are often wrong. And so, as you go through your life, you start your companies, and you try to change the world. I want you to learn This maybe contrary to but experts usually define things and I think you should So, I view what I call bozosity -- I view bozosity as where it can be something that So, how to fight the flu, you get a little bit of flu, you've already So, I'm gonna inoculate you so that when you encounter you will have already So, let me show you First thing. 1943, Thomas Watson, &quot;There is a world market I have 5 Macintoshes in my house. (Laughter) I have all the computers If you were Steve Jobs or Steve Wozniak where would we be today? &quot;This telephone has to be seriously considered The device is inherently (Laughter) Western Union memo, 1876. Oops! You know, Western Union It's not. It's very hard to go if you write off telephone in the middle. You know what I am saying, The last example is from our friends at DEC. great company, &quot;There is no reason why anyone would want (Laughter) If you would wanted to run you would just have to instead go back to your office Three examples of bozosity, and not from, you know, total people These are all people Founder of IBM. Founder of DEC. You know, Western Union, You need to learn Next thing you need to do &quot;Customers cannot tell you They could tell you that That's what they usually will tell you. You really can't ask them because they can only define things, in terms of products or services Bigger, faster, cheaper If you truly want you need to ignore And you need to jump curves. This is the Macintosh 128K. I promise you nobody in the world was No one said, &quot;Give us no software,&quot; thanks to my efforts. That's what we did. Totally unexpected. Nobody was asking for it. It's because Steve Jobs, had a vision for This is his vision - Next thing I learned &quot;You need to jump rather than duking it out trying to do something 10% better, you need to get to the next curve. Don't stay on the same curve. Great example - There was an ice harvesting industry This meant that Baba and Junior or frozen pond 9 million pounds of ice Ice 2.0. Ice 2.0 was ice factory. Now, you froze water, Major breakthrough. So much better. They didn't have to be cold city. They didn't have to be Ice 3.0. the refrigerator curve. Now, it wasn't about the ice factory Now, you had your own Your own PC, (Laughter) The great innovation occurs Don't do a better ice harvester. Don't add horses to the sleigh. Don't have a bigger sharper saw. If you are an ice factory, don't have more ice factories, don't build better ice factories, don't have better icemen delivering ice you wanna get to the next curve. If you were a printer company, although many of you are there used to be this thing and had this little ball in this, If you were and your idea of innovation was, &quot;Well, let's introduce more that's not innovation. Innovation occurs when you go from Jump to the next curve. Next thing that I learned is, &quot;The biggest challenges beget I think one of the reasons why we did is because Steve had And, you know, we try to rise This is an ad that shows some of the -- shall I say, When IBM entered the computer business, welcoming IBM We were throwing down Welcome IBM, you huge successful Welcome to the personal computer business. Welcome to Vietnam. (Laughter) Next thing I learned Many people can say that Many companies say that. But truly, how many companies Apple is one of the few, And you know what, not everybody truly cares about design. To this day, 95% world doesn't use But there are people who really care Design counts. This is a Mac Book Air. Thin, beautiful, design counts. You have one? Thin, beautiful, design counts. Next thing is, if you did nothing else but this, you would be better than 9/10 Seriously. Seriously, just do this. I'll show you a typical What a great slide! Big graphic. &quot;The best windows app It's a typical Steve Jobs slide. You know, any other CEO, There would be and it would have and it would be an 8 point font and you couldn't read it. The person giving the presentation This is the beauty of Steve Jobs. The irony of saying that the best Windows app Showing the logo of Windows. This is a beautiful slide, this encapsulates Big graphics. Big fonts. The ideal font-size, just for you to know, The rule of thumb is find out divide his or her age by two. (Laughter) So, if you are talking to people of 60 years old, 50 years old, 25 points. Someday, you maybe pitching Let's say, At that point, God bless you, (Laughter) But until that time -- big fonts. Big fonts. The beauty of a big font is, that you cannot put a lot of text You don't want a lot of text because if you put a lot of text, and if you read the text, Your audience will be lost because &quot;This bozo is reading I can read silently to myself faster So I will just read ahead.&quot; And you will lose your audience. Big font. Big graphics. Next thing. &quot;Changing your mind You may think that you should you should use you should come by God, you gotta stick because you know And I think what Apple is proven if you change your mind, in response to how customers actually it is a sign of intelligence I'll give you an example. Believe it or not, this was the press release that basically set &quot;Our innovative approach, lets developers create while keeping the iPhone Steve Jobs said this in June 2007. Let me translate this for you. This is Apple speak for, &quot;There will be no independent apps what you have to do That's what that translates to. And in the beauty of Steve Jobs &quot;We're doing this because we want you (Laughter) OK? Fast-forward one year. Headline of the next Apple press release &quot;Apple Executives to Showcase Mac OS X Leopard and OS X iPhone Development Platforms A year later, they were &quot;Now you can develop They've gone from a world where to &quot;We're gonna show you Of course that's the right way. (Laughter) This is a sign of great intelligence. They were able to And you know what, nobody pointed out The press loved it when they said, And then the press loved it &quot;You can ship any app. Goes back to point 1: (Laughter) Next thing I learned &quot;Value is not the same as price.&quot; I don't think there's anybody who ever bought because it had the lowest price. (Laughter) Trust me when I tell you that. Having said that, because value incorporates such as coolness, such as ease of use, ease of training, ease of translation, ease of adaptation, ease of adoption. But what Apple is shown to me is that it's not necessarily the case that You have to have the best value. Apple did a great series of ads Where it said, this is This is the PC guy over here. And the PC guy because he needs so that he can fix Vista because Vista was So, what's the better value? The Macintosh that doesn't need or Vista that needed because it was so hard to use, so difficult to implement Value is not the same as price. Next thing I learned is that Actually Steve's theory was that is A players hire people I would slightly change his theory. My theory is that A players not just equal to them. The problem is the B players who are insecure, who don't want to be shown up B players higher C players. And then C players hire D players. And then D players hire E players. And pretty soon you have Z players. (Laughter) This is what's called (Laughter) You need to fight A players hire A+ players. When you are hire people That's what makes great companies. This is a picture of the people -- Oh, I'm sorry, but the way it's very difficult to see the face. This is 5 years ago, the reunion of the Macintosh division. And I'll tell you, I consider it an honor It was the most fun, the most stimulating group It was like basically being paid It was a great time. A+ players. Next thing I learned is that They don't hand it off They don't hand it off The CEO can do the demo. Steve Jobs proved that. This is a picture of Steve Jobs inserting into the first Macintosh at De Anza College. Steve Jobs could demo. Great CEOs can demo because to be a good demonstrator you truly have to understand You truly have to understand You also have to understand So, if you ever start a company, you should be able to demo demo your website. You don't abdicate this to other people. Next thing I leaned is that Ship. You know, don't worry about getting As soon as you've jumped curves, when you've gone it doesn't have to be perfect. The first laser printer was not perfect. The first laser printer was just much better You don't have to be perfect. This is a picture of anti-example. This is a picture Arguably Xerox PARC had many figured out before Macintosh. Steve Jobs had a visit there. He saw a mouse. The difference between Xerox PARC is that Apple could ship, otherwise Xerox PARC Ship. Next thing I learned is that &quot;Marketing is all about If you're an engineer, you have to create something If you're the marketing person, that it is unique and valuable. This is a 2x2 matrix. You'll encounter 2x2 matrix You need to get used to this. I will tell you, generally speaking, you want to be in the upper That's all you need to know, really. That's all you need to know. The nuance is, to put yourself Uniqueness on the vertical axis, value on a horizontal axis. If you are here, you have created you have to always fight on price because you have better sameness. If you're up there, you have created but it is not valuable. In that corner, (Laughter) In this corner, you have created something It's because stupid people like me the same stupid thing The upper right-hand corner is You have a unique product or service And the last thing that I learned &quot;Some things need to be believed Usually you hear this saying Some things need to be seen But really in life, if you want you have to believe in things You have to believe in Macintosh And the believe in iPod an iPhone you, your teams, your customers before they will truly see it. If you do these things these lessons to heart, you will change the world. The top 12 lessons of Steve Jobs. Thank you very much. (Applause)