Joe Avella: Los Angeles has for you to get your fix of hot, sweet, melt-in-your-mouth doughnuty goodness. Whoa, dude! Los Angeles kind of gets this reputation for everyone always eating Sydney Kramer: And they are. Joe: Right. But did you know the doughnut capital of the United States? Sydney: I actually did not know that, and I was really surprised to find out. Joe: Since the 1970s, doughnuts have been an important part of LA's food culture, and this city has been responsible for the evolution of doughnuts in the US. For this episode, I used like Yelp, Eater, and Thrillist to whittle down the list to four of LA's best doughnut spots. Sydney: We're definitely trying each shop's classic glazed doughnut, and also one or two of their specialties to get a feel for what they have to offer. Awesome. I am ready to eat some doughnuts. Joe: Let's do it. Our first stop is SK Donuts. Located in Mid-Wilshire, SK is known for having a wide variety of both classic and Heng Te: Our doughnuts are No matter what time you Joe: For 30 years, SK has been serving up fresh, delicious doughnuts Started by Heng Te's parents, it's been family-owned and Customer: It's really good. Joe: So, we definitely gotta go Nutella. Sydney: Classic glazed. I want something with sprinkles on it. Sydney: Yeah, pink sprinkles. Joe: Definitely want some Sydney: Of course. Joe: Right there, yep. I'm a man-child. I gotta have my cereal. The variety at this place is so great, and that's why I took you here. Sydney: I thought the was because my initials are SK. Joe: No. Sydney: Let's start with the glazed. Joe: If you can't do the This is like the litmus test. Is that the right thing? Sydney: This is the litmus Joe: Litness? Sydney: Litmus. Joe: Litmus test. Sydney: Litmus. Oh, wow. Sydney: The flakiness of the glaze, it's not, like, melted into the doughnut; it's laying nicely on top of the doughnut. So when you bite into it, you get a little bit of, like, a crunch, some nice texture. Joe: That guy has that thing. I'll go ahead and call It's just like a huge and he's just like, ba-bam, and they're drenching the doughnuts in this incredible glaze. Sydney: This is the I've ever had in my life, no question. Joe: I gotta dip it in the coffee. I gotta dip it in the coffee. Oh yeah, that's so good. (doughnut thudding) Joe: Picking it up on that mic? Sydney: That's the stuff. Joe: So, this one has fruit on it, so technically it's healthy. That doesn't sound right. Mm, I'm going for a strawberry. Sydney: Joe just called that's how much fruit he Joe: Wait, what'd I say? Next, we're heading to LA's to try a true classic: Since 1970, it's been a must-visit for anyone in LA serious about doughnuts. Sydney: And it's cash only, so heads up. Joe: Oh, yeah. Thanks for paying. Sydney: Yeah, OK. Joe: Bob's is known for the classics, and there's over 30 Sydney: I made sure we got the big one. Joe: These feel very, like, classic. Even just looking at the cake, it looks a lot thicker. It looks closer to, like, or even like an Sydney: Yeah, very old-school But we're outside. It's always good weather in Los Angeles, so you can always eat a This looks fluffy. Joe: Yeah, thicker, amazing consistency, dough is cooked perfectly. The glaze is really delicious. This is about as classic as you can get when it comes to doughnuts. Sydney: This feels and tastes like they make their own Joe: Yeah. I bet if I and went back to 1950 whenever that doughnut tastes exactly the same. If it worked well 50 years ago, it's gonna work well today, and they're absolutely right. Sydney: I am so freakin' excited for this sprinkle doughnut. Well, first of all, look at that. Nothing falls off. Maybe Joe: Look at this. Joe: Look at that. This is a really, really It's not heavy at all, but I appreciate that it, as you take a bite. Bob's is awesome. I loved every doughnut here. Now, we're headed over to Since 1956, Primo's has thrived by delivering consistently with a few specialties. Ralph Primo: We've been My father, when he started the business, it was highest quality. Everything had to be the Customer: I've been coming Joe: Well said. It has also been said, Sydney, that Primo's Buttermilk Bar So I would like to try one. Sydney: You read my mind. Joe: I feel like they don't We just saw them glaze Sydney: They are still Joe: Mm. Oh, man. I mean, the way it melts in your mouth, the cakeyness of it is, Sydney: Mm. And the glaze is perfect on this. Sydney: It's less sweet like, yeasted, raised and I love how you can Joe: I feel like I'm biting This is so fantastic. Sydney: Yeah, doughnut pillow I think the difference between I've had is, like, the The doughnut doesn't Joe: Everyone says that this Sydney: They are known Joe: Look at the size of this. Sydney: It's a heavy boy. Joe: Yeah, no kidding. Sydney: All right, let's do it. Joe: Whoa, dude. This is not what I was expecting. This is way better. Sydney: It has a very familiar taste, but I can't, like, put my finger on it. Almost like a bread pudding or like a tres leches or Joe: Yeah. Sydney: They must, like, glaze and then they sit there and they get a little, and still nice and cakey on Joe: You know, it reminds You know what I'm talking about? Sydney: Uh-uh. The flavor of these are way different than a standard doughnut, because it's more emphasis the dough, how everything works together, than just packing something with sugar. Sydney: Yeah. Sydney: Yeah, the quality You can see it. You can taste it. You can feel it. Joe: For our last stop, we're going to LA's iconic doughnut sign, Randy's Donuts in Inglewood. Thomas Bartsch: Our doughnuts, they're made fresh every day by hand, which is very different; a lot of other companies use machines. We use proprietary ingredients that are proprietary just to us. They are so high quality Customer: I'm from New York. My cousin lives out here. She just told me they're They're good. Sydney: Located near the airport, Randy's iconic doughnut sign has been seen in numerous TV shows and movies. Nick Fury: Sir, I'm gonna have to ask you to exit the doughnut. Sydney: But it's not a gimmick. These doughnuts are considered by some Angelenos to be the best. Joe: It's also the only with a drive-through. Thanks for driving, Syd. Sydney: Yep, I always drive. So, what kind of doughnuts What do you think? Joe: Definitely gotta go I think those are the Sydney: Yep. Joe: I'm thinking some with sprinkles. Sydney: Yep. I saw, like, some colorful ones, like some Froot Loops, I think, or some kind of, like, cereal. Joe: Yeah, that sounds really good. Sydney: OK. Sydney: Great. Thomas: So, here's your doughnuts. Sydney: Amazing. Thomas: And your coffee Sydney: Thank you. Sorry, my arms are short. Yeah. Thomas: I'll get you Sydney: Cool, thank you. Joe: Sydney with the T. rex arms. Sydney: There's not, Joe: No, not at all. Sydney: OK, cool. Joe: I'm gonna be honest, I didn't look. Sydney: Are you f---ing kidding me? (Joe laughs) Joe: So for a buck 15, This could easily take Sydney: I mean, you say that, you always wanna go back Joe: Let's find out right now. Ready to bite? Joe: Let's do it. Joe: Mm, yeah. Sydney: I'm savoring it. Let me savor it. Joe: That is fantastic. You know, you can judge a doughnut place by how good the glazed is, and this is a fantastic glazed doughnut. Sydney: It's excellent, yeah. Joe: I'm gonna go in for the chocolate. Sydney: Yeah. You want this one? Sydney: No, I'm doing the cake doughnut. Joe: OK. Joe: Man. Sydney: I would never Like, I would never. 'Cause this is excellent. So, we got cake doughnuts, Raised are fluffy. Cake are thick. Their raised goes a little This is, like, a thick doughnut. Sydney: It is kind of cakey. Like, the raised is but that's kind of great. Joe: Oh, it's great. Joe: And this frosting's incredible. Sydney: Joe takes the most in my entire life for a doughnut. It's like, &quot;I'm gonna have one more bite,&quot; and it's, like, half the doughnut. Joe: That's two. That's two bites. Why is it that eating a doughnut and just staring at that it's hypnotic. Sydney, we went to four of in Los Angeles, and now of picking which was our favorite. You ready? Sydney: I think we're gonna Joe: I don't think so. On the count of three? Both: One, two, three. I told you, I told you. Joe: Yeah. Sydney: All right, so why Joe: Everything, starting was incredible, and then, of course, the Buttermilk Bars were amazing. I mean, I just thought every single thing that we had there was while we were eating Sydney: Even the plain glazed I think was just absolute perfection. It wasn't too sweet. There was, like, the right Joe: But I don't know, I feel that there's only four good What do you think? You Sydney: I think that we missed probably a lot of doughnut shops. We picked some pretty great ones, but let us know what and until next time.