The story of Felix Kersten So amazing by dozens of historians But every time, she triumphed On April 19, 1945, two men leave Sweden The plane is a Junkers the all-powerful leader of the SS. Felix Kersten is the doctor Norbert Masur, In a few hours, the Doctor Norbert Masur to Himmler, for the most astonishing negotiation At the very end of the war, that of their Fuhrer Adolf Hitler. Win or die that of a fanatic who now lives The days of his regime of terror, The fate of Felix Kersten is of the Second World War. That of a massage therapist who to snatch away from death In Berlin in the early 1930s, life seems almost normal. No sounds yet However, the warning signs are in place. The Nazi regime controls everything and silences all opposition. In the German capital, a man his name is Felix Kersten. He is a massage therapist He was introduced to medicine His hands have a gift the greats of this Europe - My father was trained by Dr. Ko. He was his student from 1922 to 1924. At the end of these three years, that he had to leave Germany Starting, It is from this time He was a renowned doctor. He treated the king of Romania of the German aristocracy. Word of mouth led This is how its customers My father had a gift and a know-how to treat very effectively could not provide good care. And his patients expressed to him Helping success, with a German woman from a good family. Felix Kersten treats and major German industrialists. The care he gives them allowed him to acquire in 1935, a large estate at the gates of Berlin, the domain of H***. It's the happy time of births It is also the time of all the levers of power The doctor vowed never to But since 1933, the Nazis, in stage their idea a strong man, a dominant race, led by a leader, the Fuhrer. In this crazy adventure, Adolf Hitler is seconded the head of the SS. - He is not someone who negotiates someone has it It should not be imagined as sitting at a desk that would obey He has his own ambitions, he is the greatest planner exceptional organization. He invented Nazi propaganda, is responsible for party propaganda And its organizational quality it is a quality of both projects, he thinks of the idea of order in the state, of an order which makes it possible to structure The state party will be the SS. The reality of his thoughts, He has this administrative thought that he will put into service and the extermination of the Jews. At first discreet, the repression hits who remained in Germany. Then, gradually, falls against another enemy the Jews. Pointed out, they become the scapegoats In Kersten's entourage, many of her friends urge him who is said to be suffering. - They knew that Himmler had They had also heard that So they thought of my father do something. So they asked him This takes place in 1939, My father replied: "No, It's a source of trouble. I don't want to go there. His friends insisted so much They explained to him that it was On March 19, 1939, Doctor Felix Kersten surrenders prince albrecht strasse, full of apprehension. He knows that in a few moments, he will meet the devil himself. - In reality, he was very afraid. He didn't like this idea at all. As for my mother, she was horrified. She accompanied him, where Himmler's headquarters was. He rushed into the chancery And at that moment, my mother probably never her husband. The people who entered did not necessarily emerge, And so go there voluntarily, could be interpreted as facing big problems. Before this meeting, from the Finnish Embassy in Berlin, Being a Finnish citizen, the diplomats explain to him that could be useful to his country. He could provide them if his medical relationship with Kersten accepts. Thanks for coming, doctor, who recounts the scene in his diary. I've heard a lot about you. They say about you Maybe you will be able to relieve me which prevent me as well Not a single doctor from Germany All those who came before you In front of him, Kersten finds in very poor health, not at all the one to whom - He told him that he had to first because a simple treatment I have to get to know the best way to treat yourself. So I need 14 days. At the end of these 14 days, I will tell you For now I'm testing you Felix Kersten makes Himmler lie down and stretches his hands over his body. In just a few movements, the massager The next days, - And at the end of these 14 days, Himmler asked my father My father answered him He also told her that he would In my father's eyes, they were Himmler replied: &quot;All you Since that day Kersten becomes the doctor After each treatment, more precisely a newspaper, in which he describes what he sees, and the people he meets. Kersten even goes so far as to transcribe with dignitaries of the Nazi regime. It is a unique document a first-hand reference on - First of all, you must accept You will not be entitled to any However, I will make an exception for you. I will come and treat you You will not have to move Then, I don't want to be involved in any like the SS. I have nothing to do with any of this. Third, I want to be I am a Finnish citizen, Himmler said to him: &quot;Of course, He felt that my father was the only one He didn't want to lose my father. And before the war, again polite and courteous. No requirements. Nothing. Every time Felix Kersten on the bruised body of the Reichsfuhrer, the miracle repeats itself. Kersten relieves him and Himmler It's as if the pain has been subdued, by impulses Bliss and Resurrection held exceptional hands This is why the police chief and it wasn't long before he called her This is how it begins between Felix Kersten and Himmler. You have to imagine it in its moments He hovers and abandons himself which would have been worth the death penalty It was during one of these sessions that At the end of 1940, over a large part of Europe. Kersten, who shared her life sees his freedom of movement restricted. - Himmler tells my father to give up and to stay in Berlin. With the war, its security outside Germany, the situation was far away Himmler orders his doctor to stay otherwise he could end his days in Now Kersten is glued to Himmler. He is the only man in the world The Doctor therefore settles into north of Berlin. He and his family became But little by little, the doctor will take - Kersten has a status His great additional strength, he manages to attenuate physical stomach pain Morell was successful for a while So Hitler will no longer trust him, as his cure While Himmler will maintain because Kersten's medicine Kersten has quite an outlook of Tibetan medicine a whole training in a way, both the work of the body, and at the same time a species that he pushes his patients to follow. He will have an influence because he claims that there is Himmler's thoughts between his actions in some way and its health situation. So he's going to push it to ease his conscience, Himmler's physique &quot;If you do such and such a gesture, such an act, In Berlin, quickly, friends The industrialist Rostberg explains to him was arrested by the Gestapo. He is one of the countless victims It is then that comes to Kersten, one of his intuitions for a lifetime. He waives his fees and chooses to exchange them After a massage session, Kersten took her wallet which concerned his friend's employee. He tells. &quot;Here are my Reichsfuhrer fees, this man's freedom.&quot; Himmler had a start which shook Then he read the note and said: "As long as it's you who I grant you.&quot; He had snatched an existence the first one. - Having understood that Himmler, holds life in his hands he decided to by monetizing its services, in human life. We can see it like this and take it at face value As much, I take it at face value of Himmler or Schellenberg, as much as those of Kersten, it seems to me, that we have no reason He's there, in the monster's lair In Himmler's entourage, the presence of Kersten arouses Reinhard Heydrich, supreme leader spotted the massage doctor. Since the doctor treated his boss, Heydrich suspects it or at least an active supporter, countries at war with Germany. - My father was a headache for Their men saw who politely said hello and entered the Reichsfuhrer's house He didn't even have Then he spent hours locked up without anyone knowing what This situation was annoying Many people would have liked but Himmler's orders were to Heydrich persisted in trying During treatment from time to time he knocked without waiting for a response. He used papers as a pretext Like that, Outside, Nazi Germany The more the war spreads, no more stress and pain and the more he becomes dependent - What he gets from this It's several things. First he gets for his fortune, for his goods. It also allows him, for the era, to have a telephone line There are only two in Germany That of Hitler, that of Himmler. It also allows him to enjoy He receives his mail which is not censored And that is despite everything - He developed a system. The mail Himmler received or his assistant, Doctor Brandt. My father asked his Dutch friends to Thus, the mail was not censored. The letters he received His friends could therefore inform him For added precaution, An arrested person was described This is how he was able to maintain, a secret correspondence. He also asked like this, if Himmler questioned him, he would say they were his mistresses At first, Kersten is afraid. It feels like every letter to Himmler's postal address But when at home, he forgets the risk involved. These are only long cries of distress, desperate calls for martyred by the Nazis. In this atrocious list, the doctor chooses the most during treatment, he spoke about it to Himmler who To be sure that these requests Kersten sends him long letters, of this or that prisoner. This pact with the devil of the formidable head of the Gestapo - Heydrich thought that my father but had no way He suspected that something So he was trying to corner him. One day, after a massage session, he asked to have an interview He tells her it would be nice if they He had things to tell her. My father quickly thought, and replied that yes, of course, it would be nice if they He suggested that Heydrich do it that he was going to discuss If he needed him, Like many high dignitaries, Heydrich recorded He recorded them on a gramophone. And at the very beginning of their interview, my father told him that he didn't have He replied that that's because he wasn't but perhaps also a politician. My father defended himself: Kersten recounts her conversation I'm starting to guess who you are. You influence Himmler, and this happens to great men, when we deliver them from their pain, they lend a sympathetic ear You know what could It is to help you in your Everything became clear to Kersten. Heydrich wanted to get and the names of those who Suddenly the conversation is Himmler looks for his doctor. This call will save Kersten. - It was then that Himmler Where is Kersten? Heydrich him because he wanted to do You can go, Kersten. But the head of the Gestapo to catch him at fault. But Heydrich was afraid of Himmler. And Himmler was the protector On June 22, 1941, Hitler launches his divisions to attack In a surge during the few months the German war machine Himmler leaves the next day He orders his doctor Himmler's special train, was a real headquarters. All services placed had their offices there - During this entire period, my father stayed on board There was a compartment And he passed On this train, my father gleaned notably in the officers' mess. - It was the place where all the officers From time to time the information he had to check them then He told Himmler that he had heard and ask for confirmation. Himmler replied: You must not tell anyone about this. This is how my father My father learned of the existence towards the end of 1942. Once again, it's at the mess He asked Himmler if it was true Himmler replied yes. He also tells her that this He was very firm with my father. "Doctor, it's none of your business. - In decision-making processes there are 3 characters with a key role, Hitler regarding Goering regarding decisions and Himmler for everything - He is both a man a man who has a capacity for action. He is everywhere on the field. You have to think about that. he visits schools, When Heydrich is killed, it is he who He goes there. You shouldn't think about the killer at all who would stay like that, It's someone who moves. Office killer, we can say, not the little office killer In fact, someone who is a Kersten reports one of the conversations &quot;My good Kersten, I have never I had other ideas for them. It was the Fuhrer who gave me They were allowed to take away all I monitored this closely. But there is one point on which is that the Jews must leave Kersten tells him that he will as the greatest executioner of the Jews. - He had a patient, lovely people, he had known them for a long time the head of the family did not come He called his friends for their They told him that the man had My father asked Himmler Himmler asked him if Yes, my father replied. Himmler flatly refused. No, absolutely, no. My father tried for a whole month, Himmler refused. He failed to do Despite this failure, trust is established With letters and arguments, Kersten tries to expand non-Jews, since Himmler It has now become a habit, after each treatment, The psychological ascendancy over on each trip Given the risks, Kersten neutral country at the time. Himmler grants him permission For his movement, the status of diplomatic courier. This allows him to take that he was able to collect High-risk transportation. In fact, he is invited by the minister to come and give him a precise update In Stockholm, Kersten meets the special representative Hewitt is one of the OSS agents, Kersten offers American diplomats to start discussions - So he met Hewitt. The 2 men quickly understood they could They spent 2 or 3 days talking to bring Germany Himmler had told Kersten, that he wanted to start He wanted to do he wanted the West - He can testify discussed with Himmler, on occasions, which will give credibility He will talk about Himmler's moods, that when he said that, he seemed completely sincere, to have to serve when he really started He will be able to answer Hewitt was close to Roosevelt, but he was not officially He had access to the president. So he made a report the ancestor of the CIA. Report that lands who communicated it to Roosevelt. Hewitt's proposals succeed the head of the OSS in Washington, then on that But the die is cast. The American war machine is No more question of being a machine Germany has done the irreparable. - We had received instructions If we were approached by the Nazis, for offers of separate peace, we had to reject them Our policy was very clear, no negotiation. In any case, at our level, But we knew had imagined in the idea that the Allies against the Soviets. At the time it was hope Reaching an arrangement and even, why not, to a peace and continue the war For us it was of course Washington's instructions Germany had to capitulate, war criminals and there would be no separate peace, something that the Russians In fact, we wanted This brutal response He decides to play He asks Himmler for a first Himmler responds but he wants to think carefully After weeks the Reichsfuhrer agrees to do destined for the death camps. Unprecedented fact, he gives the order to direct them - Several reasons explain managed to save so many lives. First there is the idea, that he is a smuggler, with a neutral country, Sweden, in which the Red Cross operates And the Nazis always good relationships to maintain visits No concentration camps. You have to be very specific about this. It allows Kersten to play to pass on requests This is a first effect treatment not but mass treatment. - That broke the ice. Himmler, for the first time, This gesture was very important, because if you do it once, For this to work, it was necessary to Morally, Himmler had opened It is a success. This liberation gives wings He knows he can get The Reichsfuhrer now lives towards his doctor. And above all, he feels that the end Kersten writes to him to convince him, that he has every interest in giving pledges who are getting dangerously close - The Allies were looking The Norwegians and Danes wanted Help getting out It was to my father that we came He asked: &quot;Who do I owe He was told: ordinary people who had and who languished in camps where they were starving.&quot; My father discussed it with Himmler, replied that he accepted provided that their transport because the Germans had not He said: &quot;If you can carry them, This is how he managed to do And that was only the beginning. At the beginning of April 1945, the efforts of Felix Kersten Several thousand people are Francoise, interned at Ravensbruck, - We were taken out and we were made to go So I was in the industry, and we always arrive in groups of five, in rows, by five. And there we wait. We waited for hours and hours and finally, we arrived, we were made to go as far as they said : &quot;Everyone except the Jews, are released.&quot; So I was not released. In a few months, Kersten became He offers the Swedes liberation since the start of the war. Bringing out thousands of Jews - People began to understand Gunther, the Swedish minister understood that through my father, it was possible to release not just Swedes, Dutch, French. My father told him he could but there was no and above all no ready countries Nobody wants to receive What is the point of releasing Gunther replied that all would be welcome in Sweden. It is for this reason that and a representative meet together in This April 19, 1945, the two men leave with one goal, the lives of thousands of Jews At this stage of the war, About this plane trip, &quot;The journey to Berlin Arriving in the interior of the country, I The first signs of war. Otherwise, no trace No soldiers or columns That's when our plane came in that the traces of the war Bombed houses, Masur and Kersten are now in the cabin, This is the first time that Masur has put the in the mouth of the wolf. How to imagine a single moment with the executioner of the Jews? - My uncle was full Not afraid but aware that was responsible for the massacre And that in a way, I guess himmler had a safe conduct to the emissary But we knew the methods that my uncle feared Once in Berlin, Norbert Masur alongside Felix Kersten. In Berlin the ruins of houses like ghosts. We passed by the rubble and through the narrow openings, we could distinguish the cannons from the Civil defense was agitated It was chaos. We continued crossing from the pile of rubble of Oranienburg, completely destroyed by an attack For me, the name Oranienburg It is here that many had experienced the horror I also thought of the prisoners which were 30 km from the estate - I don't think Himmler had In the same way, the only Jew to have In fact, he realized he was wearing He had to be sure that he Hiding in his bunker, Adolf Hitler surrounded by his last faithful. Himmler attended the evening his last birthday, since It was quite unreal and Himmler There I am at the birthday of I will negotiate with a Jew. A few kilometers away, Kersten waits for the devil Hartzwalde, the doctor's property the most improbable of The meeting starts very late in From the outset, Himmler starts the conversation have never known peace. He addresses the question of the Jews and says they had a determining role Masur always listens in He makes his comments silently with whom he must precisely - Masur was a very calm person. I'm sure inside But he kept calm for 1 hour. Then he started explaining to him that he was not that he had lost a lot in the name of political re-education. Masur told him that he didn't want of this absurd propaganda. The conversation began Kersten then spoke. We don't want to discuss the past, we can't change anything about it. And if we continue, we will give a bad I think we are all by what can still be saved. After an interruption, the interview continues for a long time Himmler countersigns the contract for He undertakes to raise upon the arrival of allied troops He also promises not to and their prisoners with them. Himmler also gives the green light white Red Cross buses. Who must evacuate thousands still under German control. - They found each other My father greeted Himmler who said to him: a few thousand more or less, Ask Brandt to add more, they can take as much as they The immediate consequence, it's only a thousand Jewish women Subsequently, thanks to negotiations a total of 7,000 women concentration camp survivor - On April 23, we were taken out of the barracks. And then always by five, we were made to go to the door and there we saw, right at the entrance to the camp, Red Cross buses who came to free us. - At first, we didn't believe it. Because the Germans had us that there was no reason to Several hundred buses repainted in the colors of the Red Cross It's the start of an incessant ballet and Denmark. There are tens of thousands This time, Francoise is on the trip. - The border has been crossed. We arrive in Denmark. Magnificent and unforgettable welcome. We spend the night in Padborg. For the first time, we eat white bread. At the end of the war, Felix Kersten That's when he decided Shortly after the bus operation he receives a letter The organization whose headquarters thanks him for his valuable help. She is grateful to him of approximately 60,000 Jews from the camps - When he begins his new life My father is accused of being a Nazi. And the authorities do not want nor a work permit. They tried to deport him They tell him that they don't want The tranquility of Felix Kersten Sweden, which had supported Kersten now accuses him of collaboration for having been a sympathizer himself A man, Count Folke Bernadotte, member of the Swedish royal family and vice-president of the Red Cross, is behind this attack. Country denies Kersten's role without whom nothing would have been possible, The Swedish government itself that his role had often been does not want the files and therefore published June 15, 45 And justly, if we hardly name it is not, I think, like a blanket that the prince but much more like a way, to close a file without attracting attention who could be independent a little differently. - Very recent studies the Swedes had sealed For political reasons, the Swedish government how to say, to take back control. Sweden, at that time, sketched out the concept of Folkhemmet, based on unity and rediscovered homogeneity So in this type of society, there was no longer any question The Holocaust was banned from speeches. Same thing for Masur and Kersten. They no longer had their place - My father was isolated He was very saddened He decided to contact via its ambassador in Sweden. He asked them for help. Help me save my honor. The Queen of Holland gave who pleaded his case to She added that any accusation would be considered a To formalize his support for Kersten and reward him for the risks incurred, Holland decorates the doctor Then a commission For several years, scrutinize his actions and gestures, when he was Finally, the devil's doctor, is cleared of all suspicion and Sweden grants him - I don't believe that the were sufficiently appreciated by and by governments. I even believe that Kersten I even have the feeling as Himmler's doctor and as a result, they thought he must have with the actions of the Nazis. What these people don't understand, he was Himmler's doctor, who tried to save people Not necessarily Jews he couldn't do anything for them. But many others, communists, It was only afterward that he tried In fact, he was a doctor. And the duty of doctors, The important thing for him was whether they are Jewish or not. For him, it had no - All these people were not Humanity should have Now we can no longer Dr. Felix Kersten dies during a trip that He had to receive hands the Legion of Honour Awarded by several countries, However, he never received the title, from Righteous Among the Righteous.