-[Kevin] On September 30, 2005, Michael Eisner He formally resigned as a member of the board His successor, Bob Iger, had been running the company Eisner's departure was not front-page news, the climax of and all that was left was for him to pack up his things and go home. He refused questions from the press, to be published in the company's newsletter. Those close to the executive explained the Eisner and that he was most worried about his legacy at the company. The second half of his 21-year tenure, what was one of the greatest corporate success stories of all time. How then, did it come to this? To understand that, we'll need to go back a bit. *Video Rewind Sound* -[Eisner] The Big Cheese? I'm not the- I wish I was the Big Cheese. *Video Rewind Sound* -[Eisner, In French] : I now declare Euro Disney officially open! Dramatic Music -[Kevin] On November 1, 1999, the government of Hong Kong with the Walt Disney Company to bring Hong Kong was relying on the new resort and they were certain that a Disney park would The Walt Disney Company was silent on the matter. Although a spokesperson had confirmed a few months earlier in March that Disney was considering expanding internationally into Hong Kong. If the plans were to come to fruition, it would be the company's At this time, the Walt Disney Company still saw expansion as a viable option. Many in the company, including Eisner, of the immense success of the studio's recent animated films. However, it wasn't from a lack of trying. The failure of Euro Disneyland in France had turned Eisner away from big-budget expansion projects on the parks. On top of this, Eisner struggled to secure a steady management team. The death of Disney president Frank Wells, and the hiring and subsequent firing of had left Eisner as a lone wolf at the top of the company. All he had to hold on to was the most lucrative executive contract in the business: An extension as chief executive he had signed a few years earlier, With an annual salary of $750,000 and stock options Eisner had significant insurance on his job. As Disney cannot afford another high-cost severance package after spending hundreds of millions of dollars This would help Eisner greatly as Disney entered the new millennium. After Disney's acquisition of Capital Cities/ABC was completed in 1996, Disney officially became the largest media company This also meant that Eisner now had to keep an eye on Walt Disney Pictures was, in retrospect, Tarzan, released in the summer of 1999, Disney's post-renaissance would bring films such as Atlantis: The Lost Empire, Lilo &amp; Stitch Some these films were well-received by critics and audiences, but all, but Lilo &amp; Stitch and Dinosaur were considered box office failures. The films slated for after 2002 would and the success of Pixar and DreamWorks Animation An outcome unimaginable, as the company had enjoyed The company's new stake in the television business Eisner and Disney were having trouble putting together and ABC was relying on a newly produced Who Wants to Be a Millionaire?, One positive of the merger was Robert Iger, The young executive impressed Eisner, although he worried that Iger lacked the Iger would become the president of the Walt Disney Company in early 2000, the position had been left vacant since the departure of Ovitz. Finally, the theme park division was not thriving and much of the expansion and renovations promised ten years earlier to be part of Eisner's &quot;Disney decade&quot; plan had not come to fruition. Eisner had been able to add additional parks in both Orlando and Anaheim, adding Disney's Animal Kingdom to the and beginning construction on Disney's California Adventure Also, plans for a second park in the Paris resort were revived, and the development of Walt Disney Studios Park began. On top of these, a second park for the successful His most recent attempt at an expansion outside of Three entertainment chains to debut in multiple cities throughout the U.S. The flagship concept, the virtual reality arcade DisneyQuest, had just opened its Chicago location in the summer of 1999. Now, with rumors of a third international park in Hong Kong circulating, On November 2, 1999, the day after the news broke representatives from both parties officially announced The treatment Disney received in France after the announcement of Euro Disneyland was quite different than the reaction they received in Hong Kong. While Disney had the support of a few French contractors it seemed that the overwhelming majority of citizens aggressively Hong Kong had the exact opposite reaction. They hailed Disney's arrival, treating them as an economic savior of sorts, lauding Disney and proclaiming that the theme park would A few in the local media were skeptical, using the same talking points that Disney had to fight against anytime they attempted to build a new park outside of Orlando or Tokyo. This could easily be compiled into a Greatest Hits by the Opposition album. Here are a few: The government will spend taxpayer money to subsidize In the case of Hong Kong, estimates said that this could be around $2.6 billion. A commitment that Hong Kong officials used to lure The employment benefits that the park will bring after While discussed during the time of the Hong Kong Disney announcement, the consensus was that, given Hong Kong's struggling economy, Finally, that the positive economic impact promised by Disney is overstated, and that the subsidies given to the park The small opposition did bring up these points. But overall, Hong Kong seemed welcoming of Disney, expecting them to bring 1.2 million additional tourists The site for the park was to be located on Penny's Bay, After rumors of the new Disney Resort began to circulate, local archaeologists went to the island to search for Disney's new Hong Kong Resort was set to open in 2005, This resulted in Disney's California Adventure, and Disney's Hong Kong resort being constructed at the same time. Eisner and other executives were weary of DisneySea's development and construction the independent Japanese company that pays Finances were rarely an issue in Tokyo, In 2000, Disney began clearing the land in order to build the park, They petitioned the government of Hong Kong to stop the development. Claiming that Disney was in violation of their agreement, Hong Kong shrugged off the accusations toward Disney, telling those concerned that the amount of fish being killed The same year, Eisner commented on the troubling amount which the government quickly assured him they were fixing. This would be the beginning of what could only be described On February 8, 2001, Disney California Adventure opened to mostly negative reviews. Visitors disliked the budget park, citing the lack of attractions Executives were worried that the small park's but as it turned out, this wouldn't be an issue at all. Attendance was poor out of the gate. This, combined with the potential of an economic recession, sent Disney into a panic over the future of California Adventure Despite these concerns, it appeared as though Eisner In the summer of 2001, an article released by the Beijing Evening News reported that Disney was planning to build a park in the capital city in time for the 2008 Olympics. This infuriated Hong Kong officials. If another Disney Park were to open in China, it would destroy Hong Kong Disney's chances at attracting After the outrage made its way to Eisner, he announced that Disney would not open another park that the company was 100% focused on Hong Kong, and that in the event that Disney did build a park in mainland China, A clarification that seemed to prove Disney's desire for a new park. Later that year, the terrorist attacks of September 11th and the tourism industry saw the worst of it, On top of this, rumors circulated that This did not bode well for the struggling parks division and the company as a whole. Each division of the company seemed to be in major trouble. This brought more budget cuts at the parks Hong Kong Disney was too far into development to be stopped, but the Walt Disney company's financial struggles In 2002, the rumors of a park in Shanghai resurfaced, Hong Kong officials and residents were once again outraged. By now, they were expecting half of and the region had already poured $2 billion and improving surrounding infrastructure in preparation for its opening. Analysts estimated that it would take 13 years after opening and if a park in Shanghai opened during that time, The park was to begin construction the next year, and Hong Kong continued Before the construction of the park began, workers still dredging the water surrounding the Hong Kong Disney site encountered something peculiar in the bay. Dozens of bombs buried in the ocean floor were now exposed, local bomb experts were accused of under estimating The bomb experts assured Disney although they did mention that sometimes they do. Crews continued dredging, a bit more carefully than before. At the same time as this, an outbreak of took the lives of nearly 800 people, The disease eventually spread to Hong Kong Travel was discouraged as containment efforts intensified, which did not bode well for the Disney park under construction. Thankfully for the health of the people of the affected regions, Hong Kong was removed from the and the outbreak was classified as contained in July. This greatly impacted Hong Kong's economic recovery, and officials were banking on the Disney part to On November 20, 2003, Roy E. Disney; chairman of Walt Disney Animation and vice chairman resigned from his position. Stanley Gold, another Disney board member These two had one goal with their resignation: To take down Michael Eisner. In a letter addressed to Eisner and sent to the press, He pointed to Eisner's conduct with the ousting who was vocal about her displeasure with the direction of the company. Roy accused Eisner of stacking the board in his favor, and ousting anyone that didn't agree with his ideas. In the letter, he outlines seven main reasons for his resignation, #1: Eisner and Bob Iger's inability #2: Eisner's micromanagement of those around him. #3: The loss of quality in the parks. Roy mentions the theme parks built on the cheap, specifically citing Disney's California Adventure, #4: The decrease in value of the Disney brand Roy claimed that the public perception was #5: The discouragement of creativity #6: Eisner's inability to build and maintain relationships which at the time was unhappy with Months after this, Pixar would announce an end turning many more against Eisner and Disney's management team. #7: Eisner's refusal to discuss succession. In the letter, Roy also specifically referenced the death of Frank Wells, and Eisner's inability to run the company without his partner. A common belief among employees that infuriated Eisner. This was the start of Roy and Gold's &quot;Save Disney&quot; campaign. An expensive and elaborate effort to oust Eisner and if it came to it, legal action. Roy used the legacy of his father urging shareholders to preserve the magic of the company. He specifically appealed to cast members and the smaller shareholders that invested in the company, not just to make a profit, but to be a part of the magic that it creates. Eisner and management brushed off Roy's efforts as a political stunt, and many within the company believed Roy's issues were personal, They also pointed out that many of the moves were decisions that they approved as board members. Roy admitted that he had given management the benefit of the doubt too many times, but that his campaign was to prevent the company Meanwhile in Hong Kong, the alleged budget park was still being constructed, now being used as an example of mismanagement The question sparked by Roy's allegations is: How do you build a budget Disney theme park? The parks are known for their &quot;Spare no expense&quot; This results in attractions costing tens of millions of dollars to build, How can you build a well-themed immersive environment cheaply? As Eisner proved, it was actually pretty simple, If you want to build a faraway land with detailed dark rides that take you on adventures beyond one person's wildest dreams, then it's next to impossible to do it on the cheap. The key is to pick a theme that is easy For instance, choosing a county fair, a pier amusement park, is a great way to operate multiple rides Any poor craftsmanship or lack of effort fits that theme perfectly. Another example is theming a section of the park, or the entire thing, to Hollywood. This saves a lot of money when it comes to set-dressing attractions. There's no need to build your roller coaster in any beautifully sculpted mountain, instead, build it in a large tan box it doesn't cost nearly as much and it technically delivers In the case of Hong Kong Disneyland, how would one save money Certainly there wouldn't be any way to avoid spending whatever is necessary to ensure that the center of the park is the most beautiful and well-themed section. Except, there was. The solution to the issue of the expensive icon was claiming nostalgia, and creating a tribute to the original Disneyland Castle. The smallest of any of the Magic Kingdom park castles by a long shot. This would not be the only area where the company would save money, but being the icon, it would be the most obvious. This was the corporate mindset with which Hong Kong Disneyland was built. On March 3, 2004, the Walt Disney Company Just a few weeks prior, Comcast had made catching both Disney and the media off-guard. Disney was struggling, but the company had and they were coming off of a successful slate of films in 2003. The seemingly random bid raised the stakes for the shareholders meeting. While Disney had expressed no interest in the merger, this strengthened Roy's argument to preserve the soul of the company, which would certainly be destroyed if it were At the same time, it provided management with a lot of options, including a potential graceful escape plan Everyone was present at the shareholders meeting. Roy gave a passionate speech on his Save Disney campaign, which was met with thunderous applause and a standing ovation. Eisner's speech spoke of the company's success and its future, and he claimed the points Roy were making were exaggerated or simply untrue. The applause he received was described as light. It then came time to read the re-election vote for the board of directors. Roy was hoping for around 20% of shareholders which would have been a strong vote Once the votes were tallied, After howls of protest, he said: &quot;I almost got away with that.&quot; The results of the votes were then read. For Roy, the news was far greater than he could have imagined, 43.4% of shareholders withheld their votes to re-elect Eisner to the board. An opposition vote of that magnitude was unprecedented, with only a handful of comparable examples in the history of corporate America. It was later revealed that over 70% of cast members voted against Eisner, indicating how pay cuts and budgeting in the parks After the vote, Eisner was stripped of his role of chairman of the board, Eisner had suggested the idea of him resigning as chairman far before the meeting, but it was a strong indication that Eisner's days at the company were numbered. -[Michael Eisner] All of us at the Walt Disney Company for the people of Hong Kong and China, a Disneyland of their own. With Chinese New Year just around the corner. I wanted it to be the first one to say: [In Cantonese] Happy Chinese New Year. Thank you. [Applause] -[Kevin] Later in 2004, it was announced that The company discussed Hong Kong's excitement for the new park, and how it would focus on bringing the Closer to the strategy for Tokyo Disneyland, Still, they were careful to incorporate the area's distinct culture, hiring a professional Feng shui consultant to ensure that the park would provide a familiar and harmonious layout to its guests. The coming year was shaping up to be a big one for Disney parks. With both the opening of the Hong Kong Disneyland Resort, On September 10, 2004, Eisner wrote a formal letter to Disney's board of directors announcing his intent to leave Disney The move was merely a formality, as it was clear He also endorsed Bob Iger as his successor, Many, including Eisner, questioned whether or not but after deliberation on the issue, it became clear Roy and Gold continued their campaign. Claiming that Eisner's resignation letter and that he might still try to retain power in the company. They urged the board to end his contract a year early, The board refused their request, but they did ensure On March 14, 2005, Disney's board unanimously voted The selection process was quite controversial, with Roy and Gold criticizing the decision The search was made more difficult by Eisner's insistence a situation that turned many potential candidates away. There was some good news for Roy and Gold, it was revealed that Eisner would retire Coincidentally, three weeks after the opening of Hong Kong Disneyland. Iger would take over day-to-day CEO duties, In June of 2005, environmentalists objected to Disney's plan Despite the dish being a traditional Chinese cuisine, activists were worried about the declining shark population, and the animal abuse conducted in order to obtain a shark's fin. Which included fishermen pulling sharks out of the water, cutting off their fin, and throwing them back into the ocean to die. Disney attempted to find an environmentally sustainable way to provide the dish, but a study revealed that no such options were available. The park took the dish off the menu, and stated that On top of this, they would provide those explaining the horrors committed in order to make the meal possible, which would have certainly been a hit among newlyweds. Even with these accommodations, and Disney decided to not serve shark fin soup whatsoever. The month after the shark fin backlash, and killed nearly 50 stray dogs that had been The headlines were sensationalized, who took the strays immediately to a shelter. The shelter, having no time to find homes for the animals, giving lethal injections to the remaining 42. Media also reported that some of the dogs were but both Disney and the construction company denied these allegations. Instead claiming that the dogs, traveling in packs, The bad press, deserved or not, was just the beginning, as these types of negative reports on Hong Kong Disney On August 19, 2005, reports were released accusing Disney of running manufacturing plants in mainland China that overworked and underpaid employees. Reportedly compensating some 33C//hour, which was nine cents under China's minimum wage of 42C//hour. Disney promised to investigate the matter, On August 27, 2005, Hong Kong actor, Daniel Wu, He claimed that when him and the other stars were filming a promo for the park, the American workers were disrespectful to them. A spokesperson for Hong Kong Disneyland and hoped that everyone would come On September 4, Hong Kong Disneyland held a rehearsal day, bringing in 29,000 guests to test attractions and traffic flow. The event was created to avoid an opening-day disaster The day was a disaster. Guests waited in some lines for hours just to have the ride break down, and the park's restaurants did not have It certainly didn't help that Hong Kong Disneyland While some early concept work showed a more ambitious version of the park, the budget park seemed that it was going to live up to its title. It also appeared that Disney was planning to pre-planning for a second gate and more hotels. Weeks before opening, a case of food poisoning Worse, when Hong Kong authorities came to investigate, Disney's security demanded that they removed parts of their uniform before entering. When the story broke, Hong Kong residents were outraged, and there was potential that Hong Kong authorities Luckily, the park's opening would overshadow the incident. Before the opening, Disney seemed anxious and to see just how well their budget park would perform. [Kid speaking Cantonese] [Kid speaking Cantonese] [Kid speaking Cantonese] [Kid speaking Cantonese] [Kids singing in Cantonese] -[Kevin] On September 12, 2005, the Hong Kong Disneyland Resort Both Iger and Eisner were in attendance for the big day. Reportedly, while Iger was watching the Opening Day Parade, he noticed that children responded to the feature Pixar characters more than they did to the classic Disney animated characters. The realization fueled Iger to repair Disney's relationship with Pixar, which he would do less than six months later Hong Kong Disneyland featured only four themed lands: Main Street U.S.A., Adventureland, The park advertised 22 attractions including Autopia, For reference, this is about half of the attractions Of these 22 attractions, one was City Hall and Guest Relations, Another was a large set of Tiki statues that sprayed guests with water. Sleeping Beauty Castle and a Snow White themed wishing well were another two, the railroad, and its only stop in Fantasyland, were listed separately. Of the remaining 15 attractions, Festival of the Lion King from Animal Kingdom In Adventureland, Tarzan's treehouse and the rafts in Fantasyland, there was Mickey's PhilharMagic and a character meet-and-greet. The remaining nine attractions would be considered This included the Jungle Cruise, The Many Adventures of Winnie the Pooh, Cinderella Carousel Mad Hatter Tea Cups, Orbitron, and the soon to open Autopia. And that was it. No Peter Pan's Flight, no Pirates of the Caribbean The scamp park was more fleshed out than but Hong Kong Disneyland was no doubt made with a similar financial hold. This is not the fault of the Imagineers or the cast members, to create a sense of magic and add beautiful features and the park was a huge success in delivering However, executives couldn't care less about they were focused on how the park looked financially. The head of attendance calculating at the Walt Disney Company estimated that 5.6 million people would visit the park in its first year, with around 10 million visiting every year after that. Hong Kong's population was only 6.8 million in 2005, so the park was relying on two-thirds of its estimated visitors to come from mainland China and other countries in Asia. Right out of the gate, things were not looking good. Quite the opposite, really. Despite the worries of Disney executives and Hong Kong officials the park's opening week attendance did not meet predictions. An indicator of the weak performance was a similar issue faced in Paris. For Hong Kong, this meant that mainland and it seemed that locals were not about to make up the difference. The month after the park opened, an employee climbed Luckily, the attempt was thwarted. However, an opinion poll following the incident revealed that the park had endured were affecting the public's perception of the resort. 24% of those polled by Asian trade magazine media reported only 42% claimed that their view was positive. The negative publicity, combined with high ticket prices, a lack of attachment to making company by the people of China, and a lack of attractions revealed how much trouble the park could be in. Worst of all, Hong Kong Disney was having which saw a jump in attendance after Hong Kong Disney opened, and visitor numbers seemed even between the two, with the possibility that Ocean Park was doing better. As if things couldn't get any worse, Hong Kong Disney During the Chinese Lunar New Year Festival, Hong Kong Disneyland hit capacity day after day Disney, not anticipating the crowds, and crowds of guests with valid entry passes were turned away at the gates. Furious over being denied entry, many engaged While a few took a more active response This brought more bad press for Hong Kong Disneyland, issuing official statements almost every day of the festivities. A simple special event ticket would be required but the damage had already been done to the struggling park. Hong Kong Disney's first year under performed, with 5.2 million guests The news would only get worse from there, the projected attendance in 2006 of 10 million visitors was a bit off. The actual attendance was even lower In two years, the park had created a $200 million deficit, Hong Kong legislators began to publicly criticize the park's poor performance. Hong Kong owned 57% of the park, With an initial cost of $3.5 billion and a large deficit, Disney was already making attempts to remedy the lack of attractions, four new shows and the classic boat ride, This boosted attendance slightly, however, it was not enough. Disney and Hong Kong knew that especially since a deal between Disney The solution was a $465 million expansion to Hong Kong Disney. This would add up to 30 new attractions Mystic Point, Grizzly Gulch, and Toy Story Land. This would also increase Disney's stake in Hong Kong Disneyland from 43% to 48%, with Hong Kong's falling from 57% to 52%. Toy Story Land would be the first to open, The park was a mere clone of the quick-fix land both feature small carnival attractions themed to the Toy Story franchise. On July 14, 2012, Grizzly Gulch opened with a new roller coaster, A unique spin on both Frontierland Big Grizzly Mountain featured audio-animatronic bears, The new additions brought great news for both Hong Kong's government and Disney. The resort had finally turned an annual profit. The new attractions motivated attendance to jump to 6.7 million guests, and the resort was poised to climb its way out of its debt. There was one issue: The long-rumored Shanghai Disneyland project had been approved, and it was set to open in 2016. This meant that fewer mainland guests The bad news, while expected, put a damper on the park's recent success, all Hong Kong could do is continue its expansion with unique attractions and hope that guests would continue to travel to the resort. On May 17, 2013, Mystic Point opened with its signature attraction: Mystic Manor. The ride takes the place of the Haunted Mansion found at other Disney parks. Due to Chinese traditions and censorship laws the popular dark ride featuring departed spirits cannot be cloned to the resort. The new ride, Mystic Manor, told the story when Albert opens Mystic's music box, the house comes to life. The trackless dark ride is one of the best attractions ever created by Disney, it was a hit among guests and solidified 2013's profit was even higher than 2012's, Unfortunately, this was the last year of profit Shanghai Disneyland opened on June 16, 2016, the high-capacity park boasted state-of-the-art rides and unique attractions. Unlike the budget park built in Hong Kong Disney and Shanghai spared no expense, In its first year, over 11 million guests visited Shanghai Disneyland, the park's massive success was one of the main factors In 2015, 2016 and 2017, the park reported increasing losses, This is partly due to the cost of expansion, including a third resort hotel and a new simulator, A new Moana stage show opened in 2018, a new Ant-Man and the Wasp ride opening in March of 2019 a Frozen themed land and another Marvel attraction and perhaps the most symbolic of the park's transformation: A new castle. The small Sleeping Beauty Castle would be renovated This seems to mark the end to Hong Kong Disneyland's years as a budget park, and while the resort will most likely continue there is hope for Disney's worst performing Magic Kingdom. The expensive re-imagining of the park and he has had to conduct similar financial rescues and Walt Disney Studios Park in Paris. Large price tags have never scared Iger during his years at the helm, and it is too early to see the return on some It is possible, however, with his predecessor. Since Michael Eisner left Disney in September of 2005, he has continued his entertainment career, He has funded a few TV shows, including and his investment company recently bought the Portsmouth Football Club. He left a mixed legacy at Disney, he no doubt saved the company from takeover with the help of Disney president Frank Wells, bringing about the Disney Renaissance, However, after Wells' tragic death, Eisner let the Walt Disney Company With Eisner having to fend off a potential Comcast acquisition, Disney was much larger, more diverse, but it was no doubt in trouble. No better indication of Eisner's fall such as Roy and Gold, and the endless list of executives or refused to work with the company with him at the helm. So what happened that reversed Eisner's mightiest touch? It is hard to narrow it down to one event. The death of his partner, the failure of Euro Disneyland, the fallout with Katzenberg and Ovitz, the failure to expand the parks, and the series of box office failures Perhaps the greatest factor was not a single event, Eisner was a one-of-a-kind creative executive, &quot;I'm not sure you're going to see another chief executive in Hollywood like me. I think I'm probably the last of the creative types to run a company like this.&quot; Eisner constantly stressed the power of creativity, He did this early in his reign at Disney green lighting lower-budget films with good concepts He continued to stress creativity even to his last days at the company, referencing his concern with Iger's lack While he continued to mention the creative process At his final years at Disney, he either forgot, when producing and releasing a creative work: Risk. Producing art is unpredictable and difficult, producing an artistic experience is even more so. When it is done wrong, whether on purpose or by circumstance, and make the safe option much more attractive. But when it is done right, when the balance between it is beautiful, memorable, special, A world devoid of such creations is bland, and an artistic landscape These colorful, larger-than-life experiences and it is crucial to continue creating them, regardless of the risk. It is everything, and it all comes from one thing, And despite forgetting it for a short period of his career, Eisner knew this. Possibly, better than anyone. -[Michael Eisner] Because mediocrity is what fearful people will always settle for. Again, think of a pointless painting, one bad dot cannot ruin the painting, you fix it and you move on. However, if people are afraid to take risks with bright and bold colors, then the entire work will be very dull and very bland. If you want to discover, inspired ideas you simply have to accept, that you will have to encounter more String Music [Dreamfinder] What about Science?