(cooking pan scraping) - That's one of the You can do whatever you want. (upbeat music) - Even if you've never heard chances are you've eaten Restaurant chefs love these - Carbon steel is growing in popularity, and you might be wondering - Hannah and I both but do they have a place in your kitchen? We're gonna give you the how it's made, and how to take care of it, so you can decide if it's right for you. - First up, Lisa, with our buying guide. (upbeat music) - Carbon steel skillets are with a key difference. They are both made of iron By changing the material a little bit, putting in a little bit less carbon, making it a little bit less brittle, they can make a carbon and that's shaped rather than cast. And that is the key difference Retains a lot of the properties this ability to retain heat and really put a nice sear on food, but it's much easier to handle. Other secret of this pan is its ability to become So the smooth grain of this takes to seasoning a little and it becomes very rapidly And you can cook in it with and food will just come right out. So if you're really worried like PTFE, this is the way to go. It's a natural process. And the other thing about that is the non-stick pans that you buy are gonna gradually become So the great steering that and its ability to become more makes this a favorite All of our Test Cooks love In fact, we kind of think of it as the one pan that does it all. We tested eight pans, and believe me, they were not all good. Some of them were real clunky, some really just never took to seasoning. They had sides that were too They just were not worth it. This one's our favorite. It's Matfer Bourgeat 11 There are several things that and one is you want some space to cook. This is 12 inches or 11 7/8 rim to rim and that's how they measure it. Then, the sides come down, and some of these tapered down like a wok to this little This one gives you a good and that's important. You want room for food rather than steam. This has low sloping sides, so you can get a spatula under there that encourages evaporation You're not gonna cook in a bowl. The handle is all metal Some of them had other You you wanna be able or on the stove top, and we like that this one It's not super comfortable, Some of the hands we tested had very awkward balance and moved them into the Finally, the angle of the handle, this goes up a little bit. A lot of European pans do that. They tend to angle up. American pans, for whatever This is a French pan. It is angled up a little bit, but not so high that it was When we were making tarte Tatin, you start on the stove top, and then you're sliding it into the oven to brown the crust on top. And when the angle of you can't get the pan to without having this tangling up in the broiler burners up top. And so that's... It's good for you able to get It also really took to seasoning well. It basically got seasoned and kept getting more and more non-stick. Some of the other pans seemed to really take a You'd go through the cook something, and it would just come up. This really just kept building. I loved this pan so much before I was even done, I and I ordered one for So I've had mine for I cook in it all the time. One other factor that was especially ones that and that you might be baking the way the handle is attached to the pan. A lot of them had big, lumpy rivets, and they actually acquired This is nice and smooth. The rivets are all flat and flush so you don't have anything and that is so nice for You can swoop the spatula around, nothing is getting stuck. It's nice for cleaning, You just have this very So let's talk about the differences between carbon steel, cast iron, and traditional stainless steel skillets, which, in our case, are fully clad pans with stainless aluminum I cooked three identical burgers in each of the three types of pan: cast iron, carbon steel, which, in our case, is with stainless aluminum Now, in all cases, the burgers were fine. They were good burgers, but there were definite And that's because of the differences in the material of the skillet. Stainless steel or, in where there are layers of stainless steel, is really known for its ability The aluminum transmits heat very quickly, stainless steel much more slowly. The stainless retains it so it spreads, and you get this beautiful It's not so much great at that nice sear, that crisp that you want like or a crisp tender vegetable. Perfectly acceptable burger. But I think the cast did a little bit better. Cast iron, that is a very Once we preheated the pan, it stayed pretty steady We got a deep brown crust almost to the verge of which is, I kinda like it that By the time we were really because the outside looked really done, it was still quite pink inside. In the carbon steel, I think we got the sort You get this really that is deeply brown, Inside is nice and pink. And you really get this nice contrast between the brown crust and the cooked interior So I thought it was a little And honestly, at home, in my carbon steel pan. When we were done, there was It was just, I wipe it out, rinse it out, and we're good to go. The stainless steel pan, as It stuck a little bit. There was a brown spot and that's great if you're gonna make a It's not a non-stick pan. It has none of the traits of non-stick the way cast iron or very As we saw with the burgers, the carbon steel pan has certain traits that really make it a It definitely has that nice heat retention and heat transfer of a cast iron pan. It has that nice release This is a great all-around pan, does almost anything you want it to do, it's really easy to take care of and only gets better with time. So that's what to look Let's go to Hannah and find out and take care of your carbon steel pans. (upbeat music) - The first thing we is that like cast iron, It requires seasoning or a process that bonds oil not only for protection, but also to start the pan on its journey to make it non-stick. Now, we tested eight pans total. Two of them arrived They were actually coded in to protect the surface And once we removed that coating, we followed each manufacturer's Now, we wondered if having would be a deal-breaker, but it turned out that we and we settled on a method that makes seasoning at home much easier. First, you'll need to that sticky beeswax or grease. You do this by washing it and an abrasive sponge or a scrubby brush. You definitely need to do You wanna really get in there and make sure that the coating the bottom of the pan, the handle. Make sure to scrub that all over. What you're looking for on the surface of the pan to be gone. You want it to feel like smooth metal. You can pat the pan dry with a towel, then put it over a burner on So once the pan is clean and dry, you're gonna wanna put it over medium heat and then add 1/3 a cup of and then the peels from two potatoes. The salt and the peels are or grease from the surface. And the peels also regulate the heat, preventing spotty bonding of the oil. You can also use a sliced Wok expert Grace Young Really, you just want something You're gonna wanna do this moving the peels around and up the sides. Now, don't be tempted to eat one of these while you're doing this. Lisa tried that while testing. And remember, these are picking and she can tell you, All right, so I cooked these and you'll notice that the a spotty brown. That's exactly what we want. These are the color of a dark kettle chip or a wooden cutting board, I'd say. All right, so we're gonna discard these. Don't need these anymore. They've done their duty. So now it's over medium heat. I have it all dried out. Let's cook an egg 'cause this Of course, you're gonna continue to build that seasoning over We're gonna start with a little bit of fat because you don't wanna cook with zero fat in a carbon steel pan or a cast iron pan. You wanna have a little bit of fat. Let's add an egg and So this isn't done yet. The bottom isn't even set. I can already tell that I'm gonna flip it early just like, look at that. You can see this just sliding around. No problem. There we go, really beautiful. Wasn't that hard, didn't take that long, and now I have this pan Unlike PTFE, which uses a layer of plastic that This is naturally non-stick. t's just cooking oil bonded Ceramic non-stick pans, also they use something similar to beach glass but it's a very thin layer. It doesn't off gas in but it's very fallible. It's a thin layer, it can crack, it can actually dry out the moisture. The oils come out of the pan where you use it on too high heat. Carbon steel, on the other hand, it's just a layer of cooked on oil, creating that polymerized And these really... You don't have to be That's why I love them. I don't like to baby my pans. I don't like to make sure Look, I'm gonna take this off right now. It's just not a speck left in the pan. Absolutely beautiful. So now, you can see this pan has a nice non-stick layer started on it that will build over time. But you can do things in that will damage that non-stick surface. Really acidic things, for example, like tomato sauce, or They can strip that This is no problem. You can fix that pretty easily. You can either do the with the potato peels if the or you can just oil it I have my pan here from home. This is little Eddie. Eddie and I have gotten in a and we always make up. Sometimes, it's not me in my house that ruins Eddie's surface. I'm not gonna name names. But, you know what? I'm always able to bring his surface back. Look how gorgeous, and glossy, and dark this surface is right now. This is a beautiful pan. It's one of my, probably Consider a smaller eight inch. I love an eight-inch skillet. It's one of my favorite skillet sizes. So after you cook, a little routine maintenance You can wash them gently with and you can use a little You probably won't need to, though. Dry the pan thoroughly over a warm burner and make sure not to overheat it. That can actually break down the seasoning on the surface of the pan. You wanna add 1/4 teaspoon 1/2 a teaspoon of oil for a wok, and rub it evenly all over You can do this with a lot of paper towels and a pair of tongs. I've been trying to cut back so I have a dedicated and it's fine. I just fold it different ways until I've used it about five It works pretty well. Once you've covered the surface, you wanna wipe away any extra oil because you don't want any It won't polymerize and Let the pan smoke wiping away One thing you wanna you don't wanna put these The dishwasher will ruin the seasoning. If you're seasoning a wok, to put the sides of the wok Seasoning is a process. It can take upwards of a even if you use it frequently. And sometimes, the seasoning will look like you're and two steps back. It can look blotchy, and brown, and sad. Wok expert Grace Young actually calls this stage wok adolescence. So a little maintenance upfront and a little bit of maintenance that's the trade-off for that's naturally non-stick. All right, so there it is. Our buying, seasoning, for every chef's secret weapon, the carbon steel skillet. - For more information their maintenance, and all the check out the links below or - Do you have a carbon steel skillet? How do you season it? What other questions do you Let us know in the comments. Make sure to like this video and hit that subscribe button (upbeat music)