See how I turned a blank wall into this So here's the wall that we're starting with, and it does have a few things that we need to take care of before we start doing anything, and that is removing the chair rail that is here. We really don't like it as too traditional and taking down this little extra piece of crown molding, which they added up on the top to make it look taller. I think it looks like junk. So remove all that and then we can patch the walls and get it ready for paint. Now, this technique is going to work for removing any style trim or so. If you don't have chair rail, but you have something else, don't worry. You can use this. I started my scoring the top in the bottom of the rail with a box cutter. And this helps break the paint bond. Now, this lets you get a putty knife or a bar behind it, and then you can start pulling it away from the wall gently. Just be careful not to dent the wall. I work my way around the room in the chair rail came off pretty easily with minimal damage. And then I grab the ladder and I can take care of that Warnke top trim. So here's the crowd loading. I've got this little trim up on top and this is just all painted wall. This is just like a horrible job to make this look more grand than it is. Kind of feels like those old Pontiac Fiero's where they put the body kit on it to make it look like a Ferrari Testarossa, just not doing it. And if you're too young for that reference, just go Google it. I use the same technique on this trim scoring and prying it away from the wall, and they put it up as four wall length pieces. So one's a little bit unwieldy, but with a little work and a few broken pieces, I got it down right with the trim off. One of the things you're probably going to run into is a little mismatch in between the painted wall and underneath, because there's multiple layers of paint on this wall, but the drywall is just bare. So there's a little gap there. And you can even have some peel off here in between. So to print that, I'm going to knock it down with a razor blade and then we'll send that and use some spackling or mining compound to smooth everything out. I'm using a straight razor blade here, but you can also get them in those little scraper holdi thingies and it'll be a lot easier to handle. And it doesn't have to be perfect. Just scrape everything off flush with the wall so that you can fill it in with compound and Gilli to drywall knife over it. So this is going to be too wide of a gap for spackled, so I am going to use some joint compound and go over the top of that and then sand it all flush. But if you just had a few holes and you saw how I was denting in the nail holes from the chair rail, I was doing that to get just a little indentation. I went around and I dented all the nail holes in the wall, and then I mix up some 45 minute joint compound to patch it. It's pretty easy to apply to mine since the chair rail left a valley between the two painted surfaces. I'm using a six inch taping knife and I'm feathering in the compound into that recess. I love using a drywall hawk to hold the compound versus a pan. It gives you so much more control and it's a lot easier to hold. Plus, I think a hawk makes you look like three point eight times cooler, too subdued as we get into the painting. It is all about preparation to get a great painting job. Now, I'm going to start that by saying the walls and I'm going to sand the coat of the mud that I put on there. I've got the three am pro grade precision sanding sponge here. And you can have in a variety of grits. I like to use one hundred and twenty grit. I'm going to say in that. But these are also great for if you have any drips on your walls or any inconsistencies, go ahead and hit that with the sanding sponge first and then make sure you clean it all up because you want to have a clean, smooth and dry surface to get your paint started on. Now, you guys know I hate dust. So I brought it in the shop back and I try to capture it before it got into the air. After the initial sanding, I filled in any spots that I missed with a second coat or using a small flashlight. Diecast raking light at a 90 degree angle to the wall is a great way to find those voids and imperfections to fill. I'm taking the time to get it right here before you paint. It's going to make your paint job a lot cleaner and it's going to look way better in the end. There's a ton of different styles that you can do with board bad and whether it's just vertical strips or if you want to do a square grid across the whole thing or some combination of those. So it really helps to go ahead and mock that up and make sure it's the look that you've bought before you commit. So the way that I like to do that is start in the computer and then bring it back to the real world. I started off by measuring the width and the height of the feature wall, and we'll be removing this baseboard, but we're going to be keeping the crown molding. So I took that into account as well. And then I could mock up the wall in 3D to see what it looks like. Now, I started by adding in the baseboard, top rails and vertical boards on each end so that I could define the space for the interior. It's easiest to decide how many openings you want on the wall, and then you can play with the math to figure out the exact measurements you need. So if I wanted seven openings, I would use eight boards total on that wall. So to find the spacing, I can first subtract the total width of those eight boards. I'm using three and a half inch, one by fours. I could take that from the width of the wall. And then you divide that number by the total number of openings, which is seven. So for this setup, that equals twenty two point three six. So I just rounded that down to twenty two and a quarter inches for simplicity just to see how it looked. Then I actually went into the room and started laying out the boards on the wall. If you're not a nerd like me who loves 3D designing, you can skip straight to the step after working out the measurements on paper. You don't really need a computer. But the beauty of the 3-D modeling is I can quickly mock up what it would look like with a grid of horizontal pieces. Now, I can just use that same equation for the vertical spacing. I can also see how it looks if I deleted some of sinter boards and just left the top and bottom details. You just need to change the numbers in the equation if you want to see how it looks with more or less boards and figure out what that exact measurement is for your setup. Actually, like the look of six openings, when I mocked it up on the wall, that centerboard hit right on top of an outlet. It actually wasn't even sintered. It would have been right on the edge. So that wasn't going to work. So in the end, we decided to go with five openings in a top and bottom detail, which I think looks great on this large wall. So we got the design locked in and now we just need to prep the rest of the room before we start on the ax and wall over here. If you paint the rest of the room first, it's going to make it a lot easier once you get installing and you'll just have to tape it one time. And I'm taking off the baseboard and replacing it with five and a half inch, one by six and this trim poler does an amazing job in his wind back, doesn't dent in your walls like a small pry bar can. Before I started using this guy, my walls look like I played a game of whack a mole along the bottom after I pried off the boards and one of my base boards to run the full width of the wall versus copying it into the existing trim. So I cut off a small piece of the new trim, and I could use that as a reference to cut down the old ones. Now, an oscillating tool is by far the best way to do this. But you can also use a flush trim Hansel and a chisel to clean things up. Now the corners between the walls tend to get rounded and filled in with or paint, which makes your trim not sit well and stick out to avoid any issues that can cause. I like to bevel the back edges of the trim that go into the corner. I do this with a chisel and ain't pretty, but it gets the job done. I'm using 16 foot boards here so that I don't have to have any breaks in the Terim to deal with. And we just dropped it right into place and amazingly, it fit nice on the first try waves. And I thought after leveling it out, I attached the baseboards with two inch Brad nails right into the studs that was doing the old knuckle knocking trick to find the studs, which is less than optimal. There's a better way. My favorite way to find studs in a wall is using a rare earth magnet. Any magnet will work, but the rare earth magnets work really well. All you have to do is run across the wall and where it sticks to the wall. It is found a metallic fastener, like a screw or nail. And there is a stud there. And to keep the walls from getting marked up too much, I just put a little piece of Scotch painter's tape on the end. And it is a great way to protect your wall. I'm going to be painting this, but it will work great that way if you're hanging pictures on a finished wall. Now, I use this trick to mark out the studs about six inches below the crown molding to make the next step a little bit easier. Now the nails are going to hold the board in place, but adding adhesive caulk gives you that belt and suspenders confidence that it's not going to drop down on your head. And we hoisted up the upper board and then I nailed it into place at all those marks that I had just made on the studs. I wanted the trim right up against the crown molding. That crown molding was already level. So it looked great. I didn't need to make any adjustments. And with the top and bottom boards in, I could start fitting the vertical pieces and instead of measuring, I just put the boards in place and mark the exact fit which I took to the shop and then cut all my miter saw. I've got the board cut to size, and I also put a little bevel on the back, just like I did on the edges for the baseboards, except I did do this with my table. So you can also do this with a router or a chisel or even a belt sander just to give it a little more cushion in that corner. So it's a pretty good fit. But I do have some gaps in here as I push this against the wall, there are some areas in here. But since we're going to be paying this and we're really putting Cork on that joint anyway, and I'm not going to worry about it because we all know that caulk and paint making the carpenter. You ain't. A small gaps on the side aren't a big deal, but gaps where the vertical boards meet the baseboards should be reduced the best you can. I use some shims, the flesh, the one by fours up with the base before nailing them in. And then I could come back and score them with a box cutter and snap them off and leave the shims in place behind the boards. I went over the other side of the room and I installed the left edge to define my interior space before moving on. I recommend marking the layout of your boards on the wall as a last confirmation before installing everything just to make sure that your measurements are good here. And wouldn't you know, I totally jacked up one of my measurements, so I remarked the two boards and made sure everything was evenly spaced and avoided a big mistake in the end. And then I could mark and label all the vertical boards and cut them down to size all at once. If you don't give them perfect, don't worry. You can fill in any small gaps later. Now, when installing the interior boards, I used a six foot level to plumb up the one by four and then stuck it to the wall and nailed it in place at several spots. You're more than likely won't be hitting studs here. So a good amount of adhesive caulk will hold the wood in place. One of the thing I started doing was leveling the board and then marking on both sides of it at the top, middle and bottom. And that way I had nice reference lines so I could sit in the one by four on it, and I didn't have to check for level. Once I had the adhesive on and wanted to tack it in place, we're ready install the horizontal boards here for the detail. And I cut to spacers. These are 16 and a half inches for Orwall. And I also cut the horizontal spacers to fit in their nice tight fit. So now I can just use the spacer to get that straight in. Just imagine that that's up there. So we're gonna put these in. I'm going to use the 60 and have spacers for the top as well as the bottom and make installation super easy. Spacers really do take the guesswork out of it. And all you have to do is worry about shimming out the boards to be flush with the verticals. I you ceder shims for most of the larger gaps, but for smaller gaps. I used a couple of pieces of playing cards to skim it out. And just the tip here. Cutting those top boards a little tight will help you with the juggling act of trying to use the spacers on the top and nail the one by for up there all by yourself. But now I could really start seeing how the room would look. And I am loving this layout for sure. Are the boards are up and they're looking in the holes first. That way you can sand everything and get the dust all gone before you start doing your caulking. I filled in all the gaps and nail holes and went a little heavy that I knew I could send them back to flush in after it all dried, I could use those sanding sponges on the nail holes to smooth everything out. But on the joints between the boards, use an electric sander. It's going to save you a ton of time here and just keep sanding until you see Birdwood on both sides of the joint. And then, you know, it's flush. I finished off the wall prep by caulking all the seams of the trim. Just try to use as little as possible because you don't want it squeezing out and getting everywhere when you smooth it down with your advanced moving tool, your point a finger. All right. and we're going to be using the scotch delicate surface painter's tape. This is specifically made just for this application. Accent walls and painting stripes Also, because it is for delicate surfaces. You can use it on painted walls after they've been secured for at least twenty four hours. So we're at thirty six hours on this wall. So we're going to be good. I'm going to bed it down and then we'll start cutting in and we'll get that nice, crisp line when we peel it off before starting to put down your tape. Make sure that the surface is clean and dry and then start at the top and work your way down. Now, I like to hold the tape real tight against the wall to help keep the line straight, to help seal the edge. I came back with a putty knife and bedded down the tape, putting some nice pressure on him. And the tape should set for 30 to 60 minutes before painting to let that edge like technology seal tight. So I use that time to prime all the bear wood on the walls and to tape the top and bottom and do some cutting in. I use the Scotch Blue original on the carpet, and I took the tape under the baseboard to fully protected and definitely use the wide tape here for this application. I use the Scotch blue sharp lines tape on the top to cover up the crown molding. No, I realize that the entire line is going to be hidden from sight because that top board actually sticks out further than the crown molding where they meet. And before painting the outside lines, we decide to cut in the interior panels. And that way, Susan could be rolling while I was painting the trim boards. I had this really cool time lapse of it all. But apparently my camera had other ideas because it cut off one minute into it. So and we're done at this point. I had been over an hour, so I was good to paint the edges over the delicate surface tape. You can just paint right up against that line. Just try not to glob up the paint too much along the tape because it's going to make it easier to remove later. Now then, Susan and I just put on some country music and painted our little hearts out. And I've got to say, Susan, was that a handicap here? Because she was using one of those little hot dog rollers. And at first I thought we'd have her roll the boards and then I'd back brush them. And that little roller would be easier to use. But it turned out that it was better for me to just go ahead and brush the boards in her to roll the wall. But honestly, I still love those little hot dog rollers, even though the last time I used one, I got destroyed in the comments for it. So I'll take the hit for this one, too. Right. and then we can start taking off the tape and reveal things. So I took the tape off of the top of the crown molding and into the carpet to make sure that I didn't pull up any pay off of it , actually push down the tape to break that bond of the paint on the baseboard, and then I can pull it off in a 45 degree angle. And it came up great in the baseboards. Look awesome. Now for the corner over here on the delicate surface tape, all you have to do is pull it off at a 45 degree angle and you'll reveal that nice, crisp line if you're starting to have any tears or anything like that. And you can also score it with a razor blade, and that should break the paint bond and allow you to remove it, just like I did on the baseboards earlier. This morning, that in action all turned out really nice is a huge upgrade over that Cheryll that we had before. If you want to check out some other home renovation projects, I got a playlist cued up for you right there. We've done some other room makeovers. I think you're going to like I don't give a big thank you to all those folks who have been joining the Builders Club, and I'll get you guys over there on the next video.