Satsang with Mooji Almost all the time, this 'I am' is contacting the mind, And at least you begin to see the influence of the habit of associating with the mind. But don't give up! [music] Don't Give Up! [Mooji] The postman came today. 'Dear Mooji, please speak about meditation. Love from Tove.' About meditation, meditation ... [silence] The best meditation, a simple meditation; But we're not going to call it meditation. I don't want to use a name, But the best, if that is what you are asking ... This feeling, the natural feeling of being the sense, 'I exist', it is common to all the sentient beings, Not just the words, 'I exist', The way in which you know you are alive. [Mooji] Nobody gave it to you, [Mooji] It is the voice of the life force [Mooji] It is saying, 'I am'. Only after this arises, This is the earliest manifestation of the Absolute in the dance of multiplicity. This must be there first, The feeling, 'I am', or 'I', You are to know this. When you say 'I', 'I' is consciousness. It is the godly principle in the form. It is already there. It is already there. But it reveals itself in the waking state When consciousness is available, So 'I' and consciousness are one. Know that. As soon as consciousness as the feeling, 'I am', It starts to identify with the body But it is not the body, it is only 'I am'. It is only 'I am'. And once this, 'I am the body', feeling forms, a new identification arises as 'me', This is a modification arising the intuition, 'I am'. I just want to say this thing. And even when this, 'I am the body', feeling It is supported by consciousness. And this is why the personality feels real. Not because it, by itself, is real, but because the root of the personality And it is the consciousness that you love! I made an example a few days ago. I said, If a being came and said, 'I am very pleased with you, so much so that I am offering you I give it to you because I love you so much. But one thing, you have to exchange what I have to give you I give you the universe, Would it be of any value for you? No. Because without consciousness Nothing can be tasted. Not even the sense of existence So the consciousness is that important You don't have to go somewhere else That is foolishness. Because the very 'I' that you feel But because this consciousness by identifying with the body, This is how absurd it all becomes when the identity, 'I am the body', and you don't realise that unassociated consciousness. Having said this, I'm going to tell you The sense, 'I am', is already there with you, unsupported; it is there. But it has a tendency, a kind of reflex, And you must watch this. Try to isolate the feeling, 'I am', and don't let it contact any other concept, [Mooji] belief, memory, intention, [Mooji] Keep it by itself, Now, I know how easy that becomes. But maybe sometimes you feel 'When I try to do this, Almost all the time, this 'I am' is contacting the mind, At least you begin to see the influence of the habit of associating with the mind. But don't give up! Feel the sense of existence, Just here, When you say 'I', It is consciousness. And it is formless. It is formless! But when it is in the body, So be aware of this, 'I am the body', feeling, Leave it there. This, 'I am the body', feeling is appearing in the consciousness itself. Just feel the natural sense, 'I am', and don't associate it with anything else. In the beginning, 'Whoa!', like a tsunami of thoughts comes. That is OK. This comes because of the very power of trying to isolate the 'I am'. Keep this exercise going, and gradually you will begin to feel Just a feeling of presence. And the feeling, the closeness of thoughts, will feel like it is drifting away. And the presence will feel more strengthened. Stay with this. And gradually you'll come to see or, 'I am an object', becomes weak. And there is only a supreme, And the perfume arising out of this isolation of the intuition of the feeling, 'I am', a natural joy, spaciousness, and an intuitive knowing or conviction that, 'I have no beginning or end'. You will know this! Don't study this. Don't look at it in a book. You will know it arising out of your own book. Just do this, not three, four or five things. Hold on only to the sense, 'I am'. Allow it to marinate in itself. [M.] Don't add anymore herbs and spices [Mooji] Let it stay by itself. You can call it meditation, or nothing. Don't call it anything. Just do this. Don't put any titles around it. Don't try and make it into something special. Just by yourself you do this. If you sit quietly for five or seven minutes, you get used to this feeling. Because the beingness enjoys being by itself. For a while it is in association but these qualities are temporary. Then these qualities begin to disturb the being. It wants to get rid of them. So this simple exercise is the most beautiful, most powerful, But don't tell anybody it is meditation. Soon you are going to love it so much that you will not want to practice anything else. Just do this. This is the first, most potent It is an aspect of self-inquiry, and it is the simplest instruction Because it doesn't matter or what things you believe. Even if you're an atheist you can practice this. And you'll come to find that fullness So sometimes I send people out, Go with this now. Don't practice any mantras, or anything else. Just stay with this, practice this. Come back in a few days Just this. So I think that will deal with this question This is enough for that. People will tell you, 'There is another meditation'. Anything more than this you don't need. Somebody will tell you, 'There's another meditation on the blue light'. The blue light will be seen by the 'I am'. The blue light is not seeing the 'I am', the 'I am' is seeing the blue light. You will come to know the earliest. Everything else you are perceiving They come and go. They are appearances. And only this ... The 'I am-ness' itself will lose all the different colours Like Eric was saying, 'Now, I just want to be. I don't want more clothing now. I don't want more belief. I just want to be naked, meaning I don't want to associate with anything.' [music] This pulsation is the voice of the Life Force Soon you are going to love it so much that you will not want to practice anything else. Recorded 7 Feb 2010