(light music) - Hidden along the equator lies a rainforest like no other. The Choco is a kaleidoscope of life. An enchanting home to an many found nowhere else on Earth. But like most of Earth's The Choco is under threat. Widespread deforestation for agriculture, logging, and human settlements has pushed this incredible ecosystem to the brink of disappearing. But, there is hope, thanks to these. These are tree islands, small patches of trees replanted within larger deforested areas. Scientists think this groundbreaking idea could change the world's by allowing the forest to regrow itself thanks to one surprising (gentle music) Here in Ecuador, the Choco 7,000 square kilometers, nearly one and a half times the size of Grand Canyon National Park. Separated from the Amazon The Choco is a world unto itself. It's also one of the Some spots receiving upwards It's also one of the world's most biologically diverse places. A home for over 800 species of birds, 140 species of mammals, and 9,000 species of plants. Here, inside a 100-meter square, you can find nearly as many tree species as in all of Europe. Rainforests like The Choco are critical for preserving Earth's biodiversity. These are some of the on a mission to save this (Leighton speaking in foreign language) of all of the species in the world, even though they occupy a of the Earth's land surface. There's new species being discovered in tropical rainforests every year, including here in Northwestern Ecuador. Every year, an area of that's about the size of Lake Michigan. (orchestral music) of the most threatened In Ecuador, only about 2% of the original forest cover remains. As more and more of it is countless species of plants and animals are at risk of extinction. (Fernando speaking in foreign language) Fernando is now fighting to (Fernando speaking in foreign language) But saving a rainforest Although scientists know what a healthy tropical forest looks like, they still know very little (Fernando speaking in foreign language) At this point, maybe you're thinking, why not just plant trees? One new tree to replace every old one? Well, the cost, for starters. Additionally, many have focused on replanting only a small number of tree species. But this allows only a to dominate the regrown forest, and it really fails to of species in natural rainforests, which can contain upwards in an area the size of Regrowing a forest by only is like trying to paint a But here, scientists are an idea that harnesses the Instead of planting rows of seedlings in a large scale plantation, the researchers are creating filled with a diverse mix of native trees. They hope that over time these empty spaces will be filled by the same natural processes lush and diverse. - [Leighton] The idea is that will kickstart a natural - [Joe] And here's where because the team's secret weapon is poop. (bright music) The trees planted in these In a healthy rainforest, animals act as nature's gardeners. As creatures like howler feast on that fruit, their droppings disperse planting new forest with Up to 80% of tree species to spread their seeds in this way. When a patch of rainforest falls, it's these animal to bringing it back to life. Eating fruits, carrying and ultimately, planting - One of the big questions is, what are the best kinds of trees to plant? How many of them do you need to plant and what kinds of spatial configurations? - [Joe] The scientists are with mouthwatering fruits, they'll attract a bunch of hungry critters like monkeys, birds, and bats to help this forest regrow itself. Who knew that the key could be as simple as a To test the idea, researchers with trees that produce a bounty while the other half offer - At the same time, we're also to identify what bird species (Fernando speaking in foreign language) - [Leighton] We'd like to between what animals are present and what seeds they're bringing - [Joe] The project has of the local community. - [Leighton] A lot of the is due to the tight bonds that they have with the local communities that are here. (Fernando speaking in foreign language) - [Joe] The experiment is still young, but the team is already (Fernando speaking in foreign language) If it works, this approach reforestation efforts but in threatened rainforests worldwide. - Ecological restoration It's not the solution to all In order to prevent mass extinction, we have to stop destroying And restoration can't do that. But restoration is part Ecological restoration some of the habitat that's been lost. - [Joe] Only time will tell if their tree islands will take root. But in the battle to save our rainforests, every seed of hope matters, and in The Choco, those Hey guys, we're out here working on the if you're a fan of history, we want to tell you Roots of Resistance is a series which shows how history And In the Margins explores the kind of lesser-known stories that they maybe don't teach you in school. We're gonna put a link to their latest episodes down below. We hope you consider subscribing too. It helps all of us over at PBS.