I'm Dr. Valerie Balester, I am the I am an English professor with a composition in other words in writing. I was thinking about it before today, and not all in english: in English, in and then also in engineering, in We used to have to have somebody from each dissertation defense, as what they a graduate committee reviewer to make so I did that for for many different I think a many in the sciences and So I'm very confident about about the I'm wondering what you know about the anything that you know at all about it happens in that little room? You go with your committee Sometimes it's open to the public and --I mean technically it always open to the but whether you announce it to the whether people come or don't come and in my department, in English, if it's open to the public there is a will even you will be sitting alone with what you're doing here is you have to I love your confidence now this is about okay it's very important and you have to as a scholar in the discipline and you have to show them what you have to and that's really what it's about. but I've seen all of them work through and have only seen one person ever fail Only one person didn't pass, one out of sixy. Your odds are good, you're So go in there with that impression. The pass wasn't prepared and hadn't talked to his committee So, you are most likely going to pass this. You're going to be expected to clearly and cogently explain your work Where's your place in this big What have you contributed to the field, an original contribution to knowledge. What have you contributed to What more needs to be done? That's the it's not really a grilling. In your head I want you to turn it from because I've never seen whenit is a grilling and the word grilling means where they put you on the grill and cook you until ask you this, this, and this do you know this, do you know that, It's usually not that, it's usually among equals. They're trying to see as an equal with them now. It's their please come in and give me some I expect you to be able to explain your defend your ideas, tell me where your because they expect it of each other. that they don't do with each other and you shouldn't worry if they suddenly and start talking to each other--that's a that means that you have stimulated live for, they're academics and they like that. Sometimes they get it's okay and your chair should gently bring that back. If your chair let it go, let it happen. If they disagree they expect you to come back with a and that's where the word &quot;defense&quot; comes Have a talk with your advisor and find out. If you don't know You can talk to other students, but you a good while before the defense and say, Can you explain to me how defense What is the usual thing that happens? What do you want from me as your and then know your committee as well. Sometimes when we work on a Make sure that the committee that's something your advisor can tell you. they'll probably read it the night they didn't have chance to tell you so if you can give it to them like a more, you can work that out with your the more time they have to respond to it the defense--where are their areas of concern. If you go in then and meet with them, but I think you should get your committee go meet with all your members, but when you do that, they even sometimes what question they're going to ask you or question, because they'll tell you: &quot;What &quot;what I like about your work is this,&quot; &quot;I and then when they read it again, their conversation, we talked about this-- that's the question I'm going to ask,&quot; because when and I'm sitting there on the hot spot and I I'm gonna go back to what I remember about your dissertation. Now the first is answer the question: tell me about This will come in handy on the job So, in your head write a speech, just a brief speech and you can break it so that you're basically repeating This is the question or problem that led this is the method I used, the way that I to deal with that--I should have added this is what I found and I put the thesis Thesis is really, what is my and this is what I think is gonna happen, In the Humanities we're gonna call it a a hypothesis, but I had a question, here's how I thought it would be Then this is the significance of my how it can be applied, what it means how it changes our practices, whatever and don't forget to bring a copy of the because usually the committee brings their own copy. Again, that's a thing you want to check will they bring their copies or do I have But usually they bring their own copies and they'll say: &quot;on page 55, you said blank, blank, blank.. explain it.&quot; Then you Try not to wait until the last If it's not finished, say here's what just put a deadline date and say I don't I have so far. That give them the opportunity to and they are gonna say, &quot;but you don't you're working, so be ready to So you have to practice, just like the Write down, just so you have it in your head, how you would answer the question: tell me Then practice it practice in front say it out loud. Don't memorize it, because you want to be agile. If somebody interrupts you, you want to remember where you are. You don't want to be just rope. You want to be able to say it even in a but you want to be able to say. You get so focused on what you're doing, you want to talk about the details and you what what question you're trying to What brought you into the research How did you approach the problem? What What did you find and what does all this Of course you want to dress for success and you want to smile. It's important not to be too serious. To show that you can do this and you can do this, remember the success In some fields, it's optional to present and in some fields it's always done. First is prepare for technical difficulties. If I came in here today and this was not working, I have my handout, For yourself, if your slides are reminding you what to say, make notecards or make a copy of your so you see every slide to follow It could be that you are in a room where and the electricity goes out that day, these people into the same room at the because every professor has a different they are all very busy, so you're gonna have it even though the electricity is out. Okay? So, be ready. Consider handouts, you don't want to give just to give out handouts, because you don't want them looking You want them looking at your slides, so make sure your handouts are only used to present things that can't go on or things that you really want them to Maybe it's a chart or a graph, maybe it's a but whatever it is, it should be things you to remember, to be very vivid or things are hard to put on a slide. Find out how the presentation usually is. In many cases you're going to need time for questions, in other cases not, because you're just just what they're going to do. They're going to Find that out from again from your advisor. Ask how much time do I have to do the do I have a public audience, if I do have how much time should I give It's usually five minutes for questions So if they say you have ten minutes total, We have a handout in the Writing Center Effective Presentation Slides&quot; and it's under oral communications, so I suggest you look at that. You want to be sure you don't put too Make sure your slides basically cover your main points, but that people are looking at you as much as The slides help them if they lose their The slides emphasize your main points, not just reading the slides. I recommend the handout &quot;Designing They will tell you how to divide your It's the same thing I told you to the problem or questions that led to your your methods for answering the question your major findings, the implications, significants, or application of your add to that, your next step in your They'll be interested, if you They might want to know if you've applied your scholarly career, I'm talking abou your research Will this dissertation lead to articles? Will it lead to a book? Will it lead to Another research program? So, where will this take you from here? The chair will probably say, &quot;okay, we are going to ask you to leave what procedures will be followed, so If they're gonna be allowed to interrupt or they have to each wait their turn, The next they're going to do is have you &quot;okay this is what we're going to do: Dr. Balester--&quot; and Dr. Balester has to and sometimes in the process in her head, So she may ramble on a bit that's why Listen, really focus, don't be listen to what they're saying now, she's going, &quot;well in chapter three, you chapter seven you said la la la la etc.. and then there's that if we bring in so and so scholar, this might resolve the contradiction You're like and you wanna know what? She might say, &quot;what do you think of that?&quot; Now you don't know what she Ask her to clarify or repeat the question you say I think I heard you ask &quot;.. ..is that correct?&quot; Okay, now what happens So you have lots of options came up with a few options: &quot;You asked me whether I think that this is a regular phenomenon, I'm not sure, but I think..&quot; So you don't have to go: &quot;yes no it's not a regular phenomenon.&quot; You can but take a stab at the answer, try to and let them see your thought process. they're letting you see their thought so you do the same thing. They want to see That's what they're looking for: can you &quot;I don't know, but that question has For example, if I knew the climatic changes in knowing that would help me do this.&quot; Keep focused on your data you are the expert on your data, on on your ideas, you are the expert and like the expert, they want you to answer like the expert. They respect you, believe me. There's so the dats are saying of man if I so that's good talk about, be confident &quot;given the constraints I was working with, but if I could do more, if you know, this is my dream, if I could really have &quot;in doing this, I learned a problem with Next time I'm gonna do it this way.&quot; Is it okay to just say, I don't know? It's okay if you really don't know, this may it's better to say I don't know than to The thing you don't wanna do is fake it. So don't fake it at all. Sometimes when they ask you're trying to listen, you need a little time: you can slow You can slow things down by pausing, take a breath look at your notes, even state, &quot;you think this is a &quot;I need a little time to answer that, can I They'll always say yes. Don't take three just a few seconds, maybe at that point distracted by them. Focus, focus.. Okay I can answer this and then go for it. Another thing is to both when you don't understand the Maybe you did understand it, but you So if you have said something wrong or that you started answering a new &quot;oh, I should have said that too.&quot; How do you Well it's a good idea to just admit it: &quot;oh, wait a minute I'm wrong about that aren't I? I realized that just now.&quot; Just correct or you can finish answering the question and then go: &quot;May I also add something I realized that when you asked me this, I something more,&quot; and just go ahead and say So you have the opportunity and you have to say &quot;I want to say something more I Thank you for that question, I a really good point. At the end, they they ask you to leave again. Don't go too go outside, now you really sweating. Remember the odds, you're going to come back in and they're going to say, &quot;congratulations!&quot; &quot;Now, we want you to however you have passed, okay?&quot; Just remember it is very common They did for me, in fact one of my &quot;Valerie you know that conclusion just That's okay, because I managed to pass was talking about, but they knew that my writing fell down The conclusion is usually the hardest part significance and fit it into the are the literature that you've done. So it's very common for that part, or are not in the right format, or it could be something else they noticed. Some you just did not quite capture. Sometimes you but they want you to put into the into the room and they say you passed, but they expect your chair to keep notes, and he or she will actually make sure you However, you could also suggest at that point when they say &quot;could you please summarize the major for me to make so I can make some Now, whether each committee member is going to those changes or not will also depend Many times they decide that the chair those revisions are made and they don't have to see it again, but So sometimes they'll sign it there if they will sign it right there, and sometimes they won't sign it until So that's another reason, you go see your At other times, everything is fine, they don't even want anyrevisions and as I said, it's possible they will say you did not knowing your material is extremely Don't go in there without having read your because you wrote it, but you haven't read it. Even if give yourself a little time, read it Practice and knowledge of your topic and remember positive self-talk, You probably know more about this topic more about this topic than anybody, even because that's what a dissertation where your advisor can take you, you have to go rest of the way. So hopefully even though your and following behind, you really do know Think a lot before you get there, Read your dissertation well. I really you can always reach me at the Writing It's Valerie Balester and if you go to &quot;about&quot; you'll see the staff directory and my So if I can give you some Thank you.