When the US got involved in the Vietnam War, the Second Indochina War that raged for twenty cost the lives of millions of people, saw and even before the first US ground troops of Americans were already involved. So In 1954, the First Indochina War between communist revolutionaries comes to an end In the following Geneva Accords, the US, France, divide Vietnam into two temporary states along the of Vietnam in the North led by Ho Chi Minh, and by former Emperor Bao Dai. The country is supposed The deal is less than Ho Chi Minh hoped. He fought Chinese and Soviet supporters pressure him into further US intervention in Asia. For France, the leave the region. So, the Geneva Accords fundamental concerns of Vietnamese nationalists. it publicly downplayed its involvement as concerned about concessions to the Communists, the Indochina War. Although the US decided CIA pilots flew supplies into the besieged President Eisenhower increases support to the overtones. Despite the planned elections, the US Washington supports the South for one major Ho Chi Minh is a puppet of Soviet Cambodia, India, Burma, Thailand, the rest of follow like tumbling dominoes. the US identifies Bao Dai's Prime Minister, to Ho Chi Minh. Although Diem lacks charisma, and fervently anti-communist. The US hopes democratic reforms and stop communism's spread. the State of Vietnam. General Matthew Ridgway, strongly opposes the US commitment. He in another ideological struggle in Asia, which credentials aren't very reassuring either. referendum, creating the Republic of Vietnam in the vote, raising some eyebrows in Washington. as well as criminal syndicates and militant Around the same time, military advisors The US now pours resources into the US provides a quarter of a billion dollars goes to building South Vietnam's economic base. Army of the Republic of Vietnam, the ARVN. In 1956, Diem replaces traditional village leaders are thought to harbour communist rural discontent. Re-education programmes There is also a security clamp down. By and 90 percent of the communist parties' important most opposition and refuses to recognise A Saigon newspaper carries his declaration: Communist objectives, and sought to turn into the slaves of Red imperialism. They are China." (Gettleman 274/275) often minority Catholics, also target who they see as centres of political opposition. unification referendum as promised by the election can happen in the communist north. The Ho Chi Minh to easily win. Instead, Eisenhower "[Diem is] an example for people everywhere who Meanwhile, in the North, frustration is building. from committing violence, and instead concentrates vary, but while enacting land reforms, northern Vietnamese as supposed "evil landlords and General Vo Nguyen Giap later admits the crimes: many honest people... Worse still, torture during party reorganisation." (Langer 52) activity in the south. Some southern his orders for non-violence, and military own leader. In 1959, the North officially supports US-Diem regime." They infiltrate thousands of Minh trail in neighbouring Laos and Cambodia. National Liberation Front. Initially a broad it closely cooperates with the communist they become known as the Viet Cong, a short Vietnamese. The name is used by Saigon newspapers from the Northern regular People's Army communist party controls both organizations. southern Vietnamese re-infiltrated basic equipment, writer Le Ly Hayslip, claims the Viet Cong had an important advantage "In contrast to [the AVRN], the Viet Cong were, not insult us... because they had been raised into a village overburdened with American the Viet Cong made do with what they had and goodwill of the people." (Hayslip in Ruane) sabotage campaign. Edward Lansdale, a US pioneer, delivers a stark warning to Washington: have started to steal the country and Lansdale's solution is to provide more support faith in Diem is plummeting, but there is a new US president means a new Vietnam policy. John F. Kennedy takes office in 1961 at a volatile Union announces to support all groups fighting a strong message during his inauguration: "Let every nation know, whether it wishes bear any burden, meet any hardship, support any and success of liberty." (Lawrence TVW 68) doctrine, where conventional and covert of just nuclear deterrence. His goal is but to ensure South Vietnam can resist the own security. He also brings a new team into the advisors with backgrounds in the military and academia. Perhaps the most influential is Robert his meticulous data-driven management approach asks McNamara to bring the same number-crunching Kennedy's 'Wise Men' encourage him to send more 11,300 of them - more than ten times as many as state from sending military personnel to either technicalities. Officially non-combat personnel, can theoretically only act in self-defence. Some special forces personnel that are technically many also function as helicopter pilots the US sets up camps and barracks across South ARVN continues to do most of the fighting - often join patrols and occasionally become casualties. Military Advisory Command, Vietnam - MACV. hamlets" - specially fortified villages The Americans entice locals into physically and material benefits and better services. By in around 3,000 strategic hamlets. This, patrols and increased airstrikes against the Viet American firepower, the Viet Cong strike back. as US Lt. Col Archie Clapp recalls in 1962: their encircling positions... Eight of the 22 we wanted to know, were we subjected to his heel of an airstrike? We concluded that it was When the airstrike started, the VC grabbed intended helicopter landing sites." (Langer 66) significant victory yet. Around 350 guerillas including repelling flamethrowing armoured helicopters. US advisors are surprised the Viet armoured vehicles and napalm. Meanwhile, despite show poor leadership, and little will to fight. 1963 as religious tensions spike in Saigon. suppress Buddhists, overseen by Diem's brother Vietnamese are nominally or culturally Buddhist, especially army officers, to convert, as "There was tremendous pressure to become Catholic about a lot of secret conversions... and I felt it was dangerous..." (Langer 69) when Buddhist monk Thich Quang Duc burns himself US protest, Diem promises to introduce Buddhist pagodas. To the US, Diem's In August 1963, the US learns of plans for a debate the level of US involvement, but they officials inform the plotters they support South South Vietnamese generals depose the government. an Armored Personnel Carrier - an act which but they hope the military government will Soon after, another surprise killing shocks the is assassinated in Dallas. By the time of and 100 have been killed. His Vice President, Johnson always wanted to be president - but not a he calls the 'Great Society'. He sees Vietnam from pressing issues at home. But 1964 is an will take advantage of any apparent weakness explains - in his trademark colourful language: succeed in taking over South Vietnam, there would shatter my Presidency... I knew that Harry Truman day that the Communists took over China... And I were chickenshit compared with what might happen So, Johnson keeps Kennedy's advisors and Despite wanting to keep US involvement limited, escalation. In December 1963, with the strategic and poor management, McNamara predicts a Johnson considers airstrikes or ground troops the coming election. Instead, he sends General William Westmoreland, who to pacification and civilian programmes. happening across Vietnam since 1961. But the US Taiwanese pilots to parachute South Vietnamese is Operational Plan 34 Alpha, or OPLAN 34A, North Vietnamese coast. Although the personnel may the raids are planned by MACV's Studies and for the US special forces and covert command. operations known as DESOTO patrols. US destroyers detect North Vietnamese communications and radar the destroyers - supported by aircraft carriers - is not true, but both OPLAN and DESOTO missions although technically separate, DESOTO patrols In July and August 1964, American the Gulf of Tonkin on a DESOTO an uneventful cruise would soon result in On the night of July 30 and 31, 1964 North Vietnamese military installations. Its cruise is designed to be unprovocative But the Maddox is as close as 14 kilometers to the territory, unlike the US interpretation. American destroyer is responsible for the three Vietnamese torpedo boats head for the targets the boats. The North Vietnamese launch the Maddox fires around 260 5- and 3-inch shells tension among the inexperienced American crew. together with destroyer USS Turner Joy. The night have been told to expect further attack and soon the Maddox opens fire, the Turner Joy joins multiple enemy torpedoes in the water. and enemy ships. As both US ships fire, vessels. By 2230 the Maddox makes evasive charges and attempts to ram an enemy. but not because the radar contacts disappear. of supposed contacts and torpedoes is reaching the contacts are real and if the Maddox and Turner Nevertheless, reports of a North Vietnamese Only on August 5, when no one finds any does Captain Herrick on the Maddox send denial an attack took place. Captain Barnhart happened. The Joint Chiefs of Staff urgently As messages flurry across the Pacific, and ship sightings. In the following days, both as large as they thought. Meanwhile, McNamara navy messages seemingly planning the attack. at coastal bases in Vinh on August 5. shoot down two US planes and kill 1 pilot. Resolution allowing further retaliation. the president can "repel any armed attack to prevent further aggression". (Tovy 67) resolution and during the discussions, members international waters. Johnson doesn't tell McNamara claims the Maddox was on and would continue to do so. destroyer was carrying out a mission, a patrol when it was attacked, it replied to the attack, it do so for the remainder of this week in the same force be doubled and a CAP - a combat air patrol I think you know he has issued instructions vessels in international waters, we are to respond Following the crisis, Johnson's approval he wins a landslide election. Still, he So, what actually happened in the Gulf of Tonkin? since North Vietnam confirmed it. But the incident was likely the result of radar miscommunication, and poor visibility. identified 25 probable torpedoes during the second 12 torpedo boats, 3 of which were damaged after torpedoes. The destroyers' own frequent change incoming torpedoes to Maddox's sonarmen. the North Vietnamese would likely confirm it happened. McNamara's intercepted messages are recovery of ships damaged on August 2nd. deliberately faked the attack as a provocation historians conclude it's unlikely. It is possible the full details of the second incident by the made public declarations about the attack and his [ORIGINAL AUDIO - JOHNSON: The determination all people and the government of South Vietnam will for the present, will be limited and fitting." but he's reluctant to use it. US planners draw up they don't use them right away. Instead, US planes This changes in early 1965. On February 7, Viet Holloway, killing 8 Americans and destroying a northern bomb attack at another "We have kept our gun over the mantel and our what was the result? They are killing our boys On February 24, US aircraft attack North 19th Parallel. This soon develops a sustained bombing campaign designed to North Vietnam into abandoning the Viet Cong. the air, they need regular ground like the one at Da Nang. On March 8 1965, two presence only provokes more Viet Cong attacks. activities. North Vietnam increases infiltrations, 17th Parallel. The Soviet Union and China, now send anti-aircraft weapons to the North. turmoil. Since Diem's death there have been leaders. US Assistant Secretary of Defence generals Nguyen Van Thieu and Nguyen Cao Ky Westmoreland also concludes the ARVN can't hold more American troops are needed. By on the ground. Johnson agrees to send So why did the US get further and further Communist expansion is perhaps the primary but American leaders felt it needed to be crystal clear in a secret US memorandum in 1965: friend' but to contain China." (Thee 119) a nation the US had publicly pledged to and a personal one for Johnson. With Kennedy's he felt compelled to follow his commitment considered withdrawal before his assassination. administration fell communist success until 1965 and the weakness of France and South Vietnam. this would, or so they thought, soon change. commanders had little regard for the fighting to their disappointment with the ARVN, whose expected from all Vietnamese. especially McNamara, place great faith in and believe this power combined with his with mathematical efficiency. There's little That's not to say everyone in the administration George Ball consistently denies victory is Cong has a strength equal - if not superior Chief of Mission in Saigon, tells Washington: which is disciplined, ideologically the desires of the peasantry and of The American GIs arriving in Vietnam would soon The Vietnam War is perhaps the most well-known global super powers were not battling directly they came close to direct confrontation years before the escalation in Vietnam. the Soviet Union also pursued their vision of the production of nuclear reactors. Whole cities would help produce limitless energy. I bet Pripyat. If you are interested to learn its origins in WW2 to the Chernobyl disaster series Red Atoms exclusively on Nebula. Nebula with other creators and where we don't have guidelines and where viewers directly support you can get 40% off an annual subscription. our other Nebula original series and much more. Icon? Check out Tip of the Spear by Mustard on Nebula you can also watch all our videos That's nebula.tv/realtimehistory for 40% off an As usual you can find all the sources for learn more about the fighting in Vietnam our video on the French Indochina War. If you thank you so much for the support, we couldn't and this is Real Time History, the only History