Fast travel is one of those ultra-basic, bedrock Some games almost DEMAND to have SOME kind But the devil is in the details. It's like a wrench. The same wrench can fix a loose connection a lot of damage. How a game implements its fast travel is the it, or creating a whole new one. Let's talk about the different shapes a craft one that fits just right. But first, fast travel to the end of your Do you have a project in your head right now? Let's get it out of there and free up some Milanote is a powerful tool to help get your Mike and I have been using it to plan episodes It's the fastest way I've found to get together to get your whole team working towards There are built-in templates for lots of project No matter the structure of your game, Milanote your game making plans in one place - storyboards Did you see something that sparked an idea Drop it in. Have a plan to change a level? Draw your ideas right on the picture, and It has a modern, easy-to-use interface that manager, artist, designer, or programmer, Milanote's intuitive drag-and-drop interface be the best they can be. Best of all, Milanote is free to sign up. Click the link in the description and let to a plan. Thanks, Milanote! What's the point of fast travel? Yeah, haha, it's traveling fast, duh. But... why do we need it? We're not fighting against reality here. You can't teleport yourself from New York to Leyndell in two seconds, no problem. Games are a world created - unbound by reality. All parts of them, including travel, could They could take any structure. Think about a point-and-click adventure game, from point to point whenever you move around. In that game, there's no need for fast travel. ALL travel is fast travel. The only time that fast travel can be A THING cost of time and space. Fast travel is a tool to cut down that cost. But... what is it exactly that we're cutting out, with? Fast travel isn't one single thing. If you're putting in a fast travel system, Let's start with with something basic, like There are roughly 25 trillion games that let of set points of interest on the map. Maybe it's the front door of a big city boss you fought ten hours ago. In most games, fast travel is pretty close It could just be literally that. One second, you're on a beach, and the next, Fast travel that lets you instantly jump to Skyrim is your classic example. There are hundreds of points of interest that there. Just go outside, bring up the map, and pick The points of interest are so frequent and more than a minute away from any point on Other games like Breath of the Wild and Elden teleportation points. In those two, fast travel is tied to just and shrines or sites of grace. They work the same as Skyrim, though - just Being able to jump around the map is a major their 'go anywhere, do anything' philosophy. Whenever you get bored or hit a wall, jump Teleporting from point to point can even be Did you get stuck on level geometry? Instead of soft locking, now you can just Teleporting can also be a godsend for completionists. If a player has already checked off large can let you skip over a long, eventless stretch feeling like it's wasting your time. Teleportation-style fast travel is so common don't forget that it became common for a It's really handy. A little less common are games where you can These will teleport you around the same as to be able to travel to another one. The diegetics of this style are usually stronger. Instead of just going to a menu and fading as a city bus network or save points you have Hub-to-hub is less of a Get Out Of Jail Free You have to do a little work to get to where Games that go hub-to-hub have to worry more How many of them are you going to have? Too many, and you risk undercutting the beautiful The best open-world games usually pride themselves you're going to. The serendipity of not really knowing what that hill. You're supposed to get distracted by the If you're just zipping around to the places a random korok seed, or a mini-dungeon, or This world isn't meant to be twenty boss you to LEAVE the beaten path, not skip over Put down too many hubs and players might spend looking at menus. But too few hubs, or too many in the wrong Final Fantasy XIV's Aetheryte network is with a fee based on the distance traveled. Nearly every zone in the game has one to three placement quality. Some of the older zones featured in the 2013 out of the way from common quest areas and Your reward for paying in-game currency to more uneventful terrain. The most infamous crystal problem shows up There's a primary base of operations you sitting within Vesper Bay, a small port village. Vesper Bay is not surrounded by an Aetheryte. The closest one is to the east, in another Just about everyone had to teleport to Horizon, Not once, either - you kept coming back several The travel time added up in a hurry. There are some light story reasons for why would it kill you to bring that crystal a Now, all you secret super fans know the real You go to another city and take a SECRET FERRY. Shh. Don't tell the new players. They're never gonna figure that one out, Ohhh, wasting time... The trip to Vesper Bay was such a common complaint By update 5.3, the developers finally started Bay Aetheryte Ticket, which sent you to where I, of course, didn't realize the tickets Reborn's story. That one's on me. At least the Waking Sands doesn't matter Square has fixed the bigger problem, at least. The recent expansions of XIV have been more placement. The same principle applies in mass transit hubs where people want to go! There's one thing I don't like about teleporting, It's a little too divorced from the game It's not the worst thing you could do, but a little bit for me. You do have other options, though. What if you thought about faster travel from I'm talking about shortcuts. It's super common in action-adventure games in mind. If you've just beaten the boss at the top through the whole thing to get out. Some games cut to black or just warp you to Dark Souls usually gives you something like that lets you speed your way to the entrance Plenty of Zelda games have unlockable doors more quickly as you progress. They could get creative with them, too. In Ocarina of Time, you can plant magic beans warp to the future, where those beans have access to more areas as adult Link. Metroidvanias often build their character the shortcut somewhere until you've gone As you unlock things like a high jump, a speed opening up the world and streamlining your There are some parts of Metroid Prime where design components. Once you find the space jump, you can hop to have to track through. The power to make shortcuts doesn't have Maybe you just pay a guy. Spelunky is a roguelike with a set series can skip a lot of the easier ones if you've You'll find him at the end of an area, where Pay the man a few times, and he'll create the start to the deeper parts of the cave. You only have a few options for where you 'hubs' in this case - but you will pass through Skipping levels isn't as much of a problem Hades, where you're slowly building your character's Your character progression in Spelunky IS There are no health upgrades or secret skills you. You can take on the final boss from the start end, and using the tunnels can make it much In this context, level skips ARE fast travel. It doesn't look the same as fast travel in cover the same function in a different form. So we've got teleporting. We've got shortcuts. How else can we get around the world quickly? Well, we could just go straight to the source What if you focus on character movement? Just make that way faster? Go ride a bike. Get on a horse. Steal an airship. Do whatever movement you were doing before, Now, this one isn't as fast as teleporting natural movement gets you the added bonus You have full reign over where you want to You can spot things along the way, and stop In the best-case scenario - if your movement make teleporting fast travel feel unnecessary. It's good to keep around as a fallback, but they're going on their own. This is, I think, the best part of Insomniac's Moving around as Spidey is not only fast but You transition from free falling to swinging But there's depth even faster, and you can tinker and practice to your next objective. The way you move in the game feels great, You always have something just around the side missions that you can jump right into The game supports the intrinsic satisfaction reasons to go from place to place without It's honestly easy to forget that the teleport Personally, the only time I think about it side of the map. Otherwise, I'm gonna take a little more The range of fast travel options in Spider-Man for getting to the next story beat immediately, run, but the game found a way to make its necessary. Spiderman's traversal options are very fun work is that they're almost always ready They're very convenient to use. That's not always the case in other games. Breath of the Wild has a teleportation-style often to zoom around to a tower or shrine only method that Nintendo built to get you Horses are here too, and they're around fine-grained way, though they aren't without Horses aren't free. You gotta get one yourself. Find one in the wild, sneak up to it, mount Once you've got a new friend, go to the Name it at one of the many stables across You can park multiple horses at the Horse riding off into adventure together... is what with a lot of inconveniences that make them On smooth, open terrain, horses are great. On rough terrain, don't even bother. Your horse will e-brake and refuse to go forward. They can't cross rivers, mountains, or deserts, those anywhere. You can hop off and go up the cliff yourself, They're horses. You won't be able to call it back by your be too far away or it can't find a path If you find another stable, an NPC can magic get to one on foot...or by shrine. Either way, it's just inconvenient enough in the first place. What most often happens is that you'll take interesting, get blocked by terrain, dismount horse entirely. The game's DLC added some special equipment It's magic! It's straight-up magic. Teleport your horse to wherever you want, That gear is well out of your way, though, on rougher terrain, completely outclassing Breath of the Wild's efforts to give a realistic just enough to nerf the option from a convenience No matter what form it takes, fast travel a game feels. With that much power, though, it's easy We're gonna have to think about some limiters All that power should come at a price. How do you give players fast travel options Most of the time, games force you to get somewhere travel there. Visit the Pokecenter, and you can fly back If you could get to an end-game zone and skip there, you'd be throwing a player into the You'd send people into areas full of mechanics haven't heard, power levels they need but and a world state that they have no context Making players actually reach locations manually the context they need to understand what they've You could also limit fast travel by forcing It could be cash, secret gems, keys you need the world through normal play. This gives an extra incentive for players Some games tie unlocking fast travel to story For many Final Fantasy games, the airship didn't unlock until the second half of the At that point, players are fully invested the world, and have several optional plot their own pace. It's not all-or-nothing, though. You can use the story to unlock fast travel Metroidvanias structure themselves around Pokemon Scarlet and Violet gives you a vast very well in it. Until you make a new friend. Very early on, you team up with one of the a living bike. It's a mediocre bike, but we can make some One of the major questlines involves going guarded by gigantic boss Pokemon. Do that, and your weird hair buddy will make Your bike guilt trips you into feeding it It's cool, though, because each time that With every ingredient you find, you unlock jumps, gliding, or climbing, making reaching Unlike a Metroidvania, you aren't totally but traversal becomes less of a headache with It does a good job of balancing exploration Fast travel down to the comments and let's Teleporting around is too basic, I want to know about. Fast travel is powerful - sometimes too powerful Getting the right combination of convenience shoving people into menus is a tough balancing *chill vibes outro from Tunic*