Bigger than Europe and Australia ...Russia is a land ...and wonderful, Kuril Lake on Kamchatka ...is a paradise In the far north, the frozen wastes ...are home And in the far south, the ancient ...in the Caucasus are once In all these places researchers ...with great enthusiasm to Located in the extreme west A narrow strip of land in the Baltic Sea Since 1945 the northern half ...the southern half to the Amongst other creatures, And he makes sure Vast, white beaches make this And a rewarding location There's a lot aerial activity going on That is why biologists have been studying The Curonian Spit with its ...definitely belongs to Up until 1945 Rybachy It was the world's first Established in 1901... ...at first the ornithological station German priest and bird lover ...built it up 'with a heart full Rossitten is regarded as the Here, German-Russian relations Thienemann was the first researcher He began to study living birds There was a tradition here of The birds were caught alive A cruel way of killing them. The only good thing was that a method Instead of killing them, Thienemann Every year in late March ornithologists ...and get out their Yes, this is just an But when it's in position The rolled-up fishing net turns out... ...to be the biggest scientific The famous "Fringilla" traps, ...consist of fishing nets... ...up to seventy metres long, thirty It's a sophisticated concept. Depending on the weather, it takes two The researchers always erect two nets. Nikita makes a last check to make sure mice The traps are then hauled up The work makes a welcome ...in the laboratory or at a desk. In springtime birds fly from ...in the south to their Awaiting them is The slightly larger net on the right ...and their young in autumn Now it's a case of waiting. We should have some birds It depends on the weather, An ornithologist knows Cranes are among the first to But these elegant long-distance flyers They simply fly too high. As soon as birds of passage ...a high-pressure area, a suitable tailwind, Millions of chaffinches, indicated Blackbirds, shown in pink, So are starlings. They would all rather fly over the tiny Today Nikita's colleague Micha To keep their stress levels ...the hungry birds are removed The experienced researchers In the ringing station each bird is ...a "passport" in the form of This robin is ringed It takes the researchers ...to determine The bird's breast feathers And the bird's fat reserves assessed. For years now these "Lords of the ...than determining We can evaluate the data we collect We've discovered, for instance, ...far earlier in spring And that, of course, Each season Nikita's colleagues ring Known as the ...this tiny goldcrest The colourful goldfinch So is the obstreperous blackbird. Through observing birds over a long ...to determine many global correlations ...of the changes taking place This makes Rybachy ...and a valuable natural treasure. Like the entire The uniqueness of this coastal strip was He wrote: 'The Spit is so remarkable ...one must have experienced it. Otherwise one's soul would be If they are to discover the last secrets ...and his colleagues will ...at this special place With well-thought-out experiments, When it's breakfast time ...the further East you are This huge country extends ...and a distance of The largest region in the Stretching from the Urals ...it has a wide range Like the seemingly endless ...or the mighty mountain ranges of And in between there is the Taiga... ...the biggest continuous The climate is extreme. Full of snow and bitterly cold, At times the temperature In this separate eco-system Pine, spruce, fir, and larch. No deciduous species could ever The farther north they grow... ...the smaller and Trees, too, can freeze. Located in the extreme far east Slightly bigger than Germany ...it is the largest Virtually uninhabited, Kamchatka is... ...one of the most active Thirty of the 160 volcanoes According to legend, ...God still had a sack And bestowed it on Kamchatka. Up until 1990 the peninsula For years, time seemed The second-deepest It lies in the caldera One of its most important tributaries Situated where it enters the lake, and ...is the rangers' camp of the Here, in the habitat of these furry With food in abundance... ...there are many places This is a paradise for bears. 500 of the biggest ...live right next to the lake Every year five million salmon In this paradise bears And it's Sergei Shurunov ...to guard to this paradise. We're often out and about in We have to cover dozens ...tundra, marshland, We have to be physically fit. That's also important And we catch armed poachers. That calls for character To get them to give up, ...have even beaten Wherever they go, Anatoli and Sergei are both To protect the bears they patrol It's not unusual for them to ...with 35 kilogrammes on their backs. The salmon migration and ...to the entire With international support, ...carrying out research But it's also vital ...constantly monitored The rangers know the problem That's where they For years the situation in many... ...wilderness areas of Russia Poachers hunted anything Nothing escapes It's the only way to protect In 2007 Sergei and Anatoli On one of the annual ...biologists at the sanctuary Organized gangs of poachers They left the carcasses to rot. The bears had had their paws hacked A short time later we captured They had chopped the paws off In China bear paws and But, thanks to strict patrolling, ...not a single bear at Kuril Lake The brown giants feel safe and Catching salmon, totally untroubled. Some bears have their own The spawning season has just begun Many attempts end in failure. But all the same, It was more a case of the job A female with cubs needs That corresponds to at least To ensure the future of the lake... ...poaching salmon Protecting this region means They rarely see their families, ...all the more important for I'm so grateful that fate A comrade for life and for work. Not everyone is My friends are my colleagues. On Kamchatka salmon are All five species of As a result, ...of the Russian fishing Strict regulations and quotas are On two days of the week, ...fishing in the sea In the rivers, Itelmen fishermen... ...are allowed to cast their nets on four days. For the rest of the week the Many Itelmens welcome the measures. To please their fish god, some In the sanctuary Sergei and Anatoli They're being taken by boat to a It was here, in the middle ...that they surprised The men had five hundred A huge amount worth around 8,000 Today one of the poachers The two conservationists They know that if there ...many men will stop On their patrol Anatoli ...a strenuous trek It's pouring down My great wish is that this place will ...will understand how sacred it is The cub felt that. The better the food situation, the Thanks to the lush vegetation, What's more, the lake serves Twenty per cent of the world's Poachers, of course, On their patrol Sergei and A rather modest yield this time. Our biggest-ever find ...when we seized three That was really impressive. Sergei showed us Three poachers had just hauled in What happened next The rangers have to report Prior to that, the thieves have The fish have to be destroyed Certainly not the poachers. What's more, ...someone might get food poisoning. We throw the fish ...as food for bears, All poachers' nets Another victory for This time a good thirty bears are Two bears are taking a short nap. But most of the others are Encroaching on your neighbour's Bears can smell But the younger and ...the more often Mature bears waste far less energy. Some salmon have managed From the air it is clear The sediment that is swirled up... ...makes the water very cloudy Naturally, the salmon are delighted! But the bears are good at fishing. This is what a contented, These two young blades are If everything in the South Kamchatka ...has done, this bears' paradise on Russia has a population Green indicates A good third of all the country's ...live in the European part, 170 other ethnic groups are The most deserted area ...around the Arctic Ocean It's an icy world And it still abounds with life. Franz-Josef-Land is a natural It consists of some ...located just 900 kilometres For a long time Franz-Josef-Land Today the archipelago is part of... ...the Russian Arctic Remarkably perfect spheres like these Measuring up to three metres across, But they are, in fact, concretions. The ball-shaped rocks are believed Another geological phenomenon ...a sensation in Russia's Far North. Since 2014 huge round holes ...in the ground And their number is increasing. The most fantastic explanations for They're ranging from Russian scientists They decided that rising summer ...the permafrost to thaw to Frozen methane is suddenly released... ...and escapes in a huge explosion. This explains the crater walls The particularly large number of holes ...the Yamal Peninsula of the biggest But the Yamal Peninsula is In their language "Yamal" And indeed, the only way to get to it A strenuous trip with From Yar-Sale, the main ...it's six hundred kilometres to The Nenets have survived in their Florian Stammler wants to find out Even the youngest lend a hand. The Nenets lead a life As nomads, they migrate with The reindeer provide the Nenets Food, clothing, transport, Florian Stammler has been coming Spending several weeks ...cope with the harsh For me, Siberia is peace of mind. And it is also life, But peace of mind is I always find it so restful here. When I have left the hectic pace ...I can really feel my soul relaxing. And that is fantastic. Providing firewood No matter what the weather. When a snowstorm persists... ...Nicolai's family can sometimes That's their traditional tent. But the Nenets are used to it. After all, they've been living in Cheek by jowl with their animals. On days when a storm is raging ...and everyone is sitting cosily ...it's a good opportunity to work Then, when the weather ...and head for the places The idea behind field work is ...study things theoretically But for the two to actually Nicolai and his family spent... ...several years But then he decided to return First and foremost That was the main reason. Secondly, my father was sick. So we had to come here, back home. I found it too boring I need the freedom to Nearly everything the Nenets wear Well-moistened, the sinews serve as These nomadic people ...to so many different conditions. Indeed, their capacity for ...they can adapt to But despite all the Nenets' flexibility... ...climate change and gas production Roads and pipelines to the ...cut right across While some of the animals are ...others shy away from them. The permafrost soil is thawing The Nenets tackle But the thaw is also releasing Germs that have been safely 2016 saw the first One child died along with more Nicolai's family has no wish They all love their icy homeland. Today is slaughter day. The Nenets kill their animals It's not a quick death. Enough to make any European shudder. But for the Nenets This method of slaughtering ...in the Nenets' religious beliefs. They strangle a reindeer ...because the animal's blood Not a single drop Everyone lends a hand Later, every part of the reindeer The Nenets drink the animal's blood. Some of the meat is eaten uncooked. Only in its raw state does it provide ...with essential vitamins. Life here with the Nenets, I think, That the snowmobile ...the electricity generator and And I can't see these ...over the next ten or Naturally, changes take place ...that occasionally But that has always been It is not only Florian Stammler who The Nenets have always protected From geologists and from wolves. If the Nenets protect their culture ...they will always be strong. There is no doubt that the world ...if the robust culture As we head south, ...we find that every This huge country encompasses more That's because there are around ...running through Situated deep in the south ...the oldest and deepest This dinosaur amongst ...is often referred to Lake Baikal is 25 million years old Sponges grow here, strange Some three hundred different ...work tirelessly That's good, ...480 times more water And that makes it the biggest The undisputed star among the The only species of freshwater seal, In the 1980s the Baikal seal But, thanks to a strict ban on hunting, Towering up some 4,800 kilometres away, ...are the mighty peaks of the Caucasus, ...eleven hundred kilometres from Situated on Russia's ...is the republic In this colossal landscape Where tourism is concerned... ...North Ossetia-Alania That's because of Russia's military ...which lasted well into the This is a wild region with large areas It is home to Europe's The bison. The region has been In the ninth century Direct ancestors of the Ossetians... ...they found their last resting place It is said to be the creepiest But that doesn't bother him. Today Valerij Shmunck ...are out and about in the These Caucasus experts are looking ...three hundred square kilometre It's no easy task. Bison are shy creatures and the mountain There's a valley down here. We know that two large Bison We'll go down now, and see if they We are, of course, also looking They are always a sign that That the bison are reproducing. That the population will be The conservationists Mountain bison were The last animals were shot in 1927. A single bull called "Caucasus" All the bison alive here ...from him and female lowland bison. Bison from the lowland Caucasus Donated by various European zoos, ...transported thousands of The mountain forests of North Ossetia To find them, the conservationists Since he's familiar with the area, Pavel Weinberg guides the pristine forest of the sanctuary. So, here you can see very well, ...and then they rip up But this is only in summer and spring. In winter they You can see the signs of teeth. The conservationists from Russia and They have a common goal. Since real natural paradises are ...which is done to research or Really, we are losing such places. Unfortunately. The more we know about them, At last: A fresh hoof print. Pavel knows that Down by the river is an alder forest. Along with plenty of food and water... ...the forest provides the bison But there is not a bison in sight. So the men head on This is where the bison So it's an ideal location The shy animals can then be observed The data are read Here is a group, one two three, In front there is a bull. This is also a bull. Maybe a young. Big bison. Right in front of the camera, For the conservationists these They're the reward for months of work. Thanks to the co-operation ...Germany, other European countries, ...of these giants can once again It's always a gamble. In this case, I think, we've won. Bison can be seen in nearly every Pictures of a small wolf pack make a perfect end After their exertions Pavel, Aurel, ...to spend the night in the mountains The conservationists have achieved For a long time after the ...poaching was a It was mainly boar, roe deer So, people here in Alania, Respecting is one thing. Okay, suppose, you shoot a bison. It is a very hard job to You cannot put it in a backpack and Consequently, the wild forests ...a real refuge for In the mountains of North ...Georgia, the trio have come to check It lies on the other Animals, of course, So it is particularly ...to select sanctuaries Habitats we can protect. It is also vitally important for Here is the map of protected areas. So we released here on ...most of them in Azerbaijan, Five of the animals were fitted with ...to determine their This time, however, it isn't the bison At one time goitered gazelles Today the species But now, perhaps, this antelope, Despite political conflicts, included ...successfully with ...Armenian conservationists and And I must say we are united. Thus, in a region so fiercely contested conservationists have achieved something