In the mid-19th century, the two small duchies of not one, but two wars that will change The rising forces of revolution and nationalism in 1848 and again in 1864 - it's the Schleswig In 1815, the Napoleonic Wars came to an end, order in Europe - a new order that meant a Europe of kings and princes. Denmark and Norway were separated in the peace, The old Holy Roman Empire was gone, and to Confederation made up of independent German-speaking and Prussia. But not all the Confederation members were Duke of Confederation duchies Holstein and The King of Denmark also happened to be the Confederation but had a mixed German and Danish-speaking These three duchies also provided about half recipe for trouble in an age of rising nationalism Prussia. Although the Great Powers had defeated France its ideas of modern nationalism and republican In 1848, revolutions sweep across much of Poland, Hungary, the German Confederation The revolutionaries are a diverse group: some of princes, others came from social movements while nationalists wanted nation states defined All of these ideals clashed with the traditional In March 1848 the revolution breaks out in In Berlin, Prussian King Friedrich Wilhelm 270, and Prussian troops also help other German The Danish Unified Monarchy (a catchall name duchies ruled separately by the Danish king) In Copenhagen, Danish nationalists want a They argue that Denmark ends at the Eider independent Duchy of Schleswig and the Danish-ruled Confederation. The Eider Danes, as they call themselves, Holstein could remain separate. German nationalists in Schleswig and Holstein They insist that Schleswig-Holstein is a single German Confederation according to a 15th century forever." The intricacies of the problem are not lost "The Schleswig-Holstein question is so complicated, it. One was Prince Albert, who is dead. The second was a German professor who became I am the third and I have forgotten all about (Allen 54) Danish and German nationalists each submit VII of Denmark. The Eider Danes want a new constitution for the kingdom, and make sure the other two duchies The German nationalists in Schleswig and Holstein Duke. They want Schleswig to join Holstein as a The two groups also disagree about the desired the duchies. In the end, the King adopts policies which In response, German nationalists in the two separate from Denmark and in defiance of their As revolution grips Denmark and Germany, there unification projects within the lands of the Conflict is not long in coming. On March 24th, 1848 a unit of German Schleswig-Holsteiners of Noer occupy Rendsburg, a border fortress In the standoff that follows, local soldiers They can march south to join the growing Schleswig-Holstein For some the decision is easy and based on it's harder. They have to choose between their aristocratic or nation. In some cases, brothers, fathers and sons Lieutenant Colonel MC von Holstein, for example, First Lieutenant AC von Holstein, joined the Lace pedlar Jens Wulff describes the confusion: "[...] the whole world seems to be intoxicated, alas making enemies of those who previously Woe to those who have brought this about. Germans and Danes lived so peacefully together the different nationalities face each other (Adriansen 13) On March 28, the Schleswig-Holsteiners request from Prussia. The Danes also ask Prussia for help, but Berlin Prussian public opinion supports the rebels, to restore its prestige after struggles with On April 4 Prussian and Confederation troops known in Denmark as the Three Years' War, The armies fielded in 1848 number in the tens armies. The Danish army is joined by some volunteers army fights alongside Prussians and Saxons Some Prussian troops are armed with the new has a much higher rate of fire than older The Prussians also have modern C/42 cannon new weapons, and commanders will have difficulty armaments. Prussian Foreign Minister von Arnim thinks but it isn't so simple. After an initial Danish advance, the Prussian battles in April and May. The Danish navy ensures that the long coastline Russia puts pressure on Prussia not to go The Danes gather their forces and launch a and the Prussians retreat. The two sides agree to a truce in August 1848, 1849. On April 13, Confederation troops retake Dybbol, The Danish army manages to stop the Prussian Fredericia Fortress. The Prussians besiege the fort, but then the The Danish revolutionary pressures force King during the war, and Denmark becomes a constitutional Meanwhile, revolution also continues in the Hungarian lands. A revolutionary National Assembly in Frankfurt a single German Empire under the Prussian But King Friedrich Wilhelm IV refuses to accept Eventually, the German kings and princes are back home, which means that there is less Schleswig-Holstein. The Danes take advantage of the lull, and There follows another truce. Denmark and Prussia come under more and more the two states make a white peace in July each other. Schleswig remains under the Danish king, and have the support of the Confederation Army. Soon after, Denmark goes over to the offensive. The 37,000 Danes under General Gerhard Christoph have about 27,000 men under former Prussian The Battle of Idstedt is marked by bad weather the Schleswig-Holstein defensive positions Danish soldier Johannes Helms recalls the "There was a rye field behind us, and we air as the bullets cut the straw. I doubt that anyone, no matter how hard they they feel the whistle of a bullet, singing (Helms, p. 105/106) British journalist William Howard Russell push towards mid-day on the 25th: "The Danes advanced again, and the battle in the plain on all points firing incessantly. The roar of the heavier cannon, and the rush the only sounds that fell on the ear; the was like the rattle of a toy compared to the (Russell) Russell also remarks on local peasants being to the front to carry back wounded soldiers. The battle of Isted is one of the bloodiest killed or wounded on both sides. But although the Danes win the initiative, Instead, with the troops exhausted, national continuing, both sides agree to make peace. The First Schleswig War ends with a partial gathered in London to sort out the peace. In August 1850, France, England, Russia, Sweden, to draw up a post-war treaty, which they revise The result is the London Protocol, which keeps and Lauenburg stay under the Danish crown Russia also pressures Austria and Prussia give up the fight. The rebels reluctantly lay down their arms government. As part of this delicate process, Austrian in the two confederation duchies, but not The peace also restores the Danish monarchy The national liberal government in Denmark and a new constitution is adopted under which and separate from each other and the Kingdom The Powers also solve the succession problem Danish throne, Prince Christian of Glucksborg. The London Protocol is meant to return to ideas are hard to suppress. Russia is the most autocratic of the Powers, ground anywhere in case it spreads again - and in the Baltic region either. For Britain and France, limiting Prussian In any case Prussia is also weakened in fall effectively against Austria in the Autumn the German Confederation under its dominance. But despite all the upheaval, the fundamental By 1852, both Denmark and the German Confederation threat and re-established their traditional But dreams of a German Empire remain, and national movement, but from the top down. Despite the suppression of the revolutionaries to make some compromises, including a new of Representatives. Together with the House of Lords, these two In reality, the king still had overarching at will, but the House of Representatives of the national budget. This causes a major headache for the soon-to-be Wilhelm I was a staunch traditionalist, and in extremely high regard. He is known to react emotionally and thoughtlessly and he especially does not like the House In 1860, the House of Representatives rejects crisis. To break the deadlock, Wilhelm appoints Otto Bismarck has a simple task: enforce the king's But Bismarck and other Prussian conservatives They want a new German Empire led by Prussia ones - though Bismarck's later memoirs Germany. Bismarck does hope that German unity will wanted, but from above - and through violence: "Germany does not look to Prussia's liberalism, [...] It is not through speeches and majority time are decided [...] - but through iron (Arand, 45) The Schleswig issue is a useful one for the Liberal nationalists are using the Schleswig Bismarck could be seen to "resolve it" efforts at national unification and push the The political timing is just right for Prussian From 1857, the national liberals of Denmark adopt the Eider Policy of linking Schleswig Tensions come to a head in November 1863. New Danish King Christian IX signs the 'November demands of the Eider Danes. As well as defining the Eider River as Denmark's into the Danish kingdom - it also introduces of Schleswig. To the member states of the German Confederation, The Confederation mobilizes a combined army punish members, like the King of Denmark, Troops are rushed north along the new railway Austrian, Saxon and Hanoverian troops marched Denmark and the German Confederation are on As warclouds gather over Schleswig for a second issues Denmark an ultimatum to withdraw the Denmark refuses: the 2nd Schleswig War, also or simply 1864, has begun. Prussian and Austrian troops enter Schleswig want a quick victory before the other Great The Austro-Prussians field about 60,000 men, Danes have about 38,000 men. The Prussian artillery now also boasts some partially thanks to the political connections One Berlin newspaper is already calling him But Prussian officers are still divided on breech or muzzle loaders, or rifled or smoothbore Prussian infantry still uses the quick-firing Denmark's initial strategy involves holding Fredericia in the center and in the south. They want to defend Jutland along a north-south in fruitless north-south marches, before using troops for counterattacks. But perceived political necessity trumps military Danish politicians overrule their generals ancient defensive line. In early February, Prussian and Danish troops repel them at the Battle of Mysunde. The Danes expect the navy to protect the extreme by an exceptionally cold winter keeps the The Prussians realize this and begin to cross while Austrians breach the Danish line at Danish commander Christian Julius de Meza back to Dybbol on February 5. His decision likely saves a part of the army, reverse - they sack de Meza and replace Dybbol - the site of major fighting in the bloody battlefield. The Prussians slowly surround the fortress in a barrage of 4700 shells on the final day. Many of the older fortifications are now rubble, 1864. Gerlach asks Copenhagen for permission to his defence minister refuse. They tell Gerlach to hold the line at any The Prussians outnumber the Danes by roughly force the Danes out of their trenches and But as the Prussians press the pursuit, the by naval fire. Danish officer Adolph Wilhelm Dinesen recalls "The entire line charged forward, over stock fences and dykes, through iron and lead, only Towards the enemy. ... [We] charged the mill from all sides, pursued the horrified enemies into the building There was not enough space to aim or use the the sabres, and fought with fists... Smoke and blood, the noise of weapons and (Lund 253) The counter-attack gives fleeing Danish units Sonderborg. But then another Prussian charge pushes the Dinesen survives: "The Prussian charge is overwhelming. Complete destruction... When the mill falls, we are just outside, We know we will not be able to hold out much enfilade fire... We soon understand that the Battle of Dybbol (Buk-Swienty, 287/288) Around 2000 Danish soldiers are killed or the entire Danish army at the time. It is the turning point in the war. Bismarck offers to negotiate, so both sides Bismarck offers Denmark the northern, predominantly the south. But the Danish government refuses and maintains King Christian suggests that Denmark join but Bismarck turns him down. The Prussian Chancellor has no interest in minority into a future German empire. And so, the short-lived truce after the Prussian resumes. The Austro-Prussians agree on a new plan: disputed duchies from Danish control. On June 29, Prussian forces cross onto the army are sheltering. Under heavy supporting fire, the Prussian and after a series of short, sharp skirmishes, The Battle of Als is the last significant Soon afterwards the Austro-Prussians occupy to the negotiating table. All told, bout 10,000 men have been killed This time, Austro-Prussian demands are not They demand the separation of Schleswig, Holstein, King Christian has no choice but to accept. Denmark loses the Second Schleswig War for Firstly, a sense of superiority resulting overconfidence, especially amongst the political These politicians often overruled the advice army's performance. Secondly, the Danes hoped if they could hold again intervene to their benefit, just as But by 1864, the European geopolitical situation For one, the Britain is closer to Prussia to Crown Prince Frederick Wilhelm of Prussia For another, Russia is less influential. Its humiliating defeat in the Crimean War in any case, it owed Prussia for helping put In the end, the three duchies would be jointly the 'Gastein Convention'. Prussia oversees Schleswig and Austria Holstein, a federal port under Prussian control. Prussia then buys Lauenburg from the Austrians Bismarck himself becomes duke. The Gastein Convention though is a fragile Prussia and Austria have completely different Prussia wants to annex them, while Austria Bismarck sees the convention as a stop-gap: together of the cracks in the building." (Blum 215) And this glue would not hold for The 2nd Schleswig War, even though it is relatively The war still plays an important role in Danish Soon after the war, the Battle of Duebbel, 8th Brigade, is elevated into a heroic moment This conveniently shifts the narrative away The disaster of 1864 cannot be wished away, decline as a European power over the previous richest lands. Defeated on the battlefield, Denmark's search cultural, and pastoral. For the member states of the German Confederation, Austria, 1864 is a step towards more conflict. Prussia is a rising power, and its role in of whether Prussia might displace Austria Victory against Denmark also bolsters the of Germany into a future empire. Just two years later, this is the motivation will change the balance of power, and bring We'd like to thank NordVPN for sponsoring NordVPN is one of the leading VPN services lot easier. My work for Real Time History means I travel the night train can pass through three different trip I just want to watch a movie in peace me. If you find yourself in a situation like me, can stream away. When I'm on the road, my email and other they think someone is trying to steal my account. With NordVPN that kind of problem is a thing And on top of they offer a whole suit of other life easier and safer across all devices. If you go to https://nordvpn.com/realtimehistory, months with a HUGE discount. It's risk-free with Nord's 30-day money-back That's https://nordvpn.com/realtimehistory. We'd like to thank Mark Newton and Nicolai If you want to see our sources, you can find I'm Jesse Alexander and this is Real Time nothing lasts forever, in the cold November