Hello guys, welcome to my new video Have a nice day! Please get down from the car Do you still hurt a lot? Please open the door You sit down and rest let me see your wound This place hurts, right? Yeah Let me get some salt water to wipe your wound. Come here a bit so I can disinfect your wound. I don't know who beat you up like this. Do you recognize them? There is a male and a female are you in pain I have pain inside my mouth. Are you acquainted with them? I don't know them Do you still remember their faces? I still remember the girl's face a little, but the man was wearing glasses so I don't remember. That girl is as tall as me and has curly hair. I have never met them. Or is your mother-in-law behind this? I just got beaten, now it's your turn. Let me investigate to see who is behind this Do you have any conflicts with anyone when you go to the market? No, I don't have any conflicts with anyone. I only do small business, so I have no conflicts with anyone. This is a strange coincidence. I will start investigating from your mother-in-law, and also internally within my company. Because the fact that you and I were both beaten up within such a short period of time is really strange. I haven't even recovered yet and it's your turn. If only I had taken you home then, this incident would not have happened Later, I saw your pair of cages left at my house, so I decided to run after you and give them to you and then take you home If I had gone faster, I could have stopped the bad guys from hitting you. By the time you arrived, they had already run away You are tired, take a rest. I don't know where so many bad things happened to Tien Tien From mother-in-law, sister-in-law, now to Gypsies I am a businessman so that is inevitable. But Tien Tien is just a small market vendor. I don't know if more serious things will happen or not But she has no conflict with anyone. She is just an ordinary trader. Those bad people's goal is not to rob money She was so tired that she fell asleep. She must have been scared at that time. I don't expect this to be just the beginning of the problem I will investigate this incident Is it possible that because I caught Tien Tien's mother-in-law stealing, her mother-in-law took revenge in this way? First I was beaten, now it's Tien Tien's turn. Or someone in your company has done that. Do you have ribs for sale, boss? I'm out of ribs. So weigh me this piece of lean meat. Thank you Owner, do you sell dry vermicelli? I sell dry vermicelli Sell me a bunch of dried vermicelli Is this type correct? Yeah Sell me some more green onions Thank you Tien Tien! You should get up and have breakfast. How long have you been up? I wake up early Did you sleep well last night? I slept very well Are you still in a lot of pain? I'm better now. Go brush your teeth and wash your face to have breakfast. You've finished cooking breakfast already Did I get up so late? Tien Tien! Are you done? I'm done. Let's sit down and have breakfast. Invite you to breakfast Try the broth and if it's not good, add more seasoning. You are still injured like that, you don't need to go to the market to sell things. I will stay to help you make a wooden table, otherwise it is very inconvenient to sit and eat like that. Does eating food like that make you feel pain? It stings a little inside my mouth. This morning I went to buy dry vermicelli to cook Does it hurt much? Let me see. It just hurts a little. Food has spices, so it will make open wounds painful Please eat a lot What about your injury? I feel much better now, no more pain. You should eat a lot, you fasted for one meal yesterday Did you eat anything last night? It's late when we get here, I'm not hungry either. Waiting for you to fall asleep, I will also lie below this floor Please eat a lot Why didn't you wake me up this morning? I see you are still sleeping very well, you were tired yesterday so I let you sleep more. There seems to be wooden planks behind the house, right? Yeah I will use them to make a table You sit down and rest so I can wash the dishes Let me wash the dishes. You still have a lot of pain, so take a rest. Let me give you a hand You should rest My legs and arms don't hurt, let me help you. We will take this column to make the table legs. Is this range of table height ok? Yeah How wide do you want the table top to be? Just a little bigger than the tray is fine. We join four wooden planks to get a width of 80cm. The length will also measure 80cm Can I have this wooden board? We have cut four wooden boards. You arrange these wooden boards on the floor. I think this table is quite large. Sitting down to eat is quite inconvenient. We should take out a wooden plank The dining table should be small like this to be beautiful. Now we will put two wooden bars across and nail them so that the wooden boards are fixed. Yeah You help me push the wooden boards closer together The table top is done, now we will close the table legs. You lift up the table top This table leg is not right, it's this side See if your side is okay The column feet must be even, later we will install horizontal bars to fix the column. The table post is done, but it's still quite wobbly. Now we will have to nail the crossbars to the column to fix the table column. You push the column out a little The table is secure. Nail more crossbars like this to make the table more stable. For woodworkers, they chisel and install, not nail like we do. We don't have many tools, so making a table like this is already good enough. The table top is quite dirty, we have to wash it with water. Take it out in the sun to dry Now let's clean up this excess wood. These pieces of wood that cannot be reused are used as firewood. The weather is so hot these days, isn't it? Yes, the weather is very sunny these days. It's so sunny and you're injured, so don't go to the market anymore. Yeah If you are sad, you can go to the garden to take care of vegetables. I have had a few days off, now I have a lot of work to do. I have to go home now. But are you completely cured yet? I can go to work now. Now where you go, be careful. Be careful when talking to strangers. You live alone so be careful If anything happens to you, I don't know how to live. Yes, you have to be careful too. I will pay attention to safety, recently there have been too many sudden events. I don't know where these things come from. Be careful, I will arrange my work properly and come visit you. Remember to take care of your health when you go to work. Goodbye Alo! Boss Hung, where are you? I am at the construction site How long have you poured concrete on this road? I just poured concrete sir So you put rocks in the drain without taking them out? I didn't notice, maybe the workers there forgot to take it out. You should manage workers more closely. Yes, I will send workers there tomorrow to fix it. Then by the way, please send workers to fill this roadside with soil I am surveying here Yes boss, I will send someone there tomorrow to fix it. Ok, please report back to me This Hung guy is not working effectively, there is still so much extra rock but he doesn't transport it. My video ends here, thank you for watching, see you in the next video