So you're me and and you're supposed to be which you figure is to do with avant-garde But every time you you find that your teacher's inspires nothing but a bit drumming on wood. Anyway, your teacher So you stop drumming You feel a need for so you decide to do a flip book It's pretty easy because You can trace the modifying it just a little. And if you really want zone of doodle bliss, you be modified according to keep adding one new or add another dot in the Or how about, keep making But what does Like you could just increase or you could make it squiggle You want to figure out so that you can really get So you discretize the On the next layer, you or you could put a new zigzag Or maybe zig's too and zag's too good to zag zig. So the next would be, zigzag That was a zag, and those So it should be zigzag, And next, zig zag zag zigzag, was this a zig? Maybe if we put it all onto that generates each new This was supposed zigging in the squiggle zone. This is unacceptable. So maybe just pretend each the old path is all just And to keep it all you decide to try to make all always with right Here we go. [SINGING] Wait, how did this-- Huh. What if we tried starting Zig zag zug. OK. So then each zig should and each zag a zug zag zig? And then the zug gets, goes back and forth, on the inside or the outside. OK, wait now where did it start? And everything's running into and doesn't fit on the paper. OK, maybe if it were it wouldn't run into itself. Say like, half a keep all the angles perfect. And then trapezoids in and out. Yeah, this is totally Lookit. In fact, like this, you could and back and forth, and it Next, you could make it go and still not run into itself. Except that means you'd have to But that's OK, because next time And now it's an easy pattern. Trapezoid in, trapezoid out, Back and forth until And then the next time Although it's hard in and what's out now that So you're just focusing side of the line, And wait. This looks familiar. Is that, Sierpinski's triangle? The fractal you get when you put and then triangles you made, and then triangles and why would filling give you the same thing as Or is it the same thing? Which reminds me made of triangles, where you triangles to triangles. Each one in the middle third you realize you could totally Start with one line trace each line to be a Which is interesting, not squiggling back and but bumping out the Though, you could try Which makes you what you get if you But instead of always you alternate starting And it's kind of And this would definitely be or something. OK, now it's starting On the one hand, not nearly you get when your zigs On the other hand, why And it's like a If you kept doing this just fill up completely? These didn't do that. Although with this that are starting to fill up. Maybe here at some though it seems like it's You kind of wish you had a and skip all the way to what Maybe if you had some sort has a line with one right turn. The next one goes And then the next goes right, left, left. Is there a rule? Maybe it's just like Or maybe not. OK, but there's Suddenly, a note lands on your Who writes, looks like you're Don't tell me you're As, if. You write back, no way. I'm just doodling this. And just to make extra you turn it into a dragon, Yes. You don't want to crumple up but you do have to So you neatly fold Which just means in half again and easy to javelin across the room is turned-- Bam! Yes! Perfect landing. You watch as Sam unfolds it. And suddenly you feel like Some sort of similarity and-- is that possible? You take your diagram, And half again. And again. And wow, not only does it look probably, but it's also Instead of keeping you can just copy it 90 degrees from the other, Bam. Easy. Well, as long as of what end to start from. And you don't even of what order to You just need to keep things so things line up. Easy. Until it gets too big have to dragon-ize it. It's funny, because one way If you go on forever, But with the first way, it You just draw more details. Which means if the line will still but the total size Will that even work? An infinitely long into a finite area? And then with folding gets smaller and smaller until Which you suppose makes sense stays the same length, no You can't make it longer where the length So instead, the whole thing Maybe this grid until that infinitely into an actual solid with no empty space left in it. Maybe that would make sense. Or be crazy. You know lines are but if you had maybe the infinities would Like the line gets closer until it actually overlap, but with Which would make no sense, at once, so who can Yeah, that totally sounds legit. Although, in this that never get so you'd still have but it doesn't fill up space, but it also never is all that infinite line going? Anyway, class is over, so you After all, you've got