- Get ready. I'm gonna show you how to and I'm sharing my secrets for how to get that perfect little puff and pocket in the center, just like this. (upbeat music) Hey, everybody. It's Natasha I'm so excited. Homemade pita bread is because the texture and the than store-bought. There's nothing like a warm Mmm, mmm. And, by the way, before I make sure to subscribe to our channel if you like recipes that work, you know. All right. I want some homemade (hands tapping) Okay. It's important to have when you're working with so you wanna make sure that your water is about 110 We're gonna test that with a thermometer. This is my favorite thermometer. We use this all the time. Okay. This is 110 about ish. Perfect. Now, we're gonna add just This'll help jump-start things. Now, for the yeast. You want to use one that's sometimes they say instant All of those will work. So add one packet, which is about two and and make sure it's not expired, okay? If you stocked up on you wanna check the dates, Otherwise, your baking That's my public service All right. Now we're gonna add some flour. And I do love combining whole wheat flour and all-purpose flour. If you don't have whole wheat, you don't have to use if you don't want to, but I do think it gives and it just tastes kind of So, also, super important. You have to measure correctly. So if you have a kitchen I will link it in the notes... use that, 'cause you have of the liquids to dry ingredients. But here's another way You start by fluffing up with a spoon. Then you just spoon it and you level off the top. Vroop. There. We're just gonna Whisk it up. Then just leave it there or until you see the top looks puffy. (upbeat music) Now, add two tablespoons and two and a half cups Now, add one and a half teaspoons of salt, and stir that together with a wooden spoon until the dough looks shaggy. Turn the dough out onto a Now, use your hands to vigorously knead the dough The dough should initially but it will get less and it should not be If the dough seems too sticky to knead it, you can sprinkle it with and continue kneading. When the dough is ready, it should be soft and still slightly tacky (upbeat music) Wash and dry your mixing bowl and grease the inside of the bowl with one teaspoon of olive oil. Place the dough into the bowl Now, cover that bowl and keep it in a warm place for 45 minutes, or you can keep for about 90 minutes or until the dough has doubled in volume. You can see that dough We're gonna take off the plastic wrap and punch down the dough. Now, transfer the dough and divide it into eight even pieces. You can use a bench scraper like this one or a pizza cutter for even pieces. Next, we're gonna roll these into balls. Cup your hand around each until you no longer see a I use the same method Just cup your hand around the dough and roll it on the countertop to make perfect round dough balls. Once all of your dough balls are ready, cover them with a damp kitchen towel and let them rest for 15 minutes. This allows the gluten to relax, and they'll be much easier to roll out. And you want to use just a If you get it wet, make sure to wring out While the dough is resting, A baking stone or pizza stone works best, but you can also use an Place that on the bottom rack of the oven. Now, preheat the baking stone in the oven to 500 degrees Fahrenheit. It's very important are fully preheated before If your oven takes longer to preheat, you might start that earlier. Generously dust your and once your dough balls you can roll them out one at a time. Make sure to use enough flour, so your dough doesn't stick to the surface or to your rolling pin. Use your fingertips to into a small disc. Then, use a rolling pin to roll it into about a seven-inch-diameter disc that's less than one-fourth-inch thick. You'll want to move the disc a to ensure that it's not Continue rolling until your You'll also want to keep those with a damp kitchen towel to Continue rolling the rest keeping them covered as you go, and once they're all rolled out, you want to let them rest Letting them rest will allow them to puff up better in the oven. (upbeat music) Usually, by the time those first couple of I like to bake these two at a time. Place your dough onto and bake at 500 degrees Fahrenheit for about two to two and a half minutes, or until they're puffed. Once they're puffed, and transfer them to a wire rack and let them rest for five minutes. After five minutes, make sure to cover them to keep the pitas from drying out. If you have a cast-iron skillet, you can also cook pitas on the stovetop. Fully preheat the skillet and lightly brush with olive oil. Once you see it bubbling, You should see it puff up. Flip and continue cooking I find the stovetop pitas but I also like that they on the outside. Once they're ready, place keeping them covered Ho ho ho ho! All right. Who's excited? It's pita time. Okay, and you can see the difference here between the ones that they're lighter in color... versus the ones that were They've got those lovely which I think have a It might be in my head, I don't know, but they also smell better. You know my preference. I like the skillet version, All right, it is time for the taste test, and I want to show you guys because they have that beautiful pocket. The texture is so nice. Check this out. All right. Ooh, they're still warm. Oh, look at that. Soft, soft. They have that beautiful pocket inside, so you can stuff these and Oh my goodness. Yummy yum. And look at the soft texture inside. This is so good. I like these better than dinner rolls. Just slather 'em up with butter. Okay. I'm gonna try this Mmm. Soft and chewy. Mmm. And these are so simple, But using the extra virgin olive adds great flavor, so You can also... my husband used to work in Chili's, and they made fajita pitas, So you take the pita and and stuff it with fajita ingredients, like steak or chicken fajitas. Yum. Or you can cut them into triangle wedges and serve them with hummus which we have a great recipe for tzatziki. I will link that in the notes. Make sure you try that. These are so good, so simple to make, and definitely worth making these at home because they're just way Oh, I hope you guys love this recipe, and we'll see you in our next video.