[jets roaring] Vincent Aiello: Oh, Oh, no, wait! He flies through Hello, my name is Vincent Aiello. I am a retired United Spent about 25 years in service, flying mainly the F/A-18 Also had a chance to fly the Had a tour as a TOPGUN instructor. And we are going to take a look at flying scenes from 10 popular movies. Steve: Jimmy, he's closing on you! [machine beeping] Put your mask back on! Vincent: In our first scene here, Harry Connick Jr. turned fighter pilot is struggling with his mask. The masks that we wear Now, granted, they're at positive pressure, which is great. But they're still on your face, and they're constricting, and you can get a little claustrophobic. Of course, once you've flown but if you begin hyperventilating, you might feel like you just need to release some of that pressure, and I believe that's [machine beeps] Yeah, they might have taken some liberties with the maneuverability and how difficult that can be when you don't know exactly whether it just turns and stops or turns 40 degrees, 90 degrees. [jet engine roaring] This is not a display The reserve fuel, which we don't have. When you get to zero, you're done. We don't have drogue chutes on the F-18 to slow it down like a B-52 or an F-5, but it's compelling to into the face of the attacking alien. When you're almost out of fuel and then ideally you're to not hit the wall yourself. [crashes] [makes crash noise] He just crumbles into You survive the ejection only to break your back on landing. In flight school, every aviator is taught a PLF, a parachute landing fall. You wanna land on your feet and then go to your ankles, your calves, your hip, your side, and your shoulders, and you wanna kind of maybe what a karate maneuver My guess is they took an actual parachute and probably a 200-pound dummy which is why he's just like a scarecrow. Fun movie, but I'm gonna Merlin: Ice is right below us. [jet engine roaring] He's firing! Break left, break left! [machine gun firing] Vincent: Now, the names that call each other, actually, those are real. Those are called call signs. They're basically a Besides being fun and or nicknames, they're They depersonalize the Slider: You got a MiG on your left. On your left! 3 o'clock. Vincent: Talking about every is just gonna clobber the radios. It's gonna make it very difficult for someone to say the that need to be said, i.e., &quot;on defensive,&quot; or, &quot;fox three,&quot; if you're taking an active missile shot, &quot;fox two,&quot; for an infrared shot. [jet engine roaring] Controller: Maverick's reengaging, sir. Vincent: Now, you see and get back in the on the ship instantly recognizes that, just because he happens to The radar, the air-search radar is the AN/SPS-48. It's has about a 200-mile range, and at its highest rotation rate has about 15 revolutions per minute, or one every four seconds. Well, at that range, there's no possible way this controller understands that Maverick is just because he happens to roll left a few degrees and maneuver back. Merlin: Break left, break left! [machine gun firing] Vincent: Now, the &quot;MiG-28&quot; in A couple F-5s. One is a two-seater. Now, the F-5 Freedom Fighter, in real life has a twin barrel cannon mounted on the front of the nose, not a Gatling gun style as depicted, and it might make a little bit more of that standard machine-gun-style sound. But in reality, for what they is gonna come out with a I've never seen an aircraft, that are controlled with the left hand. Iceman: I got him, Mav. [jet engine roaring] Vincent: There's a So, example, you hear Iceman say, &quot;He's passing between us.&quot; And it's a MiG-28 that passes between us, and then you see from two aircraft with one go down the middle. Well, the other aircraft and so that didn't really make sense. [machine beeping] Slider: You got a MiG on your left. On your left! 3 o'clock. Vincent: Slider in the back seat, saying, &quot;Check the guys at the left, 3 o'clock.&quot; Well, he's looking out the right side, and in fact, &quot;right 3 o'clock&quot; would have been the Iceman: I'm on his tail. I'm going for it. Vincent: Ice is shouting, And then the very next clip where you can clearly see it's the F-5 that's behind So, overall, &quot;Top Gun&quot; of I've enjoyed it since I was a young man, and I'll have to give this scene, let's call it a seven out of 10. [machine gun firing] I love that they brought in the F-35B. Relatively new when they filmed this. But my question is, if you had a high-power rifle and almost unlimited rounds, and you could employ against someone you're trying to take care of from even 50 feet, 100 feet, why would you go up and get where now the gun is unwieldy, and he can turn around you and stick you in the back with a knife? You've got the advantage. He could have gone and seen the entire scene You know, we see examples of people trying to hold onto aircraft. Now, I do know from walking around on top of the F/A-18 Hornet on occasion that the surfaces, well, they're smooth, and there are various nooks that someone could get a handhold, a lot like a rock climber on a wall, but add to that the and the momentum and this would be a pretty difficult task. I'm gonna give you a one Doug Masters: And you can [jet engine roaring] Ted Masters: Watch it, son! Doug: Hey, nice shot, colonel. Anything else you wanna send over? Ted: Way to fly, Doug. Vincent: That Hollywood is going to defend your aircraft from almost anything that's happening, somebody pursuing you, a shot at you -- &quot;If you just do a quick Yeah, not so much. Akir Nakesh: Time to die, Iron Eagle. [gun fires] Vincent: I don't understand the gun sounds correct. I mean, I guess we're the individual bullets sounding, but, in fact, with a high rate of fire, like the M-61 cannon and the F-14, it fires 6,000 rounds a minute. That's 100 rounds a second. You don't hear individual bullets; you just hear that &quot;zzz&quot; sound. Ted: You can do it. Vincent: When an aircraft is there's almost nothing harder Because no matter what the other aircraft can follow you. I mean, as long as the performance is not grossly worse in the attacking aircraft. And yet, we have this scene where dad, being the good dad that he is, just some happy talk, &quot;Come on, Doug, you can do it. Let's take care of this guy. And magically, the next moment, we've got Doug in the A dogfight, you're limited by physics. I mean, that's a dumb I mean, you can't just traveling 200 to 400 miles per hour. You can't just suddenly and he'll fly right by. Heads-up display actually We don't have to go through all of it, but you can see air speed and altitude, you can see heading, you can see G. The one thing that they mix up, though, is towards the bottom off to the left, you see the letters SIM. That's SIM. That means you're That's what we used to do in training. I'm gonna give it a three out of 10 though for this particular scene. [jet engine roaring] James Marshall: These MiGs, Vincent: The F-15s love to fly in what's called an Eagle Wall. They might have as many but what they won't be is right next to each They might be a mile, off each other's they can't be so easily targeted. Then you see the afterburners stage in, and of course Hollywood loves to show any fighter jet ever in afterburner. You gotta have some orange glow behind it. But the acceleration here, probably a little bit artificial. Yes, afterburner does and it's wonderful, it's a lot of fun, but it's not gonna be like a drag car coming off the green light there. When we go into combat, we have what is called FENCE check, and you quote, &quot;FENCE-IN.&quot; And one of the things you do is you turn off your anti-collision lights, and at night you turn only leaving those strip lights of green. Both the F-15s in this are shown with their navigation lights. Caldwell: Coming at us. Vincent: Next you see the VC-25, which is the name of the, Air Force One, don't forget, is just the title of that aircraft when the president is on board. The defensive systems on a VC-25 are not well publicized. They don't want opponents to know what the president's I assume there are some sort of expendables like chaff and flares. [gun fires] Why not just fire a bunch more missiles, or why not just sit back Instead, the next thing we over the right wing, where, oh, lucky him, it hit the No. 4 engine. Here's the crazy part: OK, you've got this lieutenant-colonel If that's a first officer at my airline, I'm a first officer, I'm fully qualified to fly that airplane. I'm not gonna sit there and or have somebody on the ground tell me we need to trim out the aircraft because -- with the rudder trim here. This guy should be able to say, &quot;Hey, president, I got this, sir.&quot; The F-15s firing what I That's the AIM-120 air-to-air missile. Pilot: Fox three. Vincent: They call fox three, which is the right terminology. The rules of engagement, clearly, we are in a self-defense situation. Lots of exaggerations and liberties taken, shall we say, from the point We're gonna give this [explosion] I've not tried this, but I'm pretty sure air-breathing jet aircraft don't fly too well Plus, we're always dripping hydraulics or fluids of some sort So not something you wanna do. Of course, note to self, the back seater, make to get him out of your back seat. [guns firing] He's kinda shaking from the recoil, and I just, I've never flown an L-39 with gun pods. I can't imagine though that you're gonna feel the recoil like a And he's flying with his knees. Now, I actually did this The F-18 has a center stick, and it's conveniently located The F-16, on the other Now, in the F-18, if I were I never had to defend from But if there were times when I needed to adjust my helmet or with the throttle and on my knee board, then fly the aircraft with my knees. Of course, in Hollywood, anytime you have the main character in an aircraft, you'll always be able to see his face. No masks. Maybe a clear visor, but you'll never have that dark visor like you're just some random bad guy. This flying scene, I'm gonna give it a two out of 10. Sorry, James Bond. They actually went out, like they did on &quot;Top Gun&quot; and other movies, and filmed real flying scenes in this case the USS Nimitz. You have real F-14s, you have real deck personnel. They're not gonna bother with actors. The AIM-54 Phoenix that they depict there, now, the yellow band is a way and that's why it's on the forward part. And a brown band tells you So when you see yellow and which, the white doesn't really matter, you know that's a real war shot AIM-54. Now, if it was white blue means inert. Or if the whole weapon then you would know that that [jet engine roaring] Here we have the F-14 pilot getting what might only be considered a real kill. Frankly, a zero is probably traveling about 120 miles an hour, maybe. F-14 looks like it's doing about 300. That's gonna be a tough shot, frankly, for the F-14 pilot, but and getting slow enough, then that could be very easily done. [jet engine roaring] Here you have a red shirt that's dealing with the arresting wire. Usually that's a green shirt. I'm not sure why they Maybe it was someone under training. But normally the different shirts on the flight deck are important because that way when you can't hear, you can still tell what someone's job is. So, red is ordinance. Green as well as squadron maintenance. Blue are the chock and chain handlers. White is safety and LSOs. Yellow are aircraft directors. You've got all these different colors. I'm gonna give this Just docking a couple of points. [jet engine roaring] He's gotta fly away pretty quickly. I mean, the BD-5J of about 320 miles per hour. This whole notion of missiles that can fly next to you and continue to pursue now, in real life, a such as this is gonna go up to maybe close to 2,000 miles per hour. It's going to be able to go after it, and it's ether gonna hit it or get close enough to proximity detonate and take it out, but is come over here and say, &quot;Oh, yeah? Well, I'm gonna get you,&quot; and just keep following you around, and if it does miss get mad and come back. The whole idea that we have these angry missiles that can follow us, it just always struck me as funny because in order to do that it would have to fly at [jet engine roaring] Just because an aircraft, doesn't mean it's going to sound like a World War II era Stuka dive bomber. Guess what? They put particular that were wind driven, they did wind up like that, and, yes, we all associate Now, the fuel light here, because the Microjet only Still love the scene, so I'm going to give this opening scene of &quot;Octopussy&quot; a four out of 10. [guns firing] Hal Moore: Broken arrow! I'll say it again, broken arrow! Vincent: &quot;Broken arrow&quot; is a term used for a nuclear weapon that Maybe it's either been lost or dropped inadvertently Apparently it does mean we or in threat of being overrun, but the idea is that It's like calling 911. As he's talking, it depicts There is some coordination that exists, because the whole idea is that you are in close coordination with the folks on the ground. You are dropping right next to them, and in fact, as we see in this scene, sometimes it can happen [jet engine roaring] What you're seeing here is napalm. It's nondiscriminating, But if dropped in the wrong place, it's gonna burn up anything. And the one thing they is a Mark 77, or a napalm canister, is deliberately not equipped with fins, because what fins do is to make it more accurate, for the same reason a quarterback puts a spin on a football I feel like they're showing the releasing aircraft It shows fighters going both directions. That might be a little Generally you don't want that because they could employ I'm gonna give it a nine out of 10. Just loses a few points for the reasons we talked about. Pilot: Lime zero one, we Eastbound on the bridge. Harry: Roger, Lime Zero Pilot: Ringo is padlocked. Vincent: What bothers me is this expectation almost in Hollywood that they can feed the audience that somewhere in America, as depicted in this scene, are fully armed aircraft doing maneuvers. In reality, particularly since 9/11, we do have aircraft at various bases, usually on the coasts, and that is for Noble Eagle, and that is in case we have another 9/11. But for training, it looks to me like it's really Harriers Harry: Recommend using your Mavericks to take out the bridge. Pilot: Roger that. Lime Pilot: Two. Vincent: Two. OK. You know, normally you do wanna acknowledge a call that's made, but they just felt very scripted. [jet engine roaring] You see the Harriers peel off right away. Presuming they're the ones they just need to make sure that the laser is continuously on And then when it hits, yeah, I mean, these could be It looks fairly realistic. The Maverick AGM-65 was so it's got pretty good punch, and it's going for armored yeah, it might do pretty well. Of course, the Harrier keeps flying later. You've got Dana, the and some more gunfire and AIM-9 shots. Really love this scene. Overall, I'm gonna give it a