Homemade butter is very tasty. It is fragrant, without any extraneous fats. And making it is very easy! Hi all! My name is Galina Artemenko, and I want to dedicate this video to butter. In stores, the choice is huge, and you can find both the finest examples and the worst. And you can also cook it yourself! However, even if you are not going to do it regularly, it will be interesting to cook it at least once in order to feel and feel all its charm. To make butter, I bought village cream, and also decided to experiment and try to make butter from store-bought cream. What came out of it, how much oil came out of it, and also how I choose the oil in the store - further. Keep watching! I'll start with country cream. I bought 1 kilo. I send well-chilled cream to the bowl of a combine with knives. Cooking butter in a food processor is my favorite: it's fast and doesn't splatter like it sometimes happens when whipping with a mixer. I turn on the harvester and ... just wait! With my combine, the whole process takes only 10 minutes. Watch how the texture of the cream changes in the process: it gradually becomes denser, and then completely turns into lumps when the butter has moved away from the buttermilk. If the cream is fresh, removed on the same day, it will still be liquid - it is better to keep it in the refrigerator for a day in this case. Now you can see that the cream has already begun to form lumps. This means that it remains to wait quite a bit. Agree, just standing and watching the mass in the combine is much more convenient than whipping it with a mixer or cooking it by hand, whipping cream in a jar ... So, lumps of butter and how the buttermilk separated are clearly visible. The whipping phase is over. See what the mass looks like up close. Don't throw away the buttermilk - it will make wonderful bread, muffins, pancakes or waffles. Now you need to squeeze the buttermilk out of the oil. Some people find it more convenient to do this by pouring ice water into the oil and kneading the mixture like dough, but I find it more convenient to do as shown in the video: I put the oil in a small bowl and start rubbing it, squeezing out the buttermilk. It is easier to do this not immediately with the entire volume of oil, but in parts. Now you can see how the buttermilk droplets come out of the oil. So that the released buttermilk does not interfere, from time to time pour it into a separate bowl. When the butter stops giving off buttermilk and becomes elastic, homogeneous, it is ready. While I work on the rest of the oil, I shape the finished portion into a ball shape and send it to cold water so that it does not heat up. Having finished with rustic cream butter, I proceed to my experiment. I pour the store-bought heavy cream into a glass and start whisking. Whipping... Whipping... Whipping for a long time. Cream is added in volume, but so far there is no hint of oil separation. After 15 minutes, the technician asked me to let her rest, and I decided to continue beating with a regular hand mixer. The cream whipped, became lush, creamy, but again - there is no hint of oil release. After the mixer was also tired, I turned to the already featured combine with knives. But even he did not give the expected result ... Well, you have to use this cream for some other recipe! A few words about the choice of oil in the store. At the stage of purchase, you cannot smell it, taste it, cut it with a knife and see how it behaves . Therefore, there are only three things that I pay attention to: First: butter cannot be lower than 82.5% fat. Second: the composition should contain only one ingredient - cream. And third: in the package, the butter should be dense and hard. For example, in the store I went to the counter with 82.5% oil, and what? Some of it is hard, as it should be, and some of it is soft... Butter can't be like that. Open oil is cold, cutting - it breaks off I bought several different brands to take a closer look at it. You can study the taste, aroma, color ... Cold butter should be hard, but as you can see from the video, there is both a very soft butter and a dense one, and even some kind of loose, reminiscent of plasticine in texture. Soft can be spread on bread straight from the refrigerator without any problems, but it shouldn't be like that, but something that is difficult to give in is excellent! After standing at room temperature, a good oil will soften, but it will not lose its shape and will not flow. See how my samples behave differently. The very first oil softened so much that it seems as if it is about to flow. And this is in the cold season! Imagine what will happen if you decide to make an oil cream out of it, and even in the warm season ... But the last sample is my favorite. It has softened but still holds its shape. Well, now I propose to weigh homemade butter and calculate how much it cost me. So, from 1 kg of cream, I got 571 grams of homemade butter. At the exchange rate, the price of cream is almost 4.3 dollars per kilogram, as a result, butter is almost 7 and a half. Plus labor costs, of course, but it was pleasant labor costs! Well, and storage: you can leave the oil in the form of koloboks that turned out at the cooking stage, or you can give it a standard bar shape, which, in my opinion, is both more aesthetic and more convenient to use. By the way, it is best to mold butter when it is not too chilled. At the time of molding, it had cooled down quite strongly and the bar turned out to be not very smooth. You can shape the oil using a plastic container, laying it with a film, and I like to store the oil by wrapping it in paper, and then in a film or foil. Refrigerate the butter for up to 2 weeks, or for longer storage, divide it into portions and store in the freezer. Keep in mind that oil absorbs odors very well, so always wrap it well. You can also shape the oil into a cylinder, which also looks very pretty. You can wrap it in parchment and film, just in film, or just in foil. I hope you enjoyed this video - give it a like if you did. Subscribe, click on the bell, and we have a lot of delicious things ahead of us! My name is Galina Artemenko and this is the Life is Tasty channel!