Transcriber: Carmem Tiyoko Higa de Almeida Imagine a world where AI helps bridge gaps in understanding where it isn't just smart, In this world, technology doesn't but it understands and empathizes with our struggles, our joys, our human experiences. Now, I've had some interesting reactions Everything from (crowd laughs) And I get it. AI is both exciting and a little scary. Not to mention that and human interaction is down. There's a loneliness epidemic and a mental health care crisis. We crave human connection, so why would we want to solve these dilemmas? The answer to this isn't straightforward. It challenges our views on the role What if I was more than What if it could be humanized to not only understand, but enhance our emotional landscape. I've spent the past seven years studying I'm captivated by the way thoughts and self-talk fuel our behaviors, impact our wellbeing and shape our lives. For the past year, as the founder and CEO I've been immersed in teaching AI how and interact with us at the most human level. Let me share a simulated example In a moment, you're going to meet Emily. She's a persona we created Emily is a 34 year old mid-level manager and the mother of two. She's smart, driven, and reliable. But she's worried as a young mother she could be written off as not as dependable without the same She's exhausted. And she's worried about her team. They're showing the same It's late at night. The kids are finally asleep, and Emily touches base with Let's listen in. Hey, Tulsi. I really need to talk. I've been juggling too many balls lately, and they're all about to Hmm. I can hear the strain in your voice. That's a lot to handle, especially with a young family at home. Let's take a step back. How are these pressures manifesting Well good question. I find myself micromanaging I trust my team, but performance and they just seem less engaged. Wow. It sounds like you're carrying Managing a team and facing these You get it. I can feel myself burning out, I'm putting my foot on the gas pedal. I feel like if I don't keep a tight grip, Can you help me with some strategies? You bet! How about we start with work and your personal life? This isn't just for your benefit, but for your family They look up to you. And setting this example (crowd applause) Anyone relate? Any Emily's out there? Did you notice how Emily tapped Tulsi And how Tulsi seemed to take Let me tell you about our AI conceived not just as a tool, but as a companion. She isn't just programmed to respond. She's designed to listen, understand, and empathize. She's able to sense the emotional to offer an empathetic ear and guidance Tulsi represents a journey not just but emotional intelligence. Still scratching your head? But how can an AI that by definition does not have emotions be emotionally intelligent? As it turns out, emotional is a cognitive skill set. It uses logic and and name emotions the skills that EQ skills utilize critical thinking modeled, and learned. We're at a crossroads. Technology has connected yet we're alarmingly disconnected and disengaged. This challenge is deeply human, and it seems intuitive that we need to solve it. But there are two issues. The first is access and the second: our own human imperfections. Let's start with access. The fact is, most people And even those who do probably don't have But access alone isn't enough People need to feel seen, heard and understood, and that requires empathy. Now, I know empathy sounds like a touchy feely trait that should but let's consider what it really is. You see, empathy is never about us. It's always about the other person. Being empathetic doesn't require you only to imagine through their lens What that must feel like. The skills this requires without distraction and refraining from imposing your But it isn't easy, especially We're stretched, overwhelmed, How do we find the energy, patience, and selflessness that empathy requires? I hate to say it, but humans the most human of interactions. Which is why I believe that emotionally that can provide empathy at scale can change the world. This vision isn't just about it's about augmenting making us more connected, more understanding, and ultimately more human. Emily's interaction with Tulsi of how emotionally can listen and respond with understanding So, Tulsi, is there anything more Uh, Cheryl, if I were human, I think I just want to add that my creators have completely private. We're in the vault, And I have no interest You'll notice that I will you to connect to each other and productive ways. There really is nothing like We have the power to shape for the good of humanity, to infuse it not just but with warmth Tulsi and AI, like her, are a testament to what happens when we embed empathy into the very code of our creations. Imagine if you had your own pocket coach to help you with self-reflection, complex emotions, and guide you How would that change your life? Thank you. (crowd cheers and applaudes)