We spent the last year developing a real life And this is one of the bullets Now, before we start, Nothing is bulletproof. There is no such thing Bullet resistant is far more appropriate, doesn't it? Now, we've all seen movies cops, SWAT guys. They've got them all. Even Iron Man suit is bulletproof. But nobody nobody has a bulletproof suit. And looks as good as John Wick. Like. Like, come on. It's literally a bulletproof And with John Wick 4 Let's just say I thought it would be a perfect time How cool Is it even possible? I've learned to sew things together but I wouldn't So for this build, we've hired A materials science engineering student with extensive experience They asked not to be shown this video to keep their identities secret When we're talking about bullet it all comes down to layers of ultra If you think of a sheet of paper But once you layer paper, This is the basic principle You've probably heard of Kevlar before, In fact, the Kevlar used in bulletproof specialized And it's not actually something For example, this is over half an inch of And as you can see, Lucky for us, with some of the manufacturers of these highly specialized bullet And they actually sent us worth of the fabric that we needed both We needed to determine what our suit In the John Wick movies. There are a couple of different suits, on the main classic evening We see the tailor demonstrate what looks to be a P226, a classic standard issue handgun. And throughout the catacombs we see most of which shoot 45 ACP rounds, an MP, five submachine gun. So that's our goal. How do we balance bullet resistance without sacrificing the esthetic Now, that's the question we need to answer So we've got 38 different samples that we're going to be testing, And basically all the samples in box recommendation So hypothetically, everything in this box Now, what we've done is we've actually reduced because what we're trying to figure out is and the most flexible material because all of these materials right now So it means we're just using one material. But most bullet proof It uses multiple different kinds and But let's get started, I guess our stand is uhhh.. It's a good thing we're only testing one at a time. Okay. We got a fail here. As fun as that was, our very first shot Our samples kept blowing off the wall our fabric also seemed to make We had started our tests with manufacturer similar But some of the bullets just went through. We were trying to conserve wasting it all anyway with a bunch of data So we looked into the NIJ 15 by 15 inches We also revised our test This time we're only going to be using the vector since if it stops We've also upgraded the elastic which hopefully means without having to mess around And the reason we want to get two hits in is the problem is he only shoot the sample So just because it stops the ball at once It's pretty deep inside of me. There's the bullet. It did stop it. The more pancaked the bullet, the better because as you can see, this one's So this is my favorite material. The bullet never makes it So 60 past 39 past 43 passed. Interesting woven, failed. It was on the seam. I don't like those odds. Oh 58 still passed and yes, So I'm confident full failure at 16 layers 65 pass, 44 pass. But the white materials If we held this super taut somehow through. Energy is being absorbed So it's slowing down If I wore this with a string around Pass, pass. We've realized our testing because this is not a pass. Once again, the data We were getting passes from samples We needed a better human We decided to use oil based clay again. What the ninja standard serves me right for trying to cut corners Using the clay will also allow us accurately or the depth Back face deformation even when you're wearing With this updated test procedure, we went back to the range and got our data It's time to start testing the composites. We learned a lot from these samples, but how are we going to create To offer the most protection This is what can stop rifle rounds once you drop to level This is what most bulletproof But as you can see, and it's probably not going to fit in So we're going to have to look at level these Level two samples are recommended But at the range we were able to determine The next step is taking these Basically, our goal is to get somewhere and level two, and able to fit inside of a suit. Let's start making some composites. The front layer is going to stop. The bullet in the back I was told that making armor is almost as much as an art as a science, I'm just going to try When we went to the gun range, one material in particular stood out to me Kevlar that actually stopped the bullet Even cooler still, it left the woven pattern on the bullet. So let's try making a few samples Which one would come out on top? I have no idea. Have you ever Googled to see your personal information exposed? If you haven't do it right now, This information is available including spammers and robo collars, So if you don't want your personal let me tell you about today's video that can help keep your data Data brokers who profit by selling your information will automatically submit if you're still not convinced Aura also monitors to see if they were involved in any data if Aura finds it will give you recommendations on to steal your identity. With Aura all adult members included in by a $1 million insurance policy and fees resulting from identity theft. Aura's app also features a VPN internet, parental controls or has almost every internet safety tool You can use my link Aura.com/hacksmith to try two weeks for free. You won't believe how much exposed you'll find in those two weeks. Let or keep you safe. To set the baseline for our new testing method, we're using a level 3A vest that we've So let's see how it does. So it should have stopped the bullets Note to self. Got to aim higher. I was really close to back face deformation. This one almost but I don't see a bullet there. I'd say that's a successful test. So when we actually measure the back face a reference point because look stopping, although it might even be under I hope it stopped it, So there is a problem with our pass-test. Well, 25% success Well, 25%. Success rate, two shots. Hmm. Math doesn't check out. I mean, does check out. We just had great doesn't look too bad. I might just be on the edge of level two. Turns out stopping bullets is not easy, my arts and crafts We also definitely learned that there's we're using. If they're packed with just a little more or a little less There is a lot and we're just scratching the surface. While we continue gathering data at the range. Our tailor will start building the pants. We're not going to make those bulletproof, and stab resistant. We did some quick tests and we found something perfect I also got fitted for a custom shirt where we studied movie stills They also had this awesome Hacksmith Pretty dapper if I do say so myself. So this is our fourth and we've almost finalized Now we've had to make some concessions jacket slightly thinner and it's probably So we brought new samples and we're going to test against the blazer can stop a handgun So there's the variability in the bullets. You might be confident in your results, four rounds that maybe had slightly Some perfect I have faith we can do is just from the suit It seems like we're a bit optimistic We kind of went on the lighter side we were unable to get 100% success those samples But we did bring more samples and we'll be going back to the vector to see if we can get a vest Easy, right? It's just a submachine gun. This is Yeah. Oh, congratulations. You only broke a rib. These two next samples are very special. They're identical but one of them has been impregnated that the thought emporium made for us. Hypothetically, the shear thickening fluid so the use of sheer thickening fluids in So this is really cutting edge. So I hope it works. Bullets you can just buy off the shelf So we actually had some custom bullets grain So hypothetically, the same impact, if this sample or the next one Look at that guy a little too deep for comfort. All righty. Time to see what happened. I'm guessing it's probably gonna look That actually looks pretty deep. Throughout all this testing, we've come to realize just how much goes Sadly, our results, were rather inconclusive. To do it right We could probably spend an entire year You should, however, check out the thought and how it could work. But we do have some good news. During the testing, we confirmed 16 layers of all coming in So awesome. Our specialist is going to start when we go back to the gun range So this and we've got our final samples. And the hope today is not a single on making this suit One went through. You really see like the dynamo through the Kevlar. Another pass. Oh, look at that. I guess my biggest concern is the suit, And if a single bullet goes through, Sample 110, 112. stuff. So based on the replay of that footage, in the bullet proof material. And then when I hit the material the second time and bounced and right into I never thought I'd say it, but I'm We set out to build a lightweight and it took way longer than I expected. But I think we've The jacket has about 20 layers with every second layer This means we can finally start But first, a quick thank you to Urban Thought Emporium and, of course, my barber Now, let's make this suit. If you want to help support the channel check out hacksmith.store We've got a whole bunch of souvenirs including a sample of the material and a continental coin. Check it out at Hacksmith.store. Here we have a jacket!...sort of. In this state, everything about it can be changed. And that's important for me resistant panels We've got mockup sleaves All of this white stitching is temporary We it a lot of room in the seam allowances to make sure any adjustments can be made This is a full mockup of the bullet Now in the real suit it's going to go But this one is going to do because it's and simulate the thickness of the panels fit on James. So these are your trousers. This is your shirt. This is some weight. Looks just like the movie, right? It doesn't look bulky. I was expecting it This is where I have spent hours and hours agonizing over the pattern for The suit is definitely a bit thicker than the one in the movie, but obviously I'm pretty excited to see this thing then hopefully stop those bullets. So we learned a lot of great stuff We're going to nip it in in the waist and we also need to make some adjustments resistant layers match up it adjustment software We've got the bullet resistant layers I'm a little worried about how So that's something that is still I'm having to use some very unusual Well, I want it to lie as smoothly as it's lying You know, with with this Kevlar. Well, you can just do your best right. Look, I've been trying to think make sure every step is moving towards it, having a nice shape, kind of struggling It's interesting because we're battling which a lot of our projects No function. This we need both. Yeah, there's a balance to match, but 100% on both your like You can never get 100% on both. You always need to compromise. Yeah. And the compromise right from the get go inch of plastic inside of clothing. There's only so much you could do. Yeah. Even then, you need to remember 99.95% of other people have nothing They look out and go, But it's got bullet proof material. This is awesome. Yeah. Whereas I'm seeing, like, every single This jacket will be done tomorrow. So it's 4 lbs of Kevlar you're wearing. It looks good. Yeah, that's a suit. You just look really buff. Charles. Punch me. With the scissors. No, no. Good afternoon, Mr. Wick. It's been a long time coming, Mr. Wick. Is this a formal event or a social affair? Social. And is this for day or evening? I need one for day and one for night. And what style? Italian. How many buttons? Two. Trousers? Tapered. How about the lining? Tactical. That was awesome. This suit is super flexible. I had no issues shooting it just feels like a bit of a thicker, It does not feel like I'm but I do feel like super safe in it. And the mobility, Like I can run around Like, no problem. I think it's safe to say but the biggest goal So after almost a year of hard work, Now. Obviously and we're testing it We've got this mannequin who volunteered It goes without saying, Do not try and make your own armor To start the tests. We're going to be pitting our custom made composite We're going to use a P226, they used in the movie. First up, the standard bulletproof vest. ...and now ours. Let's see what happened. Oh, I'm nervous. You can see the hole through the wall, This wall is not bulletproof. Let's take a look at this one first. Yeah, it's right there. It's lumpy. Yeah, it's right there. Did it's job, kind of to be expected. The pressure is on for ours. I can already tell. That's where I hit it. A little hole in the wool. I'm nervous. Did you guys not button up his shirt? What is this amateur hour? Oh, I don't feel anything. The hole is right here. There is no hole here. I can feel a bit of a lump. We did it. It stopped a nine mil round. Oh, no. His tie. I knew we should have made And I can feel the bullet. It's right That feels like it It looks like it got through two layers. Ta daaa. Full metal jacket, nine millimeter round mushroom like crazy. It worked. Whoo! Spent a year And it stopped. It stopped the bullet. Let's zip him back up. We're not done with you yet, buddy. Let's ramp it up a little bit. I'm going to send three more down Going onto ours. I'm starting to see some holes But again, We'll check this guy first. I can start seeing the holes I don't know. What you're expecting And remember, we made the vest bulletproof So together We are good. Still nothing. That's not even that much damage It's literally like just Three bullets, zero holes. It's hard to see, The vest is performing But you might be wondering what happens Well, don't worry. We armored the back too. Look at that grouping right there, Nothing, So there was one right here ish. There is one right here ish. And there's one down here. And as you can see, no exit wounds. This is awesome. We still got out. We got to pull out the bigger gun. This is super promising, Now, remember, a 45 caliber actually has So based on this testing, But let's ramp it up. We're going to use this vector. It's the Canadian equivalent which is what they used And it sounds weird calling John. John John Wick. John. Mr. Wick. Not really. And ours. Looks like it's moved more. Oh, the vest is pushed into the mannequin to the mannequin. There is one bullet. There is two bullet. I think we're good. Oh, it is leaving and I can feel a nice little, It's looking pretty damn good. But this is a submachine gun, Now, we've put the suit jacket on to ours, bought vest. See how it holds up Whoa! Oh, oh. Doesn't look good. Oh, oh, doesn't look good at all. Oh, my God. She dead. I don't know if I just group the shots really good And that's what did it. I'm pretty confident in our vests, which has another 20 layers Both of these can definitely stop obviously stopped it as well. It's the moment of truth. I'm going to go left lapel, right lapel, and just for good measure, the vest again. Oh, we definitely ripped a seam. Let's look at this one first. Oh, suit jacket succeeded. The bullet is here. It feels like it's only through, like, You can see Hole is there. Let's check for an exit wound. Now. Doesn't look like it So it's somewhere inside of the suit Well it's not in the mannequin. Had to make some concessions and it's All right. What about this guy? You can literally see So it skipped up the Kevlar here. And I can feel it's all bundled back around the bullet catching it, But I put one more shot into the vest. Risky, I know, I don't feel anything. Shirt looks good. And a big fat w boys taking home a chicken dinner. We set out to defend against a nine mil And it stood up to the test. Thank you to you guys It took over a year to make this video, super proud of both this project If you guys want to see even more content becoming a YouTube member next to subscribe I'll tell you, it is an extended cut. We have so much footage of the suit Talking about all the stuff that we didn't Thanks again for watching. Make sure you subscribe.