- [Jim] Welcome to a new and very strange world of nature. It's been taken over by the of quantum physics. As a physicist I've spent how these particles But now I'm heading out I'm on a mission to prove the greatest mysteries in biology. This is a real adventure for me. I'm very much out of my comfort zone trying to apply the very careful ideas I'm familiar with in a physics laboratory to the messy world of living things. I believe that quantum physics could hold many of life's secrets. That deep in the cells of animals particles glide through walls like ghosts. That when plants capture sunlight, their cells are invaded that could be everywhere at the same time. And that even our human to strange quantum vibrations. In the fantastic world of quantum biology, life is a game of chance, This is what I hope to convince you of, to show you that quantum in explaining many of the And potentially that underpin the very My quest begins with one of the most majestic sites in nature, migration. Every winter barnacled at the same Scottish river. The end of an epic 2,000 mile voyage from spalguard high above the arctic circle. Of course many bids head south for winter, then back home for summer. But for decades, exactly with such accuracy was one in biology. So the most recent discovery In the past few years, one create a scientific revolution. I was one of many physicists that it navigates using in the whole of science. It utilizes a quirk of quantum mechanics, one that bamboozled even from Richard Feynman to So you might be surprised of this mysterious creature. Say hello to the quantum robin. This is the European robin. Every year she migrates to the tip of Spain and back. In this laboratory in the woods, is trying to solve the But he's found himself in my world, the strange world of quantum mechanics. Quantum mechanics describes the very weird behavior of subatomic particles. Down in this realm of the very small, we have to abandon common Instead, this is a world like waves. Quantum particles can be and send each other - I set out to find out it just turned out that the towards this as the only all the different results together. - [Jim] Henrik's investigating that robins navigate by His laboratory is an and these plastic cones lined provide the key measurements. Henrik's artificial magnetic except that he can point it Inside their cones, the robins leaving scratches in a single direction. The big mystery is how. The earth's magnetic far too weak for any but Henrik has found an intriguing clue by giving the quantum robin a mask. - We have a little leather on a falcon. But just for a robin. And then you have a or a hole in front of the other eye. What we can see is that if you turn off the magnetic in the left part of the brain. If you cover up this eye, in this part of the brain. - The robin's magnetic compass I can show you what's Now we use our eyes for vision, light detecting mechanism. If I shine this torch into my closes down. It's basically a defense My eye is responding to The energy provided by the to activate chemical reactions. After all, that's what Lights must be causing in the robin's eyes. In fact, it's the power of magnetic compass inside her cells, in the weird world of subatomic particles, a place where only quantum what's going on. To see why, imagine the chemical reactions in the robin's eye and valleys of energy. To get a reaction to start, to the top of the mountain. Thanks to Henrik's experiments, most of the hard work. But when it reaches the very incredibly sensitive The key point here is that is now balanced on an energy Going one way produces one the other a different set. Now even a tiny change in can tip the molecule over the top. But the way this happens The final piece of the truly mind-boggling ideas in physics, but don't worry if you Even Albert Einstein called it &quot;spooky.&quot; The idea is called quantum entanglement. It involves particles faster than the speed of light. In 1935 Einstein published a famous paper arguing that it was impossible, but Einstein was wrong. In recent years extremely that subatomic particles It means they can subtly and each other across space. And now it seems the inside the robin's eye. When a photon enters the robin's eye, it creates what's called an Here's how it works. Each electron has two possible states. For simplicity I'm choosing Now here's the weird it's neither one nor the other, but both at the same time. Think of the electrons They're simultaneously red and green, but by firing a dart I can to be one or the other. So far it's just a game of chance. I don't know what I'll get until I try it. So I know my first electron is red. Suppose I now measure the second electron. You'd think I have a 50-50 after all that's what everyday world, but you'd be wrong. In quantum entanglement, For example, if I get red on on the second. It's not a game of chance anymore. It's as if the first electron what to do. That's why Einstein called it spooky. The electrons seem to have the same color, no The really important part, needn't be the same color. They can be entangled in a different way, so that if the first electron is red, the second one is always green. It seems that this mysterious secret of the quantum robin's compass, because the direction of can influence the outcome. Near the equator they may be But near the pole they may be And that's the vital factor of the robin's chemical compass. Tiny variations in the change the way electrons in and that's just enough Now finally we can see as the earth's magnetic one way or the other. If the message changes, tips a different way changing the robin's compass reading. - Suddenly it looks like mechanical phenomenon in birds, it would be one of the first in biology. - Biologists better get used The robin is navigating by To see subtle quantum sterile environment of a And yet here's the robin These experiments are real and verifiable and yet even though I'm I still find it hard to believe. (upbeat country instrumental) Bird navigation has brought as the science of quantum biology. There's a whole new world to explore. But it's pioneers have just effect birds. It effects every single one of us. Because the latest quantum physics right now. And believe it or not, you're Hello Gem, hello little girl. Our sense of smell is remarkable and quite different from our other senses of sight and hearing. Among the thousands of many of them may well trigger and emotions. It's as though our sense to our inner consciousness. It's also different in another way. The other senses of sight detecting waves, light and sound, but our sense of smell chemical molecules. Recently scientists have begun to our sense of smell something For decades, biologists how our noses sniffed But physicists like Jenny a new ingredient in the mix, and it smells like quantum mechanics. - A lot of people think of science of olfaction as being and we know all about it. And we do know a lot about it, we know about the equipment but I would argue that for us to understand. - [Jim] To understand more, with a smell test. And Gem is going to sniff him out. Every human being gives off Gem's nose could detect dissolved over an entire city. So she has no trouble finding Meet Colin, the gardener, a man who's used to smelling the flowers. - All right then Colin, I'm skills to the test. I've got a selection of chemicals here, and I want you to tell me I'll start you off easily. - Oh, that's like a - Yep. - It's that essence. - All right, here's the next one. You should be able to recognize this one. - That's baking with my - Vanilla, yeah. When our noses detect a chemical, to our brains. But different chemicals The standard explanation shape of the molecules. The conventional theory says that the scent molecule that allows it to fit in in our nose. If it has the right shape, or a key in a lock. In fact it's called the With the wrong shape it but with the right shape, triggering that unique smell sensation. Different receptors are of our brains. So when a menthol molecule it triggers that minty fresh sensation. But the lock and key theory And Colin's next test will show you why. - Ok, how about this one, What does it remind you of, - I think Christmas. Christmas cake. - [Jim] Marzipan. - Yeah, that's it. - Colin identified the smell In fact, it's due to a scent What I didn't give him to smell was this other chemical, cyanide. Both benzeldihyde and they both smell of almonds, but these molecules are so the lock and key mechanism, how we smell can't be the whole story. So why would two molecules smell the same? Quantum biology has a It says our noses aren't they're listening to them. It's not just the shape of a Let's take a closer look at this model of a cyanide molecule. The white ball here is a are the bonds that hold it and nitrogen. But the reality isn't as simple as that. I can give you a better if we look at this larger white ball. You see atoms don't just sit still. The bonds that hold them together are like vibrating strings and that of thinking about smell. The bizarre new quantum vibrating bonds. Chemical molecules are Imagine a receptor molecule Before it can make a sound, my nose, and when that it's chemical bonds provide the strings, and it's ready to be played. The receptor molecules contain As they leap from one atom the bonds of the scent plucking a guitar string. What's remarkable about this our sense of smell is about or wave-like behavior, and of a particular scent molecule. Our sense of smell may be much more like our sense of hearing. A particular molecule, say at a particular frequency. But a different molecule, will vibrate at a different frequency. (plucked guitar strings) This would explain why The two molecules have different shapes but their chemical bonds at the same frequency. - The quantum vibration is of sound, so I would say the exactly like an acoustic resonance event. It could be very analogous to - [Jim] But can we really A bizarre theory needs a Here's how it works. Scientists used a molecule like orange blossom. But if the theory is right, to change it's smell by The molecule contains lots bonded to carbon atoms. But what if I were to replace different form of Now it won't change the but it will change the way Deuterium is twice as and so it vibrates more slowly. Different vibrations so if I were to make a all packed with deuterium hydrogen, it should smell different. Quantum biologists found this experiment. A smell comparison using the Fruit flies. First the flies were trained of the fruity molecules. To be honest I haven't got a training a fruit fly, In the laboratory, the a kind of a maze. They were then given a choice. Go right for the nice fruity smell or left for the nasty modified version. (flies buzzing and guitar) They could definitely They always preferred the The fruit fly experiment quantum smell theory really works. But ultimately it works lock and key theory. First, the scent molecule then those molecular vibrations take over. Incredible as it seems, may be smelling the Our sense of smell is fascinating but to think that when I and that sets off a whole in my mind, that it's by quantum mechanics I think makes it even more remarkable. (crows cawing) The mysterious influence into every corner of the natural world. In fact it inhabits the walls Because the latest solution to one of the The miracle of metamorphosis. The transformation of has never been fully explained. In little more than six then reassembles in its adult form. But the big mystery is When you think about extraordinary than a Take it's tail for example. Over a period of several into the body and the proteins and fibers that make up the flesh the frog's new limbs. But for this to happen, of chemical reactions work together, breaking molecules and forming new ones in a carefully orchestrated dance. But the fibers that hold flesh They're a bit like these ropes In order to dismantle the very tight knots. You can think of it like this. A tadpole is held together knotted together by chemical bonds. The bonds are so strong that Much longer than the So how can it turn into a The explanation involves molecules of life. Tiny widgets in all our - The enzymes are the actual They're actually the little that do the chemical transformations that are involved in everyday life. They're absolutely crucial, so crucial is because is to accelerate chemical - Let me show you just how Inside this bottle is a substance You're probably most familiar to bleach hair. In fact I obtained this sample Hydrogen peroxide is also and it's the job of the Now the way it does which breaks down hydrogen and oxygen. Now to show you just how I'm going to do a quick demonstration. I've got some liver here to release the enzyme. Now watch what happens when containing the enzyme to Watch how quickly the oxygen is released. Just 100 grams of liver fired Liver enzymes make the incredibly efficient. It happens a trillion times faster. That's a million million times faster than it would otherwise. In metamorphosis it's the tadpole's tail. And that means breaking down called collagen. - Collagen is one of the for the biological world. It's the protein which that elasticity to tendons, to our skin as well. In the tail of the tadpole it it supports that structure. Now when the tadpole is what you need to do is collagenaise, which will to small pieces and thereby - But how do enzymes so incredibly fast? Let me show you why it's a can solve. Think of it this way, all these are like subatomic particles, that hold the different parts Now to untie the knot, enzymes but as you can see this and a lot of time if there Physicists have a fancy way of saying &quot;put in effort to get something done.&quot; They say you have to Ok, here's my energy barrier, and here's my proton. To break a bond apart, to get over the barrier. The trouble is, when we work it's much too slow to break But this is where I wouldn't blame you for that a clever theoretician that it's just mere speculation, something that we have It takes place all the time. In the quantum world protons They can tunnel straight through. Tunneling strikes at the very heart at what is most strange It's like nothing we see The quantum particle can tunnel even if it has to pass through They're not solid objects like They have spread out, that allows them to leak A particle can disappear and instantly reappear on the In nuclear physics, this Without quantum tunneling the But I never thought I'd It's hard to stress just It's though I would and like a phantom reappear on the other. The most important advantage of tunneling is its speed. It happens incredibly quickly, much faster than if protons As a nuclear physicist, quantum tunneling is my bread and butter. Subatomic particles like But what does this have The answer is that without quantum ghosts, the metamorphosis of a Remember, chemical bonds Tunneling unties them fast. Have a look at these two knots. On the face of it they look identical. But there's a subtle difference. This knot has the two on the same side. Whereas this one has the two Now you would think that but it does. You see, this knot is very hard to break, whereas this one is easy. Quantum tunneling turns So in a tadpole, the breaks apart easily. And finally other enzymes rebuild The quantum tunneling of features of the subatomic is very familiar with. After all, it's responsible and it goes on inside the sun. It's the reason that the But to discover that it's of every living organism on the planet, because every cell contains enzymes, now that I find truly amazing. Quantum biology casts its spell We've seen that birds, amphibians are governed by But the most dramatic the single vital process forms of life depend, the into plants. This fine specimen is a a larix It's about 100 feet high and this side of the planet Venus is a bullet with this tree's name on it. The bullet is a photon, nearing from the sun. It's ultimate destiny is of chemical reactions that photosynthesis. Every second of every day, are created on earth. For me, it's incredible to on this planet depends on trillionth of a second. The crucial first stage of of energy from the sun. It's nearly a hundred percent efficient, vastly superior to any human technology. But the way that every is one of the great puzzles in biology. When it turned out that quantum weirdness might hold the answer, physicists could hardly believe it. - It was like a revelation, I was used to working problems I am a theoretician but I experiments that were Things that you can control. But now finding out that helped me to understand Scientifically it was an as a scientist. So I would say I fell - Textbook biology says comes from chlorophyll molecules. Inside the living cells they This energy is then to the food making factory The entire event takes just of a second. When the photon hits the out of the middle of a This creates a tiny packet The exiton then bounces chlorophyll molecules until the reaction sensor. That's where its energy is used that create the all important The problem is the exiton reaction center in the first place. Textbook biology can't explain Because of course, it doesn't It just bounces around called a random walk. Sooner or later, it will part of the cell. But this isn't the most Because when the exiton the reaction center, it's by pure chance. If the exiton just blindly the chlorophyll molecules, it the reaction center and as waste heat. But it doesn't. Something very different must be going on. The vital clue comes that stunned the world of science. Chemists fired lasers at the capture of light from the sun. They confirmed exiton a haphazard route through the cell. - This original what we were observing in the lab. So the mystery lies in then for what we are observing in the lab? - [Jim] The solution is that in all of quantum mechanics, It says you can never be certain specific place. Instead it behaves like a quantum wave, smearing itself out across the cell. The exiton doesn't In a bizarre but very in every direction at the same time. It's spreading itself out as a wave, so that it can explore all possible routes simultaneously. This strikes at the very about quantum mechanics. The exiton wave isn't that way, it's following That's what gives it such (wave reverberations and The beauty of it is, if the to the reaction center at the fastest possible way It's hard to express how seems to physicists like me. Biological cells are full of billions of atoms and molecules, but somehow exitons maintain their form as beautiful perfect quantum waves, transporting the energy that - It opened a whole new and I really enjoy the fact what is happening in the with scientists that have like biologist and come together to actually understand what is the relevance of this. For me this is one of the most - [Jim] Real scientific The strange hand of quantum the entire living world. - It's not a surprise that being used in biological systems. The reason is because they're better. - Quantum entanglement is controlled conditions of the physics lab. But now we know that robins extraordinary precision. Quantum vibrations mean our enhancing our perception The living cells of all that vanish and reappear like ghosts speeding up the vital processes of life. And photosynthesis a shimmering world where the sun's energy in an instant. - Sometimes people say but for this for decades. Well biology has had millions of years. - The ultra-modern science is an ancient fact of life. For the end of my journey I want to take these ideas Of course as a scientist, need to be backed up So I want to concoct a thought experiment that helps me to answer the I can think of. Does quantum physics play of evolution itself? In 1859 Charles Darwin stunned of evolution by natural selection. He went on to explain the and other apes. One hundred and fifty years that Darwin's theory accounts on land or sea. But I'd like to explore interpretation of his ideas. Could there be a quantum (dramatic orchestra music) Can quantum evolution got its shell? The snails I'm used to tend to have rather bland, boring shells. So have a look at this beauty. The patterns on its shell the lines on the stem. It's called a banded and the pattern isn't there by accident. Come and have a look at this. Less well adapted snails are This stone is called a thrush's anvil. The song thrush is the It catches the snail and the stone to get to the snail. Now all I can see here banded snail shells, camouflage it very well, Darwin's theory says that within a species. Snails with camouflage and reproduce, passing on their shells so that the species as a So variation, the random is the driving force Now all species evolve and but the question I'd like quantum mechanics plays a role in this. The only way to find out is So my adventures in quantum to the University of Surrey. Here in the laboratories of the most celebrated Deoxyribonucleic Acid or DNA. Its double helix holds the genetic code for every living organism. It's a remarkable fact that Darwin himself had no idea what created The structure of DNA wasn't by Francis Crick and James Watson. The most famous feature beautiful double helix structure, but that's just scaffolding. The real genetic secret lies in between. The four different colored The color code on one forms a gene the parents A gene is a bit like a jigsaw puzzle. It fits together like this. A full strand of the double But the other strand always A blue base always goes goes with red, because the right shape to fit together. What Crick and Watson realized a mechanism for passing When cells reproduce, the ready to be copied. But red still goes with green, and yellow still goes with blue. So bit by bit the cell Two perfect copies of So far there's no genetic variation. This new copy is But here's the interesting bit, during the copying process can happen. Sometimes mistakes creep in. They're called mutations. Let's have a look at these two bases here. The two prongs that hold particles, they're protons. They're basically the bonds These protons can jump If the strands split when the they find themselves Now this red base will no Instead it has to bond to a yellow base. Slotting this back in, is no longer identical to yellow base here instead of a green one. We've brought in a genetic mutation. Jumping protons would It could make a new gene The question is, how do protons jump? It's my belief that quantum Now for these mutations have to overcome an energy barrier, and if you remember what well you can probably Protons can behave as They tunnel straight through. But does this ghostly My colleagues in biology first evidence of quantum mutations. - Biologists didn't even mechanics, so when you can be in two places at &quot;Well not in my cells they can't.&quot; Our experiments involve The first sample is containing hydrogen nuclei or protons. When the bacteria reproduce, we simply count the mutations. But if our theory is correct, then we should be able to change the rate at which mutations occur. Remember how we texted the What if I replace the proton with it's big brother the deuteron. This is the nucleus of Now crucially a deuteron is and this should influence how to quantum tunnel. Quantum mechanics is full of surprises. Protons tunnel easily, deuterons don't. These heavier particles to bounce straight back. So the second sample of heavy water, which is full of deuterons. Our theory says you should and so far the results - The preliminary gives us a hint that the in deuterated water. We find that it is lowered, so but we'll have to wait a - Final proof lies in the future. Even if we are right, quantum of mutation. But our results promise explanation of one of the most fundamental processes of life. Even the merest possibility for evolution itself is In fact the story of quantum What the frog, the robin, have shown us is that real in nature all the time. And if there's anything we've of quantum mechanics it's this, we can never be certain will take us next. Quantum biology is a but it's time I got back (dramatic orchestra music)