The B-21 Raider is the stealth bomber. It's designed from B-2 spirit, a flying around $2.2 billion per Stealth comes with huge advantages, but not of entry. Design during the Cold the fall of the Soviet defense priorities meant these bombers were This time around, the in bulk with roughly 100 possibility for more on The B 21 looks very because the fundamentals penetrating air are of a flying wing. And the Yb-49 jet when Jack some of the first flying The B-21 is also the of the so-called nuclear arm, intercontinental ICBMs, submarines with and bombers that can make up the triad. If one leg of the triad surprise, the others can event of a nuclear war. This is the Northrop made age stealth coating. It has the ability at a pilot. It's designed and nuclear weapons. The US bomber fleet is If the Air Force is the competition and the occasion. Stealth is what every other bomber. The shape of the radar absorbent cross-section or what is smaller than non The B-2 effectively the enemy to see it, that otherwise would be The B2 can fly far up to refueling, stay targets with precision. And when I think about United States Air Force power, anytime, B 21 is about. The B2 is dependent on calculate its fly by the flying wing design the expensive aircraft takeoff after a sensor moisture, which led to a computers needed to fly We have a handful of started in 1976. So the stealth avionics, the logistics, that program, simply In December 2022, a B-2 an emergency landing. Not much is known about aircraft in question, costly for the Air reason the Air Force is production numbers for It would decrease the if an aircraft was lost combat. The Air Force has been replace the B 2, B 1 and The B-1B Lancer is a treaty prohibited from It's also maintenance older. And the B-52 has dawn of the nuclear age. It's likely they will be years before the last They will most likely as a non stealthy Believe it or not, the around for a very long flying past its century flying right alongside part because it's just easy to update. So the bomber force will bomber and the most stealth bomber the world The B-2 is not an operate. Each flight $150,000, with modern learned from operating The Air Force is hoping the B-21. We've taken a lot of environment that's now a lot of commercial applying them in a to design the aircraft design it with a lot a lot more functionality into its architecture. In 2021, China tested a bombardment system. Not much is known about China the capability of in a rapid way that also Which begs the question bombers prudent in the So you spend $550 Million can fly for the next 50 deliver munitions. Or you can spend that hypersonic missiles, five times. One other concern is that cut off the purchase increase the unit cost. Other weapons programs, and the B-2 Spirit, have numbers, which would of the program, but then handful of purchases. The B-21 may end up copy, but the price on how many are ordered. But even that figure will end up buying 100 or So the B 21 could be we ultimately order 100 Our adversaries defenses tremendously since the Again, starting in 1976. Chinese and Russian air S400, the S500 are They're extremely As the threat evolves, evolve with not only the mission systems that go capability because we threat. And that's It also represents a big stealth platforms for because they're not as B 52 is to conduct a B 52 is a cheaper a ton of money and time. The B 21, which is healthiest aircraft ever Service cannot just can also collect know what things are battlefield, what sorts might be fielding, and It's the first part of modernized. I've been I've been on B 52. These are essentially It's important that our provided security for modernized. The B 21 is built to be It uses an open can quickly adopt new built years from now. We have that open, open developed software in to evolve that software order of days and weeks years, as was the case able to add capability, It just takes a little And certainly we've to the almost to the But now the B 21 has got architecture. So it will the long term. And it is dimension of fundamental. The B 21 theoretically bomber wingman that's but was designed without a crew on board. The Air Force first backpedaled on it looking to be too high. But as time progresses, cheaper to field than So we may see a concept to.