(audience cheering) - Calm down. Calm down. By the way, people say, Carlos Oscar, you have two first names! Why, I just learned that today! But people-- OK, people never know where I'm from. I got that face, yo. I got that face. People are like, are you Armenian? Are you Greek? Let me give you a hint. Let me give you a hint where I'm from. Let me give a hint. I'm from a little island full of Puerto Ricans, (audience laughing) Manhattan, you're right. OK. All right, listen. (audience laughing) By the way, also, oh, my 25th anniversary for real today, yo, today! (audience cheering) Hold on a second, OK. Truth-- let me say this, people, the --oh, the longer we guys are married, the less we know. (audience laughing) We don't know anything. That's not funny! We don't know anything after a while. Some of you guys didn't know this show was tonight, right? She told you to put on some pants we're going to the show, and here you are, OK? (audience laughing) We don't know anything. We can't even answer a simple question. She'll come in the room. &quot;Are you wearing that?&quot; I don't know. I used to be able to dress myself. What happened, right? (audience laughing) And then I have these in-laws. Yo, I get with the millennials and the what is it-- there's millennials and the other, the young ones Gen-- - Gen Z - Gen Z, Gen lazy. Anyway we'll get into that later all right. They are lazy! Yes, they are lazy. Have you seen the Gen Z, the little ones, how late technology has made them lazy. Have you seen that you press a lollipop and it spins for you. How lazy is that? I don't have time to lick it. (electronic sound) What is this? Are you going to finish it? &quot;No, I ran out-- &quot;the battery ran out.&quot; Ugh. Yeah, I still got three gigabytes left Uh-huh, OK, so this-- but let me tell you something. I give you good advice. I give the youngsters good advice. On your first date, I tell them, be real on your first date because the first date is the most fake, fake date. Everyone's trying to impress, right. Right ladies? The guys are, oh, my career, my future, I'm an entrepreneur. Entrepreneur! Usually it's like entrepreneur, you live with your mom, you know? I drove you here! All right, anyway, don't laugh, ladies, because-- uh huh. Don't be so laughy, ladies, because you're not that-- they think what you think people do. OK, ladies. Guys, you remember her on the first date? The first date the food gets there, &quot;oh, oh, oh, it's &quot;too much.&quot; It's a mess, and we know you're hungry. We can hear your stomach (stomach growling) right? The waiter's looking for a dog. Hey, where's that dog? (stomach growling) Just eat, right? Just be yourself. Guys, do you remember her on the fourth date? A little different. (audience laughing) There are sparks coming off the plastic spoon. Anyway, and when you're dating-- married is different because when you're dating, you buy her nice stuff. She buys you nicer stuff when you're dating. But when you get married it changes, isn't that right, baby? Mhm. My wife bought me some stuff at the outlet mall, man. That's the stuff that didn't sell at the regular mall. Yeah, yeah, one step away from the trash. No, get it. Get it for him, OK. No, she bought me-- yo she bought me, guys-- true, true, true, irregular pants. Irregular! Them, they can't even sell them at the store! Somebody sewing them had a seizure-- ugh-- and those are the ones I got, right? I got the seizure pants, one tight leg, the other one's all loose. It isn't right. Pocket under there, put my wallet in, looks like I got a swollen knee. Anyway, oh, they laugh. They think it's so funny how cute they think it is. (audience laughing) You know what, you're upsetting me, ladies. Let me tell you something, and they hook them-- but the wives hook themselves up. They hook themselves up. Look at the wives. You'll see designer clothes, all blinged-out jewelry, and there's the husband, Kirkland from head to toe, Costco actually. Yeah here's a 12 pack a khakis. Get out of here! It's one size fits all, shut up! OK. (audience laughing) I'm telling you, it's always the-- and I'm Puerto Rican. My in-laws are Mexican. This whole Mexi-Rican vibe, right? Oh yo, let me tell you, and my mother in law's hardcore. Everything's got to be her way. She came in the kitchen one day. She goes, &quot;do you know &quot;what day it is?&quot; I go, yeah, it's Friday. She went off on me. She goes, &quot;Cinco de Mayo! &quot;Cinco de Mayo!&quot; (speaking Spanish) I'm like, yo, you were born in Burbank. What are you talking about, man? You know? (audience clapping) She's doing the Mexican hat dance dat dat dat dat dat, right? She didn't even have a sombrero. She had a Dodger cap, but like, what is this, right? Fernando Valenzuela, Valenzuela. Anyway so this lady-- yo, and let me tell you, all women at the house, I'm going bananas. Two daughters, my wife, my mother-in-law lives with us, ugh. All right, don't laugh. That's a Latino thing, OK. Go to a convalescent home. You don't see any old Latinos in there because we keep them. Yes, we do. We do, and we don't die. We live forever. I don't know what it is The cilantro? I have no idea. You can have a heart attack. Give him cilantro. He's back. He's back. (audience laughing) I'm telling you. I don't understand this whole-- and it's always something. Oh my goodness, and she makes us do everything the way my mother-in-law makes us do the pinata. Let me tell you. In America, we make everything our own, right? Pizza is big in America, you know, everything, St. Patrick's Day. The pinata is the most dangerous tradition of Latinos, and why would America adopt it? It's a dangerous tradition! OK, you start by blindfolding the child. That's how it starts, like a hostage situation. Then you twirl the kid around till he's all messed up, then once the kid has no motor skills, you're the adult, give him a stick. Give him a stick? (audience laughing) Can't even see. And you know there's no such thing as a pinata stick. You give him a bat. (audience laughing) That's right. Those new school DeMarini right? And then listen to me, people. If you're going to do the pinata, do it right. Listen, I've done a lot of these. Listen to this, OK. You go by the size of the kid. Don't go by the age. Don't go by the age because there's always that kid that's big for his age. OK, I said it. OK. That holds a little 5'2, 260 second grade. What's going on here, right? It was like a burrito with chanclas. Anyway so he starts swinging and the kids for the candy. Let me-- I hate to break it to you, kids that are watching this, there's no good candies in the pinata. No, there's not. Those are my daughter's friends. I don't ca-- They're not my kids. I put whatever's from last year's Halloween. I don't care. I don't care. I don't care. I don't-- I put expired medications. Yes I do. Yes I do. (audience laughing) One kid got a Xanax. He was like that. And his mom I go, oh it's the sun. It's the sun. Anyway so then the pinata cracks. They dive. Oh! Yo, man, Joselito can't see, and he's swinging. Kids are getting hit in the face, bleeding from the nose. They don't care. They're sticking Tootsie Roll to stop the bleeding. They're in the back of an ambulance. &quot;It was worth it.&quot; (gargling) (audience laughing) This is insane. It's always something, and oh my goodness. OK, I'm going to say this because I have-- daughters are more expensive than sons. Oh, yes they are because they want this and that. They come back from a sleepover. &quot;I want this shirt. &quot;I want this earrings, &quot;and this is what. &quot;I tried on Emily's stuff.&quot; Why are you trying on Emily's stuff? Boys don't do that. They don't go to sleep over, hey, Ethan, can I try on your jeans? What is this, right? All they slim fit? I'm gonna have my dad buy me some. This is ridiculous, and this-- they just buy and they keep on going, and tell you and then they get older. Oh, they're older now. My daughters are older now. They get invited to the proms. Three proms. That's three different dresses. Yo, you got pretty daughters. They get invited to the prom. You got ugly daughter. You're OK. Anyway, yeah I said it. I said it. (audience laughing) Some of you guys are going to say money. Anyway this is insane and then there's another thing with this generation, yo because I have a godson, 19. He doesn't go out. He's never going to get married. He's playing video games in his room. 19 on a Friday night, what are you doing? &quot;Oh come on, man. &quot;You're gonna mess me up, bro.&quot; You're going to mess me up. I go, look, you're already messed up. (audience laughing) Yo, these young men are never going to get married because they're addicted to their devices. That's right. So to you young men, I pronounce you man and Wi-Fi. That's right. (audience laughing) I'm telling you. (audience laughing) These kids are getting all-- they're going bananas on me. My nephew, whoa, you love this kid. My nephew Jeffrey came over to the house, eight years old. I'm babysitting him all day. He's not even looking. He's playing something Nintendo Switch, whatever, not even listening. OK, so the end of the day, I take the Nintendo Switch from him and he freaks out, oh my game. I go, you're done. Yo, let me tell this-- true, true, true, OK, I said, no you're done. I go, let me tell you, when I was your age we didn't have this kind of technology. In fact, the TV would cut out at 2:00 in the morning. Yes it would. It was then national anthem and (tv static) that was it. And if you're young, you don't know. See, I'm telling you the truth. And he freaked out. You know what he said to me? He goes, &quot;liar.&quot; I go, I'm not lying to you. He goes, &quot;did you check the router?&quot; What do you mean, did I check the router, idiot. (audience laughing) The next day I made him rake all the leaves in the backyard. That's right. That's right. Teach him some-- because he didn't do any chores. I know he's 8. So what? OK, my wife comes out. &quot;What are you doing?&quot; I go, no because he had a little like this, like a plateful. Is that enough? I go no, the whole yard, the whole yard. And my wife says it loud enough for him to hear. First she tells him, &quot;stop it now. &quot;Jeffrey, stop it.&quot; Then she says this loud, loud enough for him to hear. She goes, &quot;and give him some money &quot;for what he did.&quot; Oh. She put me on the spot. She put me on the spot, right, she put me on the spot, so guys, I'm sorry. I gave in. I didn't want to hear it from my wife, so I broke down. I broke down. These kids think they do it all right, so he's eight years old, whatever. I give $2, and I made a big deal, like a big production game. I went one, bam, two, bam, three, bam. He's got the money in his hand. Listen to me. He looks back at me, and he says, &quot;you know I'm a citizen, right?&quot; Oh. Oh. (audience laughing) So I taxed him. He was left with $0.12. (audience applauding) All right, son. (audience applauding) Whole family driving me insane, man, and my mother-in-law by the way, she has to cook. She makes that Mexican sausage. Is it chorizo, yeah, and the grease is popping, man, and nothing hits a Latina mom. She's two inches from the pan, the pop pop. Nothing hits her, like a chorizo ninja. Nothing hits her. My nephews go in the kitchen. They get hit with the chorizo splatter. I don't have a first aid kit. I'm putting tortillas, put the pressure to put the pressure, right. I'm alternating flour, corn, flour, corn, flour, corn, whatever, right, but that's-- I'm telling you, Latina mom's kitchen, that's a war zone. It's a war zone, man. That's why we all joined the military, bullets, chorizo, it's all the same for us, OK. Yeah, we all join-- I was in the Air Force, my cousin's Army, my four nephews all Marines, three nephews and a niece all Marines. (audience applauding) OK, for them, you can clap. I don't want to do no Stolen Valor. When I was in, I didn't see any action, OK. My last 68 days was the first Gulf War, remember that? Iraq invaded Kuwait. It's like, aw, they're not going to deploy me. I'm short timer, they call it. Boom. I get deployed, and it was over. So it was boring. There we are. We're in the Middle East. American troops 16 hours a day. Oh, nothing. It's over. Standing there, we're American troops in the Middle East. My name's Carlos, the other troop's Morales, Gonzalez, Rodriguez, and the Iraqis, &quot;the Mexicans &quot;are here! &quot;The Mexicans are here!&quot; One Iraqi soldier was crying, &quot;you're going to take our jobs.&quot; And I go, relax bro, relax. (audience laughing) And we did. Anyway all right. (audience laughing) I'll tell you what. I did a show for my oldest nephew's a Colonel now, Marine, so I go-- and I did a show with Camp Pendleton. All these-- yo, they're like six, seven tours, OK, and in the end, they all act like it's no big deal. They tell you the year where got hurt. I got hurt Iraq 2012, Afghanistan 2014. I'm talking to this one kid, Arturo Jimenez, buffed out from Whittier, California, marine, buffed out. Arturo, I'll never forget him. He's telling this story. It's a sandstorm, and they have no communications. They're stuck. They're stuck, they don't know what's friendly fire, enemy fire. They don't know, and I'm-- man, in the middle of the story he turns to me, I'm going to tell you. The whole right side of his face. Oh, I had to ask-- I'm a guy. Bro, what happened? &quot;Oh, a chorizo in 1999.&quot; Shut up! (audience laughing) Make up a story, chorizo 1999. (audience applauding) Always something, this whole family. They got everything. I'm losing it. I'm losing it, and then you get in-laws. Oh I got an in-law named Benny, and so body piercing, have you seen this? Everywhere, you can hear him coming. Cling, cling, cling, cling. It's like, you don't know if it's the ice cream man or him, cling, cling, cling. OK, so he's got the ones-- what do they call it? Snake bites? And then the ones on the ear, they're called gauges. I know that. They're like a little Froot Loop. Right? Yes, they are! Yes because exactly, they size them, and they get bigger and bigger and bigger. Oh my God. He took them out the other day, looked like he had two calamari's at the side of his head. What is this, right? Some marinara sauce for your ears, bro, dip it, dip it. All right so he's got little rings on the eyebrow, 10 rings on that. They look like curtain rings. He doesn't need sunglasses, just hang two tiny little curtains. Hang them there. Suns out. OK so, and he hates people looking at him. Aren't people going to look at you? They can hear you coming cling, cling, cling, cling, right? He starts a fight at the mall. &quot;Hey, what are you looking at, bro?&quot; I go, relax. &quot;You got a problem?&quot; I go, Benny, that's a mirror. That's you. That's you! Open the curtains! (audience laughing) I'm telling-- and I overdid-- let me tell you, people. I overdid it with my girls because I grew up poor. You overdo it with your kids, right, you grow up poor? Overdo it. Yo, I grew up legit poor, OK. I was born poor. I went from C-section to section eight, so I don't-- yeah, I know what I'm telling you, right. And my daughter, and I overdid it with my girls, man, and my dad was cheap, too. You can't be poor and cheap, right. You can't. Yo, he wouldn't even celebrate my birthday. Yo, I was born July 4th right by the Statue of Liberty. My mom went to go see the fireworks, boom boom boom, like what are the odds? What are the odds a Puerto Rican guy born in New York? 2 to 1. Anyway, doesn't matter. Doesn't matter. (audience laughing) So man-- like, he didn't give me firecrackers. He'd give me like a road flare, an eight hour firecracker, OK. So my dad came to my house, and he opened up this armoire I had because when my daughters were little, I used to buy them all the movies, man. There was literally hundreds of DVDs in there and he starts with me. Oh yeah, you're spending too much money. I go, yo man, I go-- and I didn't mean to put a guilt trip. I did not. I said, you know what? I go, I love movies, but you never took us to the movies when we were kids because you know why? Because you're cheap. You're cheap. Yes, I said it. I didn't mean-- I didn't need to put a guilt trip. My birthday rolls around, he gets me-- he never gets me anything-- grown man. I open it up. 3 DVDs. I ain't-- like, a tear came out of my eye, man. He looks at me and goes, &quot;oh yeah, they're due back &quot;on Tuesday, so you got--&quot; it's Monday night! (audience laughing) And he's yelling (speaking Spanish) the red box. Anyway, so you know, he embarrassed me at my wedding. A lot of cultures do something called the money dance. They pin money on the bride, right. Everybody dancing with my wife, money all over her, and he didn't want to participate. I go, oh yeah, I'm the groom. I go, no, go. OK OK, go. He goes over there, dances, nothing. Money all over my bride, and he's looking. I'm piercing. I'm looking at the eyes. The eyes are on him, right, and he was goes, &quot;yeah I got it.&quot; So he takes out his wallet, and I'm on him. I'm on him. He takes out a $100 bill. Pins it on. He starts spinning my wife, taking fives and tens, making change off the dress, making change off the dress! (audience laughing) I'm telling you, it's always-- you know what, OK. I'm going to say this. I got into it. I got into it. My mother-in-law, OK, she says that my daughters aren't fluent in Spanish and that it's my fault. How-- it's third generation. It's done. It's done, OK. Yes it is! OK, when I moved from the Bronx to LA, I go, I know Spanish, the Mexicans in LA, they know Spanish, no they don't! I went to a taco truck in LA. I go, (speaking Spanish) Uh. &quot;Laura?&quot; I go, (speaking Spanish) &quot;Yeah, this guy's looking for Laura. &quot;Do you know her?&quot; He looked hard core Latino. I go, yo, what's your name? He goes, &quot;Chad Gomez.&quot; Chad Gomez? (audience laughing) Who's your girlfriend, Chelsea Rodriguez? Anyway so my mother-in-law said she's going to teach my daughters Spanish. Listen, you're going to miss it, OK. I said, well teach them. She got the HBO in Spanish, HBO Latino. That's how my daughters learned Spanish. They're watching the movies. Yes, they're dubbed. They're dubbed in Spanish. They're reciting the movies. They're watching Scooby-Doo. (speaking Spanish) Like what is that? (audience laughing) (speaking Spanish) Everything. We're watching Rocky. (speaking Spanish) So my daughter's-- OK, and my oldest, because she told me they got to take a language for three years, OK. So I say, listen, take Spanish in high school, right. She say's, oh I talked to my advisor because the hoity toity school they went to right, hoity toity western Pasadena OK. So she comes back. I go, did you take Spanish? &quot;Oh, my advisor--&quot; Guess what her advisor told her to take for three, for three years, three long years. You're not going to get-- Mandarin Chinese. I can't help her. I cannot help her with Mandarin Chinese, OK! Spanish is a lot easier. Oh my good-- Spanish is the same letters as English letters, easy. Cheerleaders do the letters on the sideline with the body right. Give me an A. Give me a T. Easy! Oh, don't laugh. Can the Chinese give me an A? No you can't! Give me a P, a flying tiger. It's impossible! I've never seen a Chinese cheerleader go Shanghai. It's very difficult, OK, very difficult language. And also, somebody said French. I'll tell you what. Everybody says French is the most romantic language. Look, I went to France. I had a cool time, mad cool people, yo. But French is not the most romantic-- have you ever heard French people speak? They sound like babies. (speaking French) What is that? You could feel the milk coming up. What is this, right. You want to hit him in the back you know. (audience laughing) You guys are cool, man. I did that on a cruise ship. Yeah. It was in Europe. Anyway so what, I was there. A guy comes up to me. He goes &quot;may I have a (speaking French) I go, what? On a cruise ship, I go, yeah. He goes, &quot;may I have a (speaking French) I go, you can have a... Anyways, he said I'm making fun of all the Euro languages. I go dude, man, I just made a comment. Relax, right, I said, and then I had an ace in the hole. I said let me tell you, so I defend the Euro accents, and I did. I have a friend. He directs movies, and I asked my friend. I'm telling him, I said, ask him how come in American movies the bad guys always European, have you noticed that? Like French or German. He said they call it the cool factor. It started with a movie called Die Hard and they said it's cool. They call it the cool villain, right, and he said that's how Arnold Schwarzenegger became a star. He got The Terminator. 17 lines and it was supposed to be another bodybuilder, but they go, no, they'll remember the lines. You remember those lines to this day. That movie's decades old. Those lines are in your head. (German accent) It's in your head, right. Come with me if you want to live. (audience laughing) Get down! Get down! It works! It works! You can't have a Puerto Rican terminator. Come with me if you want to live. (speaking Spanish) OK this is so-- I'll tell you something. All right, this is real, my best friend is Filipino, yo. We were boys since our Air Force days, godfather to my kids, best man at our wedding. He speak-- yo, I thought Puerto Ricans spoke fast. It's Tagalog. Have you ever heard Tagalog? There's like 140 different dialects. I've never heard him speak Tagalog in my life, OK, so he's at my house. He called his mom. I didn't know, and I'm hearing some, like where's that coming from? It was-- I couldn't. I didn't know what it was! I thought it was a chicken falling down some stairs. Right, in my head I could see the chicken I told my daughters, find the chicken. They're looking for the chicken. The chicken broke a wing, right? I go in the kitchen. He's on the phone with his mom, and then he says, I love you. (clucking) I go, what is this, right, relax. (audience laughing) OK I got to go. I got to go, but before I go I'm about to drop a truth bomb right now, a truth bomb. Yes I am. Watch this. Watch this, ladies. This is not just me. This is every guy on the planet True, true, true, true, true, true. Let me tell you, ladies. Watch out, I got a truth bomb. Let me tell you something, ladies. We guys, all us guys, we drive perfect when you're not with us. (audience applauding) It's true. I never get into an almost accident when I'm alone. But when she's there, &quot;watch out! &quot;Watch out!&quot; And you ladies love when we get lost. You know the exit and you're texting your friend, yeah, he's lost. He's such an idiot. He's lost again. Right? You look over. What happened? It was back there. Why didn't you say anything? &quot;I shouldn't have to tell you. &quot;I shouldn't have to.&quot; Oh. That's what they always say. I shouldn't have to tell you. It's too late now, ladies. It's too late, OK? That's like honking the horn after an accident, too late. OK, you don't crash and go (honking) too late! The cop is there. What happened? I shouldn't have to tell you. Oh, OK. All right. (audience laughing) I'll tell you something, ladies. OK I'll give you-- I'll do this. I'll even this out. But when it comes to getting things done, you ladies get things done because (audience cheering) OK, but you overdo everything the production, you overdo it, OK. You're always doing something my wife was the team mom for they have to take-- our daughters play softball, the drive like hundreds of miles for these tournaments, and look at what a good husband yo am. I got her a fancy schmancy hooked up Suburban at that time. I mean hooked up, and I had to pay $3,000 extra for the tech package. It's in our phones for free now, OK, and my wife said, &quot;what's that?&quot; I went, it's a tech package. Yeah, but-- no it's because you're always on the go. You just put the address, and it takes you there. And she looked at me. She turned it off, and I said, why did you turn it off? She said, &quot;I know where I'm going. &quot;I'm not like you.&quot; Wow. You do something nice, man, but let me tell you something, ladies. Let me tell you, ladies. I love the tech package. You know why, ladies? Because the lady in there, she's very nice. She's very nice. (audience laughing) You mess up, and all she says is, &quot;recalculating.&quot; That's all she says. She doesn't say, idiot, I shouldn't have married you. No, recalculating. Let me tell you, people. I get lost on purpose for the respect, and that's it. I got to get out of here. God bless you guys. Thank you for watching at home. (audience cheering) (upbeat music)