Recently on my channel there was a video with a a lot of comments with the suggestion to do the latest version and each time go to older versions. be able to load it without problems. Thank you out! No time to waste, let's go! the most stable version was 1.21. We launched creative mode to generate chunks. I also decided to see what happens to them later on the more to do here - we can safely move on. came out recently, and there shouldn't have seemed it turned out. In the worlds tab, the game warns so there may be problems - and upon entering which will be repeated almost every time, so I'll the world was exactly the same as before: and all the elements were intact. However, the Chambers. There was a noticeable metamorphosis replaced by the so-called air blocks. Earlier where hostile mobs could not spawn regardless of and monsters wander here quietly. It looks quite someone forgot to finish his construction. new things, but especially interesting were into the world of Minecraft in this version, of frames noticeably decreased. Although in the not observed. The generation of the world remained far from my spawn, I found a taiga village where and enjoying life. I also found the Ancient how they will change in the next version. versions for the world of Minecraft. In this and caves. I don't know if this is due to the fact but the world started to lag even more. You can completely: FPS jumps from 50 to 20 frames. In my case, the generation of the mountain and the village was split into small flying Mangrove Swamps. Obviously, the trees had been were still there. They hung in the air, creating Below, there was a void instead of dirt blocks, The ancient city didn't disappear, of course - missing. In this version they were gone, only the place looked extremely strange and as if it wasn't research, I loaded a beautiful snowy mountain, The version of Minecraft 1.17 turned out to be of the update "Caves and Cliffs" into two and in the second - world generation. What changed. First of all, the underground became it never existed. The place of my first spawn old mountains appeared nearby, and the wonderful surrounding me was also gone, a small village village were now replaced by a desert. "Trial which was generated below bedrock level, cannot be small island, but the mobs remain and have fallen flying village is gone, even the blocks are gone, ground. The beautiful mountain also disappeared, the water. I was expecting it to be like Trial but everything disappeared. The only thing The version of Minecraft 1.16 was a game changer. calling it the best update in the last few years. The world loading took quite a long time longer compared to previous versions (10-15 this version FPS have become consistently above 60 but instead of a geode a small cave was formed. remained in place, except that the path block filibustered all the blocks and went about their has small islands with trees in different biomes, Minecraft's attempt to hide the uneven seams of version is Nether. I created a portal, loaded the a bastion. Let's see what we find in its place. Now such a version we would call "drop". The version was entirely focused on optimization and though I'm not even sure why. My big "dark forest" and near it, by some kind of miracle, Messa no idea. That village where the path blocks were appearing all over the world, dark terrain, as it got brighter, but it was still dark, like I very strange. What about Nether? My portal was is that after teleporting, I appeared simply in Overall it looked pretty normal, nothing new. As crashed - second and third time same thing. It was by the way - it was relatively empty. But the Version 1.14 is remembered by many for its it brought some interesting changes, it also I forgot to go back to the overworld in the last While in version 1.15 Minecraft would crash instantly crash anywhere in Nether, and this was overworld, except that the portal to Nether was Version 1.13 is one of my all-time favorites. despite my fear of the deep sea. However, this terms of world loading: FPS constantly dropped and the game often crashed. If before it happened well. After starting Minecraft, the game would disappeared and old ones appeared in their to explore the sea and structures, but the game and had to be shut down via Task Manager. versions. It is still played by many people, and, new mods. If we compare it to version 1.13 everything is at the same level: 50/50. In the but here with FPS everything was fine, but the Chunks took extremely long to load, and these were to the fact that they were somehow converted to was replaced with the old one, and there were new sea generation never happened. Thankfully the Version 1.11 was not the biggest, but it had Totem of Undying, the first illagers and there were serious problems with loading it was that the chunks were just disappearing. just taking a long time to load, but it turned with the world normally - put blocks, move including bedrock. It looked very strange, so I Mansion was and switch to the old version. i.e. a "drop". I think most players didn't even small: Stray, husk, polar bear, and Fossil. It stayed in place and didn't disappear like many And it was part of the mansion specifically, and I honestly don't understand why it happened. same empty spots where there were no blocks. This Version 1.9 received mixed reviews. Some proved controversial for many. Nevertheless, game. I didn't find anything unusual in this the world started to load a little faster, but pleased with the small desert well that appeared most was the End dimension. When I loaded it for no Dragon there, or even a bedrock portal. It was what happens to it in the previous version. expected changes took place in the End dimension banners remained of it. The rest of the world I loaded the terrain where the monument was. want to open my world. The game just crashed when deleted Nether and End - but it did not Version 1.6 gave us the opportunity to ride horses the world from version 1.8 successfully me especially. In the place where there used to on top of which formed village houses. When I leaving only a large and red mushrooms. Also dug a whole chunk. The world as a whole changed taiga village remained in place, but the path empty terrain, new chunks never appeared, but by End dimension, the Dragon never appeared, and the Version 1.5 brought a hefty change, after all version proved to be problematic - the game simply I was shocked: the messa disappeared. The bushes remained in its place, reminding me of the and in others, water levitated. The empty terrain Version 1.4 is the version players associate last boss in the game appeared. After loading magically grew right next to me. The dark forest that disappeared over time. The empty chunks were strangely - for example, sand didn't fall despite empty: the villagers had disappeared, even the water had turned ice-cold in some places. official release version after the beta. It and it was really big. I skipped some versions generation. This time around, my world has a completely different world. My spawn near the the old village disappeared, and a new, very all the changes, my hope was justified - empty in their place. I consider that a victory. world on is beta 1.6. The older versions have cannot be converted from the new version to has changed again beyond recognition: instead although there is water nearby with a significant problems with the world generation. also in reverse. I was really interested to see behave. The new versions performed beautifully seamlessly replaced an old one. I was particularly disappeared without leaving their blocks behind. like these experiments! What other experiments I recommend you to watch these - they are also likes and click on the bell. We'll be hearing more