What do you do if you want to do a LOOKUP? So VLOOKUP, XLOOKUP whichever you have. But instead of returning one match result you want to return all match results. You might do a search online and discover some crazy But that was the past. Your future will be different. It's going to have a filter in it. This video is brought to you by Excel Dynamic Arrays Be one of the first at how formulas work in the new Excel. Think outside the box and come up with simple solutions to complex problems. For more information go The filter function is one of that's a part of Excel for Office 365. Here are four reasons why Number one, filter returns for one or more LOOKUP values. Number two, you can to refresh your filter, so that's something you need to do if you use the advanced Number three, you can nest For example, if you want you can put filter inside the And the fourth one is it's super easy to write a filter formula. I'm curious to see what you think though after you watch this it's an easy function to (upbeat music) So here I have some information on Division, Region and Revenue. I want to specify the region here and I want to filter the data set based on my specification. So basically I want to find all matches. So let's say I put Asia in here. I want to get all that have Asia included. Right, so it's kind of but returning everything. So let's start off with filter, my array is the data in this case I want to return all results, the next argument is what and here comes the logical test. So I want to have these rows included as long as they equal Asia, If it's empty I can define what to return. If I leave it empty it will still work only if it doesn't find then it will give me an error. So I'm going to leave it Okay, so my formulas spills that include Asia. The formatting doesn't come with so I have to highlight the cells where I expect to have the way I want. So let's right mouse or use the shortcut key CTRL+1 and let's format these as a number. Now if I switch this to If I have nothing in here that doesn't exist, that's that I'm going to get. So to overcome this error I'm going to add the last argument for this and say if it's empty, return not found. One thing you can do here Now you can also use the for drop-downs but that's something that we're going to cover Right now I'm just going to this, go to the data tab, click on list for say equals, these and say OK. So now when I click on Australia I get all the values for Australia back. Now we can dig a little if I highlight this and I press the F9 key so F9 is great for debugging. And if you want to and if you're doing complex analysis or creating complex formulas, Check what happens when I press this. I can see what's behind this. So how Excel basically translated this in a way that it understands. These false values belong to these. So the first four, these are false right? There's no match, then we have a true. That's for Australia, right? So that's how filter translates and then it filters And that's what you see here. Now whenever you use F9 in your formulas, make sure you don't press enter, otherwise this is going You're going to want to or press escape to leave the formula. Next let's do this one. We want to filter for that have revenue greater than a number that we type in here. Filter, our array I'm just so that we can are filtered, include, to take our revenue column into account and include only values that are greater than this number. If nothing is found, and that's it. All of these are greater than this. And if I change this to If something is blocking it, so let's go back to 45,000 in something like note here and I switch this to zero, press enter, I get the #SPILL! error. Notice that when I click here it tells me it wants to spill here, the moment I remove One thing I want to show this section is to use table referencing. So we're going to do the same thing we did in the first example. I'm just going to copy this drop-down and paste it here but this time we're going to use table So when I click here are activated which means this to a table I've called it TableDiv2. Now let's use the FILTER function on this so my array now is the entire table so all I have to do is until you get this tilted fat arrow, this way you can highlight Next is what do we want included? Well, we want the region so just hover over the column until you if this equals Australia. Okay, otherwise let's do our So this way I'm using and the advantage of this is the moment the data set expands, my filter So let's say I have a new It's added here automatically. Now I'm going to do one last thing here and that's what if you want to filter for two different things? So what if I want Division for example to be Game and Region to be Asia? How would I write my filter formula? My array is the whole table. Now here I can take advantage of Excel's Boolean Logic So I would have to write I'm going to open bracket for more than one condition. And whenever you do that I'm going to test if Division equals Game and I want Region to equal Asia. And here I need to use And right now you might be confused especially if you are not familiar with how Excel handles Boolean Logic. But we're going to cover this in detail in the advanced sections. I'm just covering it in this section so you're aware that this is possible. So we're going to get region and check if that equals Asia. Here, close bracket. This is my include let's put our not found in there as well. This way I get Game and Asia. If I look for Game and Europe, I get that. Now if I look for health So that's Excel New Power LOOKUP Formula. Let me know what you think If you liked this video, and for more information on a check out the link in the description or go to xelplus.com/courses. (upbeat music)