. The fire burns every day in Felix Braungardt's forge from Lochum in the Westerwald. He uses high-quality tempered steel to create a tool that no home should be without. He forges an ax with a hammer and anvil. Blacksmith Felix Braungardt knows how to get the cutting edge nice and sharp and why the handle should be made of wood. My grandfather was a carpenter. I grew up in a family of carpenters. That's why wood was more my material. Then things turned out differently. Now I'm glad I became a blacksmith. For an ax he needs something from both worlds. Steel for the head and wood for a shapely handle. (steady noise) It all starts with a scale sketch at the drawing table in his office. With an ax like this you can just build it freehand, but because it's a series product that can theoretically be built more often once it's well planned, I put more effort into something like this and make a more elaborate sketch. But I can put that in my drawer and pull it out again at some point and build it again. I like smaller axes, not a huge hatchet that you can use once every ten years, but something that you can use to make kindling for the grill or now, in my case, to light the forge. I find something smaller, handy, and not too heavy I think it 's great. And just good material, made to be stable and, in the best case scenario, will last for generations. He has always enjoyed drawing, which is a good prerequisite for a career as a blacksmith. Felix Braungardt actually comes from Bavaria. He moved to the Westerwald in Rhineland-Palatinate to train as a blacksmith . He now owns the blacksmith shop. Every day begins with hauling the coal from the warehouse up to the workshop. The old forge in Lochum is almost 100 years old and is still in operation thanks to Felix Braungardt. This is an anthracite coal, a hard coal, called Fettnuss 4, which is particularly suitable for forging. Fatnut is the species and 4 is the size, the grain. You can't use them for grilling because there are a lot of volatile gases in them, sulfur and other things. They simply evaporate here and are not that harmful, but you don't want them in meat or vegetables because otherwise it tastes like blacksmith coal and isn't as tasty. He uses up to three bags a day, depending on the size of the job. An important raw material, just like the material from which the ax is made: high-strength C45 steel, particularly suitable for a stable tool. This is now a longer stick because I only need a small part for the axe, but so that I can handle it well when the fire is on , I leave all the material at the back so that I have a nice handle on it have. I have now marked here with the parallel scriber and a scriber where I want to chisel and thorn open my hole where the handle will come in later. Because once the fire is on and the steel is warm, everything has to happen relatively quickly. So that I can find where I want to go straight away, I'll mark it now. He uses the center punch to make an indentation in the steel so that he hits the right spot with the first blow. And then we start making a fire. (Hissing hissing) Felix Braungardt only recently took over the smithy - a brave decision when he was just 24. It's a very funny story. My previous boss, who wanted the forge here when he started his own business, was the same age and only wanted to buy a few tools, came here and bought the entire forge straight away. It was similar for me. I just wanted to do some training and then took over the shop straight away. That's how it goes sometimes. By the way, he's not worried about coal. His stair railings, gates and pans are in demand. I'm now waiting until I don't see any steam anymore because that's the sulfur and other trace elements that are steaming out. With normal structural steel it wouldn't matter, but because our ax is made of tempered steel, there shouldn't be any steel pests like sulfur in it. That's why I'm just waiting a bit now. (steady hissing) (squeaking) I have a lever back here that I can use to control the oxygen. There's a fan on the outside of the wall. This blows air in from below. Lots of air, hot fire, little air, cold fire. (Squeak, then blast of air) Cold fire, meaning below 800 degrees. Forging requires higher temperatures, at least 1,100 degrees. (steady hissing) It's taking about five minutes to get hot now, but I have to keep checking it. I'll pull it out and look at the color. And when it's the right color, I start forging it. I now have to make a slot in there with the chisel, which I will later open up with a mandrel in order to get the hole for the handle of the axe. And now at the beginning I have to be careful that it is very straight and centered because the workpiece is very thin. That I can get straight through the middle vertically. That's why I work from both sides, changing them over and over again so that I then meet in the middle and have a straight slot. Felix Braungardt has not yet regretted becoming a blacksmith . I think it's a very direct work when the metal, which is so tough and immobile when it's cold, when it's warm you can work it like clay and you'll immediately notice every blow of the hammer the anvil, what is changing, what is going well, what is going wrong. And simply processing this tough, hard material so softly as butter, I think it's great what kind of flowing movements you can create in the end. But the profession of a blacksmith is also a tough job and not entirely without danger. So, that's tinder, that's actually iron oxide, i.e. rust, and because it's so warm, it oxidizes much faster. And it chips off because it is harder than the rest of the material. And you always have to sweep it away in between because it can splash away or fly into your face. It's unpleasant to get hot metal in your face. The iron has to be put into the fire again and again, and the coal has to be added again and again to maintain the temperature. That takes time. You're actually happy to have a break, to be able to plan the next work step or think about what tools you still need. Sometimes you think about the end of the day and what is happening this afternoon. (clinging) Industrially manufactured axes simply drill a hole through the steel. The material is therefore much thinner on the jaws and the ax is less robust. By forging the hole, also called an eye, the material is slowly displaced. Felix is not particularly squeamish with a hammer and chisel. The special thing about chiseling and thorning this instead of just drilling a hole in it is that you get as much material as possible, because if I drill a hole in there, I'll lose all of this material from the hole. So I just push it apart and have so much of the material left at the end on the finished axe. That's why this is a nicer option for obtaining material. But also the more strenuous version. Add to that the heat of the fire and you'll start to sweat. In winter it is better, but in winter it is cold from behind and hot from the front, and in summer it's hot from the front and hot from the back. There isn't that much going on, we're always hot. (Even noise) So that your hands don't get too hot when you hold them, the handle must be cooled down with water from time to time. (Ranking hissing) (Ranking hissing) (Short hissing) I then make the cutting edge at the very end, because now I first make sure that the eye, as they say, is properly extended so that I can then pull out the cutting edge and then the ax slowly takes shape. And then, in the blacksmith's language, it's time to warm it up again until the right temperature is reached. Here I now have a so-called mandrel, which is specifically for ax handles. It is shaped like an ax handle that you can buy at a hardware store. It is pointed at the front and round at the back. I'm going to knock it in here now to open up the slot that I made earlier and give it the right shape so that the handle can go in there later. Things now have to be done quickly on the perforated plate. If the steel is no longer at the right temperature, it can break and the blank is gone. If you look at Felix like that, you wouldn't necessarily guess that he's a blacksmith. You don't have to be muscular to become a blacksmith. Most of it is technology. What you need is just the endurance to do it for eight hours a day. Even if you have a lot of technique, at some point your arms just get tired and you have to train that. But you don't need those upper arms to do that now. If the steel stays in the fire for too long, it becomes unusable. The blacksmith can recognize the correct temperature by the glow color of his workpiece. He repeatedly hits the metal with the hammer. The key is having the right tools. So what I'm doing here now, because the ax eye is roughly shaped, I'm going to start with the cutting edge. To do this, I take the fin from my hammer and hit it crosswise so that I only displace the material in two directions. If I hit it with the train, I'll push it out in all directions. And it gets wider in all directions. This way I only get one long cutting edge for the axe. I'll do this a few times now until I have a rough shape. I look at what color the material is. I can process the particular steel from approximately 850 to 1,200 degrees. This is from light yellow to yellow-white. It's just a bit of experience, and over time you realize what color the material needs to be. When the material gets over 1,200, 1,300 degrees, it starts throwing sparks and then the carbon in the steel burns. Then I can no longer use it to harden a cutting edge because then it will no longer be hard and then you can forget it as an axe. That's why I always have to be careful that my steel doesn't get too hot, but on the other hand I shouldn't hit it too cold, otherwise cracks could form in the material. This temperature range must always be maintained for processing. Until the cutting edge is so thin that the blacksmith can sharpen it, the process of drawing it out, i.e. widening it, is repeated at least a dozen more times. The nice thing here is that you can slowly see how the ax is taking shape, that it is no longer just a lump of metal, but now the cutting edge is slowly becoming wider. The eye is also slowly getting the right shape. Everything is still relatively rough, but you're slowly getting where you want to go. The inertia of the material -- sometimes a test of patience. With something like an ax you usually don't because you have to be very careful about the temperature and that you don't hit anything wrong. If you do simpler work now, If you build a fence where you punch 200 holes in something a day, then sometimes it gets a bit boring, but that's just part of it. The edge of the ax slowly becomes thinner. Felix checks the shape again and again until he is satisfied. So now I've forged out the rough surfaces of my ax. Now I'll hold it over the drawing again and check whether I have enough material everywhere because I'll be removing more material later when sanding. If something was too little, I could take the anvil out again and get material, and I'll measure it now. I have enough here too. Perfect. Then I can now start to rework the contour of the ax on the anvil so that it really starts to look like an axe. Before starting the detailed work, the excess scale must be brushed off thoroughly. Now that the cutting edge is slowly becoming thinner and the contours are being worked out, I have to remove the scale if there is too much because it is harder than the warm metal. Otherwise I would forge that into the cutting edge. And then I end up with such ugly tinder spots in there. And I don't want that. Firstly, worse material, secondly, it looks stupid. Felix attaches great importance to design and creativity. After all, he is a blacksmith. The profession is officially called metalworker. The training lasts three and a half years. We also do handicrafts, so there's a lot... Design is a big part of what we do and is also very important to me. I don't just want to be a farrier or locksmith, because I'm really interested in design and working freely. Then the ax head is straightened. The shape of the hammers used is crucial. I've now started to tilt the cutting edge downwards because I want to have a nice, straight surface at the top and want to bend it downwards so that I can get a nice curve here. I have two hammers for that. Once the normal flat one, I hit it down here on the horn. Then I have another one here with a rounded track. This means I can then rework the curve from the other side without having to knock any edges into it. I now do the whole thing about three or four more times until I roughly like the shape. It is then sanded again. But I'm working on it now until it's roughly in that direction. In the next step, the mandrel is used again. The workpiece is finished when he likes it. He can't plan it that precisely. That's exactly what makes his job attractive, says Felix Braungardt. (Soft noise) You have to find a healthy way to work. You can plan everything very precisely. But an anvil and a hammer are not the most accurate tools. We have moving parts like doors and gates. Of course, if the measure has to be right, it has to be right. But a lot of things just have to be done by eye... You have to develop a bit of a feel for it. The ax head is fully forged. He's now at work with the angle grinder. To do this, Felix clamps the rod in a vice. Now you can clearly see that this is supposed to be an axe. (Loud sanding howls.) The top edge is being sanded down. That too takes time. (The grinding noise fades away.) Felix then checks whether everything is symmetrical. He could still change something. I have now sanded out the rough edges and corners with a grinding wheel so that I have a relatively flat surface at the top. I'll remove them completely later on the belt sander. But the rough stuff is out of the way. Now I'm going to cut it right back here. (The grinding noise fades away.) Now I have cut off the ax head. I now put it in the fire to anneal so that the metal structure can reform and the tension is released. It's best to do this overnight, let it cool down slowly with the coals, and in that time I get to work building the handle. The slow cooling ensures an even structure in the steel. In this way , tensions caused by machining on the anvil are reduced. To make sure the fire goes out, Felix turns off the air supply overnight. The next morning: I have a piece of locust wood here. This is a former vineyard stock that was no longer needed. It had been standing outside the vineyard for 30 years. I thought it was a nice idea to use it again to make the ax handle out of it. Is a very stable wood that is very durable. For my drawing, I now cut out the handle and simply glue it to the wood so that I can then cut along it with the band saw and have a rough handle straight away. I will then process it further by hand on the belt sander. Then hopefully I'll have a nice handle for my ax soon. (Saw begins to hum quietly.) (Whirring cutting noise) The handles of an ax or my hammers here are made of wood so that it absorbs the vibrations. If you hit something, it vibrates. Otherwise the vibration would go into the wrist or here into the elbow. The wood absorbs it a bit and weakens it so that you don't have any problems with your arms. If we were to take a hard material like steel, we would get these vibrations in our arms one-on-one. That would be very unhealthy in the long run. Felix got the raw material for the ax handle from his grandfather. He's a carpenter. He inherited his interest in wood from him. After the rough cutting, it's time for the finishing touches. Buying a ready-made handle from a hardware store is out of the question for Felix. (The sander begins to whir.) The belt sander is used to make the handle round so that it fits comfortably in the hand later. In contrast to the handle of a hammer, the handle of an ax is usually curved. Felix also decided on this form. Woodworking is always a welcome change for the blacksmith. (The whirring sound of the grinder slowly fades away.) I roughly based the shape on an industrial ax handle. Ultimately, of course, it's a matter of taste. And ergonomics, everyone feels differently. I like slightly more extreme curves than a straight handle, but everyone has to decide that for themselves. I just like it that way. I'll rework the contours here with a hand file and sandpaper , sand them a little smoother, probably make them a little thinner. And then at the end, when the ax head is completely finished, I will fit it up here piece by piece so that the handle fits perfectly into the ax eye. In the meantime, the ax head has cooled down completely and Felix is holding it in his hand for the first time. I will now rework the contours here on the belt sander. I'm going to make the cutting edge a little shorter here because it's too long for me. And just generally rework the contours of the entire ax nicely. All corners and edges are sanded so that the ax does not lose its handmade character. Every part is unique. This is important to him as an artisan. Special requests such as the size and width of the cutting edge can be taken into account during production. Then the ax head is almost finished. (The grinder's whirring slowly fades away.) Next, the cutting edge is processed. To do this, he clamps the workpiece in a vice and the angle grinder is used again. He gradually tapers the cutting edge. The shiny steel appears. I started with a relatively coarse disc and will now slowly work my way through the grit sizes until I end up with a nice, finely ground cutting edge. Next I'm going to heat treat the ax now. To do this, I just make the cutting edge really hot again, then put it here in the oil to quench it, then take it out again, polish it lightly and wait until the residual heat in the ax head warms up the cutting edge slightly again and then I cool it down completely again. By doing this, I first made the material hard and then relaxed it a bit so that it wasn't brittle. And so I have the perfect conditions for a good axe. A hard edge that can be made sharp. The rest of the body remains soft to absorb the vibration so that the ax does not break. Oil cools steel more slowly than water. At the same time it protects against rust. Water comes into play again during the finishing touches. I have two diamond sharpening stones here and I put a little water on them. Then the abrasion from my ax combines with this water to form a grinding paste. I go through the different grain sizes from coarse to fine until the ax is really sharp at the end. When he is satisfied with the edge, he continues working on the ax handle made of robinia wood. (Noisy grinding begins.) It now has a small slit on the top, for safety reasons, as will be seen later. (Even whirring) The ax is then handled with a wooden hammer. So that the handle doesn't splinter. A wedge goes into the slot at the top. I drove a wedge up here so that the wood from the handle is pushed apart and sits really tightly in the axe. I can sand the top so that it's nice and straight. If I didn't have the wedge in, I might lose my ax head while swinging my axe. That wouldn't be so nice for everyone involved. Finally, to ensure that the wood shines beautifully, Felix rubs the handle thoroughly with oil. This also shows off the grain well. I think she looks really good. Whether it is really a good ax will only become apparent once we try it out. I would say let's do that now. (Birds chirping) Test passed. A tool for splitting, pruning, cutting or felling. A handmade ax like this costs around 250 euros and, in the best case, will last for generations. Did you like this craftsmanship? Then write us your opinion about the film in the comments. And don't forget: subscribe to the channel! SWR 2024