With urgent need for more aid and responding to calls from the US for humanitarian pauses in fighting. Israel announced Thursday pauses daily in the northern Gaza Strip. The Israel Defense Forces said there for humanitarian aid for Gazan civilians. Here's a clip. The white House says Israel will establish each day in Gaza so more people can escape Tens of thousands of Palestinians in recent days, as Israel carries Raising hopes of a hostage breakthrough. Two officials with knowledge of the visit and the director were in Qatar today to work through Mr. president. This morning, Israel's president there's no substantial offer from Hamas to it will allow more aid into Gaza. We agreed also on major upgrade, And according to US National some more detail. Kirby announced to reporters will be implemented in northern Gaza The Israelis have informed the US in those areas for the duration be announced three hours before An Israeli official also confirmed saying the reprieves are meant to allow obtain food and medicine, which of course Kirby would not speak to the details of the pauses, but this also comes with the addition this time along the sea, to allow for That said, Israel has made clear there Quote the fighting continues without the release of our hostages. Israel is allowing safe passage from the northern Gaza Strip to the south, Just yesterday. We once again call to evacuate to the south. That's a statement from the Israeli Prime President Biden also chiming in, a full cease fire. Here's the clip. What are the chances There's a lot more detail, and an increase of hostilities there. But let's first take a break to discuss Okay. So there's three measures So let me distinguish between them Humanitarian corridor. Great. Fantastic. That's what we want. Please don't bomb it okay. Because Israel said, Go to the south, you'll be safe there. So as long as they're not bombing Great. All right. That's terrific. Second thing, humanitarian pause. On the one hand, it's baby steps So there's an argument to be made No progress. Right. On the other hand, four hour Like, they got to stop at some point you know, reload. It's not it's not real. I mean, that's not a it's a tiny, Maybe you could use a four. And people say, hey, like, you can who the civilians who were harmed. ET cetera. In the area. Okay, that makes it Okay, so do with that as you want. Right? As if people are saying, like, good. Mission accomplished, That's preposterous. Right. But if you're saying it's completely There's some use to it. And then but if you notice the offer we all want the hostages back. Right? So sometimes people say, well, you know, Okay, here I am officially God damn it. Give the hostages back. Okay? That's not going to work. So do we. Why wouldn't we all want Right? So if you. They want an exchange Now, I hate hostage exchanges. I'm not sure that the US Israel should have ever done any. But there is a very long history between the Israelis and the Palestinians. So in this case, they're saying, Well, we'll see if that's true or not. But at least publicly, they're saying the hostages for some humanitarian aid. That's not a realistic offer. That's they're never going to take that. So you take a humanitarian aid for what. A couple of hours a couple of days. And what leverage I don't want Hamas to have any leverage. But we have to be realistic If you're offering, oh, yeah, and you give me all the hostages back, So be realistic. So. But to be fair, I don't know None of us do. And maybe they're having a real exchange but the ones that are being put One last thing, Joe Biden. So so I get that he Totally, utterly disagree with him. I don't think Israel should drop Bank or any of the occupied territories, No. So we'll talk about that in a second. But on the other hand, even if you No chance. Ha ha. Like that's not helpful. And by the way, So it's spitting in our face a little bit. What do you think? You live in a democracy. Our leaders are never going Okay, Mark. It was definitely impolitic to be polite I mean, he could have, been more equivocal or vague or something. It was. From that standpoint, associated with the four hours, I think. And, you know, on a lot of things, progress and increment after increment. You have real progress. Much of what Jenk said may be true when it in a four hour daily break, Four hours is something. So again, not to obsess on it, but I You wanted some kind of concession They've they've offered that Jenks notion Intriguing one. I don't know that it goes anywhere, And sadly, you know, those who control I mean, it seems as though the Qataris funneling a lot of money negotiations through this entire process. So I don't I don't understand because the world was called, which also Israel is not going to do. Just like you easily say, Israel is not going to take that. They've just suffered - And so they are going to. - So but it's. It's about an objective. It's not. What's the objective? The objective is to get rid of Hamas, Possible? Impossible. So then they just give up. So then Israel, just as. A matter of giving up. Like, is Hamas going to raise their Really? How did we get rid of the Nazis? - How did we defeat the Nazis? So now we can no longer We couldn't defeat the Taliban. We couldn't defeat the Sunni insurgency. Because in the old days, in their in their homes. So. So people who say like, Yeah, we firebombed Dresden That includes 70% of the babies, And so in those days, until they were tired of dying. I don't want to go back to those days. Yeah, but those days, sadly, That is how war works. And I agree, I'm against war as well. Otherwise, what you're saying The new days are terrorists can do And then just with impunity, and then you get to stay in power. No. So, first of all, if war works I don't want any piece of it. Second of all, it doesn't mean that you We can actually do special forces. We did against ISIS, And by the way, all the bombing in Iraq and it did not eradicate When we use special forces. And we got on the ground and we actually indiscriminate bombings, that actually We did get the leader of ISIS So if Israel goes in and and right now, the ground troops, as I said from day one, of people were against the ground troops. But I said, look, That's how you fight back against people But. If you say, hey, I'm just going to like is because bombing doesn't work, It didn't end ISIS, it created ISIS. So the more we bomb the Palestinians, In this day and age, and say, we give up, that neither did none And Hamas is never, ever, So if that's the standard, butchering Palestinian civilians. But by that exact standard, was just purely as you seem to think it is They were bombing these buildings. And while again, I'll say it every been horrific, it was not for no reason It was to get rid of strongholds, strongholds in them, so that when they go that you yourself were suggesting that they aren't a complete suicide Also, in the immediate aftermath has to respond and is going to bomb it. Just you hope that it's not You said, I hope it's not 10 to 1 or 100 They've been 5 to 1 or 6 to 1. But it's because we're trying that also is a government. And so I do not buy the argument where you just say, Hamas gets to win. And so I think a much smarter way To win, Ben, they don't get to win. So look two last things But the smarter part The way to do that is to not demonize horrible terror attack, but instead say, single day during war, humanitarian pause, actually turn the rhetoric toward positive and say we are moving towards on day one saying that's not real. Maybe it's a tiny bit real, No, it's a major, significant change It's the it's Israel going against what it to listen to the world community, That's the big source of outcry from all being killed, so let the civilians out. So they're doing that extra Gaza is a prison. - You can't leave Gaza. That's ridiculous. If Egypt opens the borders and the to close the border and just take Gaza. No way. That's crazy. - No way, no how up to. But certainly they're not going No, Israel and Egypt have an alliance. And that's why Ben, look, So when at one point they had and 13 Hamas members killed, They were doing indiscriminate bombing. - Members discriminating. I got it from a news report. Hamas does not distinguish between Hamas soldiers and civilians. You have no idea how many Netanyahu at one point, and he's Well, 10,000 were killed, but, you know, or could have been, could have been. And if that's true, That's still awful. You if I if you said to me that I've said killed your family members, there's no way I will be filled with rage. And you say there's nine civilians around ET cetera. Would I bomb them Because to get the bad guy. Never. Never. Because it is deeply immoral. I'm not going to do the same thing That's insanity. I don't care about the ratio. I drop the bombs, I drop the bombs, heads are crushed, but they defend. - That is a that's not. Offense, but they are not saying than any country that I know of They take the least amount of measures. They drop out of the sky. They make multiple statements They pause media. U.N. said it's impossible So they escape to the south. And then Egypt, which they also bombed. They like they bombed it a little bit It's not the main area And so that is the reality of war. You're still not ever suggesting that Israel lives in peace and possibly. Can I answer, please? It's so easy. Yeah. Okay. Special forces No problem. I've said it from day one. Try to release the hostages, Do all the things that you do then. - This is super. And the God goddamn occupation. Isn't an occupation in Gaza. Don't be insane. The security don't be insane. There is not an occupation. They voluntarily ended it in 2005 their own Israeli citizens. Hey, how are you going to ask people And at least let's use words accurately, on this network people saying genocide saying occupation when it is not one. There is an occupation in the West Bank. I admit it because that's But when the occupation ends, What are you asking Should they go back in - Is that the request, Ben? If I come to your house and say, can cut the water and power any time, make sure you don't even get any water. And if you disagree with me on anything, But I'm not. Occupation. It's called a block. I'm not. Occupied. - Called a blockade. You any time. It's not. - But I'm not occupying. It's called a blockade. So Israel should stop And you know, the big difference, though, the people that run the prisons six different times, and they reject it I've seen you shake off in they've been offered peace. You go like this. You go, no, no, no. But they have been offered peace So shouldn't they accept that? Why aren't you telling Hamas right now? Release the goddamn hostages. Accept peace. Make a peace agreement. Put on paper. Put on. Put your where, your money, Don't just keep demonizing Israel and not problem, because that goes on forever. So two things about that, Ben. Hamas, do a cease fire, right to exist, release the hostages. Obviously. Obviously. And by the way, No. Hold on. I'll make it Stop being goddamn idiots. You're destroying the Palestinian cause those innocent Israeli civilians. Now, ten times Are you happy? It is profoundly stupid. And it's easy for Hamas leaders to do that condemn their own civilians to death. Ben, being against the terrorists - Okay, but but having a. Harder. And that's the. Ben. You have to stop imprisoning them. What? Look, Ben, if people come over, let's new Jersey, they take Texas, and they say, and none of you have any goddamn rights, and now you're you're our servants. You're subhuman. And if any of you ever fight back, What do you think Texas would do? Texas would blow up those Texas citizens And you know it. They would murder every occupier How much patience They're sitting there They've been perfectly peaceful. What did they get for the peace - Just 56 years of occupation. So when you keep somebody in a prison, They have not been. Yes. They explain, I will explain, I will. Explain seven 4867 2000, 2008 and they said, no, no, no, no, no, no. So yes, if murderers and terrorists and you keep saying, here, I'm giving you, I'm giving you most of what you want. - Nobody on earth, yourself included. Allow themselves Okay, so number one, 1937. A bunch of people come over to Palestine But we're planning to take half of it. So why don't you just give us half and We own that land now. Oh, what a bunch of bad guys. I was going to take your goddamn land, and then maybe die. Oh, you didn't take what a generous offer I'm going to take half of your land. You can stay. You get the hell out of here. I'm more important than you. You don't own your land anymore. Why didn't you take it? What a lovely deal I gave you Okay, now you move to later rounds. Then it gets more complicated because I'll give you 87% of your house back. And by the way, you're not even giving me You're giving me 87% of the other 50%. Okay, hold on, hold on. But at the same time, do I wish 87%, that both sides took it. Yes. I wish they both took it. And I wish Israel made a better offer. - A bad offer. - Yes. But at this point, both Obama and Trump He hasn't offered peace. He wants permanent occupation. If it's a democracy, fire him. Because if you don't fire him, you're We're going to occupy And West Bank. There's no violence I totally agree. But there's that occupy, I agree, because they like it. - They like occupying that. And then there was They brought him back like four times. Look. Yeah, he's he's not I agree with that 100%. He was funding Hamas That happens. That is true. But now we're in a reality unless some concrete solution is offered, know the other side is terrorists, No, don't give in. Occupation is a core evil. And if you don't end the occupation, I Good luck. You guys are sovereign now. You can have your own police, You cross over Okay, but they made Do a peace deal. You have got to let them go. We want Israel to be a beautiful, which it which it is. But we can't go and we can't root for you, If you kill citizens at this enormous rate to those Palestinians and then go, They should know that they are going because they're savages, savages. They can't ever have peace. We're going to occupy them They're not occupied. And the savages are the leadership - The Palestinians. Israeli leadership are also savages. And at this point, they've been which, if I'm an Israeli citizen, The numbers are horrible And, you know, A big difference. Yeah, yeah. There was so much more to this story. But I'll just briefly summarize of the Palestinian people in Gaza, backed by one of America's enemies, Iran. And they just again celebrated annually, of Americans hostage at the US embassy. And there were the chants, people that sponsor the suicide attackers Palestinian territories paid for by Iran. And who was speaking at that rally the envoy of Hamas to Iran in his And those are the people that are funding though just tell Israel to deal with it. Deal with it. No. How about get the world community and actually be a true partner for peace? So this time, when it is offered, and not dwell in the past forever, In this scenario, Iran does fund Hamas. I despise the leadership of the Iranian kill me in a second for being an apostate. I got no interest in them. But that doesn't mean that we should peace that we had a peace deal with Iran. We had a peace deal. But the idiot Donald Trump pulled And then, hey, look, Iran, which funds because they're pissed. And by the way, screw them for chanting understand where that came from, democratically elected government, that stole all their natural resources Do you think they're chanting because they despise us for no reason? Native Americans all the exact same thing to them. But that's why you have - Mark. Well, I just think that on the Iran thing, I mean, I don't know even that anybody right now is necessarily responding was the was the installation of the Shah who was democratically elected. I also think we have to be We can get a little too caught up and the rhetoric can deny certain facts. And even I noticed of a sudden we're starting to say things. I know I'm not saying some of the rhetoric is a contagion. And before you know it, and I'm seeing the rise of anti-Semitism that I think is response to a lot Those are sort of some general. Comments. But but wow. It's an ugly situation. Every which way. Guys. Huge emotions here as you can tell, - I did not notice that. As as heated as things get and as upset as we have to have the conversations So I appreciate Ben for participating I appreciate Mark for what he does. Thanks for watching the video, guys. We also love it if you hit the join button And members We can be as progressive as we want, And that's all because of you guys. Hit the join button.