Self-administered. EMDR. Should you try it? Should you do it? Is it safe? Stay tuned. I'm going to walk you through some of the information so you can decide for yourself. So who am I? My name is Barbara Heffernan and I am an approved supervise EMDR clinicians who are trying to approved consultants themselves. So I have over a decade of experience in working person as well as one-to-one virtually. And I've been looking into the self-administered it can sometimes be a very useful either complement therapy. And then there also are some people who say So just a little bit more about my background. I'm also a mindfulness meditation instructor. I also bring Buddhist philosophy into the online coaching programs and I began this pieces together to try to help people live So if you support the work that I'm doing And if you like this video please give it That helps a lot. And let's get into the topic. Today, I'm going to start with three things moving forward with EMDR processing is a good with a therapist. And then I'm going to talk about kind of what with self-administered, EMDR, but how self-administered And then I'm going to talk about this site, in between the two. So let's come back to the question. Is self-administered EMDR safe? Is it a good idea and should you try it? So let me start by saying I've looked for research at all other than on a website called program that kind of helps to walk you through And I will include a link for them below because people. And they have anecdotal evidence and they who do their program lower how upsetting events So that's a little bit of data. Other than that, there's a lot of anecdotal But, without research it's very hard to give So what I would like to do is to share with trained in this might assess the situation So I think there are three things you might to do self-administered EMDR. And these are the same things you would be a therapist. So one is the extent of your emotional regulation. If you have complex post traumatic stress disregulated. The first step with a therapist would be resourcing tools and then maybe using a little bit of positive emotions or calming feelings before So that would be one thing to assess is your The second thing you might want to consider, with a therapist if you saw one, is how well If you are seriously depressed and suicidal That is not a situation where I would move Again, I would first start with some resourcing, help shift where you are in your life. And I would be cautious about moving forward of disregulating information. So that would be also something to be aware Now when we talk about functioning, there functioning well, like agoraphobia, say where the house or they're afraid to go into certain That actually might be a situation where EMDR So there is an assessment that also goes into probably making the connection, there's also and how you regulate your emotions. Because when we can't regulate our emotions So those would be two cautionary things. And then the third thing is that therapists the client and I actually have a free mini One of the things I walk you through in that exercise. And basically it's a question of whether you you can try it even just right now. Can you bring to mind a place in your life place to mind, can you breathe in the feelings And if you have a safe place you can access, forward with EMDR processing. So again, just to reiterate the three things One is your level of emotional regulation. Two is how well you're functioning in your access to feelings of physiological safety. Now eye movement desensitization and reprocessing, therapy technique. So to really do EMDR therapy, I do believe It is a full blown therapy technique. However, I also think that self-administered Now mostly what people seem to be doing with EMD, they're doing the desensitization part The reprocessing piece is actually replacing your upsetting events and replacing those And then instilling the positive. So if you simply pull up a light bar on YouTube event while your eyes are moving and you experience of upset goes down. That's called desensitization. If you are also able to identify the negative event and you bring that upsetting event all and then you're able to bring up the positive that positive cognition in mind and have your is, go all the way up to the maximum. So your head and your heart know a hundred even while thinking about the upsetting event. That's the reprocessing piece. So I think the EMD, the eye movement desensitization, And I think some people can reprocess. Again, particularly if you've been through a fair amount of therapy or overall you have You probably can do that last piece of the What a therapist can help with is the therapist but we help to bring in suggestions and tools person really truly reprocess the memory. So I am very convinced that was some of the been able to get to a full reprocessing without mean that they wouldn't have been helped by So I know I'm not giving you a completely think there is one and I do think you'll have that this video can help you make an informed So the things that therapists bring into the watch my finger process. Okay, let's do it again. Okay. Process, right. The therapist brings in different tools and I will help the client regulate their emotion more distance. Like there are times where I might ask the of a movie and I have a video on that which try that for yourself as well. But I will be in coordination with the client or maybe even flooded by past memories and And then I also can utilize some tools. If I see a client becoming numb or a client do we help them get into it more deeply so So there are a lot of things that therapists And I also think self-administered EMDR can So I kind of believe both and hopefully for to a therapist you might find doing self-administered And then the site that I mentioned, the Virtual They do have coaches that you can check in the best targets and picking the best negative site itself walks you through the same questions So it's almost like in between completely a therapist. So check out that site. You might find it interesting. They do give a money back guarantee after Double check that cause that might change period, a free trial period at first. So you can try that and see if that provides it on your own and a therapist. Lastly, I'm going to re offer you the free Many people have taken it. I've gotten great reviews and that might help that might help if you're choosing to move So I wish you a lot of wellbeing on your recovery I truly do. It's worth doing. It is worth taking the time and if you need a therapist, most therapists are online these You can find a therapist online. There are people all up and down the scale There's this Virtual EMDR website. There are ways to invest in yourself. Give yourself the time you need to heal, allow to help you get there. And I'm curious, post below, have you tried Did it work? Did my tools and techniques here help you? Do they make you think about it in a different Love to know what you're thinking. Post your comments. I read them all and make sure you subscribe I will keep putting out videos like this and If you're interested that explain the process week.