Ever wanted to take a dive into the deepest Well, today you're gonna have this opportunity! Now, how good are you at holding your breath? Not that good? Well not to worry. Hop on board of my submersible craft and join Ready? Let's dive! Right now, just below the surface, you see Fish and marine animals abound, and -- hey But we won't be staying here for long. Buh-bye! At 65 ft, there's a whole new world opening standing beautifully not far from the shore. And hey, there are people here again! It's scuba divers this time, though. Water pressure isn't kind to divers without 130 ft is the depth where we say goodbye even maximum allowed for them. Take care, guys! 200 ft -- and here's the first orca! These whales inhabit the relatively shallow world. Did you know they're the apex predators, It means they have no natural enemies and At 230 ft we meet whale sharks -- the largest And they're also quite long-livers: well but actually it's about their life expectancy: Now look outside: if you see a scuba diver, have to be very cautious not to get decompression It occurs if you rise too quickly to the surface. And if you're lucky, you can also see a waters starting this deep and going down as And now we're entering the dark part of from the surface reaches us. All the rest is absorbed by water. Everything that's deeper will get darker Oh, look! At 660 ft, there's a giant oarfish circling These creatures are believed to be the source alliteration! Sometimes they swim up to the surface and No wonder: these fish can reach 36 ft in length example. Okay, now we're at 980 ft and... wait, what's Oh, I get it, it's a Japanese spider crab! Why a spider, you ask? Well, just look at those legs and the answer By the way, there's almost nothing more is normally just 1.5 ft across. Going deeper now, and at 1,640 ft you're not really the last of them, I mean, that's They don't really need to dive that deep shallower waters, but they still can. I guess it's just for the sake of showing After all, they're the largest creatures and on land! Shh... You hear this? These are the sounds fin whales are making They can do this thanks to the SOFAR channel, at 1,970 ft, but can vary in depth. It's a layer of water where the speed of go thousands of miles before disappearing. At the depth of 2,723 ft we have reached the building in the world, would not even show Hey let's try that! Now we're entering the really interesting us, and strange creatures dwell. One of those is the giant squid -- yes, that It inhabits the depths of 2,950 ft. Just imagine the creature with eyes the size Sperm whales hunt down these beasts, but they What a sight it would be to see such an encounter! And that's where pitch darkness finally The Midnight Zone. The pressure here is so huge that, if you you'll simply be crushed in a couple of And that without seeing a thing too. Not the best of prospects. Anyway, at 3,600 ft, there's West Mata -- one Its last eruption was in 2009, and it was 4,200 ft down below, and we see the ferocious feel great at such a depth. Their eyesight is rather poor, and they navigate to hunt down their prey. "I don't see you, but I'll still eat Brr. Also, the leatherback turtles, the largest I wonder if they do it to tease the great See those huge nets? That's because we're now at the depth method is used. The nets are here to be dragged along the enough to be caught. I'll let you decide how detrimental this At 6,000 ft, if we were in the Grand Canyon, point. Imagine that all of its crevasses have been get the perfect picture. Now, if we're really careful, then at the the black dragonfish -- a nightmarish creature the ocean. And trust me, it's better off staying right It looks like something from a horror movie, At 7,400 ft we'll be saying goodbye to sperm can dive, and frankly, they have no real business Maybe they hunt the black dragonfish, of course, Nah, the difference in size is too big: sperm them the largest toothed whales in the world. Not many creatures can counter that. It's good that our submersible has a powerful been able to see the astonishing beauty of of 9,900 ft. They can be found in every ocean, and it's deep-sea diving equipment. Okay, going deeper still, and at 12,100 ft From now on, the journey into the real depths passed, so now it's time to delve into the I won't tell you not to be afraid because below the Midnight Zone. And it doesn't end there: the pressure on is like a whole regiment of elephants stomping Not that you'd have the time to feel it, At 15,000 ft, the monsters out of your worst Anglerfish, for example, will scare the heck along with a growth on its head that lures the bravest. But perhaps even more terrible is the creature It's an eel-like beast that has a very stretchy twice its size! I don't know about you, but I'd rather this deep in the ocean. What? You want to see it all? ....Alright, if you insist... Look down below and you're gonna see the in the South Atlantic sunk in 1941 and went No wonder it was only found 55 years later! And now the deepest and darkest part of the trench. Officially, it begins at about 19,700 ft deep. It's both the least explored and the most alike. What lies at the bottom of it? Well, we're about to see, but while we're For example, here's the deepest fish ever at 26,000 ft. Its body is translucent, so you can actually Well, I must say I'm glad we didn't turn guy is surprisingly cute for a creature that Going lower and deeper, you won't see any -- the pressure is just too much for such But there are shrimps and other invertebrates even in the deepest part of the ocean. And that part is the Challenger Deep. It's the bottom of the Mariana trench, and Yes, we've arrived at the very bottom of Few people have been here, and very little But scientists aren't going to stop, and secrets the depths of the ocean hold. How about you? Would you dare explore the ocean on your own, Let me know down in the comments! Hey, if you learned something new today, then friend. But don't go deep diving just yet! We have over 2,000 cool videos for you to Just click on this left or right video and Stay on the Bright Side of life!