Good morning, everybody, and welcome back to show taking zero steps forward and two steps sequel to Sonic the Hedgehog 3, featuring aided by the age-old momentum gaining strategy terrible at winning? Can You Beat Sonic the The rules are simple: we must beat the game, or Left directional input. This is only roughest of the rest of them, Knuckles, thanks climb up and down walls, and very importantly He'll be our player character of cheat codes and save states are banned. With this run started! Cuz, I don't know if you but in order to play video games, it's incredibly Let's head back through the time vortex to the Sonic 3 No Right Run. We did that run on what of the game: Sonic 3 &amp; Knuckles on the Sega Mega Being on PC, custom button remapping was and Right from my controller's d-pad entirely. into doing the same thing in Sonic the Hedgehog includes Sonic the Hedgehog 2 and ONLY Sonic the &quot;Knuckles the Echidna in Sonic the Hedgehog 2&quot; to a Sonic &amp; Knuckles cart. While vanilla Sonic 2 at some point, this version of the game has gotten the two most accessible Sonic 2 &amp; Knuckles several console generations prior and the Xbox two versions are nonviable for this challenge. The remapping of buttons and not directional input. the d-pads and control sticks of these controllers putting the entire run at risk every time you need I could have gotten around this easily by sailing run on an official release of the game on official I bided my time: surely one day Sonic 2 &amp; on a modern platform with an options menu that And as you're probably already aware, on playable in Sonic 2 was released on all modern there's an actual genuine options menu, which the industry which is impressive considering these another problem. Sonic Origins' versions of these ports of the originals. The nitty-gritty physics including one very, VERY particularly important versions of both Sonic 2 and Sonic 3, if Knuckles will automatically reverse direction. hero programmer of Sonic Team had apparently inconsequential mechanics, so Knuckles will The automatic reversal is too useful a mechanic this challenge. But Sonic Origins DID inspire me and finally realize I could have done this run two Hedgehog 2 was released for the Nintendo Switch, the Echidna in Sonic the Hedgehog 2. While many were scrubbed from sale in an attempt to make you years, SEGA AGES Sonic 2 was spared. At the time viable thanks to the Switch Joycons featuring is a 100% separate button internally, making literally pressing the wrong button. And shortly even viabler with a Switch system update allowing Right to the unused shoulder buttons, and you've I didn't actually realize it at the time I did by remapping the left analog stick to the right controller out the window and the run would be That said, now that we're ready to get into the controller out the window is a realistic risk. Say friend: the spring. Without horizontal input, it is impossible to escape these springs. At to continue the game is to sip a latte until the point Knuckles will die of old age and revive back call these moments softlocks, but they're not to keep playing *eventually*. For the sake lattelocks. Now, you might be thinking: Wouldn't it be faster to just reset the game a very good reason I'm not using save files: until Sonic the Hedgehog 3. If you reset the game, Hill Zone. And to make the situation even worse: infinite lives hadn't either. Knuckles begins more as you play, but obviously our ability to Lose them all and your game is over. This run with the constant impending risk If you get lattelocked, you're just gonna Sonic 2 &amp; Knuckles does have one level design is overall a lot simpler, with many Even so, I recommend you look up a map for to end in a lattelock. The first boss fight is you'll also be happy to know Sonic 2 &amp; Knuckles present in vanilla Sonic 2: your ring count is you go back to that checkpoint with there are no rings after a boss checkpoint, It's also worth noting once the boss is dead the capsule. Unlike the left edge of the screen, not cause Knuckles to reverse. Have fun sipping Chemical Plant Act 1 is also mostly a straight rush for the goal quite so quickly. We're on a Check out the map: near the end of the level, row. Cough cough cough. They're really dumb and only a dumb stupid idiot would ever think to absolutely stupid kinda idiot, really. Like the after those over and over, like, using an exploit be really stupid. So, you can actually just like is you wait until yo-you're about to drown, and have one life, and then you jump in and then and for whatever reason that makes you lose a life from falling off the bottom of the screen. So then also you, you lose a life after 0 lives which Which is a really big number of lives and so then of lives. Nevermind on that game over, y-yeah, d- j- j- er- prolly die a lot. Prolly die then you'll be back at 0 lives, which is fine! you just go down to lowercase 5y lives again... but if you go up to 1 life, then you're gonna you don't wanna, you don't wanna die and have 0 just don't die to 0 lives, and you're good! which is like super not even a big deal to get *two voices overlap* Oh god, -from here on we're just trying to In Chemical Plant Act 2, we'll have the walls reach all the way up to the top of the they'll all eventually lead you into vacuum tubes, with Sonic 2 speedrunning, or just efficient this area on the level map. If you enter this area then Knuckles will treat the horizontal piping level you're expected to return, passing through Moving through this path hits a trigger allowing Knuckles to instead travel down the The wall just to the left of that gate is on in and pass through the gate. The rest of With our SEVERAL MINUTES plus Chemical Plant visit In Act 1, keep along the top path, which is almost entirely a straight Oh. In Act 1, keep along the top path, shot save for this pillar which will Preemptively jump on the log immediately In Act 2, the top path is now nonviable: there you can technically clear them, the time risked stay on the bottom path, which is technically more rather than agonizingly. Though I will note that up on the middle path by complete accident I was going. That strategy is not recommended. newcomer's eye. However, a little piece of If Knuckles lands on the very edge of a platform he will, for whatever reason, turn himself to you can get yourself on top of the left which conveniently bounce you back. With Eggman's No- *exhasperated laughter* Keep a map by your side throughout the entirety every corner. I ended up taking the bottom risk of falling into this pinball launcher and thus causes a lattelock. The bottom path, slightly easier to weave through. Soon you'll lattes if you're stupid enough to fail the the bumpers aren't capable of cancelling Knuckles' on the angle. That means even if you're you'll just grab onto the wall and can jump the upper wall, you can make a gliding Huh. *sip* In Act 2, there are some springs to avoid on the There are a couple springs to look out for in the boss fight. This is thankfully the easiest an arena with climbable walls on both sides, and Next up: Hill Top Zone. Act 1 is the with almost nothing that could Make sure you keep along ground level if you glide above it, you'll encounter a wall Follow the lower path and you'll eventually reach sized fraction of you have been waiting for: There's a spring right next to the wall, which, if other instances, we can't just climb the wall: which only features a sideways spring at its this run has been theory crafted in the past, and to this puzzle. Some said to make a seemingly Doing so properly causes the cieling to push a ten minute penalty on failure, so while it's and can freely reset or load a save state, it's Others said to make a properly timed glide onto with your momentum. This also comes with a 10 to find my own strat. Climb into the cubby, hit and end a glide immediately, halting your movement and try to jump right as you're reaching the exit. you can quickly turn right back around using take a few tries, but with a properly timed needle and get past the upper left wall, which The rest of the act, and most of Hill The one sticking point is the boss fight. Make last checkpoint, there are none to be found this fight would be without 'em. A totally so I instead recommend trying your luck on Eggman in the lava. When he submerges Once he's beaten, you can climb out of Hill Top Mystic Cave doesn't have all the pretty flashing it's a rival in latte consumption. The lowerable climbed on. For most of the stage you can see if you fail to resist the temptation and jump down an upcoming bridge. Also pay special attention The game remembers whether Knuckles grabbed them Knuckles is allowed to glide, no problem, but stuck on the pulley, holding onto it with one In Act 2, I kept along the bottom path, mostly sliding boxes, jump into the middle. It looks miraculously be spat out the bottom. When dive into the first pit, rather than gliding would have put you at risk of running into reach Eggman without incident, who can be very Oil Ocean Zone is a nice change of pace: if you you should never encounter any trouble and yourself to the end of both acts for the fight however, there's an invincibility monitor to find. grab the monitor, about face on the oil slide, let you get him most of the way dead without side walls and wait for him to resurface; he's We're now nearing the endgame with Metropolis on the map since the level loops vertically, but generally a top, middle, and bottom path. In Act you can lattelock if you drop into the middle shouldn't be anything to watch out for: blindly the boss fight with Eggman, who requires almost no Sky Chase Zone is a dev-intended real level is Wing Fortress Zone. Wing Fortress until I stumbled upon knowledge that is going to jets? They're just background decorations, they I am the first human being in history to discover Less obscure is the cheese trick to skip most than with Sonic or Tails, d-pad or not. Dive invulnerability frame through it, and bam, you're from the falling platforms to avoid an upper then continue through the mostly Just one note: this cubby is a tight squeeze allowed to jump once inside. If you can't Along the way, I highly recommend obtaining almost I didn't manage it myself, but it would ensure Fortress boss. It's fought within two thus making it impossible to turn around once as little distance as possible. If done right, insurance. Juggle yourself on the platforms as You won't have enough time to kill it in one some properly timed jumps you can get it in two don't worry, the floating platforms have a habit Once the laser is dead, steal Eggman's secret the true final battle in Death Egg Zone. All that entirely to prepare for the Death Egg, in which two bosses in a row without getting hit once. The Whom We're Giving An Overly Long Name Both As A At The Multitude Of Ambiguously Named Metallic pattern, so get enough hits on him fast enough and for the double final boss: Death Egg Robot. We and it is absolutely impossible to turn around. you're dead. His openings for attack are and microscopic without horizontal input, and is an instant death hitbox, sending us to the approaching fast you'll have to throw caution every opportunity. Spindash jump into his and before he starts moving. You'll be launched at a mid distance, and get ready to spindash back his arms are passing by the middle of his body. so you'll need to aim a bit lower than perfectly and you'll hit him 4 times before he just as he's about to become fully centered, Note that after landing Knuckles has a winddown so the timing on that sixth hit is trickier than to be propelled backward into the edge of the wait for him to lock on, then glide forward just and quickly make your escape with the tiniest baby they're fired. Since Eggman always locks on to us the right edge of the screen to get away from him. your mark here, but overshooting your mark is just Knuckles so his sprite is fully contained within get two more hits in as Eggman lands and proceed since Eggman is now walking forward towards us. where Knuckles' sprite can overlap with Death Egg Every pixel counts, so you're gonna want that 2 HP and victory within reach, it's time for the run. When Eggman lands, he'll be facing the left and forward, whose flame has a damaging hitbox and on top of that he fires some bombs behind But just to the left of his jetpack is Eggman's falls but then we have to dodge the approaching previous attack, just barely tap the glide button. on the initial jump and the glide: so precise, I like I think I'm supposed to and hope the screen correctly, you'll be far enough to the right to the first set of bombs won't touch you. The SECOND Death Egg Robot leans forward to fire that second the smallest possible baby step in the hopes you you sufficiently minmaxed all prior baby steps, just barely enough space to edge past his feet. be as precise, since all his hitboxes disappear getting his revenge against Eggman for crashing Death Egg out of orbit, the Sonic 2 &amp; Knuckles In retrospect, this just might Myths run ever. I heavily though please avoid if you're Before heading out, shoutout as previously mentioned made a video which I definitely must note I did which probably shaved a couple hours I would And finally, special thanks to Let me know how much this video sucks Your favorite flavor of latte for