From Spider-Man to God of It's been 30 years since brought to life some of franchises. Hello New York! Whether it's coming from release stuff that is platform or their own stuff, the library has that really pushes the For PlayStation, the game intended, great content to think that that is where people and creates a that is really hard to During its pandemic era five was nearly Hunting for a new or an Xbox Series series Good luck! Sony's always done great one of our strengths. difference. The PlayStation two is the console of all time, with Sony's latest PlayStation Annual gaming sales Sony in fiscal year 2022, the company's overall network, the company's has 123 million active For reference, that's people who tuned in for Bowl 58. If you include mobile, you You put it all together, a $200 billion plus It's bigger than music. It's bigger than movies largest entertainment The Nintendo Home entered Japanese homes in internationally two years It utilized game inserted directly into that decade's gaming You mean you haven't. Played it yet? We can play Entertainment System. In 1994, the PlayStation accelerated the gaming cartridges. Going over to a disc because of how much data discs versus what was the time, and that was a third party studios even While competitors in the landscape, Sony and signed an agreement in optical disc game player, Nintendo PlayStation manufactured, but the before its release. Just when we were about to this, Nintendo backed going with Philips for and Sony was kind of left with this beautiful And so the PlayStation was Sony's first foray into entered the US in a 1995 at the first Electronic as E3. Sega, one of at the time, also of its Saturn console $399. Before the launch, there uncertainty. We were had two pretty entrenched Sega. The then president of Sony America took the E3 stage significant announcement. $299. The price of the the US. That was throwing the It's like PlayStation is here to win, and we're under all of you. But it doors off when people here to dip their toes in all in. There was no way that we going to be successful. until the day of launch. You know, we woke up that queues outside, retailers to get their hands on on realized that we were there. The original PlayStation million units worldwide. Jim Ryan joined Sony in the PlayStation was born He is set to retire in year tenure with the I have hugely fond PlayStation, and I'd many games before joining Computer Entertainment, thing and really experiencing Ridge Racer, Evil. Those were great From the beginning, the tech company wasn't some secret sauce in from And by doing a joint and Sony Electronics, I the early success of The PS2 was released in become the best selling time, selling a total of We went into markets where really been a thing. So, for example, Italy and Middle East, we culture where none had The PS2 also functioned as entertainment system as player. This helped some purchase, as DVD sales accounted for more than market by 2005. We put like The Matrix You don't like games, but movie? DVD was a real PlayStation two adoption. But this momentum came to the PlayStation 3 in Our Icarus moment was when PlayStation three. We bottom line that we need The machine was I just remember sticker shock when you of the PlayStation three. Oh my god, who's going to This is ridiculous at the Now, today, that kind of guess. Can you just talk challenges in that went through? Yeah, I think if I had. To kind of, um, three generation, I think maybe we got a bit success that we'd been two. And we we kind of the start of that days were difficult. It was very, very very expensive and it was for we needed to work some amazing franchises. The company slashed prices PS3, but still lagged 360 and Nintendo's Wii. The company picked itsself came up with some of the generation. Uncharted on PS3, resistance was on to win out by not being a room, but by being a game The 2013 launch of the be the hit Sony needed. After the slump in sales It launched at a lower Sony saw its fastest to this point in the Sony went on to sell consoles compared to the I always played a fair bit you know, power of the um, sports games in Um, that as a European. I'm crazy about to become you know, really great I think PlayStation's at the core of what they And, you know, in the content is king and it's There's this trend where more time in fewer So what that means for us making these benchmark big bets, they're big with a lot of risk. The PlayStation content first party and third meaning it's a mix of PlayStation Studios and The PlayStation depended and publishers to bring We built a platform, we the majority of the against Electronic Arts, Namco, Capcom. Sony was happy not to be the platform as long as It wasn't about taking about making the pie And I think that was a that helped the company But a slice of that pie 2023, when Microsoft the video game giant Well, we were concerned climate would be, but we was any, you know, real legitimate. Why these two combine. The big controversy is a big producer of games, with Microsoft acquiring pretty much what is left and not share the games You had this interesting buying Activision and exclusives, what that streaming. At the same similar things buying exclusive or making companies like square. In your view, why was the bad for the industry? Yeah, the the reason that different to anything past was the sheer size of Duty franchise. So we were absolutely negotiate a deal with that franchise remains platforms for the next very important to us, and done that deal. But the timeline is a right? Because why didn't it was first offered, and the case with the FTC? A key witness for the Yeah, I you know what? We're at risk of getting there are deals and deal that was offered at may not have been the signed. Microsoft's Activision most expensive in than double Microsoft's of its 2016 purchase of I see the consolidation in I see people like some groups out of Saudi of studios, and I see enemy of creativity. If we've commoditized the to get more of the same. But throughout its time in itself has also acquired development studios, and gone on to produce some Insomniac games was five's record breaking in 2023, and now the way played is also evolving. Over the past decade, shifted overwhelmingly digital downloads. Both Xbox and PlayStation disc free consoles with PlayStation 5 in 2020. Both companies are also for users to stream games Both Sony and Microsoft for streaming games for. Microsoft, the advantage own Azure. And, you know, their cost to deliver to be lower. Microsoft controls 60 to gaming market. 8 million subscribers to allows users to stream That's about 17% of its subscription gaming now, cloud gaming of the overall gaming Cloud enabled gaming billion in revenue in comparison to the $35 sales. I've lost count of the Very many years that of the console is over, it will over time become the way that people enjoy But it's not there yet. Especially considering telecommunications smooth gameplay is just of the world, including The fact that there is a in the federal government broadband needs work. This inequality in also lead to delays in indicating the modern discs for both And oftentimes when people console wars and of thing, they really Xbox more directly. Nintendo doesn't get breath as often. I feel let Nintendo be its own Yet, Nintendo Switch is video game console of all I think that maybe the because it's a handheld, differently, almost more phone than not a console, If you think about what with a handheld that you be able to, you know, kind of shows that they competitor. Shortly before Christmas, portal, which is a device our remote play gaming experiences in a And more recent years, increase in leveraging content outside the I'm really pleased about PlayStation productions. Working with Sony of our best IP and movies with uncharted to Last of Us. I think what really fact that I didn't turn And Sony plans to keep intellectual property 2025. The company says it of its investment into That compares to just 20% It's an important piece to idea that that games are now, and we reach broader Quality in in the important as a quality of But the gaming industry is Thousands of jobs were in 2024, and last month, from its PlayStation unit's global workforce. Herman Holst put out a we are at a stage where look at what our business At the same time, our continuing and affects how we all create I would say that it's forget that we are in the and that's what we do. That's our strength. I enjoyed some considerable years, never losing sight