I deserve to die, I deserve to die. My name is Chen Jianghe . I graduated from 985 and gave up my million-dollar annual salary to go back to my hometown and bring the whole village to wealth. They made enough money and turned around, but drove me out of the village. I am a white-eyed wolf. I should not frame you. I deserve to die. I deserve to die. We all know that we are wrong. Please forgive us and take us to continue working. Uncle, I'm sorry. Uncle, I'm sorry. If you don't let us live , we will be finished. Why didn't you think of today when you drove Brother Jiang He away? Uncle Jiang is still waiting for acceptance . Where are all the people? Brother Xiang, brother Xiang, hey, uncle, what's wrong? The villagers are calling you to go to the village cadre meeting room. What are you doing there ? I don't know . Hey, there's no work here anymore. Go there. Hey, work has started. Why are you still here? What's the matter with Xiangzi? Don't touch what's going on , Mr. Chen, and don't blame Xiangzi. He's always been like this and is angry with you. What's going on with Team Leader Shang? What the hell is going on? Chen Jian and your Dongbao Private Hall are getting kickbacks. Hurry up and give me the stolen goods. Come on, Uncle Zhang, please stop talking nonsense . I have never received a kickback. Who is talking nonsense? Come on , sit down first, Zhang Miao, Mr. Chen, we are not talking nonsense. Boss Zhao gave us a total of 40 for building materials, 300,000 plus everyone. One dollar of salary is 80,000, so where did the remaining 20,000 go? Where did it go? Wasn't it just sold by you? It wasn't China Insurance Capital. What was that? Folks, think about these jobs. It's obviously you. What did Chen Jianghe do? He only knows how to eat, drink, and have fun every day. He takes on so many projects. He turned into a rich man without any fucking effort . He, Chen Jianghe, sometimes I really can't understand why Uncle Zhang is about to have a child. Do you need to spend money to go to college? Uncle Wang, I have been lying in the hospital bed for so many years. Do you need to spend money? You like eating the blood buns of the villagers so much. Is it worth it? Damn it, I just said that his family bought a car and a house. Bah. He actually swallowed our hard-earned money of 20,000 yuan a time. We made so much money in a year. How much does it cost? Has your conscience been eaten by a dog? What did he say when you came back that he would bring us all to make a fortune together ? He cheated the villagers' money to make himself rich. If Xiaoxiang hadn't found out about the repurchase , the three of us would have been kept in the dark. Chen Jianghe, I tell you , you can't be ungrateful and forget your roots . Don't think that just because you are a college student, you can be lawless . What the hell are you saying, hurry up and pay back the money. That's our hard-earned money. Why the hell are you going to pay back the money? I won't serve you anymore. I'm going to go and I'm going to pay back the money. Pay back the money. Xiao Chen Yi, the group leader of Ginkgo Village . God, he said that he wanted to know how our project works, so he asked me to show him the world. Can Brother Chen take me out to see it? After the past two years, I stopped working. I changed my career. In fact, when I was the leader of this team, it was all from my family. What I mean is that I don't want to be in this group at all. Brother Cheng, I just want to learn from you and follow you out to see if you can take your brother out to see him. Okay , Brother Cheng, then I'll give you one more thank you. Brother Liang wants to agree to watch him and I am about the same age and took him to meet the boss of the project contractor. I also took him to the construction site to explain the work process in detail. Mr. Xiang, you are not changing careers, you are trying to replace me. Don't you want to think about the engineering teams outside who are trying to get this project ? Why? I was able to get it because of my hard work and my connections. Boy, do you think like them that I got a kickback , right? Chen Jianghe, do n't fool me by thinking that I'm just a kid and you want to play the emotional card with me. In the past, this was a matter of principle. I really didn't expect you to do such a thing . I still treat you as a real brother. Is this how you treat your real brother? Today, I put my words here. If you don't give the money to the big guy, quit. When you come to this project, don't even think about implying that Wang Ren, go to hell, others don't understand the situation, and you, Li Xiangle, don't know that you weren't there every time I discussed business, entertained guests for dinner, and gave gifts. Which time did I beg my grandpa, grandma, and beg someone to give me the project? Sometimes you don't know whether you need money to treat guests to dinner or give gifts. Do you need money to pay for materials in advance? I ask you if you want more money. The money I give you every day is 300 for small jobs and 500 for big jobs. We talked about it clearly. In the end, you only remember. You have done so much work that you have forgotten who taught you. What's more, I gave you not only wages, but also an extra bonus for each of you. I have paid so much money and put in so much effort, so I will get 20,000. It's too much. It costs so much money to get a job. I thought I could just get a job casually. A capable guy has these things . Then why didn't you tell me? I can understand why you think so, because you can't do it at all. Knowing the situation, it is easy to follow the trend and make trouble just because of some people's malicious usurpation . But you, Li Xiangrui, are different. You know every step I take, every profit and expenditure, and you are still as calm and heartless as them. Come to slander me and threaten you with the unfinished project. Everyone here can scold me and say that I am a white-eyed wolf. Only you, Li Xiangrui, have the qualifications. From the first day of the project, I have not given you a penny less. If others give you 300 , I will give you 500. If others give you 500, I will give you 800. Even if it is a bonus, I will give you the most every time. This way you will not be satisfied with me. I deserve every point. What did I do wrong? Chen Jianghe, you still don't think you did anything wrong until now. Chen Jianghe , do you think you haven't done anything wrong yet? As a college student in the village, you make money with everyone . I think that's what you should do if everyone seeks welfare . You really shouldn't rip off everyone's 20,000 yuan. Besides, this project is difficult. What you said just now are just trying to make excuses for your personal enrichment. This kind of thing can be done by anyone . What you say is so great and important? Isn't it Chen Jian and Xiang Chengyi ? You 're right . This is just a quibble. How can it be so difficult to find a project ? You just use the money to eat, drink and have fun outside. You show off to me in every way and let all your uncles bleed and sweat to work as cows and horses for you. I have long seen that you are not used to you. You white-eyed wolf has no conscience. If you don't hand over the money today, we will go on strike. Give me a strike. This 20,000 yuan is what I deserve . It's for nothing. Even if what I get today is not 20,000 yuan , it's two yuan and two cents. You all think that I tore through your money without doing anything, right? That's right. You shouldn't steal a penny from them. Xiang Chengye, you want to make money yourself. Then go outside. Why are you robbing my project? Why are you encouraging the whole village to come ? If it weren't for me, Chen Jianghe, each of you would have to grow vegetables in the town. Even if you are barely making ends meet, don't forget that every meal you have at work is made by my parents for you at no cost. Why? It's me, Chen Jianghe, who eats and lives with you and taught you from scratch to get you where you are today. At this point, just because some people say a few words to you, I suddenly become a supercilious person who has accomplished nothing and took advantage of you. If I hadn't wholeheartedly helped the whole village get rich and helped each of you get out of poverty, would I have just taken this small amount of money for my efforts ? How much is a meal worth? If you give them food and accommodation, isn't that money you keep for yourself? And if you teach them how to work, don't you just want them to work as cows and horses for you to help you make more money ? We work hard and your little engineering team has long since become obsolete . If you don't take money to thank us, forget it. How can you have any reason to steal our money? Oh, you are such a wolf-hearted thing. I won't do it. I won't do it. I won't do it. I won't do it . I quit. This place is too small to tolerate you big Buddhas , but you have no work today and I won't give you any wages . As for the 20,000 yuan. How much work have you done so far? How much is the 20,000 yuan? I will definitely calculate it clearly and push this money to you without any difference. From now on, we will go back to the bridge and we will go back to work wherever you fall in love. Team Leader Zhou Zhou Team leader, hurry up and bring them back. Come on, what's going on? Bring back the villagers of Ginkgo Village. They are having a breakup with Chen Jianghe. They say they want to draw a clear line . Come on, hurry up. Is it true ? Come on, hurry up. I'm going now. Come on, little sister, let me take the things. Okay, Chen Jianghe, since he said we should go our separate ways , you can never pay me back in the future. You white-eyed wolf, get out of here, don't regret it. It's a joke. Without you to play with them, they will only make more money, big guy. You should be happy, right? Get out of here. I hope you earn more. Look, look at what kind of virtue you are. Sister-in -law , sister-in-law. Your sister-in-law said it was your hard-earned money and he got anxious. You know, just sit back and let us work alone. But where are we going to find a project to do? What should we do if the treatment is not as good as this ? Xiangzi , you and Chen Jianghe are the ones doing the close work all day long. You should have no problem taking on a project, right? I, I, I, folks. Didn't I just say that it's not that difficult to take on a project ? It's just about eating, drinking, and having fun. Besides, Chun Jianghe is a college student , so am I. I'm also the leader of our village collective, so I can pick up the flowers casually, okay, okay. With the words of Little Elephant, we can rest assured and follow him. We will definitely earn more than Chen Jianghe. Hahaha, they are also college students . I don't know how many times better than that white-eyed wolf of Chen Jianghe. Yes, yes, yes , and I I promise that I will not embezzle anyone's money like Chen Jiahe did. I will definitely lift everyone out of poverty and strive for success. Brother Chen, I beg you to help us Jinshan Village villagers, okay? Oh, Mr. Chen, um, Mr. Chen, brother, don't accept this, Chen. Mr. Chen, Mr. Zhou Yan , Mr. Chen, I am waiting for you. You have called me no less than 10 times. You should know what I am going to say. It is not Mr. Chen. I have heard what you said in there. If they don't do it, we will be the villagers of our Jinjia Village. I will never be as crooked as Ginkgo Village. Mr. Chen, Mr. Chen, I beg you, can you just help us villagers in Jinjia Village ? I'm sorry, I went a little too far. They say I'm a white-eyed wolf who only eats their human blood steamed buns . Aren't you afraid? I'm not afraid. I believe in you as a person. I also know what you have done for Ginkgo Village. We all believe in you. Hello, I promise you. Now go and gather the people in your village. Hello everyone. I have a project on hand that is half finished . 40,000 yuan of wages was paid to the previous village. Another 40,000 yuan will be settled as your salary on a daily basis. Another 20,000 yuan is my salary. From now on, every time I take over a project, my salary will be 20,000 yuan. Your wages will be based on the project volume. We have decided to pay 300 a day for small jobs and 500 a day for big jobs. If there is any surplus, we will give it to everyone in the form of bonuses. Food and accommodation will be included. Let's see if you have any other opinions. You will get 20,000 per person and you will get 20,000 per person. Yes , I think I got too much. Right, Boss Chen's hometown, hometown, fellow villagers, it's not okay , fellow villagers, we just put in our efforts, but the interest you get for us is not worth a few dollars. Without you, we can't even live. How can you only take 20,000? What about you, Jewelry Shiro? Ten kickbacks of 20,000 a time , 20,000 a time, eating the human blood steamed buns of rural people. We think you should be the same as outside. Your salary changes with the size of the job. We are not greedy, as long as we have work to do. As long as you make money, boss, if you eat meat, we will eat soup , right ? Everyone is right . Even if you get 50,000 or 60,000 , you deserve it . It's not easy to find a job now. Give us all this job opportunity . I'm very grateful. Brother, what's your name? Boss Chen, my name is Yang Daniu, I'm 28 years old this year, and my brother's name is Yang Zhuoyue. He just retired from the army and will be home in the afternoon. By then, we brothers will follow you. We are absolutely the same. You don't have to do this . Just call me brother from now on. Brother, work will officially start tomorrow. Don't worry about what you don't understand. I will teach you step by step and make sure that everyone learns well. Mr. Zhao, hey, my little item, hey , this is it. I will handle the project designed by Tian Ruicheng. This project has not always been handled by Mr. Chen and me. How can I ask you to handle it? Mr. Zhao is like this. It 's Mr. Chen. He has been a little busy recently. He wants me to handle it with you. Okay, okay, okay . It's my turn next time. Help me shoot by the way. Hahahaha. Don't stop what you are doing. Let me say a few words, big guys. Work hard. If you do it well, I can go to Boss Zhao to pay the final payment. This is the final payment. I can give you money, do it well, do it, do it, does it really sound like it? You will definitely earn more than following that white-eyed wolf like Chen Jianghe. Hahaha, what are you doing, you bastard? He can't get 80% of the projects now. You want me to go back ? Kneel down and beg me to go back and seize all his work and let his little engineering team drag the shovel , hahaha, do it well, do it well, do it well, do it well, what are you still doing there ? What are you still doing here? Why don't you know what you're doing? You also only know how to eat, drink and have fun all day long. How do you know how we work ? Ah, you think I don't know what you are doing. Get out of here. What the hell are you doing? Give it to me. Try what I just said clearly. You took the money and turned around and forgot about it, right? Now that you have taken the money, get out of here. This is my project , but why are my workers still here doing it privately ? It's not good, Mr. Zhao. What 's wrong? Someone on the Tianyue City project called and said that Xiang Chengyi, the team leader of Ginkgo Village, stole Chen Jiang and Mr. Chen's job. They were causing trouble on the construction site. Why did Xiang Chengyi steal Mr. Chen's job? Hey, Mr. Zhang. Hey, Mr. Zhang. I, Xiaoxia, am Mr. Chen who is working on the decoration project designed by Tianyue City. I have been a little busy recently. He asked me to recommend to you. Return the car and go to the construction site right away. This guy just needs a beating. The boss has given the job to Xiao Xiang. We work with Boss Xiang. What's wrong? I 'm telling you, Chen Xianghe , I've already contacted Mr. Zhao and he agreed to leave this job to me. You know, anyone can do this job. What do you want to do here, Xiaoyu ? You lied to them like this. How come I didn't know that this project has been transferred to you ? That's your own problem. What does it have to do with me? Okay . Call Mr. Zhao in front of everyone and ask him if he has any questions. Transfer this project to you. I'm afraid of him. Why are you still fighting him? Why don't you fight him if he exposes his secret? Xiaoxia, didn't you say you've already negotiated with the boss? What's the situation ? Don't let us go to waste. There are hundreds of dollars in this area. Loss , folks, do n't worry. Do n't worry. I've already contacted Mr. Zhao about this. It's a done deal. Don't worry about this kid. He's just here to cause trouble. Drive him away. Park the car and don't move. I'll see who dares to do it. Xiang Chengyu, who gave you the courage to play tricks on me? Mr. Chen, you are also Mr. Zhou. Xiang Chengyu just said that you had already given this project to him. Is there such a thing? What kind of international joke are you kidding? How about my project based on our relationship? You may give it to others, you bastard, stand up for me, Mr. Zhao, um, haven't we already agreed that you will hand over the project to me? You are going out of your way to figure out which one to pick, Mr. Zhao, then you won't give it. I can't give this kid the Chen family and he embezzles the folks' hard-earned money. You can't give him the project. I can't control it. I only know that my Zhao Liang's project is only for Mr. Chen. Where did you and your group of people come from ? That 's it. Who are we? That's okay. I don't know him at all. If he can do it, I won't do it. Folks, I can't do the job in Tianyue City. Do we have other jobs? I'll find it for you. No, it's safe. It's safe. I took off my work clothes and hats, why should I take them off for you? Just because I paid for them out of my own pocket. Now that you are no longer my workers , of course you have to return my things to me . Chen Jianghe, what the hell do you think ? Isn't it just a hard hat and overalls? We are all from the village. Why do you know so clearly? As for the fact that you were making trouble with me for the 20,000 yuan, have you ever thought about it? That would not be the case when you drove away Brother Jiang He at all costs. Why don't you reminisce about old friendship? What are you thinking? You are not allowed to interrupt. Stop talking nonsense. Take it off for me. If you don't want to take it off, I'll find someone to help you take it off. Folks, just take it off. What's so good about these rags? I'll help you find one another day. It's over . Take off, take off, take off your clothes. What the hell do you have to wear? Take off your clothes. Leader of the township party, don't you think you are very powerful and can replace me at any time? Then if you have the ability, go find the project yourself. Do n't steal my project or my people . What else can you do besides robbing? Are you from a family of robbers? But don't forget that your family is still in Ginkgo Village. Let's just walk and snatch. Bah Xiaohua. Now that the matter is settled , I'll go back first. 4 Two days later , I 'll accompany you another day. It's okay if you have a couple of drinks . This project is finished and there are new projects for you. Who makes you my good brother? You are worthy of being my old brother. When Zhou Yue left, he immediately notified the folks in Jinshan Village to prepare for the start of work. I will go there in person. Okay, pick them up . Mr. Chen, I'll arrange for my parents right away. I'll go back and have a rest first. Jiang Kang, wait a minute. I heard that you took the folks to work and got a kickback from the car. Quickly talk to your dad. It's not like this. You two listen to my explanation. That's probably how these idiots would have such good living conditions without your help. Where can I make so much money? The quality of life has improved. I put down the bowl and scolded you. Grandma, I have to settle the score with them. Dad , it's hard to calm down and persuade the damn ghost. This is his own choice. He doesn't hesitate to fall out for such a big benefit. I will never care about people like this who don't work . My son, dad, it's not worth it for you. Mom and dad, let them go. As long as you two don't take it to heart, then son, go back and rest first. You'll have a good time. Go, go , go. Folks , please be sure to wear your safety helmet later. This is for everyone's safety. We are also working at heights . No matter what, the safety rope must not be untied. If you are sleepy and tired, tell me to go back and rest. You must not overload your work. Do you understand? Got it. Everyone, one piece of work clothes and one safety helmet. Everyone, get in the car. We are going to the construction site. Thank you, Brother Chen. You are the best boss I have ever encountered. Excellence, this is the boss Chen I told you. Hello, Brother Chen. Good morning, Brother Chen. Brother, I have just returned from the army. I have never done any construction work. This is going to trouble you a lot . I'm going to try it today. If it doesn't work, then you don't want me anymore. I've never done anything before. I'll teach you that as long as you have the strength, it's fine. Thank you, Brother Chen. Quickly. Let's get in the car , let's go, food is here, food is here, son, come and eat . Come on, come on . Master, are all the uncles and aunts cooking this meal? My parents made it with their own hands. Try it. How is it delicious? Then buy this. Does the money spent on vegetables and meat count as expenses for all of us? It doesn't count on what you spend. It's agreed that food and accommodation will be included. It can't be deducted from your wages . Brother Cheng, you can't do this. No, folks, come around, folks, hurry up. No, Brother Cheng, you can't do this. Folks, come around, folks, come on , folks, think about it, Brother Chen has already given us a lot of wages , isn't it ? Are they going to be struck by lightning? Yes, yes, yes , we can't eat for free. Do you think everyone doesn't know how much a meal is worth ? If you give them food and accommodation, that's the money you keep for yourself . How noble do you think you are? How about we give the meal money to Boss Chen ? Okay, ok, ok, ok , buddy, I definitely don't like it. I took this job , and the salary is not much, and you picked it up halfway . Let's wait until everyone can make money . I'll take on a big project and help you make more money, okay, Brother Chen, you can't do this. We really can't just eat your business for free. I said, boss , listen to me, eat your food quickly, go and have a rest. Brother Chen, we have to start work soon. Listen to me, hurry up, hurry up, eat, eat, finish your meal, don't waste it , Brother Chen, Brother Chen , bye, Brother Chen, I'm here, Brother Chen, here to see you, Brother Chen, what are you doing smoking? This is Brother Chen, take this chicken. The villagers insisted that I bring them here to thank you. I really can't save you. Brother Chen, you are a good boss, but we can't keep taking advantage of you. Last night, I went home and discussed with the people in the village and invited their family members. A certain household offers some meat and vegetables to help uncles and aunts cook. We do n't have a car. You can't refuse this time. You will lead us all to do big jobs in the future . Yes, by then we will only recruit more and more workers. In this way, we Just put these things here. It will be so convenient if we have a few more people to help . Ouch, look who is this ? Why is it so lively? We are having a meeting and playing in Xianghe. If you are not a thing, you will deceive some ignorant villagers . Forget about taking their kickbacks, you still accept their gifts. I said that you have read that it went into the stomach of the dog. Folks, don't be stupid. I think your Jinshan Village is the neighboring village of our Ginkgo Village. I would like to kindly remind you that Chen Jianghe, in addition to cheating and abducting, can also suck your human blood. Hey , what are you doing? Hey, what are you doing ? Bah, I am surprised by Cheng Yi. You are a big man. Why are you talking so much ? Of course we know how to be grateful. We brought all our own chickens and ducks to Boss Cheng. Why is it such a big deal ? We people in Jinshan Village are not like you in Ginkgo Village who don't know how to be grateful . I don't understand. Thank you , ok, ok, I'm kind-hearted and pretend to be a donkey. Do you know who he is? Chen Jianghe's good brother. Even his closest brother couldn't stand it when he saw Chen Jianghe embezzling your money . They came here to deliberately denounce Chen Jianghe. Hey, don't leave me. I can't stand anyone who is talking to his brother. Hey , get out of the way and force you not to leave . Prove it to the party leader. Why are you not in a hurry to find a job and rely on my family? Oh, I have a fixed salary for you, your fellow villagers . If you don't work for a day, you will lose hundreds of dollars. Who said I have no life ? The sea of life has come and gone. Today, you can stop complaining. Let's walk on the broken bridge. Bastard, let's start driving up and down. What's the project? Team leader Jiang, team leader Zhang, ours. Have you found the project yet? Oh, don't worry, we 'll talk about it right away. You go back and wait for the news. I'll notify you immediately as soon as there is any news. OK, how can I wait for the notification ? I've been waiting for the notification for more than half a month. I'm waiting for the day lilies to be ready. It's so cool. Sun Mian from Jinsan Village followed Chen Jianghe and completed all the Tianyue City projects. Now a new construction site is opening. It 's just me. I won't drink. Don't worry. I'm talking about big companies . You are big. It's normal for the company to go through the process of connecting with the project team . You all believe me, the leader of the village collective. I believe you'd better not trick us . My mother's illness is terminal and there is no medicine. I'm still waiting for money to buy medicine. We haven't had it for several days. Go to work I've lost a lot of money. My baby now has no living expenses. You have to be responsible. Sometimes Uncle Wang's words make people very sad. You said they are all from the countryside. How could I lie to you? This project was negotiated immediately just now. Call me. You go back first, go back first, go back first, I will inform you immediately if there is any news. OK, keep your word, you must keep it. Hey, go back first, go back first, go back, sit back, I'm leaving too. What's the matter with you? Tell me. You and Chen Jianghe get along best. Don't you know all about his connections and resources ? I tell you, tell you everything you learned from Chen Jianghe. If you don't tell us, King Dongdao Wen, you know. Can the villagers squeeze their lives to death ? Let me take you there . Hey, let's go. Don't leave the ink mark. Hurry up and find the project . I'll look for Mr. Zhao first. You predicted that we can't enter. Mr. Zhao, hey, Mr. Zhao, Xiang Chengye, hey, what are you doing here, Mr. Zhao? Like this, I heard that you have a new building and you are going to start a fine decoration project. Can you give me some work and let me do it? You added insult to injury and brought the people from Ginkgo Village to Mr. Zhao and asked me what I wanted. Mr. Zhao, Mr. Zhao, things are not like this. That boy Chen Jianghe not only embezzled the villagers' money, he also cut corners in his work. Really , Mr. Zhao, as long as you give me the project, how much does Chen Jianghe want ? We only need 2/3 of his, and he can do a better job than him . You can't do it. Humph, even if I gave the project to Mr. Chen for free, I wouldn't give you this. Sweat, hurry up and get out. Mr. Zhao, just give me a project. Okay , just give us a chance. Don't you understand that among our group of people? I learned it from Chen Jianghe. We need skills. We need quality and quality , and our work is better than Chen Jianghe's. Give me a chance, okay? I'm begging you. Now you know that the technology was learned from Chen Jianghe. You slander him and say that he didn't remember to learn skills from him when he was swallowing money. Let's get out of here. Hey, don't let me see you break in again. Otherwise , I'll beat you every time I see you. I won't come even if you ask me to come. Why do you want to open a crappy real estate company? Are you awesome? Brother Xiang, how are you? Let's go to Xiaorui . Let's go to the next one . I don't believe that we ca n't talk about the next project. Let 's go . Mr. Zhang, give me another chance. Get out of here. Mr. Qiang , as long as you give me a chance, someone will come and kick them out. No need to ask, no need to ask. Give us a chance . Mr. Chao, I beg you to get out quickly. I will come to you next time. Hey, brother Liang, this is too difficult. I can't touch it today. I've been busy for a long time and got nothing. I didn't talk about the project. What's the point? Brother Xing, how do we fix it? How do we fix it? I know how to fix it. I said you want those broken medicines , so what the fuck are they for? Ah, you can't blame me. I gave all the people who collaborated with Chen Jianghe to you. Aren't you brothers? Are you brothers? Don't you know that he talks like this ? I also know what is so good about Chen Jianghe . Why are those companies willing to cooperate with him? I told the old boss how much do you want for Chenjia Box ? I only want half of Chenjia Box . That's it. [__] Even the bosses of the company don't agree . Why , oh my god, what are you doing to yourselves? When you carry heavy objects, you must help each other and be careful. You must also wear a safety helmet. You hear me ? Hey , brother Liang , what's wrong? Jiang Wen. Ah, let me tell you, that white-eyed wolf from Xiang Chengyi came to me again to ask for cooperation. He is so shameless, I'm afraid he doesn't know our relationship. I also heard that he took your hairy Li Xiangrui to all the companies you cooperate with. We've searched all over and let him go. Don't worry, their reputation in Ginkgo Village is now bad. They can't get any jobs . I'll just see how they end up. It's been almost a month since we got out of class. If we can't find any more people alive, I'm afraid the folks will come and cause trouble . I know, I know, aren't you trying to think of a solution? Then you think about it, look at your phone, get out of here , come on, come on , come on, come on, come on, I 'll stop , Uncle Zhang, Uncle Wang, come on , come on , come on, please. Do n't, sir, you are playing tricks with me. What project are you talking about? Don't tell me today. I'm not done with you, Uncle Zhang. I'm already talking about this project. You guys are forcing me to live like this every day . What kind of thing is this? Do you still look like me? When I was working with Chen Jianghe, even if he pocketed the money , I still had 300 yuan a day. Now, you have made me lose a total of 10,000 yuan. I'm a big worker. I'm a big worker. I'm 500 a day. I'm 15,000. I'm going to pay. I'm going to pay . I'm going to pay . I'm going to pay you. Folks, you have no work every day to do this. It has nothing to do with me if you pass. You can't blame me. Who are you blaming? If it weren't for the fact that you were bragging that this project was good for us. Can you break up with Chen Jianghe? Yes, he said you don't mention Chen Jianghe. The blame for this is Chen Jianghe . Chen Jianghe has a grudge against Chen Jianghe and us. I had already negotiated three projects and he deliberately messed up things behind my back . You can't believe that these three projects of mine have been messed up. Isn't it Xiangrui? You know, Jianghe's best brother. You will know if you ask him. Talk to the big guys. Uh, yes, yes , that team leader, he is originally After looking for three projects, I was forced to get mixed up by Chen Jianghe, that white-eyed wolf. Do you know what happened? This, Chen Jianghe, was eating the food of Ginkgo Village and drinking the water of Ginkgo Village. We can't make a penny . This wolf-hearted thing must find a way. What should we do now? Xiaoxia, you are our backbone. Folks, give me another three days and I will definitely give you the job. Xiao Ren In ancient times, Gou Jian suffered hardships. Today, let us beg for help shamelessly for a while. Don't make me shameless. How far are you now? Ask for help first. You have to go too far and make money. If Brother Xiang had known, we shouldn't have driven Chen Jianghe away. What the folks said is right. No matter what he is worth, at least we still have money to make. He and you charged me 5,000 yuan. Did you agree to help me deal with it? Do you hear that ? The child is finally here. You are finally here. Brother Cheng, don't call me brother. I don't think it's okay. Haha, Team Leader Zhou, you're here too. Last time we had a meeting. Not long ago, we met again. Come, come, sit down. How many of our brothers are there today? You can rest after getting drunk, right? If you have anything to say in Xiangcheng, say it quickly . If you have farts, just say Jiahe . I heard that you contracted some engineering projects to the villagers of Jinshan Village. Hey, you said they are too busy. Can you usually do it? Contract some work for me, right? Contract it for you, yes. Hey, hey, you said you have so much work now that you can't keep up, so you can contract it to the villagers of Ginkgo Village, and let the big guys make money too. You want to show your face to Cheng Yi? Is it you who said that Brother Jiang He was a white-eyed wolf for the hard-earned money of young people ? Now you are asking him for projects. Are you not afraid that he will suck your blood ? Isn't this all in the past? Forget about it . Now making money is more important, isn't it ? Han, I think you can't even take on a project and are being forced by the villagers. I tell you that there's no way you can take on my project. Chen Jiahe, you are from our Ginkgo Village after all, right? How can you lead people from other villages to make money while looking at the people in this village ? There is no work to do. As a college student, you should give back to your hometown . Hey, Hechuan, you are also from our Ginkgo Village after all . You should be able to help everyone. Don't give me moral kidnapping here . I will help you make money. Why do you scold me for forgetfulness ? Is there a word for it? It's the pain of hurting money again . Why can't you get along with money? Besides, if you let the big guy make money , it's also helping you make money. Xiang Zhongyi's surname is Li . I'm here today just to tell you two that I'm not the best person. No matter how busy I am, I won't give you the project. Go away, Swallow. Hey, Ginger Coke kid, hey Ginger Coke mother, and these are all you forced me to do. Fuck you, you won't make it if you don't let me go . Let me go and smash it. Come down, ask your son, go to Xiangzi, what are you doing? How have we offended you ? Get out of the way, wait until your son comes back, ask your son, go smash, smash, smash , get in the car, smash, don't hit, don't hit, don't hit, don't hit, don't hit . Stop it, stop it, stop it, stop it, don't move , don't move, don't move, Mom and Dad, are you okay? Jianghe, we are okay, okay , okay, what are you doing ? Chen Jianghe, don't you know yourself? If you hadn't told those contractors, You are not allowed to work for us . How can we not find a job for a month? I originally thought that you were still good in nature, but you went to college and were led away by people outside . But I never expected that you have changed a long time ago . I really I misjudged you. It's you who spread rumors about small business again . You can't grab a job by yourself. That's because you have no ability. You encouraged them to come over and smash my house. Isn't it nothing? If you weren't messing with me behind my back, how could this village group leader not be able to receive it? Are you working? You still know that you are a village cadre . Don't you know that it is illegal for them to do this? You asked for it. You made us villagers have no work for a month . Don't you deserve it? Ren Jiahao, let me tell you, this happened to you in the first place. What you did was wrong. If you don't compensate our fellow villagers for a month's losses today , they won't stop and they will smash your house. You will have to suffer. Even if they smash your house , ah, Comrade Police, there is a fight in Ginkgo Village. Come on, Comrade Police. What happened? That's it. Comrade policemen are the ones who made the first move . Then who spread these things? Comrade policemen, it's not our fault. It's him . He stole the work of our fellow villagers . We came here just to ask for it. It's just an explanation. You see, just beat us like this. You see, I was beaten for breaking into a private house and damaging other people's property . Do you really want to say that? Do you think what happened today to Mr. Chen is a private matter or a public matter? If it is a public matter, they all have to be detained. Hey, isn't it? Isn't it necessary to study such a trivial matter into detention? I heard that after being detained, the child who has a criminal record will not be able to take the entrance examination. It's such a trivial matter , just let them pay some money. Isn't it that old Chen? We are all old neighbors. What happened in my old home just now was just impulsive, so you can be so generous and spare us, yes, brother and sister-in-law, we haven't worked for a month and we don't have any money on hand anymore. We are all from the countryside. We are all villagers. If we don't look up, why should we pay for it? Uncle Chen. Give me some face, sir . Is there anything you can say here? Did you consider neighborly relations when you came into the house just now to do chores ? My wife has a heart disease. If he has troubles, I will not be married to you, and you will ruin it. There are also circles. The chickens and ducks are all dead. You just say that and think about it. Even if you pay a penny less, it won't do. Parents, please calculate how much loss there is. Except for these smashed things, there is a specific amount. The mental damage fee has no upper limit. My wife and I have no upper limit. The damage fee will be considered for the sake of the folks in the village. But the TV, the washing machine, plus the miscellaneous things at home, 23,000 , 23,000, you, 23,000, you really dare to ask for it. If you don't want to lose money, then let's take it away. Hey Jiang He, we won't be able to come up with so much money for a while. Can't you take it? I just gave you 20,000 yuan a month ago when I paid you so much money . You won't pay for it, right? Comrade police, please take a look at it. They don't want to go private. Please take them away. Well, don't we just want money to compensate ? Give it to us. I got it together in a month, right, right, right , then you have to give us some time and make up for it now, otherwise you will only end up with more trouble. Chen Xiaohe , you are really a white-eyed wolf. Why did I become your little brother with so many years of hair? I'm really fucking blind. It's you who told you that the Chen family isn't welcome. You don't want to spend more money . Pay the money and get out. Chen Nianhao told you that crazy people are crazy and rainy. Just wait and wait for Brother Chen today. They won't let it go if things get messed up like this, right? It's parents. Why don't we move to the town first? We can't stay in this village. You go and do your work first. I'll go to the town with your mother to rent a house later. I don't need my uncle and aunt 's money. There is an unused old house in the mountain village. You go and live in it. The girl rents it for a lot of money. I don't have to pay rent for a year. Rural houses are not expensive. That's it. How is this good ? I'm so embarrassed. You're welcome. Uncle and aunt are aunts. Since Yanzi is like this If you are interested, we will listen to him. We will live there first and wait until the house is decorated. Then we will go back to the county to celebrate the New Year . Yanzi, please trouble you. No trouble. Brother Chen, you are my benefactor. If you say this, let's go back. Auntie, I will go back and clean up in the evening. You can stay there in the evening. Okay, okay, okay, then I'll go first, uncle, thank you, slow down, oh, ok, what a good girl, son, are you making friends with this girl, oh, no, he and I are just project partners, we are also friends, we are friends. Mom, we have been cooperating for decades , yes, hahaha , don't lie to mom, that girl doesn't look at you right , son , you must be careful, I understand, I understand, mom, you all saw it today, right? This fucking Chen Jianghe Not only did he embezzle your money and eat your human blood buns, but his fucking father cheated you of your money . You said those broken TVs and washing machines were not worth a damn amount of money. From now on, we will draw a clear line with their whole family. This old damn guy. No communication. To the team leader, we don't have any work to do now. You should hurry up and find us a job. Yes, Xiao Xiang. We haven't worked for more than a month. Today we lost so much money. If you continue like this, we really can't open the pot. Okay, who is Xiang Chengye here? I am Jiang Chengyi. Who are you looking for? Didn't you talk to Mr. Tan two days ago about the project and said that you have many skilled workers? Mr. Tan asked me to take you to be the princess . No, Mr. Xu, oh , oh Mr. Xu, it turns out it's you. You see, I haven't recognized you for a long time. Hahaha. The skilled workers are all in the back. Oh, then assemble everyone and let's start the construction work in the afternoon. Okay, great, go slowly. Doesn't this wage count? Calculate the wages: 450 for a small worker, 750 for a big worker, and 850 for a substitute master. I took pictures in one day. Oh my God, these big workers and small workers all have 150 more than Qin Xiang and that bastard. Chen Jianghe's heart is so dark. No wonder he was asked to refund 20,000 yuan in the first place. When we were working together, we didn't even blink an eye, and we didn't know that we were defrauded of a lot of money by him. Oh , it's better to take us to the alleys to find work . The money was enough. If you don't want to be the substitute master, just let Xiao Xiao sit. Hey, right, Mr. Xu, this is all Damn , Mr. Xu , oh, Mr. Xu , oh, you're welcome , isn't it Xu Tianyin? I'm going to meet someone. Hahaha, Chen Hao, stop for me , Chen Jianghe, Chen Jianghe, didn't you tell me to find a project that's hard? Come on, look over there. The big boss, Xu Tianyin, is looking for our family. Do you know how much you will be paid if you work ? 300 for a small worker and 650 for a big worker. 850 for a shift master. I tell you that I am going to resign and quit. I am going to be a light shift master. Tell you, we can still recruit everyone. Mr. Xu to find a job with you without you. Cheng Yi, I think you are pitiful. I would like to remind you that if you look for him to work, you may not even have a place to cry in the end. Chen Jianhe, what the hell do you mean you are jealous when you see our big job? Then just think that I am jealous. I wish you good luck . Let everyone sign this document and you can start working right away . Okay, okay, let me see what these documents are first. Oh, what you look at is a safety commitment letter . Okay, let's sign it first. Hey, hey, sign it later. Hey, old. Does your job include food and accommodation? What are you thinking? Whatever the market is now, it's good to have a job. It also includes food and accommodation. Are you awake? But when you worked at Chen Jianghe's place before, he included food and accommodation. Then go ahead. He's going to do it, don't, don't, it's okay. Leader, this is an apartment, and all the work is done by supermen. It turned out that we were used to working at our construction site with room and board included, and I'm not used to it at this time. Well, it 's okay, but it's okay. The salary is halved . What the fuck? Isn't this a lie? If you pay for food and accommodation, half of our salary will be deducted. I'm not going to do this fucking job anymore. I'm not going to do it. I can't do it. Pack your things and get out. Brothers, don't be angry. Don't be angry. Let me explain. Explain, explain, what are you doing? What are you doing? Everyone, please think carefully about how much money Chen Jianghe paid you, and how much salary Mr. Xu gave you. Before, Chen Xiangbao, you had food and accommodation, and you lived in that board house. What's there? Everyone is here to make money. Who cares about the food and accommodation? Yes, Xiao Xiao, everyone, go to work. Hey, let's go, let's go. Brother Xiang Chengyi, is that project really not possible? How in the sky can it be possible? It's really a pie. Look at these villagers insisting on following Xiang Chengyi. There is a high probability that there will be a disaster this time . Do you want to tell the villagers? After all, they are all from the same village. Tell them, tell them. I think you are too kind. In the past, our son gave them such a high salary and provided them with free food and drink . However, they said that our son was greedy for their money. Today, he will come to our house to do chores and let these white-eyed wolves fall into trouble. Uncle said that he is ungrateful to these white-eyed wolves. They should let them suffer some losses . Hey , what are you doing if you don't go home to me ? Let's pay your wages. Hahaha, you just did one day's work and you come to me to pay your wages. Didn't we all get paid on a daily basis ? Then you guys It's time to meet the Living Bodhisattva. When we worked with Chen Jianghe before, it was really a daily settlement. Then why don't you continue to work with him? What kind of flowers are there in the business? Those who work on the construction site are given some pocket money every month until the end of the year. I 've just settled all your salaries. What are you asking for here? You're not going to settle the payroll. What should I do if the project is unfinished? Right? If you're unfinished, who should we go to for salary? You dare to say that my project will be unfinished. Just look at me and ruin it. How do you spend money? Isn't it just money? I'll pay it out for you first, okay? Isn't the purpose of us guys just to get the work done first? Are you in a hurry? We all belong to the same village. Don't you trust me? I'll give the company to you first. Let's build it for you. You must work with peace of mind first and keep your word. I believe you. Let's go. Let's go. It's hard to get some work done . I'll stabilize these villagers first . I'll wait until I'm brave enough to go out and get familiar with them. Some of them want to be leaders. I have something to discuss with you. Can you give me the entire resale package of this project? I can make an appropriate profit difference in subcontracting the paper. I will subcontract it to you for 500,000. It is preliminary estimated that you can still make a net profit. Oh my god, thank you, Mr. Xu. It's great. You are much better than that white-eyed wolf like Chen Jianghe. It's a bit troublesome. But if you want a daily salary , then you can start the project first and then it will be completed in three months. Then I will work together. Here you go , hahaha, thank you, brother. Thank you, brother. I'll go over first and contact you later. Haha , I didn't expect that Xiaoxiang would be so rich . After he contracted the project, he paid us daily wages every day in less than a month . Hahahaha , Xiao Xiao is such a good person. He found out that Chen Jianghe tore through our money to help us get it back, and even took us to work. Oh, they are both college students. Why are the differences between people so big ? I'm sure you can't compare with Chen Jiahao. Besides, let's spend that money to come up with new pictures one after another . All the villagers in the rescue village come and gather together. What's going on, comrade police ? What's going on? What's going on? This is what I'm bringing here. Brother, Xiao Xiang, what's going on ? Why was Xiang Dongda arrested? Zhang Chengyi, click on your recognition . Are they all here ? Okay, they are all here. Take them all back to the police station for investigation. Hey, hey, hey, what are you doing? We didn't break the law. Why are you arresting us? It 's not Brother Xiao. What's going on? It's that bastard Chen Jianghe who is behind the scenes. Hasn't he already lost all the money he broke ? He sued us again. What happened to Xiaoxia? Why don't you tell me something? You are suspected of laundering money. Now I want to take you all to the police station for investigation. It's not money laundering . What is money laundering? I don't know, Uncle Zhang. I just read what people say on the news. Money laundering is illegal. But when we work hard on the construction site, what kind of laws do we break and how do we launder money ? You said we are just getting paid. You must be wrong , right? Yes, we work honestly on the construction site and get paid. This is not illegal. Did everyone of you give it to Xiang Cheng? Yi, a bank card , yes. We gave him the bank card and password, but it was just a bank card. We handed it over to Xiang Xiang and told him that it was used for year-end bonuses. The problem lies here with your bank. The card was used for money laundering. Xu Tianyin has been arrested. Now I suspect that you are involved in money laundering . It's not that we didn't launder money. We really didn't launder money. If you don't launder money, you need to investigate first . Everyone gets on the bus. Police, folks, you don't have to be afraid. We just need to cooperate with the police investigation . I I fell into the hands of that Xu Tianyi, but you should be fine. Let's cooperate. Damn, what do you mean it's fine? Jiang Chengyi, did you say you found some bad job? It's a shame that I believe you so much. I 'm blind. What the hell are you kidding ? Brother, what the hell is going on ? How did this happen ? Tell me, I don't know. I was also fucking framed by Chen Jiahui. Brother Chen, Brother Chen is not good. Something big happened. What happened to Yan? The villagers of Ginkgo Village were They were arrested. Why are you anxious? My classmates who were not from the police station called me and said that they were suspected of money laundering . They also accused you and said that you were also involved. Who is talking nonsense ? What's going on? You think of a solution. Meet Chen Jianghe I'm Chen Jianghe. The masses are reporting you for money laundering. Please come with us to the police station to help with the investigation . I'll withdraw the money with you. Brother Chen, I 'll go with you. I 'm sure you didn't hear me . Sit tight, fuck, and join forces with Xu. Is Tianyi doing us? I am now suspected of money laundering by the police. I am not interested in you . No, no, you are Chen Jianghe, right? Police comrade , I will report, I will report this kid, he did it. He laundered money. We are innocent . Look, our police are very particular about handling cases. We don't need you to teach us how to do evidence. We will never condone anyone participating in money laundering. This is, oh, he came with me. He has nothing to do with this matter . Then you can wait a moment and go. Let's go in and understand the situation. Hey, that's not it. What are you doing, bitch? He won't let you in, so he has to arrest us. You 're green and smooth, why don't you just be like the folks ? I tell you, you have to believe me. Chen Jianhe, this kid, is just a white-eyed wolf. Do you know that he is here ? He was poisonous in my heart . When we first got the job, I went to see him. You know what he said to me so that I couldn't find a place to cry. Look at what he said. Then I realized that we were all tricked by him. What did you set up ? Bah, you are not a thing. Uncle Chen Jiang, I believe you have driven away this Chen Jianghe. Uncle , I knew that everything was not going well . He was behind the scenes to frame us . If we go to jail, huh, their family won't be able to do it. You want us to be better off, but this is not the case. It's a biting dog. Not named Chen Jianghe. This bitch's heart is too dark. He's too insidious. Damn, Brother Chen, are you okay? It's okay. Uh-huh, Captain Qin, if everything's okay, we'll evacuate first. If anything happens , Cheer, thank you, let 's go , ah, ah, fellow villagers , if you have eliminated any suspicion, you can go. Let's remember not to give our bank cards and passwords to others casually in the future. Hey, let's go . Go to Chengyi. You embezzled so-called public funds and brought them back to the county. Under investigation, Brother Xiang, you embezzled public funds . Isn't this true? Little Elephant actually embezzled and took you away. What are you doing? Relax , Lao Zhang. What should we do now ? Small amounts of corruption won't come out in a few years. From now on, I want to go. Where are you looking for work? Xiangrui, you have worked with Chen Jianghe before. You know how to take projects. Do you want to take some projects ? We can do it with you . My Xiaorui, don't worry, why don't you say we can't have no work, right? My son needs 180,000 to get married. You said I'm still tens of thousands short of the betrothal gift . My uncle is in need of money and so am I. My mother can't use it anymore. Now she has to go to the hospital for checkups every month. Who's not short of money ? I'm short of money too. The problem is that it's not that easy to find a project . You need to make connections, right? I don't have any, my Xiaorui, why don't you go and beg Chen Jianghe again and say that we guys are still willing to work with him ? Just let me go and beg Chen Jianghe again and let me go and beg Chen Jianghe. If Jiang He goes, either you are present or you are the most familiar with him, wouldn't it be most suitable for you to go? If I don't go, whoever wants to go will go . Let's each find a job first. We are all experienced . Even if we can't take on the project, it 's okay for us to work for others, right? Sir, you're right. Let's not beg that bastard Chen Jianghe. We need to be strong and powerful. We need skills and know-how. Why don't we make money if we follow someone? Yes, yes , we all look for work together. There are so many experienced people who are definitely vying for our leave. Go and look for work , hey fellows, do you still need people here? No, no, hurry up, hurry up, leave, don't choke, we are still doing it, hey, big brother , big brother, drink water, drink water , brother, you are still recruiting migrant workers? Our skilled workers only need 300 a day. Three hundred versus three hundred a day , then just include a meal. Hey, I saw that without them, we don't want one thousand, two hundred. I don't even have a fucking thousand . Three hundred, help me lose Uncle Xiao. Can you ask me ? I've asked more than a dozen construction sites what else can you do. I'm going to go. Brother Ding, you guys are here to find work. Yes, yes, come on. Hey , go, go, go. There's no work for you. Today, you are the ninth wave coming here. We're looking for someone to work for. You think you still want to find a job when your old arms and legs don't have human bullets. You're dreaming. Hey, why don't you tell me what a little bastard you are. I haven't found the goods yet. If I pay more, it will be in trouble. No, just do it . Come on, everyone. Come for dinner, come on, aunt, the food you cook is so delicious , isn't it? We all like to eat the food you cook. It's delicious. Eat more. I've got enough food. Come and get it when you've finished. Come on, uncle , master , Chen Shulan, let's go. Come with me, Uncle Chen, what are you going to do ? Now, Uncle Jin San's villagers are all working with Chen Jianghe. Let's think of a way to get them all away. Chen Jianghe will have no one left, so he won't beg us . Hahaha, Lao Zhang, you really have this trick of yours. Go away. Chen Qingguo, Li Xiangrui, Zhang Baotian. What do you want to do? Shut your shell. I ask you , do you want money to eat? You don't want money. If you don't pay for it, then why don't you also provide accommodation, car, pick-up and drop-off ? Yes, hey, hey, Chen Jianghe is still doing the same thing. What on earth do you want to say ? Let me tell you. You have all been taken advantage of by Chen Jianghe. He has provided it for you. He wants you to work more for him one by one so that he can make money from you. We people from Ginkgo Village used to work with Chen Jianghe on construction sites, but he charged us 20,000 yuan for every project. 20,000 yuan has made a lot of money on our heads . It turns out that you are the white-eyed wolves of Ginkgo Village. Oh, my sister-in-law has no cubs. Brother Chen helped you make money and you bite Brother Chen back. I tell you , don't look at the combination of groups. He is so good. He is a black-hearted capitalist who follows him. Sooner or later, he will be drained of blood by that white-eyed wolf. How much is the value of the work we do? We know in our hearts that Brother Chen has never treated us badly. Yang Daniu does not understand the frivolousness of you people . I only know that Brother Chen is a nobleman of our village. Isn't it true that Brother Chen is our great nobleman? We don't charge for food, accommodation and transportation, and we are given a salary, let alone 20,000 yuan for a project, and 200,000 yuan for a project. Brother Cheng deserves it, you bunch of fools , Lin Xiangrui, Zhang Baotian, don't sow discord here, we don't owe you , get out of here , we don't owe you , get out of here , shut up , and pay us for sowing discord. Your son is already owed. How much work have our young and old men in Ginkgo Village done for him? If he hadn't been stealing money from us, why would he refund us 20,000 yuan for each project every time ? It was Xiao Xiang who found out that he saved 20,000 yuan for each project. Without saying a word, he refunded the money to us. I see that he saved far more than that. You people in Jinshan Village, don't be so stupid and help Chen Jianghe. Hurry up and draw a clear line with Chen Jianghe like us. What the hell? A bunch of mountain gunners are just like, hey, how dare you say something about me, Chen Jianghe? I'll beat you to death, you white-eyed wolf. How dare you fucking hit me ? Hey, come down, come down, apologize, apologize , hey, get out of here, don't be rude to me , wait until I tell you, you're so kind. Just treat it like a donkey liver and lungs, you are just waiting one by one, hurry up and suffer a loss. Sister , hell , sister, I have beaten the eggs , I will let this matter go first. Just leave it here, aunty, chopsticks , uncle, give you chopsticks, uncle and aunty, you are wronged by living here. This place is really a bit shabby. I'm not aggrieved. It's very good. Yanzi is so good . It would be great if she was my wife. You're right . I think they two are quite suitable. Stop talking. People are getting anxious. Hahahahaha. Swallow. Auntie was just talking nonsense. Eat, eat, eat , eat. You guys should eat, too. Eat more, eat more. Auntie, you should eat too . Okay, okay, thank you . Hahaha. Hey, Lao Chen. Come back quickly. Li Xiaorui and Zhang Baojie broke into your house. What did they break into my house ? Everyone, hurry up and clean up . Our Xijiehe family is back. Work hard. Work hard . What are you doing ? Uncle Jiang He, Aunt Lan, you are all back. Captain Zhou is here too . Jiang He, we said we are waiting for you. I'll wait until this is sorted out before I go to Jinshan Village to pick you up. Hahaha, there's no need here. You guys are brothers , no, I'm here to apologize to you, son, uncle, I know I'm wrong. I'm wrong. What's your mistake? That 's it. This person surnamed Xiang deceived us and we misunderstood you. Now we all know that we were wrong about you. Adults and Da Dao, please don't be familiar with us. My uncle has watched you grow up since you were a child. Hey , brother, do you still remember when you were a child? I, Uncle Li, even fed you a roasted sweet potato to eat. Now that your uncle has put me in trouble, you can't just let me go. Yes, you dog. Do you still remember how much we played when we were kids? Did you fall into the water once? I rescued you, yes , there was one more time, my uncle almost beat you to death when you came home late, it was me who rushed out to protect you behind me , yes , and you can't bear to see us having no work, right? You don't have many people, and we have all been with you for two or three years. I'm going to ask you a question. You said, you said, you said , how much money did Xiang give you to bribe him ? Five to five thousand is good for a kid . You sold me for 5,000 just for this little money regardless of our relationship for many years. It was not Hechuan's fault . He knew that he couldn't blame me. At that time, I was in a hurry to use the money. I was obsessed with it . What did I do with the money in a hurry ? I came to you for a showdown. The purpose of working on projects with me is so that you don't have time to mess with these gambling things anymore . You think you can quit this way . You go, I won't help you anymore . At that time, I was kind enough to help each of you make money, which was fine for you. Now in the end, you are scolding each one. I'm a wolf with supercilious eyes. You guys are not worthy of helping me there . Chen Jinghe, how can you do this ? Isn't it just that little money? It 's not like you do n't have it. Are you still arguing with us? You, especially you, don't want to see that our family is better off than yours. Come here and smash it. In our family, I particularly regret that I gave you the 20,000 yuan that I deserved. I should have filed a lawsuit with you and let you listen to the judge's decision in court and slap you in the face morally . Don't do this to me . It's useless to recall those bad pasts. You won't even do anything for this little money . Why should I give you face again ? We know we are wrong. Isn't it okay? We know we are wrong. Isn't it okay? If we really know we are wrong this time Please forgive us. Just remember that we have worked with you for several years. Don't be angry anymore. We will definitely work harder than before to repay you . Forgive us. Forgive me. You can't understand human language, right? I said I will never help you Xianghe again in my life. You are the only one who can help me now. If I leave at the school gate for a month and don't pay back, they will make trouble for me. Chen Jianghe , what on earth are you going to do? Forgive me, can I kneel down for you ? I kneel down for you, Chen Jianghe, my good brother, I was wrong, I am not a human being , I should not betray you for 5,000 yuan, I am not a human being , I am wrong, I should beat me, I am not a human being , I am wrong You have a child, uncle, I knelt down for you , you, you can treat us like nothings, we regret it too , ah, what are you doing, kneel down if you like, mom and dad, Yanzi, let's go, Xiaohe, Xiaohe, Xiaohe, Jianghe, you No more, don't give me a miserable life , it's useless, Jianghe , Jianghe, I can't live without life. If I don't live now, I'm finished. Jianghe , you gave me 800 days before , but now I only need 300, 300, 300. Hey, Uncle He, too. Didn't you give me 500 a day before? I don't want the 500 anymore, just give me 300. My 200 and 200 have become us. We also want 200. Brother Zhang, we all know that you give the people in Jinshan Village a minimum salary of 350 a day. We only need 200 to save you a lot. What you said about making more makes sense hahaha. It can save me a lot of costs and I can make more money. Hahaha, yes, yes, but there is one thing that is strange. How come none of you are afraid of me in such a short period of time? I swallowed your money, but there is one thing that is strange. How come you are not afraid of me swallowing your money again in such a short period of time ? You are not afraid. No, you didn't save our money. It was the Star Project that misled us. You didn't swallow our money at all. What the hell are you drinking? Ah, since the beginning, uncle, I didn't believe that you could swallow this money. Zhang Baotian said at that time that when I swallowed the money, he said, "You dance the most and this is not your profession. What else can you say? No, I'll give it to Jinshan Village." With 5008008,0008 million people, I won't spend 200 to hire you white horses who are inferior to pigs and dogs. Jianghe, Jianghe, oh, oh, oh, oh, why was I blind back then ? I held Xiang Chengyi against Chen Jianghe . Chen Jianghe is my good brother. I told Cheng Yi, that bastard , he fucking killed him. It's over. It 's too late to say anything now. Hey, we will never find someone as good as Hechuan again. Brother Cheng, are you really not going to help them? Help them. Yeah. Do you see how I'm smiling and trying to help them? Let's go. Let's prepare a surprise for the Jinshan villagers. Surprise, what kind of surprise ? Slow down, wow, so much money. Bonuses are given to us fellow villagers. Today, Mr. Chen Jianghe , Mr. Chen, is giving us the award. On the bonus day, I would like to ask Mr. Chen to say a few words to us. Dear generals, I, Chen Jianghe, would like to thank you all for your strong support to me over the past few months. Let us thank Brother Cheng. It was Brother Cheng who led us to become rich together. Well, this all belongs to us. It's all your fault. It's all your fault. It 's all your fault. It's all your fault. This situation has happened countless times in Ginkgo Village . But later they gave me chills . But in Jin Everyone in Shancun showed me that sincerity is priceless. These bonuses are just the beginning. From now on, let's work together to create brilliance. Let 's all take the bonuses and go home to have a happy New Year. Everyone comes and gets the bonuses. Come and get the bonuses. Come on. Thank you, boss. Thank you, Brother Chen. Follow-up. Please arrange your affairs, don't let your health brother worry about you. I know you, I feel sorry for Mr. Chen, stinky girl, go quickly , okay , please slow down, Yanzi , thank you, what are you thanking me for? I was really disappointed with human nature before. But with you and the Jinshan villagers, I regained hope in people, so thank you , thank me for being practical. This is your bonus. I don't want it. So what do you want? I want you to take me home as my boyfriend during the Chinese New Year. Is that okay?