From our archives... The Billy Graham Classics. [applause] Is it possible that man, can bring about Winston Churchill said, Winston Churchill said that our morals are our technological advance. Just think what's happened A hundred years ago and certainly, and we barely had and no one had seen any, at least in the part of We didn't have airplanes. The first airplane flew at Kitty Hawk, and it just flew And all of this has happened And our human nature We're still human beings And we're capable of war. And so, the time has come for us to look up some of that have to do with And we ask ourselves, A person can live A person can possibly live I read about a man that lived 70 days And it's possible to live about It's possible to live maybe 6 But it is almost impossible, by sociologists and psychiatrists and clergy, And one of the great needs And many young people and that's why many of them and turning to drugs and They see no hope We read about and they talk about Armageddon, they talk about And we see, almost daily and on radio or television, A New York philosopher says, "America needs a philosophy of The former Prime Minister making a speech "Billions of people today And he said, "Hope is the greatest need They're tempted They opt out. And so, we tend to hide from As many people today so the zodiac signs are being Spiritual mediums Computers are being used to predict the future. We hear a lot and the best-selling author, "The most wide-spread feeling "is one of hopelessness And what oxygen is such is hope In our passage, there are four things that They all begin with a "V". Luke, the 21st chapter "And there shall be "and in the moon, "and upon the earth "with perplexity; the sea "Men's hearts failing them "and for looking after &quot;which are coming "for the powers of heaven "And then shall they see "the Son of man coming "with power and great glory. "And when these things "then look up," Look up with hope, "and life up your heads; &quot;for your redemption The four things beginning with First, there's a view of When these things begin What things? Things that we've just been The disciples just asked him They said, "When shall these things be, "what shall be the sign "and what will be the sign Jesus said, He said don't speculate There is going to be an end to but the kingdom of God is God is not going to retreat. God is going to control before it's over and the Kingdom of God Jesus' answer in Matthew 24 took 94 verses. He gave a whole scenario. Jesus said one of the factors Fear of And that's what &quot;the powers of heaven We will be fearing. There will be wars and And in this century, which was called there's a magazine that was started in 1900, this was going to be It looked like the whole world and filled with love at the beginning of And there was in Europe and America And in this century, We've fought and more people have been killed than all the other centuries in the past thousand years. What happened? Human nature was not put God's answer to the real was not taken into account. Wars and rumors of wars. Then He said there will be Signs seeing the militarization involving American and equipped with Nuclear bombs and that can descend anywhere All of these things Signs in the sky. We talk about SDI has to do with We now are told that or are on the verge of Suppose some little nation and starts throwing bombs? And that could start There are so many things at some of these conferences coming from scientists and Jesus said another sign and hunger and suffering on a scale unprecedented And more people today are starving and suffering with all of our modern medicine, And then he said there would be People would be "As it was "so shall it also be "the coming of They ate, they married wives and And the divorce statistics including the Soviet Union, where we have our friends They could tell you all over the world. And in II Timothy 3:1 and 5. I was sitting on a plane and sitting beside me was And he was a very well-known from one of I happened to be reading in Phillips translation. And he said, I said, "Well, I'm reading He said, "Do you mind if He said, "I've never really I let him read this passage. "But you must realize that "the times will be "Men will become &quot;and greedy for money, "They'll be &quot;without any regard "They will be utterly lacking "reverence and "They will be remorseless, "uncontrolled and violent and "They will be treacherous, "loving what gives them pleasure "They will maintain "but their lives deny "Keep clear of people When he finished reading that "You know, that's really &quot;our country today." He said, "Is that really I said, "Yes, &quot;and that was written "It's a prediction of what's He said, He said, "in all the papers "and the papers "and the books He said, &quot;I may use this whole thing in And then Jesus said there'll be Matthew 24:14 "And this gospel "shall be proclaimed "for a witness "Then shall the end come." Now the whole world, can hear about Christ by radio, television, There's nowhere that someone couldn't Do you know how many in China, Over 400 million Who'd a thought that. And the television they have has different lines to it, and much clearer than we have And in China, to go to the universities, and proclaim the Gospel Who would have ever I was talking to a Chinese man He said, "You know, we think, that a clergyman the Prime Minister of China. On the second day the new premier, Mr. Li Peng, And we went, and we spent And the Chinese press And they reported what was said because we were the only two Jesus does not say when But the next word It says that we're to watch When it begins to come to pass, There should be hope, The world that's outside of at the possibility but you and I, we look forward with great hope because Christ is He may come tonight When a person dies, that's People ask me, &quot;When is the end of the world When you die, that'll be But the end of the age with all of its sinfulness is going to be and the kingdom of God &quot;Thy kingdom come, Jesus prayed. I believe that prayer is in some future day. But for you, It's an immediate thing. How do you stand Jesus doesn't say when these things reach nor does he say when these things have He says, when these things In my judgment, many of them and we could look up and not on the newspapers, not on the television screens Your hope is in Christ. He's the one that has made that His kingdom is going to He's going to come back. And in First Thessalonians, the apostle Paul said &quot;And when men shall say "then sudden destruction comes.&quot; Several times the expression is &quot;A thief in the night.&quot; A number of places &quot;He will come when &quot;as a thief in the night.&quot; And it may be at death. And that may be And Jesus is in heaven now, &quot;He's preparing a place for us,&quot; And Paul said, &quot;Behold, "We shall not all sleep, but "In a moment, Christ's coming in a moment, Do you know how fast that is? It's not like a clap of thunder General Electric reported that 11 hundredths That's how quick. And Christ is going to come and for you that know Him, Many of us are so taken up and the pleasures and and the money and the lifestyle that we don't want to leave We hold on But for all of you, the world is going to pass away. But he that does the will of God I would rather know Jesus Christ and live in the poorest country where you had nothing, than to be a millionaire and not have Christ. Christ gives in the midst of and all the difficulties that But Jesus said, "The one shall be taken "Watch, therefore, &quot;for you know not what hour "Therefore, "for in such an hour "the son of man cometh.&quot; Are you ready? He said, How do you get ready? Be sure that you have Repentance means means to change It means a change You're going in this direction You turn and go You can't do it because God has to help you And then you must by faith You come to the cross He took all of your sins because the scripture says you're going to go There's going to be in which all of us will give what we've done here and and our thoughts and intents And then the third V, We're to look up. The Scripture says, &quot;Where there is no vision, Peter Jenkins writing in said some time ago, &quot;We've all moved into "and there's no clear vision of Jesus gives us a clear picture Paul said, &quot;If in this life only "we of all men If this is all there is, we're of all men But there's There's something something to be something to be expected. Many times, and we talk about it, &quot;Wouldn't it be wonderful if "Wouldn't it be wonderful if, "we would just slip into I'm looking forward to it. I'm looking forward to if He comes I'm looking forward to death the sting of death has been He's alive. And because He lives, What a hope we have. I remember many years ago, and I was invited to visit I had never met him. I didn't know but we were preaching in and it was a lot So, he invited me at 11 o'clock And I went and he offered me He was in his last year And he started right in &quot;Young man, &quot;the resurrection of Well, I was surprised. I said, He said, He said, &quot;If Jesus Christ I see no hope for He said, &quot;There's not "as I sit here "unless that hope lies in And he said, "I'm going to spend my time And we talked for about the hope of Many people are People in high places people at universities. I go to universities today, whether it's in or China or Europe, or in Britain where a number of times to be and take the questions and from staff And they all ask almost all over the world. What's the purpose of Where did I come from? Why am I here? Where am I going? What is the hope What a mess What's the cause of it? And I try to answer them And it's interesting how deep how profound how thoughtful their questions Do you know Christ? Does he dominate Dante once wrote about And he said, &quot;All hope abandon, There is no hope for those but there's hope, which is Hope for Hope that you're going to have Hope for the poor people you'll have more than you can Hope for the people that have because you're going to go where there is absolute total, There's hope that God will forgive us in a world that has so little I'm rich compared to Paul wrote to Titus, &quot;Looking for "and the glorious appearing of "the great God and Savior He wrote, "which God, &quot;promised before And Peter said, &quot;Looking for and hasting unto We are looking for a new heavens "wherein dwelleth The Apostle John wrote, &quot;Beloved, now we, "and it doeth not yet appear "but we know that "we shall be like Him, "for we shall see Him "And every man that "purifies himself, Do you have that hope We're to thrive The Bible says In Romans 12 it says, Romans 5 says, "knowing that Do you have this hope That there's a great future who let Christ dominate Happy as he whose hope is Isaac Watson sent &quot;O God, our help in ages past, Shakespeare wrote in &quot;Through the medicine of hope, I have the hope to live Do you have that hope? Then the last V, The Scripture says &quot;Lift up your heads.&quot; And today I can recall so many of those great songs &quot;I will lift up mine eyes "From whence cometh "My help comes "which made I lift up my eyes and and my help comes He enters into us and He will give you the lift at no cost to you The only cost to you is surrender, believe, repent, Oh yes, it's not going to be easy. You may lose a friend. You may have problems that you never dreamed because it's not easy in our present generation. But when you surrender to Him, the Holy Spirit comes to live He gives you a power to produce the fruit of love and joy and peace and All these fruit is the Holy Spirit will produce it and give you a love It'll be a supernatural love with your wife or your neighbors, or the people that It's all yours in Christ. Yes, there's hope. Hope for the future. It's centered in who died for our sins and is alive now. And I have staked or ever hope to be And so must you, and if you are to be the kingdom of God. I'm going to ask you today that we've seen this past week. I'm going to ask you to get up and come and stand and say, &quot;I want to rededicate my life You might've been baptized. You might've been confirmed, but you'd like to think, what you've promised you'd like to Or, you may have never You might've thought that but you're really And you want to make certain, We're going to wait. Hundreds of you that You may be in the choir Don't let this day finish without you making And you over there. And I'm going to ask that people and block the aisles, because Just as I am, You can make that decision just as here in Rochester, New York. The number on your screen is for spiritual help Call that number right now. It could well be you've ever made. To Thee whose blood O Lamb of God, I come. There are many of you by television, and you can see that here many hundreds of people to make their commitment You need to make and you can do that I'm going to ask you to do it Say yes to Christ. And if you will, and call that number that There's somebody a prayer with you and say God bless you and help you If you just prayed that prayer or if you have any questions about a relationship why don't you just call There will be someone there to answer those questions. And remember, If you would like to commit please call us right now, 1-877-772-4559. That's 1-877-772-4559. Or you can write to us at: Billy Graham 1 Billy Graham Parkway Department C Charlotte, NC 28201 Or you can contact us on the web We'll get the same helps to you who responds at the invitation. On behalf of The Billy Graham thank you for watching and thank you for your prayers. It's Anne, If you don't take it to the edge you're dead already, baby. (woman) I was in trouble (slap) (Nazi) I knew that I could It's like you're in a dream, but not really a dream, this is reality. I don't really believe in all this but I know something crazy is happening right now.