- [Reporter 1] 3000 degrees and $3 worth of energy is all this laser needs to shoot down this drone This is the bluehalo Under a dozen are currently deployed with the US Army in to take down unmanned aircraft. In ukraine and the red sea, drones are changing warfare, making it easier to with cheap low tech weapons. - The future of proxy warfare is here, and that is a technological standoff between human life and technology. - [Reporter 1] Laser weapons are one of several relatively to drone threats, but compared to traditional They have a shorter and can be harder to fix The Pentagon has not confirmed that a laser has successfully Here's how the laser works, why it may be the most to fight drones and why there are significant The Locust laser weapon high energy laser or P-HEL. Weighing in at 3,400 pounds and measuring seven feet the Locust can fit on the back of large Army vehicles like this Striker. The weapon has two parts, and the tracking system on the right. The right houses an AI program that locks onto drones like this drone flying The laser can take as many as and can struggle to remain locked on it for long enough to take it down. Missile strikes in comparison are quicker, cause more damage, and can The laser software is designed to look like a video and it's operated with an Xbox controller. That's so soldiers who are familiar with the software can - When we can align how we with those natural skill but it's also, honestly, it's from an user interface and - [Reporter 1] But in a combat situation isn't easy. The Locust's power source through these 12 cables. - Here you can see those that all come together. Each one of those represents a little bit of a different spectrum of into the beam control unit here. - [Reporter 1] Without the light particles or photons and disperse before they In the desert outside bluehalo demonstrated just how precise its laser could be. This white rectangle about a half mile away. In just 1.5 seconds of beam contact, it melted this two inch The $2,000 Mavic is with missiles costing anywhere from a hundred thousand Though the Locust varies to $10 million, it can - A cost per shot of a Locust The ability to have essentially an infinite magazine at of engagement at very, across a wide swath of threats, and that's a very powerful - [Reporter 1] But missiles of over 120 miles, while the Locust can go And with just a few working there are many logistical and (plane exploding) Laser weapons have intrigued the public since their invention in the 1960s, but the Defense Department in the 1980s. - I know this is a one that may not be accomplished before the end of this century. - [Reporter 1] And experts still face some of the same challenges today. First there's heat. As energy travels then the spectrum and into the laser head, some is lost along the way. Without air conditioners of the machine cold, it inside the Locust. The second is weather. Photons in the beam will bounce off of particles in the air or fog, dispersing the beam, - No real difference than in some degree other weapon systems that can get impacted by or any environment that - [Reporter 1] Both of to poor performance, like one February 2024 Feedback from soldiers was and they said that the lab and testing ranges were very different. - [Reporter 2] When P-HEL there's another problem. Because laser weapons are so new, there is little infrastructure - [Reporter 1] The Army has to find spare parts and someone to fix lasers when for example, in African combat zones. - [Reporter 2] Bluehalo says it aims to fix that issue by with mass manufactured parts. For at least the next four years, bluehalo will be providing support for each deployed Locust. Other countries and companies The UK's DragonFire had against a target in March with a cost under $14 a beam. Defense contractors like are also developing lasers for various tactical that can fit in the bed of a pickup truck and this mini laser. Bluehalo as well as other companies plan on honing their designs so the lasers can be and more effective. But concerns about these until their long-term (tense music)