Mr. Qin must come to give today's speech when he has time. Are you Qin Lang? Let 's talk about Xiong San. You are Xiong San. What are you going to do? Brother, go away. You know what I'm here to do. You'd better cooperate, otherwise the innocent Xiong San will be hurt. Don't run around. Move quickly. Move quickly. What's the sound? What's wrong with you? What's going on with the gunfire? Quick, get out of the way. Get out of the way. Hide. Hide. Hide. Get out of the way. Hide now. Hide and get out of the way. Everyone, please stop. Be careful, Uncle Qin, Sasha, Sasha, Sasha, Uncle Qin, Sasha, Sasha , Sasha, are you okay, I'm fine, Uncle Qin, he's not back yet , go back, go back , go back, go back, go back quickly, I don't care if I want to go out, I want to go find my husband, please give me a refund. Go back, go back, go back , hide quickly, hide here , hide quickly, hide quickly, hide, salsa mom, salsa salsa salsa, where are you salsa salsa salsa salsa salsa salsa salsa downstairs salsa salsa squat down, uncle Qin, salsa is okay. , It's okay, it's okay, it's okay , don't be afraid, don't be afraid, don't be afraid. Uncle Qin and Aunt Liu are here. Do you know what's going on? I saw three bears. Three bears? Just now, were you sure which room you were hiding in? It's not wrong. He is. What is the leader going to do? He should be coming for me. Search the house one by one. Start searching the rooms. Is everything okay? Is it such a coincidence? The fact has already existed. Someone must have called the police. The note will arrive soon. This third brother, should we evacuate to where? We haven't found the evidence in Qin Lang's hands. The boss can't spare us. So what should we do? Blackhead Third Brother, it's up to you. Immediately place mines and bombs around the resort. The denser the better, there are two of us. Follow me and continue the search. I just thought I heard Qin Lang calling Shasha. Who is Shasha? I have investigated that Qin Lang is in a relationship with Lu Yao, the leader of the serious crime team of the Donghai City Public Security Bureau. Lu Yao has a daughter named Shasha Long Shasha. She is also the son of Long Feihu, the captain of the Tiger Commando. My daughter, really, Li Tianyang died like this because he was stupid. Listen to me. There is a little girl named Long Shasha. Find her. It 's me again, Shasha. Your identity is too special. You must ensure Shasha's safety. This is my love for Lu Yao. Uncle Qin's promise, Shasha, don't be afraid. Uncle is here, but what to do now? They will search here soon. What are you thinking about? Shasha, this is a USB flash drive. Take it away. What am I doing with this? This is Zoya Group's money laundering through our company. Xiong San is definitely looking for the evidence , so what should I do? Keep it until you get out of danger, and be sure to give it to your mother. Dr. Liu brings Sasha over. Sasha hides it here. You two can hide in it, but don't even think about it. There are so many. You go first. I have another way. Hurry in. Come on, Dr. Liu. Shasha will be left to you. You must protect her. Where are you hiding? I don't have to hide. What did you say? I'm going out to find Xiong San Qinlang. You know it. They are here for you. How can you still die? Uncle Qin, you can't die. I'm not stupid. They won't kill me until they get the evidence. Hide it. Uncle Qin, you must take care of yourself. My father will definitely take care of you. I believe your father will rescue you. Please, Dr. Liu, Xiong San, please stop working. I'm here. Qin Lang, did you take the wrong medicine? Why did you run out on your own after hiding for so long? I just don't want you to do evil here. This is my resort. In addition to my employees, there are only tourists. I don't want them to bleed and die for me. This is a good enough reason. I didn't expect that Qin Lang is a man. If this is the case, please let your men stop. Don't worry, Qin Lang wants to It's not enough for us to stop. Your life alone is not enough. There is one more thing missing. Something to pretend to be stupid. That thing is for you to collect the money laundering evidence of the Zoya Group. Take it out. The evidence is not in my hands. It is locked in the safe of the bank. You have been trusted by me. If you don't believe me, hand over the key code and it's not with me. Where is it? It's in the hands of my girlfriend. You should know her. Lu Yao, the leader of the serious crime team of the Donghai City Public Security Bureau, beat Uncle Qin. Shasha, don't be afraid. Don't be afraid. You're not ready to say it yet. Is it true? What I said is all the truth. I'm still deceiving me. Tell me quickly. Brother Qin Lang has nothing to say. If he doesn't tell me, I can only kill him. The boss won't be satisfied. I tried my best. Brother Blackhead, they will suffer less this time. Keep burying the nonsense. Black-headed brother. The plane is coming. Black-headed brother. The police car is also here. Come on, Qin Lang. I will give you one last chance. I have nothing to say. I have nothing to say. Third brother. Third brother. The police are here. Dad, Dad, Sasha, don't move. Sasha, please don't move. Dad, dad, dad. They have come to rescue us. We are waiting for your father to come to rescue us. Each fighting group has surrounded the resort. Understand, it is Lao Long. Don't worry. Third brother, it seems that we are surrounded. What are you afraid of? They don't dare to move easily. Everyone listens and takes the hostages to the conference room. Let's gather together . Let's go. Let's go. What should Qin Lang do, third brother? Let's go quickly. Take Xiong San away. You will pay the price. You are dead. You will pay the price. The roof of the Swallowtail Butterfly building will be left to you. Don't worry, third brother. The leader here is Xiao Fei. The gangsters have deployed many remote-controlled bombs around the resort. They suspect there is a minefield on the lawn. After receiving the faucet, I have entered the resort's internal monitoring system. Currently, the gangsters are driving the hostages away to the conference hall on the third floor. Preliminary visual estimates indicate that the number of hostages is at least fifty. Bodies were found at the scene were at least 20 gangsters. They had pistols and submachine guns. There was no Shasha found. We are looking for Tigger. Your mission is not to find Shasha. Continue to observe the situation of the gangsters and hostages. I know there are too many threads and cut them all. Let's take the dragon head away. They turned off the internal monitoring system. Feiyan can't see anything now. Feiyan understands the dragon head. There are snipers on the roof of the dragon head. I can't get close. But we need to take action quickly. But inside The situation is complicated, there are too many hostages, and there are too many gangsters. But if we continue to wait like this, the situation will get worse and worse, because obviously we are not facing ordinary gangsters. They have standard weapons in their hands and know how to use bombs and landmines to interfere with our attacks. They followed the course of action until they destroyed the surveillance system. They also had snipers. They did all this very professionally. What's more important is that they are now consciously gathering hostages. The ultimate purpose of this behavior. We should be very clear that the leading tiger team is ready at any time. Attack the leader, leader, please give me the order. Squat down for me. It's okay. It's okay. Don't be afraid. The SWAT police will definitely come to rescue us. Don't be afraid. Mr. Qin, who are you looking for? It's okay. It's okay. You two go to the second floor again and find the little girl. This is the report. The Tiger Commando has been fully prepared. Please ask the bureau leaders and detachment leaders to approve our operation. Isn't it too late for the leader to wait for us ? Yes, Long Feihu. How sure are you, Director Wu? I can only act as soon as possible to avoid making things worse. I'm sure, Long Feihu, you give me a minute, Xu Yuan, I want to hear your opinion. At this time, I can only believe in my own people. This determination, I will take this responsibility, I will carry it. You are right at this time. We can only believe in our comrades. We can only believe in Long Feihu. We can only believe in Director Wu, a member of the Tiger Commando. They need to be responsible. We will carry Long Fei with you, Hu Da, Captain. I am Director Wu Youfeng, and I approve your actions. And you absolutely believe in the combat effectiveness of the Tiger Commandos. You don't have to have any worries. Go forward and fight your most beautiful battle. The Tiger Commandos are ready to [ __ ] Aunt Liu. I want to go to my parents. Shasha. I'll give your dad a call at eleven o'clock. Feiyan pulls up a little under the eaves and goes around. Are you sure? It's too dangerous. I'm ready. Okay. I'm ready to pull up. Feiyan. Before departure, I have written down everything I want to say. It will be automatically sent to your email address. Those who can't read may be my last words. What little flying insects are you dawdling with? I'm going to pull it up so I can beat you. Didn't kill her? You relented. I didn't. I want to keep her alive. I want to ask her in person why she walked up. I still don't know how to watch the evil little flying insect. I will listen to your explanation in person. I know how to do it. No wonder Qin Lang came out so happily. There really is someone. You are Sasha, right? She is not Sasha. We don't know her name. She's my daughter, stinky [ __ ], you think we are idiots, why are you panicking? Why don't you take her down and let Third Brother and Swallowtail Die take a look? Just don't come over here, you don't come over, stinky [ __ ], get out of my way, Aunt Liu, Aunt Liu, me. Please, she's just a child. Don't come here. I beg you, please let her go. I beg you, she's just a child. Come on. Sha Sha Sha Sha Sha Sha Sha Sha Sha Sha. It's okay. Don't be afraid. Sha Sha. Check carefully. Yang Zhen, are you okay? We'll report everything. It's good to die. Dr. Liu can have a few moments. I'm so anxious that I don't even know how he died. I only know that I have to protect Shasha. Dr. Liu. On behalf of the commando team, I thank you because you saved our captain's daughter. Thank you, Shasha. I'm not afraid anymore. Don't be afraid anymore, don't be afraid anymore, Longtou, Longtou, I am a goat. I have already seen Shasha and Dr. Liu. They are safe. The beautiful goat sent them out and continued the assault to rescue all the hostages. Clearly, dad, mom, this is all thanks to Aunt Liu. If she hadn't killed the gangster, I would I might not have seen you, and they would have captured you a long time ago. Thank you, Dr. Liu, thank you. Don't thank me. Go and save Qin Lang. If it were n't for him, Shasha and I would have died long ago. What the hell is going on? Who is the leader of the gangsters inside? Xiong three, Xiong three, who can see clearly? The police retreated to the corner to rescue the hostages. It is a security control to evacuate the hostages. Two people are controlling the scene. The other one is following me. Don't move. Be careful. Third brother, third brother, Tiaozi, came down from the roof. Third brother, third brother, Tiaozi, went to second person. Everyone is downstairs, go out and fight with them. Third brother is a special police officer. We can't do it. They surrender. We can do it, but we have to fight to the death with them. Get out of here. Brother, third brother, where are you? I'm watching the hostages. Third brother, do this. It's not easy to convince the public. I have the final say. Third brother, I understand that you and Bai Fo are not of the same mind after all. At this critical moment, what you want is to save your life. You know too much. Save this bullet. I know what to do. Don't move. Don't move. Move, don't move, don't move. Put down your weapon. If you do n't put the gun down, don't move. Keep a few people here, keep controlling the others, and continue searching. Remember, don't let go of every corner. Do you understand? Adi, policeman put down his weapon. Just now, you actually fired. Hit me, Swallowtail Butterfly, put down your weapons, yes, Chen Xiaoxiao is dead, I am Swallowtail Butterfly, Adi, I feel like I am about to fly, this is the last warning, put down your weapons, Adi, Adi and Xiaoxiao will always be together, I am so happy, are you okay? Say something and move on. Shasha, why aren't you going to rest? Why don't you go to rest? How can I go? I think you have something on your mind. I'm worried about Uncle Qin. Don't worry. Your father and they will definitely rescue him safely. How is the situation with the director? Outside the conference hall on the building, the entire resort has been surrounded by us. Four hostages are dead and the rest have some minor injuries. It is preliminary determined that all the hostages died before we arrived. You did a good job. The exact number of hostages inside is not sure. According to the preliminary information provided by the rescued resort employees, there are at least thirty or forty people, including Qin Lang and all the gangsters who were killed. Didn't Xiong Sanlong Feihu appear on top? He has already gone up to the dragon head. Let's go up and see Xiong San clearly. As expected, it was the expert Captain Long who did a great job and came to the scene in person. I am a proud leader. When negotiating with him, we must ensure the safety of the hostages. Xiong San, please calm down. We have something to talk about. We have reached this point. Calm down. All I want is As soon as you let go, it's all over. Xiong San, come out. Shen Hongfei, you're here too. Come out, I'll be one-on-one with you. Do you dare? Shen Hongfei, squat down and stop bluffing. If you wanted to let go, you would have let go. What you want is life, and we want it. I am the hostage, am I right? Make a condition. As expected, Captain Long, you are really right. I really don't want to die . I'll wait for your condition. Mom, Xiong San, I tell you that there is a wounded person among the hostages. We need to treat him quickly. No problem, he is of no use to me now that he is half-dead, but he is very important to us. As long as he is not dead, the bargaining chip you can ask for will be bigger. If it is too late, it will be difficult to say. Okay, I will make a condition first. I want five million US dollars an hour. It must be delivered. I can agree to his conditions. Okay, no problem. I promise you this condition, and you can make the decision. You only give me one hour, and you still want me to report and ask for instructions. I said no problem, no problem. Five million dollars, US dollars. It's so nice to have it delivered to you within an hour. But you don't have to send it to me. You can just put it on the plane. I said put it on the plane. I'm going to the airport now. I want a special plane that can fly overseas. Five million dollars will be put on the special plane. Do you understand? You must not let Xiong San arrive at the airport. Otherwise, if the bomb explodes, the consequences will be disastrous. Xiong San, have you finished raising your conditions? The US dollars are being prepared for you. You can come out now. We will escort you there. I don't need your escort at the airport. Get all of you out. Give me an armored vehicle and send a driver. I'll go there myself. Okay, the armored vehicle is ready at the door. But I want to take a hostage. Don't panic. It's better to take away one than dozens. We are strong, let's be fully prepared. I'll come in and be your hostage. You release the other hostages. I know how to cooperate with you better than them. Don't be nervous. We have a plan in this area. Nothing will happen. How about I come in now and you can release the other hostages? If you let me go, I'm looking for death. What do you want? I want your daughter, Long Sha. Captain Sharon, why didn't you say anything? I want your daughter to go to the airport with me. If you ca n't meet this condition, all my previous conditions will be invalidated. I will now Just let go and no one will be able to survive . This condition must not be agreed to by Longtou. If Longtou continues to talk to him, he must not let Shasha be a hostage. Let's rush in. Long Feihu, why don't Long Feihu say anything? He's unwilling as soon as your daughter is mentioned. Is n't that right? Everyone is selfish and you are no exception. But don't even think about talking to me anymore. I only recognize your daughter. By the way, she was here just now. She should not be far away now. I only give you ten minutes. If Long Shasha doesn't come in after ten minutes, I will detonate the bomb. No one can survive. Dragon head, dragon head, dragon head. I have calmed down. Let's leave it to our little tiger team. Don't worry. We would rather die than let him detonate the bomb. There are nine minutes in it. Dozens of lives. Dozens of lives cannot be taken at risk. Can you just let Shasha take the risk? There are eight minutes left, the last five minutes, I will go, I will go, I will go. Can you tell Xiong San that I am also the leader of the serious crime team and I am also Shasha's mother. I will go. Okay, okay? Tiehang informed all units to prepare for the worst. Dad, Dad, I'm going to Sasha. What are you talking nonsense about? You're not allowed to go to Sasha. It's none of your business. Mom, uncle, uncle, I'm not talking nonsense. Didn't Xiong San say that? He must be the one who agrees if I go. A bad guy like him can let go of other hostages. Shasha, if I can replace other hostages, I will. Mom, don't cry. There is Uncle Qin among the hostages. He is a good man. He was injured because of me. Xiong San Take him away. I want to save him. Believe me, Sasha. You are still a child. How can we let you take risks? Uncle Wu, no matter how young I am, I am also the daughter of a police officer. Because I am the daughter of a police officer, I should have more responsibilities than other children, right? My dad is the captain of the SWAT team. I love my dad and I believe that he will subdue Xiong San and rescue me safely. Mom, do n't cry. We should believe in dad. I believe in all SWAT moms. I promise you that Shasha will be safe. Dad told Xiong San that I will go up right away. Good boy Sasha, Dad, you are speaking for the last minute. Long Feihu, don't let me underestimate your dad. I am your daughter. You should believe me, right? I will definitely be safe and sound. Believe me, Sasha, you. Dad will definitely not let you down. Sasha, Sasha, be good, be careful, pay more attention to safety, Sasha, don't be nervous, Sasha, uncle Tie promises you that nothing will happen to you, Xu Yuan will act immediately according to your plan, if anything goes wrong, I and you will Take off this police uniform together, sister, hello Sasha, you can't go to the SWAT commando captain's daughter. They should be different than other girls. They are stronger and braver. They should stay calm under any circumstances. Sister, this is what you told me. Is it Long Shasha ? Can you come in? Come in, you are Long Shasha vs. Long Feihu. What are you doing? Long Feihu, didn't you find a substitute? Xiong San, you underestimate me. Do you think I will trade another girl's life for mine? My daughter's life? Only people like you can do this kind of thing. I don't know. She is really your daughter. If it's fake, she's a dragon and a tiger. I'm really ashamed of you. Sasha is still a child. How could you do this? Uncle Qin, Uncle Qin, don't blame my father, I came here voluntarily, Mr. Qin, he asked Captain Long's daughter to exchange for ours, otherwise he will detonate the bomb, Shasha, you are such a good boy, Uncle Qin, just rest in peace and recuperate, I will definitely go and see you. Your uncle must ask you to come and see me. Let's go. Come and get out of the way of the evacuation faucet. I'm fine. Go to your own positions and stand by. It's Lu Yao. I'm sorry. Why do you say sorry? Long Feihu. I don't want you to say sorry to me. I will never Don't hear this, but when you rescue Shasha, I will say thank you. Shasha is your and my good daughter. I promise you that I will never let her get hurt. Trust me, everyone evacuates the scene immediately and prepares. Take the lead in one step. Don't think about anything now. Just wait for me here with peace of mind. I promise it will be foolproof. This plan has been rehearsed repeatedly by you. It should be certain. You two, don't be anxious and wait with peace of mind. Director Wu, you understand wrong. If I don't participate this time, It 's hard to guarantee a foolproof leader when it comes to action. Why don't you have confidence in me? Aren't you an old man? You know I was the first to propose this plan. Every drill is done by me personally. You and Lei Kai are just substitutes. But your current state is not enough for me. There is nothing wrong with the current situation, but today is an actual combat, not a drill, and the hostage is your daughter. Because the hostage is my daughter, I will be even more careful. This way, the certainty will be greater. Director Wu, I have been a special police officer for more than ten years, and Shasha This is not the first time I have been hijacked. Please believe me, Director Wu. I agree with Longtou. I also think it will be more reliable to let him go in person. And I applied to join this operation. I promise that I will never make the second mistake. Okay, you guys will take the lead tonight. Hold on to Shasha and I will celebrate your victory. Immediately notify all branches of the city bureau, police stations and other units. All police officers who are not on duty tonight will change into casual clothes and drive private cars to the highway entrance to create traffic jams. We must not let him get on the highway. We are at the toll booth. To deal with him, why are you going? You have to take action. You have to take action. If you leave first, what's the matter? If you don't rest, wouldn't it be better for Xiong San to drive for you ? Are n't you going to do something fishy? Do you think I am willing to come here just now? Being able to lead is the difference between us policemen and you. Don't let go. I still have a wife and children. Stop talking nonsense. Open the door, Sasha. Don't be nervous. Wait until he gets on the plane. Uncle Xu will take you home. Open the door and have a look. Do you want to look ahead too? Look, I have enough bombs on me to turn this armored vehicle into a big bomb. Don't let go. Use it as a snack. Come on, get in the car. Uncle, can you stop pointing this gun at me? I'm a kid or something. I can't do it. Don't worry. I'm thirteen. Aren't you afraid? What's so scary about me? You can't kill me before you escape because if you kill me, you won't have any cards left. Then it depends on whether you are good or not. Be good, of course I'm good, I don't want to die, you're pretty smart, of course you're smart, my parents are both police , I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I said the wrong thing, actually you're pretty smart too, this method is really great, shut up, command center command The central target is moving forward at a constant speed. It is expected to arrive at the airport in twelve minutes. The expressway has been received. Continue to track and make sure that all units are on alert and ready. It is clear that Xiong San is sitting firmly. We are about to enter the main road. I am sitting firmly and the car is driving well. I am reminding you to hold the handle. Don't relax and get on the main road. What nonsense are you talking about? Drive your car well and get close to the target. Don't worry. If you continue to follow Xiong San, you have completely controlled us with this move. The more cars there are, the less we dare to do anything to you. If you know this, don't play tricks on me. How far is it? We're about to get on the airport expressway. Why is it so slow? There are so many cars. What can I do? Command center. I am the leader. I'm ready. Received, Old Dragon. Stay calm. Don't worry. I'm ready here. All departments are preparing. All units are paying attention. Why are the actions getting slower and slower? It seems there was a car accident in front of you. Do you know how to drive? Look at what you did to my car. You didn't mean it? How dare we say it again? Who is so big? I can't let these cars get stuck here. Don't worry. The plane is waiting for you. Uncle, uncle, let's talk. I have something to talk about with you. How about I tell you a story? Do you think I'm still in the mood to listen to you at this time? Are you going to tell a story? Then I'll sing a song for you. Shut up or dance. Shut up. You won't be allowed to sing, you won't be danced, and you won't be allowed to tell stories. If I had known you were so annoying, I might as well replace you with your father. Get out of the car immediately. I'll call my dad. Sit down. Don't move. Don't move. Don't move. Why are you so fierce? Don't cry. Don't cry. Okay. I'm ready to act. Be careful. Don't cry. Do n't cry. You're so annoying. Come on, you're so annoying. Don't cry, don't cry. Uncle, you seem to be afraid of my dad. If you talk again, I'll tear your mouth out. Sasha, the EOD team, let go. Sasha, adjust her breathing and calm down. You should pay me quickly. It's really not me who hit this car. What should I do? Stop acting. Look at mom, Sasha. How are you? Why did you come up? This is very dangerous. Get out quickly. Sasha's life is my life. I say go down. Sasha's life is also my life. The most dangerous time is when our family is here. Let's adjust our breathing and stay calm. Stay together. Come on, He Miao, get to the faucet of the bomb disposal gun. Come on. What are you doing? Come back. I'm also in the EOD team. When you come back, the space in the car is small. If you go up, it will only cause chaos. You are crazy. Calm down, squat down, it's okay. Don't do it. Nervous, keep breathing. Trust him. I need you to move your hands over here. Come on, let's be gentle. Let's be together. Sasha. Be gentle. Steady. I'm starting to defuse the bomb. Let's start. He Miao. Come on. We will definitely succeed. We must keep breathing. I can definitely find it. It's okay . Come on, wait . Come on. Come on. It's successful. You can let go. Let go. Let go. Sasha succeeded. Sasha let go. Finally, the dragon head, dragon head, let go. There are many people watching. It's okay. Just hold me for a while. Nothing else matters at this time. Our family has just experienced life and death. I will always remember it. No matter what happens, I will never forget it. Mom, Dad, we Just hug me for a while longer. I haven't hugged you like this for a long time. This feeling is so good, so good. Okay, okay, there will be plenty of opportunities in the future. What do you say in the future? In other words, you agree to remarry dad. I'm leaving. Sasha, did you hear that, mom? I heard what she said just now. She agreed. Mom agreed and would never leave. Is it true that she would never leave us again? Stop, don't run , catch the thief , catch the thief. Stop, don't run. Stop, don't run. Stop, don't run. Catch the thief. Catch the thief. Dad, where are you? Sasha is waiting here. Dad, don't move. Dad, stop carefully, don't run. Don't run. Put down your bag, put your hands on your head, squat down, [ __ ], get out of here. If you don't get away, I will kill you. If you don't get out of here, I will kill you. I want your life. I am a policeman. Put down your weapon immediately. Policeman. Thank you. Policeman. Be honest. Be honest. Don't move. Be honest. Dad, you are so awesome. Mom, you are awesome. How about you? Are you okay? He 's just a little thief. Are you so eager to show off? I think they still have some skills. You are the leader of the serious crime team. Leave this physical work to me. Mom and dad, look at how well you cooperate. Do n't you?