In the city of Cyprus in 300 BC, there While on a voyage from Phoenicia to Piraeus, Because of that single event, an event that this very wealthy man suddenly Imagine you were Zeno. How would you react to your entire life's work getting flushed down What is the proper reaction? Would you be angry? of us, these would all be normal reactions, One small change lasts an eternity, mindset can cascade into larger and more The core of Stoicism is the very After reading the works of Socrates and taught Stoicism. According to Zeno, although we we do have control of how it affects us, and Rather than crying over spilled milk, or in this his composure over the situation, remaining Today, people inadvertently view people who don't often linger to the emotional or bouts of anxiety. But the original idea Rather than just a way to describe people who are and understand the world. It was a way of life, Stoic philosophy can be applied to applied thousands of years ago, and Stoicism allows us to process these and turn them into the thoughts that give Perspective is everything, and everyone and thus different perspectives on things. Since the Stoics gathered, discussed, their general philosophy was widely known. greatly benefit anyone and everyone, and that knowledge behind the four walls of As a result, everyone from slave to Emperor Some of the world's most notable Stoics include was once owned as a slave, Seneca, who was a a Roman Emperor, and one of the most The early Stoics practiced what they preached, avoiding all forms of segregation and They even invented the word "cosmopolitan," When people hear that word now, we think of cities of how diverse they are, this was the type of At the time of Stoicism's foundation, women weren't allowed to pursue philosophy, Musonius Rufus, Epictetus' teacher, once said, "it is not men alone who possess eagerness but women also. Women are pleased no and reject the opposite of such actions. Since seek out and examine how they might live well, Even at a time when it wasn't popular, women were allowed to freely learn about So why do so many people adopt In a world full of unexpected turns of events, In reality, we don't really get sad because unexpected bad things happen to us. Rain is provides water for livestock, and keeps the when that dark cloud catches you outside without So why don't we start crying once it starts to we've learned to expect rain. It's something that although it sucks, the rain Stoicism teaches us that in the same way, we will happen. Picture the worst outcome, One of the Stoic exercises is known as at increasing feelings of gratitude. Sleep on when you normally take hot ones, eat nothing This exercise helps you to understand you'll still survive and potentially thrive if these uncomfortable situations, we indirectly With the current state of the world where our throats, we're made to believe that look a certain way, or make that we will never be happy, this We enter the world not knowing much of anything. We grow up being taught things at home, in The thing is, a lot of times, all three of these The question is, do we need to internalize all be setting unrealistic expectations for our unsatisfied in the end. That's no way to live. for ourselves. We should do things, for ourselves, hope or secondary attachments to the actions Most of the time, we end up trying to Blowing all your money on a fancy car, a house, of these things for their external value, and not if you approach life this way, you place your forces that can always fail. natural disasters wipe away entire cities, and But even the free things in life come at a cost. As Seneca once wrote, "learning to live with less will create space in your life for Instead, we must place our happiness on our we have or can physically acquire. We must regardless of what life throws at us. at the end of the day, we don't have any control but we do have all the control That is the dichotomy of control, the most In the words of Epictetus, "the to identify and separate matters so that I can under my control, and which have to do Stoics teach that we must learn to separate We need to determine our value but from the things we can. Striving but breaking down when those things don't go Making YouTube videos is... well a lot easier prove to be challenging sometimes. First, then research that idea, scrap it because create the video, edit it, make the thumbnail, Everything up until the point where However, once you click the upload button, Still, a lot of people judge the success of their many views and subscribers or followers that are beyond your control. Stoics teach that your work based on the amount of effort you put Trust the process. Living with from the societal handcuffs that Think about a person who has been working He now feels he deserves a promotion, and so he The boss says thanks, doesn't grant him the suck at his job. He doesn't consider that someone else might have been better qualified losing money and just couldn't afford it. He If he simply placed his value on the quality kept doing what he was doing to earn the promotion With the right perspective, his but just postponed. It's this reframing of your view their successes based on the financial the fact that they can live a comfortable There are the 4 main virtues of Stoicism - Wisdom is being able to separate between what is to choose our reaction to the things that happen and response, there is a space. In that Courage - two words - "persist and resist". Temperance, or moderation, is what I saying more with fewer words. While Jeff Bezos and Stoics believe that the limit of wealth and then having what is enough. Justice is the most important of all the virtues. because we were all born for each other, to Nelson Mandela was one of the most While he was fighting against apartheid, he stayed for 27 years before finally being released. president of South Africa, and thus, many people people that had anything to do with apartheid Throughout his time in prison, Mandela read the core values of Stoicism, all of which he practiced heads of the wrongdoers, Nelson Mandela urged his rebuild. He stressed that the past was now beyond do was to find a way to move forward and build In modern day medicine, Stoicism is at the core Therapy and Logotherapy. REBT helps patients to be causing emotional and behavioral issues. It these negative thoughts with logic, and when you can then replace them with more Logotherapy, on the other hand, is based on the Even in the darkest of situations, we can fill finding out what that purpose is. As many of It's a process, much like everything Out with the old, in with the new. To fix our problems with happiness, we our definition of value to the things that we things that we cannot control, and overall, we Stoicism helps us steer through past and present And if our ship sinks and we all drown, we can albeit not as long as we had hoped. Because remember, everything has an end.