So... how did you end up here? It all starts environment of your mother's ice cold snow den. along with no teeth and a coat of soft white on your mom and will be for the next 2 and 1/2 stuck in a Fallout vault, longing to see what's on it's just miles and miles of snow and ice with is needed though so you can feed on your mom's devoted to nursing and doesn't eat or drink the dry. Spring comes so it's time to leave the around the den, playing and strengthening your finally decides you're strong enough and you your home for the majority of the year. This survival skills necessary for life in the Arctic. reliant on the sea, with seals making up most of little baby seals come into the world, giving you watch intently your mom sniffs out a seal birth to 3 feet of ice, and catches a pup before it can hunting technique. This is a tasty first meal After showing you another technique she brings so well. In the distance she spots a male polar to leg it If you don't then along with the day's target and it'll eliminate some potential future and you'll have to keep an eye out for arctic the chance. Mom's lessons continue till you're practical lessons for a few months. Weaning takes convinced you can just about survive, will leave bear. First things first, time to get some food. easy seal pups to catch. Like mom you sniff oh... looks like you're not strong enough to break mom taught you what to do. You find a seal wait patiently for a few hours. An unknowing seal the water for your first meal... or so you think. polar bears as they lack the size to fend off the got a nibble. After that disappointment you turn but will keep you going, and will be much needed July to August you have to spend your time on You haven't stored as much fat as you wanted you find some food. As you pick off a few small location. This isn't exactly your first choice of much more common to bump into other bears at this roam.They're typically quite civil as it's outside and spend the night on a slope so you have the sea ice returns giving you better access to better of years reaching maturity at 4 to 6 years, and an adult polar bear. No other land carnivore can you can weigh up to 800 kilos. It's a bit nippy survive. You have a 2-inch long dense undercoat that allow you to trap the heat and float on ultraviolet light between your *skin and undercoat you warm. The reflection of visible light and lack a handy coincidence. Underneath the fur you and you keep a 2 to 4 inch layer of fat for overheating in the summer? You're a layer of and finely controlled blood vessels see to that... out hunting seals. you're not actually the most succeed. There's no seal pups around so you use lonely seal perched on the other side of an ice to avoid alerting them. Once they're in reach you Hunting success... uh-oh. You think about running hard work. After a few slaps back and forth your you both leave fairly unscathed. After your long to find that you've drifted away on a melted off there's no food so you'd better get swimming. you spend the next two days swimming towards some On your next search for food you spot a strange You approach quietly, get close enough, and sweep adds to your goal of adding 50% mass before the like you've done before you make your way to land. to hunt this time as you have the fat stores to can do more than scavenge now and decide to use reindeer. As you're wandering the shore one day rotting whale corpse. This provides a lot of food closest relative, the brown bear. This could end rare instance you could interbreed and produce one There's another species you may encounter badly for you. It's part of the culture of some mainly for meat and hides. Your continuous quest concerned looking humans. Luckily for you this till the sea ice returns. Back on the ice and season. You try and find a mate by hanging around that the other bears produce from their pores. to isolate her from other males and will chase occurs between males and you have to stand your off this time. After Victory you spend the next time of the year. Once your work is done you go with zero cares in the world about your unborn with multiple partners throughout the season, and different fathers. You spend the rest of Spring, ready to spend the winter in a maternity den. your way Inland and dig a hole in the snow, You wait for the snow to cover the entrance which is similar to hibernation, but not quite your litter of Cubs and proceed to follow in your to survive in the Arctic. Everything went to plan your den can get disturbed, or you may not have both scenarios having unhappy endings. After You tried to hunt some seals but there's not much starving. You spend 3 days walking across the across a dense pack of large seals with massive to one of mom's lessons all those years ago. You to create a stampede, in the hope that a smaller didn't. Another fail. As you're about to give a subadult with a freshly caught seal. The seal the night thinking, it's all going to be okay. the sea... again. You know that if you're going to to jump into the water you think to yourself,