It is a cool summer morning on the slopes On the shores of the river Tiber, the bustling carpenter and his apprentices, as they started The local dressmaker hurried down the main usual catcalling by the baker and fishmonger. As the other tradesmen opened their shops, by, commanded by Fabius Maximus. Heading south towards Samnium, they advanced There, hidden in the hillside forest, an army Despite emerging victorious after two gruelling was not yet established. Etruria was not yet pacified, and the hostile To the south, the Samnites held their own were far from being truly cowed. Equally warlike as the Romans, the Samnites on the Italian peninsula. However, they now faced a rejuvenated Rome. Having learned from their humbling in the years replacing their unwieldy phalanx by Furthermore, the recently built Appian Way to quickly respond at crisis points. The seeds were sown for a third and final In 299 a coalition of raiders from Cisalpine paid off by the Etruscans. The Romans used this as an opportunity to the Gauls against Rome and had in turn allied Consul Valerius, pretext in hand, moved into attempt to provoke the Etruscans into battle. Then, from the south, Lucanian envoys came The Samnites attempted to form an alliance Samnite armies marched into Lucania, inflicting The Romans agreed to aid in the war, less out of fear of growing Samnite strength. 298 BC The Romans committed to fighting a two-front However, the opening campaigns produced mixed Consul Scipio Barbatus, the great-grandfather battle near Volaterrae. But the Etruscans retreated, leaving the Faliscan Tiber open to Roman raids. Scipio's consular colleague, Fulvius Maximus into Samnium and achieving victory near Bovianum. He then captured both this city and Aufidena. It is possible that the Samnite forces in a full-scale invasion, having not expected war with Etruria was ongoing. The Roman consular elections for 297 were outbreak of war with the Samnites. Amidst rumours that the Etruscans and Samnites centuries unanimously chose Fabius Maximus He had been the most successful general of sixteen battles against the Samnites, Etruscans, This was the original Fabius to win the cognomen He was the great-grandfather of the Delayer Fabius, however, who was not a candidate for He then relented on the condition that Decius who had been consul with Fabius in 308 BC, Still early in 297, envoys came from several wished to discuss peace. This meant that both Roman consuls could now The Samnites learned of this and dispatched Meanwhile, Fabius was on his way from Rome relieve Scipio, while Decius assumed command And he arrived just in time, for another army But, Decius intercepted and routed them at Maleventum, Meanwhile, Fabius was now ready and moving As the 20,000-strong Roman army marched in that a trap was set just south of the town An army of 25,000 Samnites lay in wait, hidden the Romans as they passed through the narrow But Fabius made sure to send advanced scout And now, he planned a trap of his own. Several hours ago he sent Scipio with a hastati him with finding a way to the rear of the Meanwhile, Fabius pretended to be conducting making the Samnites believe that their plan In doing so, he kept the Samnites strewn about gradually closed the distance. Once at Tifernum, the Consul suddenly halted He ordered the troops to form square formations. The Samnite leadership that was closest to and had only then realized that they had lost But their troops further south along the hillside entrance into the valley and had no way of It was too late to reform the line. Then, at the head of the Roman column, Fabius led The Samnites, meanwhile, passed the word that the troops to stand by. Knowing that there is no reason to keep hiding, into battle lines along the hillside. As they moved down the road in formation, enemy soldiers amongst the trees and had no way of knowing As Fabius' column crept ever further, suddenly, An endless swell of battle cries reverberated as the Samnites Attacking from higher ground, the Samnites Fabius had perhaps underestimated the numerical His squares warded off attack after attack, but were slowly The Samnites were clearly getting the upper Fabius pulled the spearmen of the First Legion He ordered them to break through the front The Romans gained some ground, but the Samnites put up a But then! From the rear appeared Scipio at the head Seeing the charging cavalry, the troops from heralded the arrival of the army of the other several hundred kilometres to the south in Nevertheless, the Roman morale soared, while Before Scipio could make contact, the Samnites Having been pressed from all sides, the badly So, with fairly low casualties, the Samnite Following the encounter at Tifernum, Fabius Meanwhile, Decius had camped at Maleventum, army meant to reinforce the Samnites. The two consuls spent the next five months However, no triumphs are recorded in the year deep inroads into Samnium during this year. The Samnite army was on the back foot, but They were already regrouping to continue the Embassies were sent to Etruria, seeking an The Romans had the upper hand... for now... After years of bitter conflict between Rome the Third Samnite War was about to take place. Upon its outcome rested the fate of Italy. Under the leadership of General Gellius Egnatius, Etruscans, and Umbrians arrayed upon the famous Across the field, Consuls Decius Mus and Fabius They were clearly outnumbered. But then...according to legend, a galloping hillside forest, chased by a wolf. Amused by the spectacle, the Gallic contingent Clearly the two beasts alleviated some of The wolf ran to the side and away from danger, of projectiles. As it approached the Samnite battle line it Meanwhile, the Romans opened the way for the the wolf was sacred to the God Mars. This was an occurrence of dire portent to Encouraged by this sign, the Romans advanced! The consuls for the year 296 BC were Appius Appius was an ambitious politician who, as well as Rome's first aqueduct. Volumnius, nicknamed 'the Violent', had fearsome towards the enemy, was loved by Roman distribution of plunder. With new armies in tow, Appius marched to commanded some 25,000 into Samnium where he in the field for six months as proconsuls. The three armies proceeded to devastate the Gellius Egnatius, the head of the Variani, that coping against three Roman armies was At a council meeting with other clans, it needed to cooperate closely with Rome's from Samnium itself. Gellius was chosen to lead a major army beyond Commanders were further assigned to conduct Samnite forces would be stationed behind the Seeking to join forces with the Etruscans, army marched north into Umbria. In Samnium, with no enemy army to oppose them, ravaging the countryside to attacking walled over the coming months. Meanwhile, the Etruscans had mustered an army Umbrian tribes joined in and attempts were This coalition inflicted several defeats on Realizing the need to spread out Rome's march into Lucania, where he was to stamp Decius was to remain in Samnium, while Volumnius Appius resented receiving help from his colleague, he agreed to cooperate. Volumnius challenged and engaged the Etruscans, suit, marching his army against the Samnites. The Samnites joined battle without waiting expedition. The Roman armies drove back the enemy. Later in the battle Gellius' cohorts arrived But the Romans eventually forced the enemy The Coalition lost 6900 dead and 2120 captured. Back south, a newly raised Samnite army crossed in Campania. Volumnius hurried to Samnium, since the proconsulships But upon learning of the raids in Campania He caught up with them as they were crossing However, as the year 296 came to a close, in the north. Gellius' defeat had led him to take his He brought a powerful warband of Senonian Further Umbrian cities also joined the alliance. Now, a grand coalition of Samnites, Etruscans, in Umbria. This caused great alarm in Rome. At the start of 295 BC, Volumnius was recalled At his urging, the centuriate assembly elected he held office. Ignoring the drawing of lots in assigning decreed that Fabius should command in the back of his successes against the Etruscans The assembly also wished to re-elect the currently But this was near unprecedented. At any rate, Fabius prevented this, again their harmonious relationship. But just as Fabius marched out towards Etruria a legion under the command of Scipio at Camerinum Meanwhile, Decius was assigned command in Two additional armies, under Postumius Magellus north of Rome to protect against a possible The unprecedented number of armies and magistrates a novelty for the Romans, which reflects the Samnites. Once in Etruria, Fabius took over the army Here, he received reports of a much larger Alarmed by the dangerous situation, Fabius Volumnius' command was extended for a year with the second and fourth legions. This was to deter the Samnites from reinforcing troops back to Samnium. A Samnite army attempted to block Volumnius Tifernus, but the proconsul drove their force defeating and routing the enemy despite the Meanwhile in the north, Decius joined Fabius to the area around Sentinum. Upon sighting the enemy army, Fabius and Decius plain. With the Samnite army nearly twice the size to be concerned. However, they soon learned from three deserters formed the front battleline. Their plan to was attack and pin down the Meanwhile, the Etruscans and Umbrians were rear. Wasting no time, the two consuls sent orders under Fulvius and Postumius, to march into This had the desired effect. The Etruscan soldiers at Sentinum refused they departed for Etruria, taking the Umbrians With half of the coalition force absent, Fabius enemy, while advancing with the rest of the In attempt to provoke them into giving battle, sweeping across the Samnite battle line and However, Gellius remained on the slope above forward. He decided to wait for his allies to return. But after two days of skirmishing, officers that they had to endure harassment from the Finally, on the third day, both armies decided The Roman army consisted of four legions and troops, including two large cavalry contingents for their combat riding abilities. All told, Rome fielded some 38,000 men at The size of the coalition army is unknown, It included Samnite cohorts, Gallic warrior-bands, Gallic chariots in the rear. Considering that about half of their host the Samnite coalition was around 40,000-strong. Roman military doctrine was offensive, though aware of the combat effectiveness of Samnite Fabius advanced the first and third legions, Decius, on the other hand, wanted to force He assumed command of his cavalry and ordering the trotting horses. Once they closed the distance, the Roman left Knowing that the Gauls were themselves notorious Decius urged the men to drive the enemy back, Meanwhile, the Roman right came into contact Fabius believed from experience that the Samnites, wear themselves out over time, so he ordered and draw out the conflict. All across the battlefield, a stubborn battle However, impatient with the lack of progress, against the Gallic horsemen. The Roman horse swept them aside, and, retaining line of Gallic cavalry. The push continued, but Decius failed to see towards his flank. In pressing his attack this far, the Consul The Roman cavalry on the left now came under Unaccustomed to the thunderous roar of chariot with fear. In a reckless panic, much of Decius' cavalry off en-masse and fled back towards the Roman into their own infantry, throwing them into The Senones now seized the initiative. Gallic cavalry and chariots attacked the left The Gallic infantry, seeing the Romans lose give the legionaries a moment to restore order. Decius tried to stop the fleeing men and rally at risk of collapse. With a look of determination, Decius took the ultimate sacrifice, the devotio - an general would fall to the enemy, dedicating to chthonic deities. As the battle raged around him, Decius remembered devotio during a battle against the Latins. Now, as his son who wore his father's military He had the pontiff Livius recite the words to the priest. The Consul then turned his horse towards the "I carry before me terror and rout, and gods, above and below! I will infect the standards, the armour, and death! And the place of my destruction shall witness With these words, Decius charged the Senones Upon impact he fell to a shower of missiles Witnessing this, Livius turned to the troops inspired Decius' army to remain in the field. But even more important was the cool-headed reserves on standby under Scipio and Marcius. Although not yet aware of his colleague's on the left, and so he ordered half of the Seeing the approaching reserves brought new onto the defensive. As the Semnones formed a shield wall, legionaries between the two forces and threw them at the Showing still more tactical preparedness, While part of his cavalry cautiously skirmished been kept in reserve under Scipio. Fabius could now see that, his defensive approach The Samnites had exhausted themselves while were eager to attack. Fabius ordered his embattled cavalry in the Samnites, and his infantry to press forward Seeing that the Samnites now offered weak his cavalry reserve to sweep around and strike infantry reserves to reinforce his frontline. The Samnites found themselves hard pressed Exhausted, they routed. Maintaining momentum, Fabius directed the assault the left flank of the Gallic line. Finally, he activated the Campanian horse, attack their rear. Despite being flanked from the north, the But, eventually they were overpowered and The fleeing soldiers were cut down as they Men clustered as they approached the gates. Those who could not enter resolved to fight There they were cut down, among them General Many Gallic fugitives were trampled by their By the end of the day, the Samnite camp was The battle of Sentinum was a particularly Decius and Gellius lay dead, and although Decius' army lost 7000. However, the coalition's casualties were Fabius gave a funeral for Decius and burnt Victor. The Roman victory was soon followed by further 5000 Samnite fugitives attempted to escape were intercepted by a local force and lost Fulvius defeated a combined force of Etruscans 3000 of the enemy and capturing as many as Entering Etruria as well, Fabius slew 4500 Most importantly, Appius took command of Decius' in response to Samnite raids on the lands In the Stellate Plains the two generals won killing 16,300 and capturing 2700. Through the strategic and tactical decisions the coalition of four nations. The greatest threat yet posed to Rome's After such colossal efforts, the Romans would of Samnium. The Samnites understood that their liberty another five years, but that is a story for The Samnite attempt to forge an anti-Roman Sentinum, and Rome's victory at the Stellate However, as the Roman historian Livy noted to admit defeat, preparing to fight Every Samnite warrior took an oath, At Aquilonia, the Romans were about to meet The consuls elected for 294 BC were Marcus Having previously served as consul in 305, winning victories in the field and capturing the again force the Samnites to surrender. Indeed, the the Sentinum campaign, granting him propraetorial Regulus was the first to take the field, a road connecting Roman and Samnite territory. bold decision to attack the Roman camp, to surprise and overwhelm the Roman sentries. whom they killed, and advanced as far as Finding his position untenable, Regulus then joined by his colleague, whose departure The combining of consular armies prompted the than risk a battle. However, the Samnites sending an army into Apulia to Regulus marched to the aid of Luceria, while of Milionia. This prompted several other Samnite Meanwhile, Regulus was intercepted by a smaller The fact that the Samnites initiated and inferiority again reflected both Eventually, after restoring the morale of his men, the march and at a disadvantage. He surrounded the killed and 7800 captured. But 7800 Romans had also Regulus then marched against the Volcentes, While Regulus overcame the Volcentes, As a result, Postumius switched Etruscans. Without seeking the Senate's where he won an engagement against the Volsiniii three of the largest states of Etruria, the sued for peace, and after each paying an indemnity Before the end of the year, the Samnites launched colony of Interamna. Failing to take it, their Increasingly frustrated, the leaders of the custom. Holding a levy, they created a force legion included Samnite nobility as well as those The priest Ovius Paccius had the warriors bound to the death. One by one, the Samnite warriors which was shielded from prying eyes by a linen altar and recited the oath, which was read to them curse on the warrior, his family, and his race should lead him, if he fled from battle, or if he The warrior swore not to divulge what claims that those who refused the oath devoted to Jupiter. Their bodies amongst the remains of sacrificial Forming the core of the Samnite army, the linothorax, to distinguish themselves from their soldiers who, Livy reports, were not inferior as When the Romans elected the consuls for 293 the consulship but were of great promise. Spurius Papirius Cursor was the son of his namesake of the Second Samnite War. Furthermore, the Postumius accompanied Carvilius, and Papirius Having been nicknamed 'The Flame' and 'The Volumnius would prove a valuable advisor. Papirius raised a fresh army, and Advancing into Samnium, Carvilius and Papirius captured the city of Duronia, The Roman invasion forced the Samnite army, defence of their homeland. They encamped near the their position, and Carvilius ravaged the Atinate Here he made camp outside the city, about 20 While Papirius skirmished with the Samnite Papirius intended to offer battle on the Just as Papirius was preparing for battle, he the main Samnite army had despatched 20 cohorts, He sent a messenger to inform Carvilius, who then the first legion and 10 auxiliary cohorts, Samnite detachment was only 7 Roman miles from recalled them back to their camp, as Papirius had would not make it back in time for the battle. and Samnite indecision, ensured that 8000 Samnite The Samnite army still had around 28,000 consular army, had around 20,000. However, they drew up an ingenious plan to defeat their commanding the army's right wing, Meanwhile, a detachment of three auxiliary who was ordered to collect the mules in then lead the mules and their handlers along a As horns blared and warriors roared, the Roman Both sides were steeled for battle. Not only were had superior numbers, and the linen legion had the Romans could take comfort in the prestige, and after multiple victories in the field The Romans fought aggressively despite their the defensive. The flanks under Volumnius and and the Roman centre was also gaining second line to regalvanise their forces. arose along a rise in the ground on the flank of The auxiliary cohorts made themselves visible to 1200 in number, they raised a much larger It was all a trick. The camp-followers mounted along the ground, and so it looked as though the The Roman and Samnite legionaries were both with the other consular army. Papirius urging their men to seize victory before Samnite morale were shaken. Moreover, the Roman cavalry commanders Trebonius and the appearance of Nautius' force. The equites and and some of them wheeled about to attack As the Samnite infantry on the flanks Volumnius and Scipio focused their attacks The Samnites buckled and routed, their fear of Those opposite Volumnius appear Volumnius the Violent pursued the fleeing Meanwhile, Scipio pursued part of the enemy the gates from the panicking enemy. That According to Livy, more than 20,000 Samnites with fewer than 4000 escaping the battle. The According to the later historian Orosius, the figure may render it more likely, In addition to Papirius' victory, on the Having sent nearly half his army to his remaining forces nonetheless prepared to take enemy from sallying out, the Romans scaled part The garrison retreated to the but after further fighting they surrendered. 11,000 surrendered. Never had the Samnites The Samnite detachment of 20 cohorts soon and early the next morning they beat a the Samnites left behind 22 more The consuls made good use of their Saepinum while being pursued by another Samnite he defeated the Samnites in a battle outside Samnites to submit to a siege, he stormed Carvilius assaulted and captured Then, prompted by renewed hostility among the Carvilius was ordered to invade Etruria. Here Falisci sent a delegation to Carvilius suing for for supplying a year's pay for Carvilius' soldiers At the end of the year, both consuls having captured 11 towns and forts, was In a final bid to defeat the Romans in the Pontius as their supreme general, the Caudine Forks nearly thirty years prior. Emboldened, the Falisci also renewed the consul Brutus Scaeva, accompanied by Carvilius Brutus plundered the lands of the Falisci finally ending the northern theatre of war. Pontius was Fabius Gurges, son of Fabius threat posed by the notorious Samnite, the Senate Gurges, desirous of winning glory independent of without waiting for his father's arrival, the Roman column was surprised by Pontius' and inflicted a major defeat. Only the coming Many of the wounded subsequently died because they Luckily, Fabius Rullianus soon arrived and No detailed account survives of the engagement of the Third Samnite War, the two most who had both been commanding armies since the The battle was hard fought, and Orosius relates In the end, the Romans defeated the Samnites, including Pontius himself. If such have surrounded the Samnite army. Pontius The defeat of the Samnites had now become the year capturing the towns of the Pentri, In 291 BC Postumius Megellus captured several city of Venusia. At Postumius' proposal, the In establishing by far the largest colony to the Romans strengthened their control over a both consuls to Samnium in a final push to secure later defeat Pyrrhus, and his colleague Rufinus, Details of the campaign and treaty are absent, They were recognised by the Romans as autonomous and were forced to give up land as compensation. fought the Romans. As early as 282 BC they would Pyrrhus and Hannibal. But never again would the