For two years, many have been marked with labels that say: "No male chicks culled". Before, male chicks since they served no So-called brother-roosters of Their meat isn't popular No one wants these roosters. With this breed line, it's just not possible to raise Still, Germany's former agriculture legally banned chick culling. Globally, we're the first It's unacceptable to kill animals just because they're This is a milestone That law was just Millions of male chicks are The law angers It's really a hellish solution. Anyone buying these eggs before falling for this PR trick. What's happened to the millions since the law took Our search for them to Poland to Ghana. I'm Alexa Ramthum. I'm My name's Verena Sieben. I'm Is this law a breakthrough or is it just making Germans love their eggs - eating That's around 20 These eggs come from a chicken bred Now, egg cartons that promise: No chick culling, with it suggest that these Our research begins where in a hatchery. I'm on my way to the in the German state of Burkhard Brinkschulte He and his colleague Klaudia The main business here is These incubators can hold Of course, it's not just From experience they're Then there are the either because the or they just don't make it. Before the law came into effect, male chicks would be anesthetized Now, they're allowed to live but hatcheries still only Why aren't the roosters Basically, there are no buyers since there's relatively That's exactly our And there are no customers. No one wants to After 40 days, a fattened It takes roosters to reach anywhere Meanwhile, in the how soon chick life Now and then you'll But from these neural the body's lying below You can see all the movements. Yes, clearly: Two years ago, if this he would have The practice of had long been condemned In 2013, they denounced to make an example In 2016, the but the case was dismissed wasn't expressly forbidden However, the court clearly could make culling chicks And, in 2022, they did. It's a milestone Now, German farmers Option 1: Raise the brother Option 2: Use breeds of chicken that can Option 3: Sort out male chicks before they hatch. The draft law was introduced and took effect at Not all hatcheries made In North Rhine-Westphalia Today there's just two of us. Germany-wide there Now there's only five of us That law was just But critics were When animal rights against Brinkschulte's hatchery, but at great cost. It was a lose-lose situation, The ethical side can't triumph In a hatchery like this, male But where are they That one's trying to They're in the What day are we on now? The 20th incubation day. The female chicks are raised or later sold to other And what's to become First they hatch. Then he'll be vaccinated The fattening and usually don't take but rather in The slaughtering happens as it costs more to slaughter So they just can't compete. We've heard that most of to Poland in particular. So we're going to The law was created to But now these male over great distances. I want to find out what The companies Burkhard to raise the male chicks wouldn't respond to us as to where they're reared. Where do other German I do some research, writing yet no one will provide So I turn to animal Early on, many suspected would only make matters worse. They've shot videos showing To me, this isn't the ethical promised since The animal rights activists which rear 'brother roosters'. I forward the list to Alexa. I set off for Poland to see for for the roosters living there. Journalist Marcin Krasnolawski has agreed to help me He's been working on animal and has uncovered I run various investigations And this is the I guess, in Germany it was a big but then in Poland He's investigated businesses I called the Chamber of I think [it's a] pretty I ask the question and then I asked him another question, in half of my sentence, Why is there so little info about what's happened If it's all legal, what have Over 17 Mmillion male chicks But here, no one seems to Apparently they've vanished So we're going Let's see if we can find out We head for places on the list given Our first destination is A slaughterhouse for boiling and we want have a look around. The 'brother roosters' to be slaughtered in But slaughterhouses are designed to So there's a good chance are being slaughtered here. We ask around, but no The director has no interest He doesn't want to speak to you. So we can't talk with anyone? No. But we keep going - and make our way to a large farm, Shall we go in? Yeah, maybe. Hello! Is there someone Go 'round to the other Thank you! We finally get a lead: In two days' time, are scheduled to The owner is even provided we don't show his face. At first, most were happy that chick culling Now they're just Friedrich Mulln from animal heavily criticizes how the Anyone who holds an egg carton 'Hey, I'm doing something good and at least these animals needs to know that these birds and die in Poland or So anyone buying these before falling for this cheap He thinks it was wrong that just after they hatched. But a law that while condemning them isn't much of an improvement. These animals so they stuff halls full of them to The result is: bunions; infected, and excruciating pain. So is the new law a failure? The thinking behind the law was: Let's put a lid on the But even back then I They weren't thinking And in the end, consumers are left with a bunch and empty promises. Yet the law was supposed Back in Poland. This But two days from now, 28-thousand male chicks There's lots of room. How 30-thousand. I find a free coop Like a broker? Yes, I do it all. So you arrange for How many chicks have you 16 million. But the brother roosters After 12 weeks they go where they wind up in soup Where to? Many go to Africa. Oh, okay! So where exactly? I don't know. That's Why Africa of all places? I don't know. They won't say. In this coop, the conditions But where a male chick winds Since it took effect, shouldn't the law be protecting and brother roosters? Europe-wide, agriculture receives about 50 billion But the market for brother and selling their especially in Germany. Europe's subsidy system has like Ghana. Let's take a closer look. I travel to the city of Kumasi, in Poultry is popular here - That's because imported poultry The oven-ready chickens cost the equivalent Imported chicken Local farmers can't so most consumers I mainly eat imported chicken, because the meat from Imported chickens are very That's good. The local chickens I prefer imported meat, because I can say it's very good for us, Five hours by car from The Ghanaian capital is the imported meat's Many here are Hi! Nice to meet you! My name is Philomina. For more than a decade, Philomina Otoo has been It's stored here: And this is the cold room! She receives 20 to 30 containers And where does the It comes from [the] US, Poland, The supply chain often Ok, all this meat had its origins and now has wound You won't find whole just chicken parts. Philomina Otoo says imports For now chicken Importation has become People prefer like we import more in Ghana. Because all lot of them are The imported chicken to survive on the Christiana Yeboah feels She operates a chicken She says there was lots Now, only a few coops are a full Here is one thousand [hens]. Imported meat is Me, I don't like foreign meats. I don't like it... because of She sells her chickens That's almost twice as much as the It is expensive to We can't keep up with the The farms in Ghana are collapsing we make almost no profit. Until a few years ago, this Now there's not Here is empty. Over the years, she's had to When was the last time Almost three years. Three years, aha. It's not easy for Christiana Farming is how we earn money, so we're trying to Because if it doesn't survive, At first glance, Ghanaian consumers seem to But they're preventing from becoming self-sufficient. Plus, it's not sustainable to ship To recap:, German law Now, the labels on egg to believe that male One of the solutions involved raising One of the few farms in North Rhine-Westphalia. 6-thousand female chicks are being delivered There are about 80 of them. The hens were brown These roosters are right from the start.. Look he's going his own way. Experiencing this gives you And it doesn't make sense to But with this breed line, it's just not possible to raise Still, he rears them well. So, here we have They were put into a normal And then, two or three weeks Here they can range freely. There's Outside there's no extra feed. By raising the brother roosters, he's doing what the But that's not Bodden wishes consumer so that small farms like his didn't sell their eggs The politicians' other suggestion This type of chicken but can also be used But that's not profitable so he's pleading for What's your wish for the future? To get some support It can't be that we're at some point we're It was the politicians' idea, so they need to take responsibility Time to hear from the politicians. Germany's Ministry is currently headed by Cem Scheduling issues meant we so we put our We asked: "What do you think of the fact where they're fattened and Does that comply A Ministry spokesman responded: "The German government brother roosters from German slaughtered and sold under He wouldn't be more What does the Ministry think about rooster meat We didn't receive an answer. The Agriculture Ministry for dual-purpose chickens, which can determine a In-ovo sexing makes it possible to stunt the incubation so that brother roosters Since hatcheries are increasingly it's expected that the will continue to decline. That way, male chicks are That's possible until the Could that be the solution? At the OWL University they're trying to use Researcher Jens Staufenbiel shows We hope to develop a to cheaply identify the sex Then, whether the sensation on the seventh or the 13th day, isn't even up for discussion. Our examination method lets so animal suffering is This device collects gender-specific Hormones, proteins, and after making a small So we've made a hole in Right, because we expect to measure in the membrane Afterwards, a laser beam will be shone into the hole. That stimulates the molecules causing them to emit a which differs according Here, you can already see the and the counts being Then, with the it's determines whether This method is only worth in large companies, though. Naturally, we hope that the industry will recognize that it to get around the German law. The German government has to fund research of But this technology is All of the alternatives are either not market-ready So it makes no difference "No male chicks culled." The only purpose that serves Because Germany's anti-chick but poorly executed!