People love to imagine that the things are somehow connected to each other. For example, quantum mechanics and consciousness, or aliens and pyramids, or black holes and dark matter, or dark matter and dark energy, dark energy relationship whatsoever, but this last pair--black received some recent hype in the press. Here's the idea in a nutshell. Black holes are apparently made of dark energy. As the universe expands, black holes in that expanding space of the universe. Which results in two things: one, black holes should be growing faster than we expect based only on what they eat. And cause of the accelerating expansion of the by University of Hawaii astrophysicists Now to really assess whether we should dismiss this or take note, we have to follow the paper trail back. Way, way back. The seed of this idea came from a Erast Gliner. someone you've probably never heard. In fact not many people have heard of Gliner, but this work led to an alternative way and set the stage for our theories of So a little science history--stuff we've covered before if you're interested in more detail. Soon after Einstein first came up with his general Alexander Friedman solved its equations for equations predicted that the universe must be disliked, and so he added something called the that the universe described by Friedman's The universe was of course subsequently the cosmological constant was But Erast Gliner realised that the cosmological fabric of space itself--a vacuum energy--and that this stuff would have bizarre properties. For example possessing negative pressure. Gliner's energetic vacuum became a fundamental part of the science of cosmology. It's the mathematical mechanism behind cosmic inflation--the extreme expansion rate that many cosmologists believe kickstarted the mysterious influence that's currently causing Which, by the way, tells us that the even if Einstein added it to his Gliner's 1966 paper changed cosmology with constant. But there was another rather minor of scientists down the unusual train of thought leading to the result we are discussing today. Gliner speculated that his energetic vacuum If so, perhaps this stuff also Now, in regular general relativity, a black hole occurs when an object reaches such a high density that an event horizon forms around it--a surface below field is impossible. In standard GR, matter that an infinitesimal point of infinite density--the the prediction of the singularity in general the theory into hopeless conflict with quantum Many people have tried to for example with wormholes or Gliner's insight gives another way to rescue collapsing matter from breaking If that matter can transmute to a raw energy pressure can potentially counteract gravitational versions of this idea have been proposed over star of George Chapline and Robert Laughlin, or The general name for these things is the GEODEs function as black holes in many sources of gravity that are almost completely may one day be detectable. For example, there may when they merge. But currently we don't have any are anything other than the things predicted by by because the laws of physics make it literally But if black holes are GEODEs there may This is the aspect of the new work Regular black holes are fundamentally isolated. field and electric charge. A black hole certainly doesn't know what the universe But according to the scientists behind this new the largest scales. In a 2021 paper led by Kevin at the Friedman equations they claim demonstrate something very surprising--compact regions of dark energy are coupled to the expansion of the entire and they claim that as the universe grows, proportional to the volume of the universe. OK, just call the GEODEs black holes from now on--should have grown enormously since the early universe. And that's the assertion of the new paper they claim that the supermassive black holes universe are way too big. All galaxies have sized black holes from the gigantic first and grew by merging with other black until they reach millions and even The team claims that their sample last 10 billion years or so to be More precisely, they claim that galaxies now their mass in stars than galaxies in the past. But this team claims that the ratio between with the black holes outpacing the growth exactly the amount expected from "cosmological expansion of the universe. They claim 99.98% In a separate paper from 2021 the same team also by LIGO are also way too big -- and again, by about It all sounds pretty exciting, right? But wait, black holes might not just be made of dark energy it's the dark energy in black holes that's universe, rather than the energy Let's see how that's supposed to work. The key energy is simply its constant energy density. matter thin out and their gravitational influence as a property of the fabric of space itself, and Expanding space actually adds energy into the being weird, this causes accelerating expansion. OK, so if dark energy isn't in space AND if the black holes are growing in mass with effect. Although the black holes get further apart mass density and their energy density remains constant--just like regular dark energy. For that reason they should behave like regular So could these GEODE black holes be numerous order, because dark energy makes up around 70% regular matter makes up around 5%, and regular via the deaths of massive stars. But there's a regular matter, and those black holes grow with Anyway, Farrah and team calculate that should have been created by dying then calculate how these should have They find that it's not that hard to So that's the idea in a nutshell. That black is coupled to the expansion of the universe. That universe, which in turn causes them to act like Now that we have that If we can. We need to address both On the theoretical side, we have 1. the idea and then 2. that this dark energy might be For 1. There isn't any evidence, nor physical mechanism--but it's at least black holes fully anyway. Let's Now the idea that this internal vacuum energy is coupled on cosmic scales feels like the biggest reach of this whole idea. Normally, we think of means every point in spacetime only knows about That means that the interior and exterior of a be transmitted across the event horizon by stuff But these mechanisms do not allow black holes to Supermassive black holes are The immediate spacetime that these The expanding universe solution to the Einstein smoothly distributed through the universe. It's an Standard general relativity seems to deny however these researchers claim that their this weird communication between small and and no one besides this team properly analyses this conjecture. On the However, if black holes really are made of vacuum then the bit about black holes accounting for Although it would require that almost all black evenly through the universe, rather than being The authors claim that this is possible, but OK, the final thing to look at is the main claim that supermassive black holes have grown so much For more analysis of this side of it check out my hot take. These guys are not the first to try history. We've known for many years that there's galaxy mass, and for many years people have also relationship over cosmic time. Some suggest some suggest that galaxies grew faster result showing rapid black hole growth does some things differently from previous work. But it's not clear that they did the analysis better than the many experts who have been doing this sort of calculation for decades. The fact is, the evolution of black hole largely because those masses are hard to that the galaxies we're looking at from an are representative precursors to the galaxies Remember we can't actually see a single black hole evolve. There are many potential biases involved in a study like this, and that fact isn't properly acknowledged in this paper. In fact, their 99.98% feels dishonest in the absence of a full The confidence with which the result OK, so that's my take on the black of interesting stuff in there, and it parts can be verified by other experts. As it's probably not true. But that doesn't the next big breakthrough, we need to explore And following the intuitions of Erast Gliner has led to incredible discoveries in the past, so perhaps they will again. And perhaps neatly wrapping together two of the most