Today I'll be revealing how a magician Turns his finger into a lighter, pulls silk through his palm, vanishes a bottle in thin air and turns Our expert magician Savio This one uses fire, so be careful. Watch. If you take a flame, you can catch it like this. You can pass it back Now that's some magic with fire. Oh, I love fire. So do you want to learn how it works? Of course. All right. Secret is this second lighter. Okay? So what you're going to do is you're going to curl your fingers in like this. And what you're going to do is with the red part facing inward so You're going to use the other lighter red button right over the flame. Okay. And it should pass the fire over watch. Go ahead. Boom. There you go. And you can let it go and One more time. And then you can blow it out in style. There you go, bro. That was fire. And that was just the easiest trick. And I must warn you now, if you don't want to know how stop. Watching level ten magic with our fingers. Let's go. Here's what's gonna happen. Watch my index finger. Okay. It's kind of strange. If you squeeze it and then you pull it, Okay, ready? There you go. What? I've seen this in preschool, Let's do it. There's two things, okay? Your right hand is gonna And just bend like this. Left hand is gonna use your thumb and your thumb is gonna bend like this, You're gonna connect your Perfectly perfect. And then you're gonna take your gonna cover that little gap, right? And the rest is really just your acting. So you're gonna maybe do You're like, we're gonna bend the finger and then you're gonna pull. Oh, my goodness. Boom. That was good. Can we bring his Oscar out now? The Oscar for acting over here. for level 20, we have a card trick. Take a look. Here we go. Watch. If you take any card you want. All right, this one, watch carefully. If you take this card, you see right here? Watch. If you take it, you can actually put it Watch... Take it... You can bring it right back, I'm watching from the side, Of course. Do you want to learn how that's done? All right, here we go. So first you're gonna do Spider man pose. And then you put your What you're gonna do is and that's where you're right there. Step two is what you're gonna do. You take these fingers, Now, the next part is easy. You just keep your hands closed, There you go. But you gotta work on it. You gotta work on it. The way you show it less is Level 40. This trick will blow your mind. So this trick actually uses a finger ring. I want you to take a look. Make sure there's no, slits or cuts or anything like that. It's a real ring. It's real. That's solid ring. I'm gonna take the ring. I'm actually gonna put it on my You can take a look. Good. Yes. Now watch and try to get Solid. Take a look. Ready? One, two, three. Just like that. You can get the ring to pass right through the finger. No... How'd you do that? You want to learn it? Yeah. This is insane. All right, here we go. It's a normal ring. You can use any ring. You put it on your pinky finger like this. Okay, perfect. Now here's what happens, okay? You're gonna hold it like this. Two fingers on top... one, You're gonna take this ring and and through. What's gonna happen is your finger is You're pushing straight through in one swift motion. Go, one, two, three, just like that. And you push it right off... Boom. Something like that. And try to control it. Cause you're like. You're, like, shooting it far too much. You just wanna go straight ahead of you. There you go. That was good. That was a good one. That was a good one. Now we're halfway through at level 50. And this is the vanishing bottle trick. Take a look. We have a prime bottle, You can see here, put it inside the bag like this. You wave over the bag like this, and something crazy happens. Watch. Bottle disappears, completely gone, just like that. For this trick, a knife, So once you have all the you take the bottle, and you want to make sure that And what you're going to do is you're And I want you to just slice down the nice and clean down the back. Once you've done this, you want to take the wrapper off you're going to need it very, very soon. So now what you want to do is you portion of the plastic bottle, maybe one or two inches down from the top. So you just have this top portion. Once you have your top portion like this, what you're going to do is and you're going to put it back on, and then you're going to tape rest of the bottle is there. So once you've got your shell of a bottle, what you want to do is paper bag. It can already be crumpled. It could be brand new, it doesn't matter. And what's gonna happen is this. You're gonna take the bottle, and once you're ready, because all you have here, is this much of the bottle. Everything else is just plastic. So when you crumple it crumple it. Correct. Looks like the ball. This is a genius trick. Shout out to e cat Now it's time for level 60. What trick do you have for us? Do you know what happens What? Let me show you. Watch. you can generate smoke just like that if you focus. Wow. They call it Magic Fingers. That's what the ladies call you, right? All right, we're gonna need a ceramic mug. We're gonna need a matchbox, we're gonna need a lighter And that's all you need. And we can make this trick happen. First, and you want to put it inside a freezer 20 minutes just so that it Next, you want to take your matchbox. And you want to cut off the striking portion from the matchbox. Then you want to peel the striking layer from the paper so that you're left with just, the striking layer. Next, place it on top of your mug, so that the striking layer And then you want to light it on fire. So be very careful with this. As this burns, what's gonna happen is the chemical stuck onto the cold ceramic mug. And that's what we're Now, you wanna make sure that you wait before you go ahead and use it. Now, and you wanna take a nice big scoop of the goo that's Just like that. And now you just have to Boom. There you go. You get smoke. This is so cool. Now, let's see what other tricks you have. Next is level 70. I'm going to do something that Watch carefully. If you take this glass, on top like this. Can you please take that rubber on every single side? Go ahead. Perfect. Watch. I want you to take a finger like this. Hold it out. Perfect. Good choice. I want you to point it down like this. I want you to slowly rub So we can heat it up a little bit. Just like that. Perfect. And I want you to now push down onto the coin. Go ahead, push, push, push. Just like that. You can get the coin to Watch. You take a look. There's like a little mark but there's no hole. Please teach me. All right, here we go. So this is how this works. We use a really thin, Take the rubber, stretch it out. There you go. Yep, yep. I'm gonna get a nice stretch. So once you get the rubber you take a coin from underneath, And then you let go. And the rubber is and it makes it look like Isn't that crazy? Yeah, look at this. That is so sick. So the next part is making it real magic. Okay, take the cup with your other hand. You can show the cup as well, And you carefully just place this on top. Perfect. Just like that. And you can ask someone to just take any rubber band like this, And that is basically the entire setup for this trick. The rest is all presentation. You can tell someone, take your finger. You want to heat up the coin. You want to do whatever you and something magical will happen. Take a look. Boom. There you go. And then you can show it off. You can say, look, there's no hole. There's no nothing. You're done. At this point, they can look at this As an audience member, if I didn't know the trick like, right? Yeah, it just felt like the coin Wow. Now onto the next trick. Level 80. Hafu. I heard you were a little thirsty. I'm always thirsty. Okay, let's fix that. You see there's liquid on the screen. What we can do is use a little bit of Watch. You do this, you get a cup. Okay. Bros about to have a Jesus moment. Actually get some water for you to drink, my friend. That is for you. Is this real? It is real. Absolutely. That is real water. Damn. That's like a iPhone 20 feature, right? Real water. So what you need for this is an app. It's called ibeer. Free. It's not free. You got to pay for it. But once you get the app. That's such a scam. Once you get the app, because initially it starts with beer, You got it? Perfect. So that's step one. So the next step is you need one of these. You need a little. A little cup, a little jar. It could be anything. It's just something that can You want to hold your hand like this. Like this? Yeah. So what's gonna happen is fingertips like that. And this is gonna go right behind like this. You wanna hold it? Yeah, just a little bit like that. Perfect. And so when you wanna start the trick, Not yet. Not yet. And you grab the bottle like And then you just pour to the left. That's all it is. So you hit the button. Yeah, go ahead. And you show it a little bit. Shake it. Hold on. Yep. It fills up. You shake it left and right a little. Just like that. And when you're ready. You just take it, and you let the water fall. Go and lock the screen. Boom. Just like that. There you go. You just made water appear from a phone. Wow. Sometimes magic, seems so complex. But once it's revealed, like, But sometimes it's the most simple Level 90. This will be one of the hardest tricks, 100%. It uses this right here. It's a silk, and it uses my hand here. Look. Take a look. Nothing on my hand. There you go. But watch carefully, though. Watch this hand. There's a little soft spot you can create. It's a little hole. Can you see that? The hole right there? What are you talking about? There's no hole. Watch. You gotta rub it a couple times, and crazy thing can happen. I think that was it. I think I felt it. I opened the hole, because now what I can do is to start going straight through the hole, to the other side, And when you want to close the hole, and you just rub it like this, Dude, does it hurt? That's insane. That's one of the craziest I don't feel the thing. How this works is very simple. Obviously, the handkerchief is going through one end, This is what allows you to get that I'll show you. Can you hold your hand out like this? Perfect. What happens is this piece goes like this. It gets inserted into your hand like this. Okay. And so what happens is, if you can take your it actually looks like the silk is going through Just like that. This is cool. It looks so real. And that's it. And when you're done, you can use your other From bottom, like, Yes, just like that. And grab it. Boom. There you go. Done. Just like that. That's magic. Wow. Magic is so deceiving, bro. So, what do you think differentiates a Then? It is the presentation, magic is sleight of hand. It is things that can be learned. But what makes it really powerful the way you're able to deliver a simple magic trick to And now it's time for level 100. What trick do you have for us, Savio? This is called the infinite money glitch. Ooh, I like money. Are you ready? So what you need for And this money printer. I made this with things But due to the nature of this effect, how this works. What do you mean? I might get in trouble. With the Illuminati? I can't expose, I might get in trouble. That's all I can say. But are you ready? Yeah. Look, you take your money You feed it into the I want to see this. And then you start printing just like this. And look on the other side. What? comes out. A fresh $1 bill. What, so you're telling me if I take I can make a $100? Yeah, but I like to make money faster. Can I show you? Okay. Here, look. See that method, I like to be a little bit more quicker. And I'll be honest with you, I personally don't even I like using my hands instead. So watch my hands become... my money printer. Watch and go like this. You actually get it to print just like Now look, but in today's economy, right? Let's go for a little bit more. You take your fingers And you can change it to a hundred dollars. That is my secret money hack. It's the infinite money glitch. What? Dude. But look, I can't teach that to you, maybe, I might pick one lucky secret information to. Dude, my mind is still blown. You literally just made a I mean guys, that's worth hitting the And if you want to see follow him on Instagram at Saviojosephtv. And if you want to see click here to watch level one And click here to watch a video