I got interested in reading very early, because Andersen, which was The Little Mermaid, and but it's dreadfully sad. The little mermaid falls in love with this she is a mermaid. And it's so sad I can't tell you the details. But anyway, as soon as I had finished this around the house where we lived, at the brick ending, because I thought that was due to my mind that it was only made up to be a different the world, but I felt I had done my best, the prince and live happily ever after, which done awful things to win the prince's power, She had had to change her limbs. She had had to get limbs that ordinary people pain! This is what she was willing to go through, So I thought she deserved more than death And I didn't worry about the fact that maybe story, because I felt it had been published So, there you are. That was an early start, on writing. And tell us how you learned to tell a story, I made stories up all the time, I had a long generally make up stories. As I got older the stories would be more and or other, and it didn't bother me that the the world immediately, and I don't know if them or reading them. It was about the story itself, generally a with the general idea of the little mermaid's in general able to make a better world, because and things like that. Was it important that the story would be told I never thought of it being important, but but a woman, and there were many good stories After you got maybe into your teens it was needs and so on, but when I was a young girl being a woman. And this may have been because I lived in women did most of the reading, telling most important things, they didn't go in for stories. So I felt quite at home. How did that environment inspire you? You know, I don't think that I needed any important in the world, and I wanted to make on doing this, and it didn't have to do with and it wasn't until much later that I realized into a larger audience. What is important to you when you tell a story? Well, obviously, in those early days the important unhappy endings, for my heroines anyway. And later on I began to read things like Wuthering take place, so I changed my ideas completely What can be so interesting in describing small You just have to be there. I think any life can be interesting, any surroundings have been so brave if I had been living in be called a generally higher cultural level. I didn't have to cope with that. I was the only person I knew who wrote stories, as far as I knew, at least for a while, I world. Were you always that confident in your writing? I was for a long time, but I became very unconfident who were writing. Then I realized that the job was a bit harder But I never gave up at all, it was just something When you start a story, do you always have I do, but then it often changes. I start with a plot, and I work at it, and happen as I'm writing the story, but at least of what the story is about. How consumed are you by the story when you Oh, desperately. But you know, I always got lunch for my children, I was a housewife, so I learned to write in up, though there were times when I was very stories I was writing were not very good, a much, much harder job than I had expected. But I didn't stop, I don't think I have ever What part is hardest when you want to tell I think probably that part when you go over You know, the first part, excitement, the up one morning and you think "what nonsense", work on it. And for me it always seemed the right thing not the story's fault. But how do you turn it around if you are not Hard work. But I try to think of a better way to explain. You have characters that you haven't given or do something quite different with them. In my earlier days I was prone to a lot of take a lot of that out. So you just go on thinking about it and finding which you thought you understood in the beginning, How many stories have you thrown away? Ha, when I was young I threw them all away. I have no idea, but I haven't done that so I had to do to make them live. But there may still always be a mistake somewhere to forget about it. Do you ever regret throwing a story away? I don't think so, because by then I have gone it didn't work from the beginning. But as I say that doesn't happen very often. Growing older, how does that change your writing? Oh, well, in a very predictable way. You start out writing about beautiful young and children and later on about old women, trying to do anything to change that. Your vision changes. Do you think you have been important to other to combine household work with writing? I actually don't know about that, I would I think I went to other female writers when to me, but whether I have been important to I think women have a much, I wouldn't say women to be doing something important, not she does while everybody else is out of the as a man would write. What impact do you think that you have on Oh, well, I want my stories to move people, I want my stories to be something about life that the truth, but to feel some kind of reward it has to be a happy ending or anything, but the reader in such a way that you feel you Who do you think you are? What has that expression meant to you? Well, I grew up in the countryside, I grew and it was a very common idea not to try too That was another image that was popular, "Ah, And to do anything like writing you'd have but I was just a peculiar person. Were you an early feminist? I never knew about the word "feminism", actually grew up in a part of Canada where The big, important writers would be men, but less to her discredit than if a man wrote Because it was not a man's occupation. Well, that was very much in my youth, it's Would it have changed your writing if you It might have indeed, it might have made me about being a writer, because the more I knew rather daunted. I would perhaps have thought I couldn't do really, maybe for a while, but then, I wanted ahead and tried it anyway. Was the writing a gift, given to you? I don't think the people around me would have as a gift, I just thought that it was something So if it was a gift, it certainly wasn't an Did you ever hesitate, did you ever think All the time, all the time! I threw out more stuff than I ever sent away my twenties something. But I was still learning to write the way So, no, it wasn't an easy thing. What did your mother mean to you? Oh, my feelings about my mother were very Parkinson's disease, she needed a lot of help, tell what she was saying, and yet she was much to be part of a social life, and of course speech problems. So I was embarrassed by her, I loved her but with her, I didn't want to stand out and say it was difficult in the same way that any who was maimed in some respect. You would want that time to be totally free Did she inspire you in any way? I think she probably did but not in ways I I can't remember when I wasn't writing stories, them, not to her, to anybody. But the fact that she read, and my father been more agreeable to someone who wanted She would have thought that was an admirable know that I wanted to be a writer, cause I to most people ridiculous. Because most people I knew didn't read, they whole idea of life had to be rather sheltered Has it been hard to tell a true story from No, not at all, because that's the way I think, me. You know this is kind of a special thing with the women, if anybody had the education it school teacher or something like that, and of reading and writing was widely more open or doing different kinds of work. And you were brought up in a working class Yes. And that's where your stories start as well? Yes. I didn't realize it was a working class home, it. And did you like the fact always to write taking care of the kids, cooking dinner? Well, I wrote whenever I could, and my first an admirable thing to do. He didn't think of it as something that a I met later did, he took it as something that that. It was great fun in the first place, because and everybody thought we were crazy and would We worked very hard. How important was the bookstore in the beginning It was our livelihood. It was all we had. We didn't have any other source of income. The first day when we opened we made 175 dollars. - Which you thought was a lot. Well, it was, cause it took us a long time I used to sit behind the desk and find the you do in a bookstore, generally just by myself, a lot, it was very much a place for people things, and this was especially true at night, had these people come in every night, talking was a lot of fun. Up until this point I had been a housewife, as well, but this was a wonderful chance to I don't think we made much money, possibly know, instead of getting them to the books, Visitor in the bookstore: Your books remind - Yes, I live right south of Amsterdam. Thank you so much, goodbye. Think of that! Well, I love it when someone just comes up of getting autographs, but of telling you Do you want young women to be inspired by I don't care what they feel as long as they I want people to find not so much inspiration That's what I want; I want people to enjoy own lives in ways. But that isn't the major thing. I am trying to say that I am not, I guess Are you a cultural person? Probably. I am not quite sure what that means, but I You seem to have a very simple view on things? Do I? Well, yes. Well, I read somewhere that you want things Yes, I do. But I never think that I want to explain things I think I write naturally in an easy way, more easy. Have you ever run into periods when you haven't Yes, I have. Well, I gave up writing, when was it, maybe was not wanting to write and not being able the rest of the world. Because when you are writing you are doing are doing, and you can't really talk about secret world, and then you are doing something And I am sort of getting tired of that, I life. When I got in company with writers who were flustered, because I knew I couldn't write I guess it's a different way of telling a Yes, and I never worked on it in a, what shall conscious, I worked in a way that comforted followed some kind of idea. Did you ever see yourself win the Nobel Prize? Oh, no, no! I was a woman! But there are women who have won it, I know. I just love the honour, I love it, but I just probably underestimate their work, especially You don't go around and tell your friends That is not a common way of greeting one! Do you ever go back these days and read any No! No! I am afraid to! No, but then I would probably get a terrific bit there, and I have even done that in certain the cupboard, but then I realize that it doesn't changed out there. Is there anything you want to say to the people Oh, I want to say that I am so grateful for the world could make me so happy as this! Thank you!