Donald Trump speaks in very simple words. noting that he averages just one syllable Now, I did a video discussing how this makes what he says sticks in your head like a jingle. benefit by adjusting my speech to match Trump's, find incredibly charismatic and persuasive, I feel so jubilant after that racket. Yeah People are pumped after all this stuff got Yes Well that's also enchanting and perhaps, Dave, 11 years ago, when I was still taking of crack houses, whore houses. I was a lunatic. all sorts of mischief _, spraying blood I went; but some nights, I just stayed in. So I wanted to explore which is better, big in one style or the other. So, the first thing from all of the times that you've heard it So when I see a common word like &quot;big&quot; you when I say a word that means the same thing, likely that the only way that you're going an avid reader. Most people, myself included, Google. And what this usually means is that understood by a wider audience, hence, why I'd beat China all the time. It will change. We will win, and we will win, and we will This type of speaking has a second advantage, then people tend to believe it. It's called easy equals true to people, and that's why by the masses, and you can contrast that with jargon. because, look, the pod remain convinced there's the bandwidth to go into a black factory and They don't have it. That's consulting jargon from House of Lies, that is tough to understand but says very and it's used in many professions to keep than they are, so you'll see it in consulting, every white collar profession, and, while, at the workplace, do not let this slip into death. Anyway, small common words increase cognitive you more, but there is still another benefit, these small punchy words, and Donald says I'm telling you, I used to use the word incompetent. League school. I'm very highly educated. I no better word than stupid, right? There is And he uses that word repeatedly to make a this next clip would have if he had said incompetent Because our leaders are stupid. Our politicians When there's stupid leaders of the United which means small words have three things by a wider audience. They're believable because to have a stronger immediate emotional impact, there's an element that we've left out, which Short words are typically imprecise; using and Russell Brand demonstrates this as he clip. I was a young guy and a drug addict, and that crimson-lit, back alley... Nocturnal, crimson-lit, back alley. These a little bit harder. But, assuming that we vivid and precise picture, and that's really words. You can communicate much more precisely. You see how that paints a picture using words period of the story, but everything that I've and the truth is, we don't use words just about ourselves and our identity. Big words signal intelligence and if you like understood most of the words that he uses, those words, but to people who do not understand So here's the rule of thumb. Use the most Now the problem comes in and that some of age. We were encouraged to show off the big to see anyone who didn't understand those for this video, and that was the comment section I saw there a lot of &quot;smart and educated&quot; is, but if you insist on communicating with and sophistry, you're probably not that great going to influence anyone to think that you're So the point of this video is not to use big a way that moves your audience; it's to consider and it's lazy to blame it on the other person through to them. So something that I've been doing that I encourage have one conversation aiming for precision, and then, have the next, using words that this, you'll become a better communicator say to the audience. So I hope that you've enjoyed this video. I've been doing this exercise as well. If to make an amazing first impression, we've you can get that has the four emotions that to make an amazing first impression. It doesn't at work, in social life, anything. These are curious about those four emotions and the the link now. It will take you to another get that video immediately. If you've enjoyed this, go ahead and subscribe every single Monday. We have videos on Charisma advice, all those kinds of things, and those to guide where the next video goes, go ahead, If there's somebody specifically that you'd this--Big Words, Small Words--whatever it Either way, I look forward to seeing you again