country [Peter] So Steven, you choose to live [Steven] I love it. -Why? I've been around them my whole life and I just don't feel comfortable -Really? It's such a humbling place to live. They help you, Like this here, this is Old Order Amish -Okay. -The Old Order started here in 2011, 2012. -Yeah. -And these Old Order Amish, when they first get started they build these red buildings and they call them shops. -Okay. -They'll live in these shops Long enough to build a house, All their shops, all their barns are red, -So they're living here first -Live in shops until they build houses. Now, a lot of development going on here? -This is actually This is a Mennonite home here. -They're horse and buggy Mennonites, -So it gets very confusing. -Amish, Mennonites, many types of Mennonites. But for example, the Swartzentruber they don't have electricity at home, -None. -No cell phones? Even though some do, right? -Some every now and then, who knows. That's their business. -The Mennonite are more liberal, -They still don't have cell phones. -Mennonites don't? -I've seen some with them. -Our Mennonites here, no cell phones. They have land lines in their home. -Okay. -They do have electricity, They have all that stuff no connection like that at all. -So it really depends where these rules apply? -Like Holmes County, Ohio -It's different in this county. If you're a member you abide by the way Now the Mennonite church five miles Then there's also They're Charity Mennonites, but they drive cars Then there's also Holdeman Mennonites. There's so many types of Amish [Peter] And for those of you you'll know where we're at now. A good friend of Titus is Steven. -That's right. I knew him for along time, many years. -If it wasn't for Steven -So thank you, Steven. Where is he? Is he out and about? -He may be sleeping. [horn honks] -Because we hitchhiked That was like an 18 hour mission. -It was a long mission. Steven picked us up -He's on the phone, who coulda guessed? -Let's go. [dog barks] [Titus] Hey. [laughs] [Peter] Hey. Titus, you get some good sleep? -I did. -[Peter] Office hours are closed? [Peter] What's unforgettable? -The whole trip. -Yesterday? Just coming in there, we still have sun, we still have enough time It was like the icing on the cake [Peter] We took seven rides -Seven. I was worried about it, -Nothing is impossible [Steven] That's right. [Peter] So Titus, today's video, Well, you're non-Amish. Non-Amish living next to Amish Mennonites. It works pretty well, right? -For me it's been a blessing. I had an Amish neighbor &quot;Titus...&quot; I was just starting out. I didn't have much of and I was always borrowing farm &quot;Titus, if I'm gone and you need &quot;If I'm not around He's like, &quot;If you're really and you've gotta have some help, He's like, &quot;The only thing you can't -That makes sense. -You followed the rules, right Titus? [all laughing] -And then also at one of my his horse had died to get some plowing done and things, from me, I was like, &quot;Sure, go ahead.&quot; He took good care of my horse. Loaning your horse out is I mean some people you would trust and other people you'd be like, They might blow it up then I could be liable but yeah, My horse came back, just great shape. [Steven] I know one thing, [all laughing] -You think I would drive wild? -It would be bad. Well I mean just give me a chance, Steven. Let me prove... -Should we do a video, -I don't think so, not today. [all laughing] -We're gonna go meet John Yoder, -Oh, yeah. -At the slaughterhouse. -[Peter] Titus, see ya, buddy. -Is this it? I'm not gonna see you [Steven] Unless you come by here -You can come to my parent's this evening. -[Peter] See you, Titus. [Peter] Titus! [Peter] God, Titus is so much fun [Steven] He's wild. You know what, me and him Like we've been We went-- -Because he works for you sometimes? -He helps me-- -If I'm taking a horse and my wife don't want to go 'cause I can call Titus and say, [as Titus] He's ready, he loves it. -What's it like -It's an adventure every mile. It's an adventure. You never know what's gonna happen. -Does he preach a lot -Every stop. -Every stop. At the hotels. Wherever you stop he's out to preach. -It's hard not to smile He comes across with such -He went with me and he wanted to get out of the truck and go on the Lord's -Hitchhiking? -From New York? -And I begged him, I finally talked him into coming with me and then there was no other talking. He was getting out of that truck, I left him on the side of I-80, bye-bye. -What else was I supposed to do? -He got home before me, really quick. -He hitched from Ohio to here? -Yeah, I had to go on to Ohio That's why he wanted to go on, He beat me home. -Titus has probably -He won't miss one. somber country -[Steven] Here's the Mennonite school. -They know you? I'm around them, And this here is a business owned by [Peter] So when someone is making they're putting it into homes, what? -Homes, land for their children to live. -So they buy a lot of land? -And also they help the school system. And the way like say me and you say I have a heart attack, our church is gonna pay my hospital bill. -Yeah. So I think if somebody's got a lot -So I'm guessing they're not -Oh no, I wouldn't say so. -...modern investment vehicles -They will invest Like if a young man gets married a lot of the elders will pull together When the COVID refunds come, The Amish, the mom and dad I forget exactly how much it was -Remember? -These people with 15 kids, 12 kids -Like how much do you think? They wrote void across the checks They won't take any kind of money like that. -They'll never take welfare, EBT stuff? -Mennonites the same? [Steven] This here is I know most of these guys too, -Everyone's name is Yoder. -They moved here Look at that big circle blade, In this area, sawmilling This is their office -So everyone here gets an education -That's it. Eighth grade, then go to work. -Wow, what are your thoughts on that? -I mean seems to work pretty good. A lot of them are really doing I mean I'd say these Amish and Mennonites learn more through eighth grade than The distractions ain't there. They go to school and that's what they do. What's this, Steven? It's a Swartzentruber phone shack. They call it a shandy. Phone shandy. -Okay, so they make their calls in there? -See the solar panels -It's a land line? Cell phone? -Probably a black box, They're from Verizon, they're and it's got a SIM card in it and it runs off cell towers but you -That's okay with the church? -I don't know. All I know is What I think is I think somebody else and he put it there for them to use. That's what I think. -But I don't know 100% Steven, how do you say Swartzentruber -Swatzendrover. -Huh? [both giggling] The Amish and Mennonite around here don't say too much 'cause I can 'bout -Oh, that's cool. [Peter] This video is sponsored by Thorum. When I got married and I got completely ripped off and cost too much.. But there's a better way. Thorum's rings are stylish They have an excellent selection Meteorite, whiskey barrel, ironwood, titanium, tungsten carbide, I personally wear the WWII ring This band is inlayed with timber which makes it Founded in 2012 by co-owners They're a small husband and wife with a love for their craft. A Thorum purchase comes with and they ship within The quality is superior with a lifetime warranty. They come in this And Thorum is now making Whether you need a wedding ring, or a good looking ring, head over to www.Throum.com to get 20% off a truly unique ring. Again, that's 20% off Now back to the video. -So you've always lived in this community? -I was raised in Bethelridge. Which is five miles -I mean I was raised right here. So even though it's not your culture, -Kind of, yeah, I'm so used to it. -You know, I'm with them everyday. -When I go home at night I talk to 10 or 15 That's my hobby, that's my friends. We talk to each other on the phone. I call my Amish friends in Ohio, -Do you connect with them just because Just more traditional values? -I connect with them I love horses. And I connect with them That's what got me in with them. -You sell draft horses, Which the Amish want, right? -That's right You don't sell to Amish? -No. -'Cause they usually don't buy 'em We're selling to carriage companies, people that don't really The Amish, these people have horses They breed their mares They don't really have to buy them, -They're super frugal too, right? -I've sold to them before. You don't make but if I got a friend, If I've got a friend here I'll give him a good deal You know, help the community. Last Saturday we had an auction, It's a driving horse sale. All of the money goes to All of it, it's a total non-profit. All the money goes to the school We're gonna build a new school And all the Mennonites come here, and it's growing every year, [Peter] &quot;Television destroys families.&quot; -Yeah. -They're not even onto the internet yet? -The Charity people, no. They use internet for business use only. Like he used to have a tire shop here. He probably had a computer but what I've heard now, We can ask John out here But I heard if they get on something it reports to their bishop. A lot of people don't know this, there is an Amish publication I don't know what it means in Dutch Every community in America And it's like 100 pages, to all the subscribers all over America. -So this is how the Amish Mennonites -Like this community will write, -&quot;We built John a new barn.&quot; It's that kind of news, It goes to all Amish homes They're out of Pennsylvania. There's also another really big one And they do a similar And of course Amish, when they Like when the TV's running. You know, they sit and watch it, And English people coming into Like when COVID &quot;Oh, you gotta wear a mask now.&quot; They hear what's going on. -Hey, but ignorance is bliss in a way. When you're out here, why do you -That's right. -...or someone else's stress if you're Like why do you want to know -What's the point of that? I'm not Amish or Mennonite I don't pay attention to the news myself. I just hang out here, have fun. [chuckles] [Steven] Howdy, howdy, how are you? [man] Doing great. [Steven] Johnny Yoder here? -He sleeping still? -[Peter] How you doing sir? -Doing well. -If you'd come just an hour earlier, [Peter] So is this -We're similar to both. From the same... Anabaptists, it's the same umbrella, same roots as the Amish and Mennonite, but don't necessarily go by either name. -Gotcha, but it all sort of -Oh yeah. [Peter] John, so you were -Yes. New order Amish? -I'm not. We don't really have -Okay. Definitely sort of favor A lot of people just call us I'm not offended by it but we're not -Okay, so when did you leave It'll be seven years next month I think. So that would be back -Was that a hard process? -Did you have to abandon -I didn't have to abandon them. They took fairly good care -Okay. -But it's part of their culture, -So if you grew up in that culture... Like for example, I wanted to shave my head like this I would be kicked out of the church? Most likely, right? -Eventually they do, they are graceful. Fairly graceful, and it's not like they It's not quite. There is people out there from the Old Order but I'll be the first one I'd been a Swartzentruber for 27 years. They are... They're very nice people and they don't However, there comes a time whether you're gonna be So when you choose to shave obviously you are saying that, &quot;Look, I don't agree So you're kind of asking in a sense. -That had to be super hard, that process. -I'm not saying it's easy. I cried a many time. -So why did you decide to do that? -Obviously not for personal pleasure -Right. -Well while I like the Swartzentrubers they have a lot of zeal, They're very likable people. I will also say this about them. There is a lot of stuff going on that you that you don't see -Okay. -There is a consistent turmoil and it's very grievous because and you know, it's very clear but you hate your brother, That's what the Bible says, right? So that's one of the things I can't... You know, I just could not go on with. There was some abuse with my oldest son. In a physical abuse manner. And there is some other abuses that go on. And it's very unfortunate, it's too much for me to be comfortable. And I will say where my tipping point was, at one point I told my wife, I said I would never go back There was a private meeting And there was a 16-year-old boy, and he was scared, he said they're mean. I told him I didn't think they were. So I took him... had the back of my buggy -You know, the boys. And I set him on there, He's okay, he'll be fine, I was sitting in the meeting there and then I heard him scream. I said, &quot;Oh, boy.&quot; I hated that. Anyway I ended up going out take a clod of dirt with all of his force Which is missed his face -It was compacted dirt? -Dry dirt. It splattered of course So I walked over to him He was three years old but I just When I took ahold of him He was still sitting on the buggy and these boys, younger boys, for absolutely nothing he had done. He's still sitting on the buggy where This is one of the many accounts. And I did not agree with the Amish, So obviously the young generation, Sort of making an example out of me, And that was very difficult... -Wow. -But I don't... You know, I forgave them. But it was time I could tell you a whole bunch more but this is sort of a little bit. There is various sexual abuse cases Um... -You're saying Swartzentruber, -Well it happens under a lot of Amish, Also Swartzentrubers, -I just want to make it clear it's not all families obviously. -Oh, absolutely not. -And as far as my relationship, this is seven years, My family worked hard. My mom and dad, they always... You know, we had And we go home quite frequently We have a good time when we go. We visit, we now have-- -So you can visit your parents? -How long couldn't you visit them for? -It took about three years -That's hard. -But it was hard for them. You have to understand they were not -You know, I like them, they like me. I'm convinced, right? They just... it's family... it is. -Yeah. So you have to understand it's not this heated batting -So in a way, to preserve these values, and the culture, it has to be very... For lack of better words, So anything that's against the rules, like you wanted to therefore, it's not an easy process. If it was an easy process, Then maybe the whole thing Is there a fear of that? -So obviously There were two Just a couple years before I actually left -Converted to? -Christianity. I became... I believe... I got converted, I got born again. -So Swartzentrubers are Christian though. Right? Or no? -Well... When there's a lot of turmoil in a church, and there's not a following how can you call yourself a Christian? -Okay. -Bible says, &quot;If you love me, -Okay. So your interpretation the Swartzentrubers in general? -The problem is when I mention... When there's &quot;Look, I get but this is what the word of God says.&quot; It's not me saying it, it's not my customers saying it. It's the word of God saying it. I read the quote to them. If the remark comes back, And I don't want anyone about any individual person. -Yeah, yeah. -But we were expected... to have our courtship in a private area. And hugging, and kissing, It was actually encouraged. -With the Swartzentrubers? -This community The couple will actually on a Saturday or Sunday night, in bed hugging and kissing. And the Bible demands, A pure heart. -Try that. If you're trying -Yeah. -Tell me how you can be in bed and you want to marry, God designed marriage. -We know that. These are non-married -Doing this snuggle, cuddle party stuff. -That's another problem. They're from 16 and a half -The parents accept this or no? I'm not kidding you. -Okay, so that breaks I woulda thought therefore that stuff -But you're saying they're encouraging it. -And it's some or all? -Pretty much, uh... There is a community in Missouri They are... The community in Missouri has that they don't push their agenda. They don't have to follow -So is the goal behind that Is that the point of that? -You want my frank opinion? -I mean it's up to you. This is on a video, -It's ignorance to the truth and what a pure heart really looks like. -Okay. -I'm not hating them for it. If there was any way -Okay. -...the deadliness of this situation. Me and my wife All right? -Yeah. -We never had intercourse. -So they're encouraging it though? -Not intercourse, Yes, they go to bed, they lay in bed -Where are the parents? -Downstairs sleeping if they can. I can't imagine they could. -Okay, so 16-year-olds, -I remember being 16. -Yeah, that's right. But I want you to know and for their defense, and never made intercourse. -Okay. So it depends the couple. -I want you to know that God but unfortunately there are when they go on that long... We started at 17. We started dating. -Yeah. -So there's a lot of people out there They ain't got And that's very sad. -Right, yeah, okay, so... Do they allow, like, I'm 16, a girl comes over, &quot;Snuggle&quot; quote-unquote. Um... Could I have a different girl or no, has to be the same one? -Some of that happens too. The girls don't come over, -The boy goes over? But it's never through the parents, never. -What do you mean through the parents? -What typically happens is my friends would have taken me Three, four boys go together the boy that they're taking to the girl. -Okay. Two of the boys would go -Yeah? -And ask the girl for... If she would have a date with this certain young man, Thank God I never had a date -Okay. -She's the only woman And so the one boy went upstairs Of course I knew her. -He asked for you? -Okay. -So she said yeah, she would. So we went in and in that community they always done it Typically in the South What it means and the girl sits on his lap. -At 16? -16, 17 years old, 18. And the boy hugs the girl, and they sit on the chair Of course we ended up Not for rocking either. [laughs] Not from no rollovers. -Crash the rocking chair. We never did Anyways, in the North, they're from the North In this particular case they went out and put me in bed with her... and then... blew the light out, kerosine light, -No electricity inside. -Where are the parents right now? -Downstairs in bed. -They know what's going on? -Not unless they are picking up -They gotta know. -Sure. -You don't tramp around You know, parents know I can't imagine them sleeping. If my girl was laying upstairs and there was three boys no, I'm not sleeping. I couldn't, I'd just go crazy I think. -Yeah. -Unless they got ahold I don't know how to do that It's very unfortunate and I want everyone to know... This is not a downplay I'm sharing my story. Those are things that I cannot go there. -You don't want to bring No, and then there was -Yep. -This stuff is not... This stuff, according to the Bible, should never be once named among you. And I'm not ashamed of being a Christian. I will be very blunt was not for self pleasure the pain I had to put them through. -That had to be extremely painful. -And go through it myself, my wife, I was told that and my wife will too It's another misunderstanding I finally got the point if I have to I will then just do that. I can't have them in this mess. There was many times It was very difficult. -We, you and your family? And my family cried a lot too, because they care about me. It was difficult. There is some pain I feel like they love me, but yet we can have this interaction. So there is pain. Still seven years later because they care. If I just hardened my heart but I can't do that 'cause it's not He cared for people. And so we can't go home... we can't go home, Now when we go to visit her family and they would go and we'll go through cafeteria style, But my family, We visit them, we have good times, but we can't have any -They won't have you sit at the table? -[Peter sighs] That's rough. -An uncle and aunt of mine, we stopped in there, she prepared a simple meal, while they sat away from the table. Now that's called respect. Holding the rules but yet in care for the other person, She and her husband gave us the table and they sat... -Wow, that's remarkable. -That is respect, It was almost more than I could handle That they would give up their own table, set me there I'm not allowed to buy, sell, or trade, or have any business dealings -With Swartzentruber? And a lot of Old Order Amish churches will hold that -They'll know your status that you left and if they came into the store -Most of them wouldn't Some of them would. [Peter to customer] -Some of them would, some wouldn't, but see, I don't own this store, If I owned the store, absolutely not, My brother for sure wouldn't work here. But I just work here. I just work here, I sweep the floor. -Will they buy because you work here? -Some will come and in they will buy Some of them Which the next thing is after I was excommunicated and gone, this is the only The ones that helped put me They have a harder time -This is you as a Swartzentruber? A few similarities. [both chuckling] [Peter] Do you miss -I do, I do. There was a lot of times I could do this any day. I would Yeah, it was a cold snowy day, -So when you're in what are you thinking of the English? As in me, the outside world. Are you looking at them -I wouldn't say irresponsible but carnal. You know, chasing after Um, you know, fornication is a big thing. Things like that, But I don't have that drives a vehicle like I used to. Obviously I drive one myself. -When you didn't drive, you had that? -I just sort of had that picture because when you leave that's what you do. Those are some of So guess what the thought was that we... You know, the thought because that's what -It is yeah, it's exactly what they do. -Get out in the world And they explore every avenue Some of them do -You think Steven [all laughing] Do I really have to answer that? [Peter] He's gonna have to remove You're definitely out. He wouldn't even make -Yeah, he's gone. -[John] Gone with the wind. -Your brother is back there -Yeah. -You guys get along? -We do get along, yeah... yeah. He's... -You were trying I was but he said, &quot;The only thing I'll show you [John laughs] [Peter] You want to see -Let's go try. -So your brother's in a tough position. He's gotta be between -Yeah. -He will likely come up and ask -He's not supposed to ask me. -Any kind of business dealings. I do a lot of the ordering, tools, or help, whatever, sort through it. And I help him. You know, I would not that would put him in a... But yeah, he just avoids asking me for... You know, when he needs cut sheets he'll usually come up -How's that make you feel? -It's life. Understand, I have friends here. -Yeah, so how is that now? You left the church, you're still in the same community. Do you get along with everyone? You're working in a store, You seem like a likable guy. Are your relations -It depends, there will always be-- Is it finger pointing John, -I'll paint you a little bit of a picture. So excommunication is often used Look, you really need The ones that were there I would say there's They just enjoy to find fault. I'm John Yoder so I'm not perfect, -Okay. -Sure... everyone. -But the majority of them, They're very good people. -So the 80% you can get along with, -All is good? -We shake hands, pleasant to meet them. -It's not like a total 100% shunning? &quot;John left Swartzentrubers, and we need to shun him from society.&quot; You're saying 20% do, 80% don't? -I'm just making a number, about 20% will look at me -They don't-- -To start with I had one guy and scratch it up just out of revenge. That's fine, it's just a truck. It's not mine, it's God's. I had somebody scratch at an Amish funeral or somewhere, I think a funeral or a wedding I think. Just stuff like that happens I don't have any issues with that anymore. Uh... They pretty well quit that. Like I said, last night I stopped in to pick up something. Um, we had a great talk. Had a good talk. -So technically a Swartzentruber because they don't watch the internet. -Oh, I'd say a lot -They will? -Because they're underground? -There's many, many Amish boys -Okay. -That's another reason I just... I don't mind YouTube, I have YouTube. I use a lot of YouTube, But it's just when you say can't have it, and then you do have it. -So there's some hypocrisy going on here? -Unfortunately. -Okay. -Humans are human? [Peter] That was crazy, John's story. -Like that's heavy stuff. -One point I'd like to make these are the stories not one person no matter what that community is. -Exactly. -Some people will say, &quot;You're trying to say Not the case at all. But to make this kind of spontaneous, I show you what I come into. Now I could meet up with someone else, I'm sure another Swartzentruber family that maybe has a good family dynamic and nobody left, There's all different types. Got other Amish videos too, [chuckles] But that's what it is, -It is, definitely. -Life's complicated, -Just 'cause they're Amish don't mean they don't go through problems They're people They're Amish but they're people. somber country [Steven] This was like in the Mennonite and Amish community here. -The Dutchman? Paul Martin owns it, he still owns it. It's still open. It started out just this building Now they built a new school behind it. Since then his son's have opened But they left the store for the old man. -Do you think he'll talk on camera? -All we can do is try. I don't know if he will or not, -Just so you all know, getting Amish -It's tough. -And we have to get approval obviously, So a lot of the times, the camera is off. [Peter speaking to man] Hello. -We can walk around -Just an old general store. -[Steven] Howdy, howdy. [Steven] How are you, buddy? -[man] Not too bad for an old man. -So these are all local jams? -Some of it could be. &quot;Yoder's good health recipe.&quot; [Peter] Little bit of everything -Stove pipes. -Do you think he wants to be on camera? -I don't know, you'll have to ask him. -I'd just ask. -He's a very interesting man. -Very cool. -One of the original ones [Peter] Do you mind if I have the video? It's okay? Okay. So Paul, 40 years here? You were telling me the Mennonites, [Paul] From their assignments, -He left the Catholic church? -Yeah, they expelled him. And you're Mennonite? And what have you seen in your 40 years? What are the big changes? Do you notice any changes? -Not really to be honest. Old-fashioned as we were, you know? Years ago we had to Now everything is modernized. -Do you get out of the area often -Mm-hmm, yeah. -What do you feel like when you What are your thoughts on it? Well there might be differences -Like Steven, for example? -I heard he was gonna -Amish... He won't pass. [Steven] No. [Peter] You need a beard [Paul chuckles] Yeah, a big hat. [Peter] Do you have any kids? -Ten. -Grandkids? -Between 70 and 80. [laughs] [Peter] Seventy and eighty grandkids? That's amazing. -And I have great-grandchildren. That makes an antique out of me. -How old are you? -Eighty-seven. -What life advice do you have for us? What wisdom can you share? -The main thing is serve the lord. -Okay. -We're strong in that. I shall love the lord, thy God That's the greatest commandment. If you keep that commandment, the other commandments -Fair to say you've lived a good life? -You feel good, your health is good? [Steven] He still rides a bicycle. -Yeah, he rides a bike? -Every day you ride the bicycle? -[Peter] Steven, you need-- [Paul] A fella came in here, he said, &quot;You take your bicycle--&quot; &quot;You take your bicycle and ride Later on I said, &quot;I'd like to go somewhere, He said, &quot;Sure, where?&quot; &quot;I want you to take me up to my house. [all laughing] I just wanted to tease him. [Peter] So what do you think or you don't even think about it? -Oh, I'm thankful we have When you think of other countries, Where they are poor -Mm-hmm. So we better be thankful. -[Paul] Where do you live -Florida?! -One February, and I helped my parents shovel snow. We went down to Florida and walked around Miami In one week's time, such a difference. -How did it feel -I enjoyed it. I noticed people had high fences. I asked, They said, &quot;We have a lot of stealing.&quot; Keep the people from stealing. -Yeah. You don't have -Oh yeah, we have some. -You do have some? -I get some shoplifting in here too. -Who's doing the shoplifting, the kids? -No, it's older people. [chuckles] I didn't even think about this, or is it just -We have sheriff and police I mean it's peaceful here. -Your population is growing, right? 'Cause you're having a lot of kids. -Yeah. -I mean your 70 to 80 grandkids and the population is expanding. -I have great-grandchildren. -Now in China that would be a lot. In China you're restricted. You can have only so many children -They had the one child policy because now or it will be in decades to come. -You think? -Yeah, it's gonna decline quite a bit. My group, what am I a WASP? White Anglo-Saxon Protestant. We're not having many kids. -Hmm. -I don't even have any kids. -Oh, really? -Do you think I should? -You're married and have no children? -Should I get to business? -You use birth control? -No? -Just, you time it right. You know, around the cycles. Do you think I should have kids? Think it's a true gift in life? -Whatever the lord blesses you with. -The lord decides that, huh? -Yeah. -Do you agree? -I think it's out of my control So I agree. -Put your trust in the lord. -There's a higher power that-- -You know... -I was speaking with an atheist and I'm so sure there is a God. We couldn't agree. -Did you get along though? -We're friends but we didn't agree. -Do you find it easy there's less stress? -Yeah. You put your trust in a higher power If there's something you don't worry about it, -Yeah. Live what you understand. -That's peaceful, huh? -Thank you, sir. [Steven] Gonna head on down the road. [Paul] All right. -[Peter] Take care. Wow, that's like stepping back in time. [diesel truck starts] [car door beeps] Steven, I could -He's awesome. I've been coming here Me and my dad would come here, I mean I remember it very well. You just got if you use birth control or not. [laughs] That's raw stuff. Raw footage. That's bad. You want to stop I mean, yeah. -Who doesn't want to do that? I never met the guy, All I know is there's a barber shop He also sells honey bee supplies. [Peter reading sign] &quot;Haircut, sir?&quot; &quot;Haircuts $12, -You have cash? I do but I don't have hair or a beard. -I never been in here. &quot;When family, church, I may not be here during those times.&quot; I like his style. -He's cool. -He's writing his own rules. -Okay. [Peter] We have Which wouldn't be any of us. Nope, we're not long-haired. -And then I like this, &quot;Please come in &quot;No cussing please.&quot; Very nice. [barber] I did a lot more business -Okay. Then here there's a lot more [customer] Mom's do it for sisters. [barber] Family does it for free. [customer] The Mennonite-type people, larger families than more typical America. Go back a generation or two, Yes, moms, sisters, have been well-able to do haircuts, and if young men desired a haircut in town from a professional barber, a lot of times it wasn't When it's some kind of style [Peter] Gotcha, gotcha. -Steven, you good? -Steven's one of those bad customers, -Mama does the cuttin'. [barber] ...bee thing over here. -Bee thing? I'm sorry. -You're doing honey here? -Outside? -The bee business is will be able to help me with growing up. See, barbering is a profession a license from the state to do. You can't get your license till you're 18 and have your high school diploma So it's nothing but bee supplies, till he can carry a bee box and put it in for them, and help me with that. So I wanted something that I could -And spend time. Because I think so many times you go out and you work and then you come home and your child and a few hours of time But if you have something where then they get that you get to work together and spend time together. They don't just get your left over -[Steven] That's true. And so that's why Something he could help me with of the expense here Doesn't do as well as it does I've got some but it's full of bee stuff, I make homemade brooms too. Triple B. [Steven] Yeah, brooms, [Peter] Wow, that's great. [barber] Bees, brooms, and barbering. [barber] If you want [Peter] Okay. [Peter] Are we in Liberty? [Steven] Well, it's a Liberty address -Okay, so if someone's in South Fork, And any bee supplies. -What's the address here? -It's on the main road. He said just go in. [Steven] It's on highway 910. [Peter] Highway 910 near Rusty Joes. That should be Okay, look at this. [Steven] Oh, wow. [Peter] What a smell, huh? -This wood smells so good. So you see a lot of that out here, -A lot of people -Bee suits. -You know what they say local honey does? -What's that? -If you eat honey, like teaspoon a day, that's raised in your local area, it'll cure allergies. That's what they say. [Peter] Honey from Mississippi, If I wasn't traveling That's great. I love it. -&quot;Pure honey distributed by...&quot; -Did he say he was Amish? -He's the same as John Yoder. They're the same church -Charity, so that's-- -Mennonite, yeah. -A type of Mennonites. -I love what he said about -That was neat. -It's cool, it's a good point, right? I don't have kids but... -Kind of made me think -It's something I worry about a little. It's pretty neat. -And how he's thinking out -Right? -I wanna be somber country [Steven] There's some Swartzentrubers. The other morning I brought I think I lost my hubcap here on my truck. I want to ask them if it's here. -This is like out of a movie set. -This is Swartzentrubers. -Did I lose a hubcap [woman] Your hubcap's in the back. -It is here. [chuckles] [Steven] Thank you. What'd I hit? I hit something the other morning then. [boy] I don't know what it was. -Hey, it'll go back on. Thank you, buddy. I think I hit that the other morning. I hit something with my front tire and I heard it but I hadn't slept 'cause I drove all night. So I just quit on home. [Peter] That was like -Oh, yeah. Now this is English people Like all these are English. Actually those are But these are English people here. You 'member John Yoder? The one we videoed at the meat place? -Yeah. -Here's the first place he lived in. He bought this place and moved here -This place? Now he's moved since then Now this here is 'Course he'll haul -There's their house. [Peter] They started red barn and then afterwards, when -Actually these people built They had a barn raising there, -So inside it's traditional -Just like a Swartzentruber home. -Everything's made out of wood, -Yep. They're the same church as -No power lines coming in. -Nope, they don't have electric. -He just bought the property They'll haul that trailer -They'll get the electrical line out? -Plumbing? -No plumbing, no indoor plumbing. -Right, so outhouse? -Yep, we can see [Steven] This is an old house that they -So a lot of Swartzentrubers moving in? -Yeah, still. Yes. And this here was a Swartzentruber, Not John Yoder, a different John. He bought this place, and he sold it, They put electric to it and fixed it up. They're living there now. somber country [Peter] This is our last stop, Steven? -What do we got here? -You're growing all of these? -Henry does, that's his business there, [Steven giggles] [Steven] He doing pretty good ain't he? [horse snorts] This is our draft horses. This is Wyatt and Wes over here. They're going to Texas with me next week. [Peter] So you work with an Amish guy? -With Henry, Mennonite guy. -Mennonite guy? Me and Henry's been friends -And bring these horses -We take them all over the place, This is George, he's a stallion. He's a seven year old Belgian stallion. -So the draft horses -They are... Yeah, well used to be but nowadays people ride 'em, -So they're just thicker-boned, -They're thicker-boned -Lower center of gravity? -That's right I guess, yeah. [Peter] Barn fell down? -Tornado, June something. [Henry] We had the roof on, and we had a very heavy wind and it took this whole thing -Leveled it? [Steven] It fell down on Sunday night. By Monday, mid day, -Yeah, Sunday night it fell down, bunch of people come Monday they had a work day, and they had over the whole day, I think the lady served and then by lunch time they were getting the walls They were cleaning the horse barn up yet. [Peter] So Henry, the local Amish, -Yeah. -You didn't pay them, -They just came to help -So if your neighbor's barn you're gonna go over there? -Yeah, then we all gather and help. -That's how it works around here? [Steven] Help your neighbor. [Peter] Oh wow, the barn [Steven] This whole structure fell. -Wow, it's massive. Just a few days. [Henry] Yep. Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday. [truck approaches] -[Peter] What's going on here, Steven? My boss. [laughs] Happy wife, happy life, Peter. -Is she happy? -I hope. [laughs] -Let's see. We're gonna see right now. -Yeah, she got her hat on -Steven, how many kids do you have? My boy is 16, I got a girl that's 14, -Oh, wow. And who's this one? -Little Silas. [Henry] My little girl, Cheyenne. -How many do you have, Henry? [Steven] We even got [Peter] Oh yeah, there you go. [Steven] I love draft horses. This team here is going to to -Oh cool. [Steven] This team's pretty special You see how that one That's dapples, it's just a color. -Okay. Next year he'll turn on out Gray horses are And they change through their whole life. You ever been on a wagon ride, Peter? -Uh yeah, I have. [Steven chuckles] -So we're gonna take a ride? -That would be great. [wagon clanking] [Steven] You can do what you need to do. -You can stand or sit. [hooves clopping] -[Steven] That's a pretty sight. What a cool part -Yeah it is, it's great. -It's a good fusion between the And me. -And Peter, yeah. [chuckles] [Henry] That's the brake right there. I got full hydraulic brakes This was my dad's old wagon but I used it to haul sorghum loads So I put a steel wagon on it. So I can pull it or we can put the horses to it -[Peter] Do you speak Pennsylvanian Dutch? At home we would, yes. -So English is your second language? -Yeah, basically. That's for most people out here, right? -All the Mennonites, yeah. We would sing German [Peter singing in German] -We sing it in church but that's about it. We don't use it at home. [Henry kissing at horses] -Steven, thank you brother. -Appreciate it, that was awesome. -A very interesting look from but someone that knows how it works. -Scoop in. That's what I was trying to say. Anyone looking for a draft horse, find you on the website -Get in contact, -That's right. -Nation wide? -Canada too? -Those links below, guys. -All right, appreciate it. Thanks guys, until the next one. somber country