Transcriber: Rhonda Jacobs (Speaking Indigenous language) Greetings, my relatives and my people. (Speaking Indigenous language) My name is Lyla June. (Speaking Indigenous language) I come from the [Indigenous name] We are also incorrectly known We are indigenous to what is now called but we call it Dine Bikeyah, (Speaking Indigenous language) I'm originally from Taos, New Mexico. (Speaking Indigenous language) In this manner I present myself I'm here today to share a message of hope. This hope comes from what I've come across This hope comes from what Native people For tens of thousands of years, Native people of this land constructed Contrary to the myth we were not passive observers of nature, nor were we wandering bands of nomads looking for a berry to eat No. By and large, we were active agents to produce prolific abundance. We expanded and designed grasslands And in many places, We became what the world calls or a species upon which And our cultures became keystone Now, much was made last year about the positive environmental As more people stayed home, animals began to reclaim habitat, and the logical leap was that the earth I reject that leap. (Laughter) The earth may be better off but we are not those systems. We don't have to be, at least. What if I told you What if I told you that we belong here? What if I told you I've seen my people What if these human hands and minds that they sparked new life I'd like to share with you today four important Indigenous ones I've identified in hopes that they might The first is to tap into and align Why try to control the earth In Southwest deserts, for example, Native farmers have leveraged They place their fields to catch every drop of the monsoon rains, and the nutrients that flow down with them This alluvial farming technique requires because all of this comes with the rain. By tapping into pre-existing Native farmers have been able for centuries without ever Another fascinating is intentional habitat expansion. Why put plants and animals when you can simply make For example, Indigenous peoples have intentionally by bringing gentle fire For millennia, following the grass burning we would transform dead plant tissues nourishing the soil and unlocking and medicines like echinacea. Over time, this fire would prevent trees and shrubs and would nourish the soil to generate Many people think when in fact the buffalo In this manner, we anthropogenically as far south as Louisiana A third strategy I want to mention create non-human-centric systems. Why hoard for your own species when you can live For example, Coastal Salish Nations by planting kelp forests This helps that small silver fish rebound in even greater numbers, and both the eggs and the hatched herring nourishing so many other life forms, such as bear, salmon, orca, Ironically, by seeding this food web Coastal Salish Nations have greater because they feed the hand The last strategy I want to mention Design for perpetuity. Why plan for just the next fiscal quarter when we could plan For example, tree pollen and ash They sink to the bottom and engrave One Kentucky sediment record shows how Shawnee ancestors for over 3,000 years straight. A sudden influx of fossilized indicates that they managed it Presumably this enriches the soil, helps the soil hold more water, and eliminates competing vegetation to boost the immune systems Apparently it worked What if our systems So those are just four of many strategies that Native peoples and peoples work with nature. expand habitat, de-center humans These are the types of food that Europeans came across They often mislabeled them or "virgin land" or "wilderness" instead of what they really were: living heirlooms, You might say, Oh, that's very nice, Lyla, That could never feed today's And to that I say, these continents were actually as more and more studies are proving, and their food systems I would venture to say that these systems are even more efficient because they protect and augment instead of extracting and destroying them. Sometimes I wonder if we applied these strategies to today - if we protected life and expanded life. I guarantee you, if we did, we'd no longer see humans or something she'd be better off without. We'd see humans as a critical piece I would love to see the world And at the same time, I know it's not we must also work to return some of these for in addition to healing the soil - (Laughs) (Applause) (Cheers) Oh, thank you. I like this crowd. (Laughs) For in addition to healing the soil, And we can do that together. So much of these continents from a people who often Countless Native people their children put into boarding schools where our languages and cultures This legacy will not be healed by simply appropriating We must also work to restore at least some of these stolen who often live like refugees today, aching If we all unite together in amends and generosity, knowledge could be exchanged There is a word in my language, "hozho." Can you guys say that? Hozho. (Audience) Hozho. Ooh, that sounds cool. (Laughter) We'll do it one more time: hozho. (Audience) Hozho. Ooh, I like that. Hozho is the joy of being When we understand that humanity we understand that we too belong. Hozho understands that we have Hozho understands When we become her friend, her confidant, instead of her dominator, we can transform And this does not involve and never touching a blade of grass. No, it involves rolling up our sleeves, living within her processes, becoming a part of the earth's system and using these minds on a holistic regional scale. If our ancestors around the world then it gives us hope Thank you for listening. (Applause) (Cheers)