Our story begins inside the control center for the Princess Leia, telling her that they would make an that he stop, their world was peaceful, they had in the system. Tarkin whipped back around telling she needed to name a military target or she under her breath, the name of a former Alliance Vader and telling him that she could be reasoned to ready the weapon. Leia cried out, telling him silencing her as he pulled her back and directed Vader stepped forward and told Tarkin and Tarkin looked back with a disgusted scowl. face telling him that the Emperor would make especially one as important as Alderaan. It didn't what mattered was the fact that the and that could not be allowed. Tarkin to the deck officers who waited for Tarkin told Vader that Alderaan was infested in to the heart of the Rebellion, especially This wouldn't just be a crushing blow to their but a show of Imperial Power. Everything went back established because he wanted to prove himself to their Empire. He took a distasteful look only a month back could be corrected here. If the then that was their battle, but the Core Vader raised his hand and pointed at Tarkin, stepping froward and forcing his power and that he was ordering this to be stopped. If but they would not be destroying Alderaan and and told them to cease operations, they In the meantime, Tarkin turned back, and telling him his new orders. He would send a of the rebel presence there, and then Vader chambers. The dark lord didn't like being choice. He won his battle regarding Alderaan, What followed was Tarkin trying to use this was contacted and the Emperor told Tarkin to something the Grand Moff saw with pride, brought back to his Master for punishment. Palpatine instructing Tarkin to remain at ease. he informed his good friend that he would make Palpatine was playing the part, and he immediately contacted Moff Gideon When both Imperials arrived at the system, he was so annoyed with the actions of Moff taking control over the Death Star effective who told him that his actions and motivations almost destroyed Alderaan forced Palpatine to as Vader previously mentioned, nearly told his two allies, who were with him In his mind there wasn't ever an unnecessary death his death were all necessary. Punishment could Operation Cinder was the perfect way to punish death. But right now, this technological terror of power. Its look was more than its power. didn't come from destroying planets, it came existing. He continued explaining his plan to was to send a message to the Rebellion. If they was proof that it would be impossible for them. of revolution for the Core, because the Core was leaders could've been made into public examples, couldn't put the Death Star over Alderaan and In Palpatine's mind it would make it seem like then killed its leaders for panicking. This panicked after making a mistake. Vader was people with the Queen. From there they could earn Death Star and take command, they would bring Imperials understood this. It was a term used by and those close to Palpatine. To Rampart someone, an unsuspecting Imperial Officer that had made a but Palpatine knew Orson wasn't as dull as command of Stardust to him, he cared about the Mistakes with temporary setbacks. He turned Outside of Alderaan, inside of a Corellian Luke Skywalker, and Ben Kenobi made their way for was calming her people, but she was the one who was to get there and reinforce the rebels with Mon while Alderaan needed their Queen. She would Luke arrived inside the Millennium Falcon, arrival of the Death Star disrupted gravity on spitting out tsunami sized waives. Luckily for near large walls from the sea. So people at appearance of the Death Star. Apparently but it continued to shrink down and eventually range. The costal cities were built long before Regardless, Han and Chewie dropped off their do with this chaos. Bail knew that Ben and Luke so he wanted them at Yavin. It was agreed and Bail didn't believe she was inside the jumped to hyperspace, Ben thought he felt The Empire itself reacted, Vader arrived on the wasn't known for making public appearances, and of Grand Moff Tarkin, expressing that he had fact that the Emperor was committed to making The space station above was a communication Outer Rim. The Initial plan was to use it as a rebels were dealt with it would be turned into and exploration. Vader told the people that situation. He then revealed that the Empire to make up for it. He turned to the Queen and There were of course questions and why he wasn't showing himself, but which Darth absolutely hated doing, Sidious walked out, flanked by royal guards, as trust. As a Grand Moff and as a leader, he had They were going to correct this fallacy and reiterated some talking points made by Vader his crimes, which was rough to see, being that he emerged from the shadows and dragged a limp Tarkin quickly put an end to the fear that the citizens Later on there was a planned meeting the current operator of Maxa Ramuis the name that On Yavin the Rebels were loading up for but this exercise had been done before. The Rebel forces they saw this as yet another lie. The the Empire had no real reason to destroy Alderaan, backs with their press conferences and Moff part of the reason that Palpatine selected him. and he'd be able to communicate the mistake to their forces and thanks to Bail Organa, they were With the extra time, due to the Empire never Alliance High Command was able to scrounge Their assault would come immediately after they would be participating. Among the Alliance and Luke. Their assault also included a variety couple b-wings. It was the remnants of the battle the power of this weapon at Jedha and Scarif, poured into the trenches of the super weapon after and General Syndulla issued out Orders. The assault was because she wasn't coming from Yavin rebels poured into battle. Luke flew close to his As their assault began Moff Gideon was in the the control center, so Alderaan could be seen in as he told the people of the galaxy about the in. He promised that once the age of exploration transport. They would use it as a refugee around the galaxy. The irony is, he wasn't lying. to an end would have figured out immortality, stars including the second one and Starkiller, for something like this current station, which by Gideon shot up as he told the interviewers that attack. The Moff used a calm and demanding and Gideon looked back sincerely, telling the but they referred to themselves as the and told everyone watching that this was the Empire's way of life, and it couldn't camera crew out and quickly spoke to his command Ace pilots were deployed. Because Gideon this space station he released thousands of were stuck and he would wipe them out here, On the surface of Alderaan, Lord telling the pilot to return him to his star defending the Death Star. They quickly Inside the trenches of the Death Star, Obi telling Luke to trust the force. Hera realized important. She contacted Omega, who was in an with Vander and Dreis, she would pull back around from side to side of the trenches as dozens of but they couldn't. Syndulla's masterful The first wing of torpedoes missed their target listening to Ben as he pressed forward, a couple front of him. His friend Biggs was blown out of his fighter to the side and thrusted the control gliding against it as R2 whirred behind his father would've and regaining control. He was around with Vander to provide covering fire to distract as best as it could, with Hera calling He listened, the targeting computer slipped the force. It was so new, so untapped, and releasing twin torpedoes that disappeared completed by the first time user of the force. present on his shoulders dissipate as he pulled escape. The ties trailed them but they had to his Ace pilot informed him that they had scared crew and telling them to get their cameras back those still waiting for the broadcast to He was cut off by a static buzz, signifying The Empire watched in real time Maxa Ramuis pieces of debris started to descend The following days would be chaotic, not just the entire galaxy. The Rebels were safe on Yavin Luke Skywalker was referred to as an infamous pilots that the Empire was able to expose, such celebrated early on, but their celebrations were lost. One of the cities on Alderaan was clipped couple thousands civilians. Palpatine and Vader Rebels for what they were, and they couldn't before Scarif were pushed away from having They hadn't failed, but they just and all their jubilee was silenced. So Luckily for Palpatine, without the Senate, People were afraid of the Alliance now. and the fact that a couple rebels could destroy people called the Empire weak for this, and the attack at Alderaan. If the Death Star could it be destroyed by a single x-wing fighter? and it called into question Imperial Strength. now more credits, than ever before, could Inside Rebel Base, while both sides were trying Ben was beginning his instruction of the force and he hoped that she was still alive somewhere. the Empire to find her daughter, but the Empire Enric Pryde, was sent to deal with this. He Palpatine believed could handle everything. inside of the Death Star, before explosion, to be a rebel plot. They couldn't afford to instead they would play the card daughter was seduced and abducted by appeal to Core citizens and it would give them However, despite the way things were going for months. Bail was able to go to and from every second of the day, which forced husband learning the force and training to become between the Rebels and Empire turned into a dull which there hadn't really been too much of this weird precedent for citizens of the Without Saw Gerrera around, the Rebels forces about it. As the months went on, the search and Hera had gone on missions to find her Hera was able to convince Sabine to leave Ben with training Luke. Her skills with the by Ezra would be useful for Luke's training. came around. Alliance forces were in need Lieutenant Commander Pryde had, in the months Emperor and so he was assigned to the project over he was able to stand as acting General over the especially with Luke's image being plastered Sidious could sense this, so in an effort to one of the few surviving Inquisitors This was propositioned as Vader's potential such shoes. With Sith on the hunt for Skywalker, quest for adventure, but at the moment there lieu of the rise of Imperial Patriotism decided Among the planets targeted was Calodan, under the would run a joint mission against her and in using fend off the Witch in a duel within the compound involved but he also decided against it, helped ferry people away from the fight Luke and Sabine teamed up, and for the brother all over again. She missed Ezra dearly of Ezra. In this duel, Luke took the traditional traditional than Ezra would've ever gone. grapples, and blasters to counter the Magistrate. and her death, coming at the hands of an emerald The Alliance realized that to they needed these small victories. The colony which was obviously a small problem, message. They had to light their spark. such a spark wasn't really desired by much These miniature losses for the Empire weren't but they were important enough to draw the from Vader's side to hunt down these Jedi, could find the trail, then he could lead Vader to to already hit planets, but after about 2 years and went to a planet not yet hit, and he ran a when Luke and Sabine arrived, they were able That lasted for a good couple minutes until was familiar with the Inquisitors Ezra's disappearance. She and Luke moved in, who had by this point alerted his while serving Sidious, reported to Vader Ben continued moving people away from the Kenobi was like a beacon, he would lead people rebel commandos were taking down took place in the city squad. Marrok but his survivability was something that cautious than the Dathomiri Witch was. Mostly Due to the dark lord's fleet operating he arrived before the duel came to and Obi Wan who was moving his people away from focused on finding Luke that he didn't even clock this point that he was dead. Obi Wan, as quickly Vader marched through the city streets Sabine use her jetpack and distract get sliced into pieces releasing create him. Vader's lightsaber ignited, He saw his lightsaber in the hands of Luke and began regardless of this. Sabine hadn't but she listened to what Ben said. They moved Elsbeth. Vader bashed his lightsaber at them. and she wasn't about to let her friend get hurt his opponents and parried at every chance Luke and Sabine were working with bare-bone As he batted each of his young opponents away bring up the truth to him. Luke didn't really know thanks to stories told by Ben. He defended blades parried once more and Sabine shot He reacted violently, throwing Luke and yanking it towards him. Sabine flew with his lightsaber was flung from his hand. It when Vader saw the feet he felt who it was before similar to how he did Luke and told Ben Ben ignited his lightsaber and told Darth that it they could hear the Imperial troopers routing the truth, the truth he had seemingly come and realized that everything he believed was with the force and ignited it. He stormed forward dark lord didn't process it as he swung violently ducked out of the way and parried another Darth turned back and asked if he meant the head. Vader slashed forward as Kenobi slid away, would do a number on his body. Darth turned back with this very lightsaber. As Vader was on Obi Wan's face. This wasn't just out of Ben stepped back and told Vader that he was lightsaber was mid swing when the words came out ground, having slipped from his hand. He looked were twins, and he killed off half of what for the Sith. In a similar manner to how he Vader stepped forward and slammed echoing 'no' that bounced around corners Sabine raised her lightsaber and Obi Wan raised having known the truth about his sister, asked nothing but the breathing apparatus could be student and got to Sabine and Luke's Vader turned to face Ben and asked if it was duel, Obi Wan told him that he was sorry for all Ben didn't allude to the idea of retribution his current father figure to his actual father and but he believed that the man across his father. Maybe there wasn't an but Luke had heard stories from Ben and Ahsoka. person to become evil. Luke tossed his father a If he wanted to earn his son and maybe his best start fresh. Vader looked at the dirt and when under Luke's arm and tugged him away, as the trio In a week Luke and Vader would meet on Ryloth were many obstacles to get over and they reestablish their bond. The Alliance continued The Empire's second Death Star was finishing who had proposed a great trap to the The Jedi consisted of Ben, Luke, Sabine, Ahsoka, with lighter robes, and dawned a blue was covered in wrinkles. He had yet to grow could live with. They had a nice little aside from Hera &amp; Bail knew about this. Anakin did but so much had changed in the What General Pryde suggested was a trap. was going to cover up. Being that the first why not give the Alliance another shot. agreed to be present. The Alliance was leaked They had amassed an amazing fleet in the 5 years their small time work in Frontier planets were really the biggest reason this fleet existed, Regardless, the Alliance sent a Luke and Anakin would get themselves inside as planned. A Commando raid on the surface would engage with the Empire over the Death Star the station Luke and Anakin would find Ben on Yavin was seated in meditation. Sabine Luke was with Anakin and fighting inside the Sidious for the first time in a long time drew of killing Vader himself. Plus, his new friend, which really would be useful against using all of Anakin's, Ben's, and Yoda's before On the surface, mimicking the struggle in shield generator and laid their explosives before allowed rebel fighters in the fray over Endor to patiently for this moment. Due to the second Death entrance towards the core, Pryde was prepared. as Commander Vander led fighters towards the closer it felt to victory. Allegiant General Pryde was sent towards the surface of the planet, on the face of Endor. It was only single reactor Ben felt Rex's death almost immediately looking over to Ahsoka who was next to him. the word sat on the tip of Admiral Versio, whose daughter just died in daughter's Raider II-Class Corvette out the Eviscerator was in the middle that was currently opening fire. The Rebels who Imperial Fleet. Broadsides ravaged the hulls The Corvus, under Admiral Versio's control enter and as they tried to take evasive Star opened up and shredded their fighters. hull of the corvette. Tragically for Admiral accidental kamikazes and torpedoes slapping the Corvus. But the wreckage of the hull so the few rebel fighters who were still Inside the control room, General Pryde and it came, with a single reactor of the Rebellion. Its debris would but that was fine. Pryde then ordered Piet to The throne room battle was going who was now dawning his green lightsaber, even at his old age, and he refused to allow Luke could see the Rebel fleet crumbling, and this and he went for the kill. As Sidious drove his into Luke's thigh, where he looked down and saw who was using his two lightsabers had gotten one to defend his son, just like any good Jedi would, and Vader's chest was filled with a in his victory, Anakin's blue lightsaber through his chest and out near his neck. The Anakin fell to his knees and Luke would be forgiveness. The past 3 years had been the best it could've lasted forever. But that wasn't the it wasn't worth suffering over the past. Luke's He'd take Anakin's lightsaber for remembering he exited, General Pryde and Admiral Piet had destroyed. Their fleet was nothing more than Alliance had before the Battle of Atollon, Those who survived were labeled terrorists, that had felt terror for 5 years due to now celebrated. There was a great sense of had truly died, the people were Everything After Endor could be described there was no need to fund the Imperial War the galaxy was left to funnel in their own mayors, and a couple moffs here and there a Democratic Empire. There were some but nothing was enough to take the jubilee The social swing in the status quo went of an enlightened people who had driven away the streets, Imperial troopers returning from people were ready for the budget to come back to for political power, but the establishment of a officers with one question, become politicians The movement of the Empire was still evil continued to oppress, but it slowly decreased. battle were still being hunted. A new Jedi Order space. Most rebels fled into the Unknown Regions, Thrawn's return would tighten up the Imperial wouldn't get along too much, but they didn't galaxy. Pockets of Rebellion would still pop up, do what they could, but they weren't really In the decades that followed Imperial the Jedi were more welcome than they had but that wasn't saying a whole lot. Thrawn and for fending off a loose cannon enemy from the even without Palpatine's involvement or survival. Coruscant under the strike from a Xyston Class the Empire would label the Final Order War Era as cracks of the foundation in the Democratic Ben Kenobi would be gone by this point, but strong. It would be in the same year their Order would find its place a galaxy that while still controlled by the And that my friends is our story ....