Do you want your dog to come when called every our foolproof methods. If you follow all of the to work. The key is to follow every single one saving the best one for last it's crucial I know you want your dog to listen off leash but start it's the beginning. You have to make sure stay. We'll generally start from a stay command his name and I'm going to call him to me. Dash when they get to us really important that's what they get their their attention is on us and that When you're training you need to be excited, terrible about it but when you start with treats time and it's tough to wean the dog off of them. praise telling the dog they're a good boy. If your right? Your dog should love you they should love to reflect that. I don't want to see you telling You need excitement so when I call the dog it's boy lots of praise. We can lower that praise down convey energy. Once things are going well on leash step you can't go from on leash to off leash and your dog. That's what the long line does for you. your dog isn't going to listen perfectly every easiest situation possible imagine he's in a stay say I said his name I said come and he just stares is and he's just choosing not to listen. The first behavior I'm saying this is what I don't like. I the long line and as I back up I'm going to give done nothing wrong but I would tug and I would another tug for come and a third come for sit. So the correction I just showed you was the a sit stay and he just stays there and doesn't what to do in other scenarios. So let's talk your dog is going to do one of two things. They're or they're going to run from you. Let's talk was right here and I were to call him to me and 10 feet over that way. The second I see he's not starts walking off I tell him no. I would go over care that he started there and I don't care that Come is about me it's about coming to me. So I'd tell them come come sit just like that. Don't about if they ran from you so this is what the on. I tell him to come and he bolts and he ends Catch Me If You Can the idea is the long line on it. I would step on the line. When he hits the that serves as my correction and let's say he now So I would walk to him way over here when I get care where he ran I don't care where I was once to him I pick up my line I get real close to the had to give your dog a correction and let's say addressed that let's say they were racing around long line you tell them no right when they hit the correction you tell them come come sit you're so job well done, you did probably 80 percent of you need to do is try it again. So there your and you took him inside. You never had any tell the dog free. Let him go back to the yard you two three four five times it doesn't matter time you call your dog in from the yard you're What I just explained is huge it's important but little bit later and it's going to tie everything video please take the time to like it YouTube really does help get our video in front of more Now we have the dog on a long line and he's out over there with his ball he's allowed to ahead and call him. Think through what I'm going praise him all the way in if he ignores me I my dog so let's hope he doesn't ignore me. Dash free if he didn't do well I would tell him no Once a dog is doing well on their long line a use Dogtra. It's a great brand theres other and they think about corrections they think things. That's not what e-collars are about. the pager function that replaces the word come. you're about to get in trouble. It's praise so a moment we put a e collar on Dash when I call pager and he knows that means to come over to me show you what that looks like. Dash is no longer e-collar on so he can do whatever it is he wants. we've been playing. What I'm going to do in a that does is it vibrates it catches the dog's nervous when they first feel the vibration some it catches their attention very quickly. We pair so when you're teaching a new dog this what you say Dash and as I say come I would push the pager. but I'll show you what it looks like with a new can see he's already looking at me and coming over name Dash come sit good boy free. So that was it and I'm going to go ahead and do it again this push the vibration button and you can see he runs because time after time I've called him along with or pager looks like but now let's talk about how is going to do is it's going to replace me having come sit. E-collars are highly adjustable so levels about a 20. A 20 feels like a little pinch your dog without trying it on yourself first and feel just meant to catch their attention, but now I would still tell him no but then on the side push that as I tell him no. So I would call say no with the correction and then in theory he didn't I would walk to him and gently grab kind normal collar is they have on and I would tell would run from you in that scenario you're not might have to work with a long line and e-collar Now we have the e-collar off and it's play there's he's not a command he's in no command when I call him he should listen here he has no you trust your dog think through what you would do go right to him to correct him and you'd back up if they listen you would praise them. Dash come the beginning of this video sounds really simple I did in this video and be consistent with it What that means is five percent of the time you're going to figure out really quickly that they don't they're not a huge deterrent. So think about those about the e-collar stim level that you're going dog. These are not intense corrections they don't break the dog's focus that's all they're really not going to get them sometimes you're gonna allow to call them and just say ah 6 a.m whatever I out you're going to have a dog who strategically they're in that scenario they're going to ignore There's a difference between being proactive wait until they really needed their dog or call them right then. Being proactive means you and you've been up late and it's now 6 a.m and right now maybe you don't let them in the yard on your time. If you're a morning person and at dog. Point is you should set up little training doing well in the yard pick a time that you feel until you have success. Following up on what I like you're going after your dog to correct on the couch you've got your sliding door open think hey if I call them he might not come right tip don't call your dog. The worst thing you not listen and have the dog realize oh hey when come get me pretty soon your dog is never going couch. Only work when you're willing to follow tips I guarantee your dog is going to listen off every single one of these tips. Get out there and