I have a confession to make. I've never used even seen these operating systems in real life, perspective. I remember reviews at the time saying use with a keyboard and a mouse. Microsoft at the Windows 8 is also famous for not even having a this. So I have to try this out for myself. I've this version of Windows out on. And I think I S5 Ultra PC PMP, (Portable Media Player). It controller. It's just got a touchcreen and it a few buttons on the front. Including a four-way keys on a standard keyboard. The only way touchscreen. The Viliv S5 is an odd device. known for making ARM-based portable media players full Windows-based tablets as well. The S5 was not to go with Windows Vista. Which had come a good decision since Vista was so heavy that it at the time. Many people were just staying The S5 comes with a really nice hand strap, which As far as the overall design goes it's one of my only other micro PC that I've seen that doesn't As a fan of ultra micro PCs, I was surprised and when I did I immediately went online and I because these don't seem to appear very often. Including this alternate user interface for settings. Viliv also includes its own media looks like all of Viliv's software has it easier to use with its small screen and on the side brings up the soft keyboard This is also not a fresh factory install. There came with my secondhand unit. This was and it includes CPU Z and what looks like some like the sort of thing I would have done if I'd pixels and if I switch it to this portrait mode, on a phone. Though the Viliv software was not a version of the S5 that could take a SIM for data and it was never intended to be phone I'm now ready to try installing Windows 8. online and the original installers for first back up this entire system before To do this I'm going to take this apart and get will also let me see the hardware inside. Which battery and we can see quite a number of stickers cover two of of the screws have already been inside this before me. The battery looks like to the specifications this has up to 6 hours of have here is unfortunately quite worn out but I should be able to just remove the screws, As I unscrew them they start lifting the back I've taken apart before. There also seem to on around the side. Eventually the back does First I have to unplug what looks like is that the whole thing feels kind of cheap. inside say Toshiba or Sony. Lifting the hard drive is likely an aftermarket upgrade. Because the GB mechanical hard drive. I'm also noticing some this apart further. OK, I'll keep keep taking the I don't break anything. It looks like there's removing that and there's the Intel Atom CPU, there's more unpopulated chip spaces in here. It the 3G model. Looking at all this especially the impression this is a budget quality build. And of the main board. This is not something you would denigrate the build quality too much. Because for building this. And despite now knowing what it's and I love it. I'm now going to back up this Mtron 2000s as replacement SSDs for 1.8 in mechanical have one with the exact same brand and capacity. machine if I had one back in the day. It's all I probably would have had it, but I swear I got this drive I'm going to use this tiny hard drive this into the USB port on another computer for old windows 10. To do the backup I'm running entire hard drive. This shouldn't take too long. And with that success! I can now start putting with my Viliv S5. Knowing that I've got a full and I hope this dodgy thing still works. Which it switch properly. So I just need to carefully and with that it's done. OK, here goes, and it's The first thing I'm going to do is check the BIOS. and I'm curious to see what other options it's the menu button during the Viliv boot logo. is barely able to navigate the BIOS. A single down the direction button moves everything to be intended to be controlled in this strange things about this computer. Like it I found it much easier to control the And with that I think it's time to install installer on this USB memory stick. But touchscreen driver. So it looks like I'm well. I've now got a USB mouse and keyboard because this machine only has a single USB port. to enter a product key. When entering a Windows is set to at least 2012. Because when I first hard way. This Windows installer won't accept a 8 installer looks a lot like Windows 7. But I that flat looking Windows logo. Windows 8 is from from having colorful icons with 3D effects, to 'Check out the new way to use Windows' And there I still have no response from the touch screen. It all the drivers and apps. The first thing I'm Start page. Clicking on it brings up a desktop, madness. A desktop that feels deprioritized the most iconic aspects of Windows is gone. working. There are a few complications with the Windows XP and some are tricky to install. Though 7 that were released by Viliv for the S5. Even 8. Though there are some old forum posts from the day. This really helped me get most things can only be installed by switching the installer of effort I was also able to get the touchcreen driver over the top of the Microsoft mouse driver. be detecting it only as a mouse. Which means it's do things like clicking and dragging the menu. I a plebeian. The graphics driver also seems to a lot of tearing and flickering as I move about big problem. It seems the Windows 8 built-in below 1024x768. With this LCD only having 600 While there is a work around but switching this downscales the screen to fit on the LCD, and maybe all these problems means this is not the I'm here now, so I'm going to try installing Banished. This is an awesome mouse controlled touchscreen. But the speed of this Atom CPU is so I'll try running some older games instead. Next straight away with the intro sequence, we're still CPUs are just not that fast. Especially with enough to run these sorts of games. So I tried released in 2001. And this seems to be little bit tricky. But it does seem to work. with this game. But this gives us an idea of the seem to be equivalent in power to desktop Windows 98 era gaming when using these early This is so old that it runs using DosBox. It with the mouse controls. A USB mouse works One thing I really enjoy when trying games that I didn't even know existed. While it's certainly too slow to be playable looking for a game like this ever since going to have to try playing this But back to the Vilic S5. I'm not exactly sure media player and a weird micro PC. But there's haven't tried Linux yet, but I'm curious if quirks of this unusual system. The Intel While looking around I did find a port of Android this though. If you have any suggestions for There are some interesting possibilities this in the future. But that's it for