My name is Hondo Underwood. I stole cars valued at over $1 million. Some were stolen to order. This is how crime works. I've probably stole 200 to 300 vehicles. To me, once I got proficient at stealing, there was no time of day that was safe. I would be even fine while you're sitting on your couch. I've put a lot of people in harm's way. Not just myself, not just the other people but also the police officers that were involved in As a Marine, or a former Marine, I'm always aware of my even to this day. But when you mix former military attention it enhances that even more, especially when you're in a stolen vehicle and running from the police. There's been high-speed five, six times in a day that range anywhere from The police officers that were tailing me were not just regular It was a C-MATT team. It was out of Denver, Lakewood, Jefferson County. And at that point in time in 2017, police officers were going where they're not supposed to There was times where I I'd see them, and they were just waiting There was times where I'd wave at them. There was times where I'd flip them off. There was times that I'd because I knew they weren't And when they did, they It was definitely an experience where it went from nervousness It was a rough game of cat and mouse. There were times that I and I pulled a gun on an undercover cop. And I didn't realize it until he reached for his radio. Maybe two, three weeks by 32 police officers. I stole cars between 2016 and I was apprehended in 2017. During the first time, and I started using them as well. The first vehicle that I ever stole was a older-model Suburban. The ignitions are very easy to disable and start the vehicle. Essentially, it was in a and plenty of vehicles it was kind of under cover. I felt a sense of rush, where I'm like, well, what do we do next? Where's the next one? It was almost an addiction to doing it. From there, moved on from F-350s, Cadillac Escalades. And reason being is they in a sense of design and security. In the beginning, I had I was using jiggler keys I could take any kind of key, and if it was shaved down correctly, I can open up any kind of But it was pretty much whether or not it was going to work. So after that, I discarded the keys and found other ways that were to be able to start and drive off. So then I got into Flathead was able to open the vehicle just like a jiggler key, break off glow rings, they're called, on the vehicles where the ignition is at, and put a set of Vise-Grips around them and just pretty much turn them forward and use the flathead to In the beginning, to steal a vehicle, it was anywhere from one to five minutes. During that time, I used a It got down to six to seven seconds that I was stealing a vehicle. I'd try to keep my personal Just because if I had to the chances of leaving But there were a lot of times to shotguns to fully automatic weapons. There was a time where I The vehicle was parked across the street. There was a family sitting And with the blinds open, you can see them sitting I started the truck, and I remember them looking out. What was going through their mind? What was going through my mind? I don't believe that car When you steal somebody's car, you're also stealing their ways to work, to get food for their children. You never know the And when you're high, you don't care about that. You don't care about yourself, The organizations that I and a lot of money. Almost unlimited. When I first started it was because I was selling drugs. It was a slow, progressive relationship. I never really asked questions as to what the vehicles were To me, it was just the money. If it was more of a smaller vehicle, I'd make anywhere from $200 to $500. If it was a bigger vehicle, and I knew, especially if they gave me details of something they had in mind and I knew what money they can be making, that price goes up. I can make anywhere from, $1,000 to $10,000. To get five, 10 vehicles at $5,000 apiece in six seconds each, I can make $50,000 in under an hour. Some of the vehicles that I Texas is known for cartel-related crimes and thefts. There were vehicles that I know that went across the border to Mexico. A lot of SUVs, bigger were used to either package and transport drugs or guns or money. Taking cars out of state was risky because I'm getting into territory where I don't know the roads. But it was something that I There were times that I was accompanied, because if I had somebody who wanted 15 vehicles out of state, I'm going to need 14 other drivers and I'm also going to need a ride back. The people that I would were using them for crimes The bigger F-350s, Escalades, Excursions, Tahoes are more on demand because They can haul a bigger load, whether it be drugs, stolen merchandise. And there are so many of them made, so they're not easily They're all built the same. You could interchange the parts. They're fast vehicles, especially once you get into the F-350s, the Super Duties, the turbo-diesels. A lot of times I took into account that the bigger the vehicle, The cops won't hit it. Smaller cars were not something I would stay away from or vehicles that had OnStar for the simple fact is and I wasn't one to be To me, that was too much And you have to commit one crime to commit a crime of auto I have taken a few vehicles to and parts to be spread out, whether it be cosmetic or internal as far as motors and engines, A vehicle that goes to a chop shop can pretty much be just like if it was in the factory. A chop shop visually is no different than a regular mechanic shop or the mechanic shop at a dealership. The first time I went to a chop shop, I had no idea that it was a chop shop. Most chop shops are legal businesses. It's easier to get away with than it is to have just To strip out one kind of vehicle can take a chop shop anywhere depending on the parts that they wanted and what they were able The person stealing the vehicle because when you take you get paid a lot more. If you're selling piece by piece, you're getting paid $100 here, The most valuable parts Rims, tires, suspension, surround-sound systems. A new thing that people You have a vehicle that's 100% legit and another vehicle that's and year, make, model. And they have VIN printers that you can duplicate that VIN, so now you have two vehicles Even if it's stolen, they won't know unless they really search for it. When I grew up playing &quot;Grand Theft Auto,&quot; to me it was like, wow, you can do anything So much adrenaline. Running &quot;Grand Theft Auto&quot; was more of a violent experience. I tried to never have contact I never liked to steal cars with keys that were already inside of them or that were already running. Not only because I didn't with somebody that was undeserving of it, but I also didn't want to be spotted and pointed out by police To me, the video game should It does show a lot to kids as to what you can really do in real life. &quot;Gone in 60 Seconds&quot; was a neat movie, but it's not common for that stands out that's already stolen. It's going to be recovered. I would stay away from vehicles The more expensive vehicles If you got caught for it, I personally did have a small team, but I liked to do it on my own. I liked to be the all-star. I liked to be the star of the movie. When you start putting out you also get people curious So, I hate to use the term, The Kia Boys. Kias have been known to be They're nice. But again, I think if what would I do with it? They're small. They may be kind of sporty, kind of fast. But personally, I couldn't do anything other than take the rims off of it. So when I think about this Kia Boy trend, to me it's ridiculous. It's a bunch of people joyriding. They're not making money. All they're doing is causing I grew up in a single home with my mother. Gangs became a part of my He lived in a pretty bad neighborhood, or a rough neighborhood, Maybe not so much gangs, but gangsters or thugs. And that's what I pulled myself to, because they were older, because I felt a sense of guidance. Once I graduated high school, December 3rd, 2007, I joined boot camp. It was amazing. I was like, wow, I finally did something with myself. But was it really my dreams So I got out of the military, I pursued music. I'd go around touring, show to show, state to state, city to city. I had this feeling of a climax, so to say, because there were fans that idolized us. Then in 2014, I was shot When I got out of the tour bus, I went to get into a personal vehicle and there was a drive-by that occurred and they shot me three times. And again, I felt a sense of purpose. And then again, it was stripped from me. It was taken in one night. So I reverted back to that The power, the respect. So, the neighborhood that I was in, everybody was close-knit. We knew the vehicles that We knew the vehicles that that weren't supposed to be there. So it was very secure for to get in and out or get Denver is very known for drug abuse. Also homelessness. A lot of people nowadays to get high and to supply a high. It's not money-induced, it's drug-induced. Homelessness is rough Car theft goes up when it's winter because people have nowhere They're sleeping on the streets. So when you think about or in Denver, you also have Because if you don't have a means of transportation, You might even die out there. And homelessness has went especially downtown Denver. In the particular instance I was driving down the street and I noticed a vehicle following me. I made an illegal left-hand turn. I made my first right and The first vehicle that was the vehicle that I'd seen tailing me. So at that point, I jumped out and I was, like, throwing my hands up. You know, &quot;What's going on? What's up?&quot; When I reached out and pulled my gun out, I realized that it was an that was in a pickup truck. When he reached for his radio is when I knew that it was a cop. That's when I took off. The day that I was arrested, I had a friend in a stolen vehicle, the 2002 Dodge Ram Cummins diesel. Pretty fast truck. Had the truck probably three, four months. During that time, I was involved in a lot I was going northbound on a street in Denver called Sheridan. I started seeing two vehicles swerving in and out of lanes following me. So just to make it clear, I made a right and then I pulled down Look over at my friend, and they were like, &quot;What are you doing?&quot; Said, &quot;I'm being followed.&quot; &quot;You're tripping. You're And I feel like, I'm like, you know what? Maybe I am just tripping. So I turned around and I ended As I'm sitting there waiting, I put my feet up on the doorjamb, put my hands behind my I maybe fell asleep two to five minutes. And then I woke up and I I was hit from the front To me, it felt like an army. There was police officers everywhere. They had their guns drawn on me. They took me to the station, and they asked me, &quot;Where'd And I lied, &quot;Oh, I got I borrowed it from that person.&quot; They knew it was BS. And they knew that they were going to get a conviction off of me. From there, they took me to jail. I have felonies for aggravated and I also have a felony which is running from the I was able to help the veterans unit begin being started in I feel being a veteran is what saved me from everything. It wasn't just ran by regular deputies. It was also ran by veteran deputies. No one will ever know the even if they've never met. We did different programs. We did healthy relationships, different kind of counseling, better parenting, During that time, I set it up to where I met with the auto theft team, and I pretty much told them what vehicles I stole. Kind of, I guess in a sense, giving back a portion of what I've taken. Because ultimately my main goal is to get the word out to the public that you can protect But I can be here to help I got a 12- to 18-year deferred sentence as long as I was able to accomplish Veterans Treatment Court, which is intense, supervised probation. It's for two years. Different If I was not able to they would dismiss the suspension of that and then send me to DOC During my time in Veteran Treatment Court, I was placed into Harbor If I wasn't a veteran I would've had to go The VA is the one that I leaned on to pay for the rehab facility, versus other people were I had to take different courses as far as toxic masculinity, something that I was You know, being this big, bad, macho man, gangster from the streets. Especially a man that has had no to little guidance in life. I cut ties pretty much so I had no support other than With the VA, they gave me that. So if I wasn't a veteran, I'd probably be dead The things that make a car or a vehicle more attractive to steal, for one, is security. If there's no anti-theft device, as far as, like, a car alarm. If you have bags or personal belongings in plain sight, that's another reason to steal it. If you upgrade your vehicle and your car's flashy, it's My advice for drivers, for one, don't be complacent. Put personal belongings away. Don't carry unnecessary things No. 2, install car alarms, different devices like that. Anything that's remote or ran on Bluetooth can be tapped into and stolen. The only real way to prevent is to break a circuit from the battery to the starter, I would always suggest breaking passage between starter and battery. The only way to do that is that'll break that circuit. That switch has to be manually If a car thief gets in a they're not going to spend time trying to figure out what's wrong with it. Yes, they may make entry, but they won't drive off in your vehicle. I think about a vehicle as a starting point to other thefts. If I see that you have a say it's in a parking Most of the time people get so complacent, they might open their Your address is on your mail. I'm going to take your vehicle with your garage-door You're giving me full knowing I just took your car at a different location. A keyless car theft is based on plugging a computer program pretty much where you for your engine failure Once you access the vehicle, then you can plug that device in and create a new key. People think that because that they're safe, but They're called relay thefts. What they're doing is to capture the signal from so they're able to open the They're able to get it to to then recreate and rechip a key chip for themselves. Catalytic converter theft is on the rise. Catalytic converters contain which is two high precious metals that are highly sought Vehicles that are sitting higher are more prone to be targeted because they're easily accessed The bigger the catalytic converter, the more expensive the Catalytic converters are not something that I was ever involved in, for the fact that it was an easy $200, but I can get more for the whole vehicle than I can for a catalytic converter. I feel that auto theft has a big impact on the car market. For one, insurance rates So again, it's a way the vehicle owner. If Kias are going up in auto theft, why are they selling these vehicles and then turning around and to up their prices on the After the court process, the proceedings, things like that, I got married, had kids. I coach 10U AU softball. I have a full-time job. I'm a foreman. I go to work, come home with my family. I don't worry about or where my next meal's So my life now is the American dream life.