In 2021, the leaders of the US, UK and Australia pact. AUKUS immediately became a sensation, declared among the many nuances of the pact, there The three countries in the near future will and one of them, Australia, will update the by the Collins class. And this is not just an update - the quite the latest and extremely formidable nuclear To understand what a huge leap this is and to figure out what this replacement is. Today on the Horizon is the Virginia class. The success story of the Virginia class began a highly controversial achievement of its In 1995, the US Navy adopted the SSN-21 Seawolf. New multi-purpose submarines, the creation to replace the Los Angeles class and neutralize The project was extremely ambitious, the Seawolf equipped with the most advanced solutions But all this incredible coolness became a complicated and expensive - more than $ 3 much even for the Pentagon. As a result, the epic plan to deliver 26 boats Concentrating on the maximum capabilities even before this moment. In the early 1990s, the Centurion or New SSN in the creation of a new nuclear submarine, the advanced capabilities of the Seawolf and... Cost reduction was the most important point. The share of new technologies has increased sub, designed on a computer. Modular assembly began to be used in production, purchased on the commercial off-the-shelf which was long and expensive. Most of the systems were created according (OSA) , and the Product lifecycle support and modernization of boats should not be too The Newport News Shipbuilding and General the construction, sharing the responsibility their final assembly. The lead boat, SSN-774 Virginia, was launched Virginia is a multi-purpose nuclear submarine The class is constantly evolving, boats are to the previous one. At the moment, there are 5 such series and, a base, by the Block 4 version it has undergone 5 version it received a completely new section, The length of the boats in early modifications 460 ft (140 m). The displacement, respectively, is 7900 tons the Block 5. The overall layout is classic: a hydroacoustic with missile launchers, followed by a command above. Behind them is a large section with living the heart of the boat is a nuclear reactor. The journey ends with the engine room and and a pair of additional inclined stabilizers Standard boat crew: 134 people. The design allows diving to depths of up to 1600 ft (490 m). The boat has a built-in diving chamber that a docking port for a small ASDS (Advanced used by the Navy Special Forces and Special Modern multi-purpose boats can no longer do The heart of the Virginia power plant is the for Submarine platform, the 9th generation creator. Power - 210 MW of energy, through 2 turbines brainchild of BAE Systems, similar to propulsors Astute classes of the United Kingdom's Royal This whole system, according to various sources, from 25 to 35 knots (46-65 km/h). Virginia, being one of the most modern boats considering the adequate cost, of course. Part of the control system is electric, with The boat is equipped with sonars for various BQQ-10 spherical sonar array. An innovation for submarines: instead of classic with various electronic and optical surveillance The main task of the Virginia boats is to hunter-killers, as well as delivering high-precision To solve these tasks, the boats are equipped launchers. This part is interesting. Initially, on the Virginia versions of Block Systems (VLS) were placed in the bow - 12 Starting with the Block 3 version, they were Tubes (VPT) revolver-type multi-purpose launchers, one large cover. On the Block 5 version, the picture became the hull, the boat received a hefty section, Payload Module blocks, similar to VPT, but Which means that initially Virginia could have 40. The idea of replacing conventional vertical the design and increases the cost of boats. However, if you dig deeper, you can find out Ohio boats in order to place Tomahawk missiles Trident missiles. The question arises: if ballistic missiles then, since the launchers are similar, is missiles... with ballistic ones. Yes, there are fewer launchers there, but can seriously affect the strategic balance. So what kind of weapons can be placed here? Torpedo tubes can be used to launch the Mk-48 Harpoon anti-ship missiles. The stock of weapons in the torpedo compartment and missiles. Plus, the Harpoons can be fired from vertical of the boats the amount of missiles can be The appearance of VPM blocks on the boats of Harpoons can be increased by another 28 for one boat is probably too much - these Virginia's main long-range weapon is the BGM-109 They can be placed in any vertical launcher, 4 and another 28 in the 5th, meaning that Not Ohio and Arleigh Burke, of course, but The supply plans assume that the fleet will reached immediately, but now the figure is There are 21 submarines in service in the than 60 units, which will be produced until Los Angeles-class submarines in the fleet mainstay of the fleet in this class until Naturally, the class will be developing all the appearance of Block 6 and Block 7 versions, of a practically new boat, which so far carries For now, there is little information about be assessed by returning to the AUKUS pact. The fact is that the plan for development of a new nuclear submarine, which received Replacement - SSNR or, more popularly, SSN In theory, it will have to replace the British boats. Despite the fact that the project was officially be logical to assume that Washington will surprised if SSN (X) and SSN AUKUS at some The problem for Australia is that Collins the SSN AUKUS will appear, at best, in the It was decided to close this temporary gap an interim solution. Given the availability - the existence of to future boats, Virginia seems like a logical The Royal Australian Navy plans to purchase 2 more. The debate here is that Australia, not being nuclear submarines, but also, participating amount of nuclear technology, which... may, in places, be a violation of the nonproliferation In addition, the already noted potential possibility With the growing military tension in the region, the owner of albeit limited, but ballistic And this is a situation of a completely different Let's hope that AUKUS becomes just another live up to its weapon's potential. And that concludes our story for today. Subscribe to the channel so as not to miss things on the Horizon.