This video is brought to you by Nebula. Watch Kern by signing up to Nebula for only 2.50 A fully loaded F-16 is a force to be reckoned the world over use to patrol their skies. specifically designed to out maneuver its missiles that would, hopefully, mean it would The F-16 was born out of the Vietnam war. F-4 Phantom were the norm, but the F-4 found disadvantage when taking on the smaller maneuverable like the Mig 21. The Mig 21 was a small, single engined, lightweight fast, flying up to Mach 2.2, traveled further, radar. But, its lack of maneuverability at low speed, due to jet engines that billowed black smoke from the soviet interceptor. MiG 21s frequently flew close to the ground, a single attacking run with their Atoll infrared speed maneuverability to out turn and escape. From August 1967 to February 1968, US losses Losing 18 aircraft while downing just 5. [REF] For a nation accustomed to absolute air superiority, The MIG 21s introduction in 1966 forced the while useful, were at a disadvantage against needed to be done. The Red Baron study, commissioned by the US tactical and technical issues causing the Force were experiencing in the Vietnam war. And their findings led to the development planes. A plane designed with a new physics Entering service in 1978 and standing the aircraft will be entering the battle for Ukraine's of the MiG. This is the Insane Engineering of the F-16. The F-16 was built from the ground up with light. A paper full of mathematical models, one question. How to win a close quarters dog fight. Created it defined a new concept. Energy Maneuverability. Created by Colonel John Boyd, an air force members of the so called fighter mafia, with Christie. [REF][2] These graphs were the basis for defining a of speeds. Mach number on the x-axis. Turn A theory underlined by the management of both In order to change direction a fighter aircraft doing it as efficiently as possible is the This is the energy-maneuverability diagram read without some basic understanding. This aircraft. This is important because it determines the this region. We need lift to turn. To begin a turn an aircraft will roll in the the plane is generating into two components: to turn and a vertical component that keeps A steeper bank angle will increase the horizontal stealing lift from the vertical component. This vertical component needs to equal the lose altitude. To compensate for that the the angle of attack. This is where the maximum force to turn. To determine the max turn rate for an F-16 up and across to our turn rate. 13 degrees interesting. This is the graph for an F-4E. turn of just 5 degrees per second. To determine a sustained turn we look to this altitude is required to make the turn. We degrees per second at 0.85 Mach at 7 g. The second at 0.85 Mach at 5 g. This is what that looks like in practice. full 360 degree turn. While it takes the F-4 The F-16 was a radical new way of thinking design philosophy can be seen with how the supersonic flow. To learn more about the F-16, so the F 16 inlet is one of those things that aircraft because up until that point, the we wanted to go higher, and nobody stopped a lot of fights, not a lot of air combat was fact, very little of it was happening and And so as John Boyd and the rest of the team which became the F 16, they said, well, where are really going to happen? And they said, in that 0.8 mach to 1.2 mock regime. That's really where we need to be in terms And we see that here in terms of the specific right here in that range of 0.8 M to 1.2 mach. That's where your fat on energy, that's where system is not optimized to go over mach two, Mach two, you run out of gas pretty quick, we call transonic regime of 0.8 to 1.2 mach, some of the previous jets. And you can see the F four have this extension that goes sort and then the actual inlet is inlets are set a shockwave to the front of that inlet lip the body. And that shockwave is basically going to cover in terms of pressure recovery for the fan getting all the way in to your turbine. If face of that jet engine, the jet engine's subsonic airflow. And so you have to attach That's part of what slows down the airflow It expands a little bit and then it gets to face of the compressor. Well, the F 16, and a peto inlet. It's basically a flat face air a lip and then an inlet that's further back the F 14, the big 29, the s U 27, all of those an oblique shockwave across the front of the Those are designed to go faster. The F 16 on a side view, you can see how it's got a nose helps to attach a shockwave, but it's that's okay. Actually it can go that fast, a little bit harder as it gets into this 1.4, an F four or an F 15. That's where they start These design optimizations for optimizing elsewhere too. It's air intake placement underneath the twin intakes of the F-4. And the thin elongated with these wing extensions forward of the . This air intake ensured the F-16s engine was maneuvers. With the forebody of the aircraft into the air intake. However, this does come with some problems On take off and landing this air intake is with the extremely thin wings make placement The forward landing gear could not be mounted up debris into it, and they couldn't fit optimized wing didn't have enough space. The F-16s landing gears are stored just behind stability and bracing on landing, they need to create as large a wheelbase as possible. The front landing gear, which is steerable flat just under the engine inlet. Above the inlet is a boundary layer diverter laminar flow. As air travels along the length of the aircraft air called a boundary layer. If this air is performance, it can also damage the engine. the slow boundary air on one side and then the force on the turbine blade changes for bending. A recipe for fatigue failure. This boundary layer diverter separates this All of this ensures the engine can operate the F-16 is performing extreme maneuvers, the plane bleeds energy to produce lift. It's essential that a plane like this can these maneuvers, but typical wings lose lift as angle of attack separates from the wing. This is called a These leading edge strakes help to mitigate They act similarly to the canards of the SU-34, going up against in Ukraine, with 19 of them war. Canards and leading edge strakes help produce Canards placed close to the wing, like the over the wing, ensuring the wing continues of attack maneuvers which allows it to continue During the development of the F-16, General testing different configurations and geometries with subscale models in wind tunnel, testing 0.4 and 0.8 mach. The goal was to maximize lift and minimize like this, and these were used to compare As they were narrowing down on the design to improve on. The sharpness of the leading edge. General Dynamics had rounded the leading edge attack vortices[REF][3] , but NASA advised to strengthen them. The F-16 underwent a great deal of iterative landing on the design we are familiar with strake that makes the F-16 immediately recognisable, It provides enough space for the barrel of You can see the barrel of M61 Vulcan hiding the fuselage of the tiny plane. One of the early conclusions of the Red Baron F-4 made it difficult for it to compete in cannon, which left the F-4 without offensive could not be safely used. The F-4 was eventually the plane. But, the F-16, looking to fix the problems Vulcan rotary gatling cannon as standard, creating minimal aerodynamic drag. The M61 is the smaller cousin of the A-10s comparison. The noise it emits still packs [REF] [5] The 6 barrelled cannon fires from the top gatling cannon spews 100 20 mm rounds per capable of holding just 511 rounds, the full 5 seconds. The drum fits neatly behind the pilot here, and the vibration of gun firing on the pilot's It is such a small fighter, and I think I've you sit down and you strap into that. It's you're wearing the jet and the gun is right barrels, the muzzles are right back here. And so when you shoot the gun and you're shooting it is unbelievably violent in the jet, but have to go and shoot. And so one of my experiences flying the F at Luke Air Force Base in Phoenix, Arizona. Force pilots, they're wearing wings, they've not fighter pilots yet. And putting them into shot the gun in training. In fact, they had the first time experience for anybody shooting experience. People would say funny things, the HUD tapes, the heads up display recordings, of laugh at the students because they knew it was always shooting at a target on the first time, raf. And so it's a little bit intense. You're diving pointed at the ground. Obviously there's a trying to put the pepper on the target, you whole jet shakes violently. It's like somebody and the whole jet is shaking and your hand's every time I would shoot the gun, there's the closeout panel, but the vibrations would fleck off, to flake off. And they would come would go shoot the gun for practice a straight airplane, I'd see these little yellow flex left arm. The vibrations were so intense, you get used a little bit of an emotional event. And then those rounds on target. So the F 16 is incredibly with that gun. And I'll tell you that both the gun sites on the F 16 are incredibly precise. under maneuvers in terms of air-to-air shoots not been a lot of actual air-to-air dog fighting is accurate when it shoots at air-to-air practice fair. It used to be kind of a scoring kind And now you can just park the Pippa on the you pointed at in terms of an air-to-air target. be extremely precise with it. It's not quite And there's even ways that you can couple information, even in a at night blacked out what you want to hit on the ground. All from a gun hidden away in this tiny fighter If we follow this leading edge strake down to increase lift at high angles of attack. during high angle of attack maneuvers to delay the wing surface. When performing a sustained turn at 0.9 Mach 18% and decreases drag by 22%. You can see I performed with the Thunderbirds back in The seam between the leading edge flap and a control system into this wing, which is actuator system needed to fit, proved a challenge. The amount of torque needed to actuate a control To solve this problem power is transferred pressure in the hydraulic system into rotational tucked away behind the M61 Rotary cannon, cannon's rotation and ammo drive system. [REF] wing, and this is done through a series of series of torque shafts with rotary actuators [REF] [8] This leading edge flap is not controlled by by the flight computer, and the F-16 was ground first fighter aircraft to have a fly by wire The leading edge flaps, the flaperons, the not controlled directly by the pilot. A fly by wire system using a network of sensors, own input to control the plane. The F-16 was to allow it to efficiently spend the energy Traditional flight control systems, up to connected directly to the pilot's controls footage of the F-4s control system. A heavy and hydraulics. It even has a 2 kilogram bob designed to make it harder to pull the stick To provide the pilot with an analog feedback that deflected with ram air taken from this a force that acted to push the stick backwards, setting. [FOOTAGE] This system not only added a huge amount of it added workload to the pilot and was more redundancy. With a fly by wire system, none of this was had a stick that was immovable. It was just was added after pilots complained. So the non movable stick kind of little known a Lockheed Martin product, it was general tand the weapon system operator on the F one to steer the attack radar and that was a force that would move, it was just the apply force. they put it into the F 16 stick. So it was got a force transducer, a control in scepter So what it turns out though is that the human your limbs hands are moving, knowing the position do pretty well, and that is something called a force based inceptor, I don't get that proprioceptive It's something that I think if you challenge gym and ask yourself, how much does that weigh of hard to guess when you're down in those And the maximum force you can put on the F hard to tell the difference between 15 pounds that. We do a lot better with knowing how F 16 controls didn't move, and what pilots time. The test pilots at Edwards were having they would move the controls, and so they response from the jet and then they weren't, they'd get a different response. there is or pilot in the loop oscillations. Sometimes even to this day, particularly if you have of a wing rock on landing. And if you look you can find if they have wing tanks or they're expend, you'll find an F 16 that'll sort of that is still, to this day, it's an artifact much because it's one of those things that coordination, you start to make a movement. By the time you see the effect, it's more in a correction. By the time the correction see it, you come back. It's a feedback loop word in aircraft design and nobody wants any are like snakes and some snakes are very dangerous that's remaining in the F 16 in terms of its dangerous. These pilot induced oscillations can also Where the plane naturally self corrects itself the first aircraft in history to do away with unstable in flight. This was done because We can understand why this is with a simple placed on top of a hill and a ball placed the hill, even a tiny bit, it will begin to until we put energy in to slow it down. This The opposite is true for the ball in the valley. and gravity will now provide a restoring force forth a few times before coming to a stop, position. This is a stable system. We want to tailor our stability to find a we can cause a rapid change in direction with the amount of energy required to get back static stability. The F-16 pitch stability is one of the areas factors that affects pitch stability is the of lift. The center of gravity for the F-4 is located lift will act around, it's like the fulcrum the center of lift is slightly behind the to pitch downwards, but the horizontal stabilizer This isn't ideal, we are wasting energy We need upward lift to fly. It also increases to change its pitch. When it pitches upwards the force on the horizontal flow, and as a result the weight of the plane, of the center of lift, wants to move the nose But the pilot is trying to pitch the plane them. So more kinetic energy is wasted by elevator deflection. The F-16 is different. Its center of lift thanks to those leading edge strakes pushing balance the plane the horizontal stabilizer lift and reduces the energy needed to keep lift pushing this line on our energy maneuverability However, it is an unstable system. When the attack of the wing and increases the lift. center of gravity this forces the noses up In an air to air battle, energy isn't just maneuver, and as we spend it our ability to by gaining speed or altitude again. And as a fighter pilot, energy management can do. It's part of your situational awareness slow and you don't want to put yourself in can't turn, I can't move, I can't get my sensors that's not just an air-to-air thing that's And that's even engaging in an air-to-ground air to ground, an interdiction mission, a well you're supporting friendly troops on don't like you in the vicinity and they have that energy to be able to evade, to be able at. And so with the energy management on the F really talk to you in terms of feedback to and vibrate like a lot of other aircraft will F 15, the F 18, the A 10, and those aircraft talk to you a lot more than the F 16. The you're 200 knots and really slow or you're does what you ask it to do. You think you aircraft responds. So managing your energy for the fighter pilot. And so a lot of that's system or JE hemic is what it's called, where your airspeed, you've got your altitude, you've in that fight. I can keep my eyes on the threat, I don't have to look back in at my heads up fast I'm going and how high I'm going. You the aircraft is responding. But that's where training comes in. It's imperative to maintain The unstable design of the F-16 helped fighter but to maintain control of an unstable fighter A task deemed impossible before fly by wire The system consists of a network of accelerometers, a central computer that manages the work. This instability makes the plane extremely little energy input. We could see this in the YF-16. A flight that was never supposed This was intended to be a short test along the plane would not allow the engine nozzle the ground. Meaning, even at idle, the plane Then the plane rolled left, which caused the but again the control logic of the early prototype in higher roll than expected at such a low to an oscillation. With this being the first full fly by wire the way But the benefits it now provides are game of out of the plane. So for example, with an F 16, the airframe pull back on the controls on an F 16, and more like 400 knots, I'm not going to get aircraft can make. But once I get above about F 16 is capable of creating at least nine more than nine Gs. But what that fly by wire the way to the stop, it goes to nine Gs and effect of the whole airframe is that it could system says, Hey, I know you're asking for I'm just going to give you nine Gs because again, in a slow speed fight where I'm having crank the nose around to either bring my nose jin out of the way of an adversary's weapon aircraft and your angle of attack is going lot of more conventional aircraft, you're F 16 doesn't really stall in the same kinds Hey, I know that if you get past about 26 to start to happen. In terms of the controllability, 26 degrees angle of attack. And so they fly by a wire system simply says, and I'm going to give you up to 26 degrees to. A plane capable of 9 g maneuvers is not much them. The F-16 has some interesting adaptations Traditionally the control stick was mounted it mechanically simpler, with the network throughout the plane. It also allowed the surfaces into position during high g maneuvers back down. For the F-16 this wasn't a problem, and on the pilots right hand console. A comfortable for the pilot to control the plane while trying The seat is also reclined by 30 degrees, this in the sky with unobstructed 360 degrees thanks major advantages to increasing the pilots The most common g force a pilot experiences line even cells in your body have inertia the plane upwards, those cells want to continue This isn't too much of a problem for cells to travel through your body. And in a scenario travel, pooling in your lower extremities. This starves the pilots brain of oxygen and could be minimized by placing the pilot flat blood wouldn't have to fight gravity to practical. recline, reducing the pressure on the heart also makes it easier to fit the pilot into Another measure to increase the pilot's g-tolerance air bladders that are connected directly to a high g-maneuver it immediately begins to squeezes the pilots legs and to limit the The F-16 is a 45 year old aircraft, and many maiden flight, stealth technology and interconnected for 5th generation aircraft like the F-35 but one thing hasn't changed since 1975. The F-16 pushes the boundaries of maneuverability It's a highly capable fighter aircraft that capable of continuing service until 2048. phase of the fight for Ukraines freedom, providing ground as they attempt to push forward through Ukraine has been targeting long range anti oil platforms off the coast of Crimea that the way for Ukrainian Su-24s to get close high value Russian assets in Crimea, including The F-16 can also carry these cruise missiles. going to play a vital role in Ukraines fight Having an actual fighter pilot add context us truly understand the power of those energy to David for nearly two hours and ended up this video, about how he helped develop an F-16 that has saved lives. A fascinating system assumed it simple uses radar to measure distance, that extra video on Nebula right now, along diagrams. Access usually costs 5 dollars a month, but discounted price of just 2.50 a month, using Bonus videos are just one benefit to Nebula. videos at a fraction of the price of YouTube blockers this is the best way to support our interrupting your viewing experience. Something form videos. When I am taking flights to shoot interviews you can do by the way, and watch them on the You will also get access to our original world Battle of Britain. As well as Real Life Lore's conflicts like the War in Ukraine. Along with originals from some of your other Engineering, Neo and Wendover Productions. Nebula is simply the best place for our videos. originals and all for the price of 2.50 a