In 1995, a graphic design teacher and also an aspiring entrepreneur, decided to get the website Lynda.com. She did so because she needed with the new graphic-design tools, the digital tools that were being Photoshop, Illustrator and many more. And she needed a place so all could see it. Well, she put that website together, and the business began to grow. And in 2002, she discovered so she moved all of her teaching online. Later, the business was sold to LinkedIn, who renamed it LinkedIn Learning, sold for 1.5 billion US dollars. Lynda is the poster child for what I call the counterconventional So I want to tell you and here we go. So, number one, why do I call them counterconventional? First, these six mindsets run counter to the best practices, as we call them, They fly in the face of much and other business schools about strategy, about marketing, Now, you might say, "John, what do you mean by 'mindset?'" A mindset, of course, is up here, right? It's those things, attitudes, habits, which, when something comes our way, predetermines the response we make and those somethings, are opportunities. So I want to tell you and the first one, I call &quot;Yes, we can.&quot; Now, B-school strategy 101 what we're supposed to do, in a company, We've got to figure out we call them core competencies -- and we've got to build on them, make them more robust. And if somebody comes along and says, "Can you do something different, what are we supposed to say? &quot;No, I'm sorry, Well ... A Brazilian entrepreneur built a wonderful business that, today, by disregarding those rules. He'd already reinvented to become a major provider of event management when one of his customers said to him, &quot;You know, I have 260 stores and Brazil is a big country, &quot;and I'd like to be able to broadcast to the stores in real time. So, Arnold, could we put televisions and could we build a satellite uplink so we can send all this wonderful So what did he say? He said, "Yes, we could do that," even though he knew nothing had never operated outside Sao Paulo, but he got it done. Then, several years later, some of the other customers, one of them "You know, it's nice that we have in the back room of the store, but wouldn't it be cool Because then, we could run advertising, so when the customer perhaps there's an ad in that aisle?&quot; And what did Arnold say to that request? &quot;Yes, we can do that.&quot; Over a period of years, Arnold reinvented four different times, by saying, when a customer that lay outside of his core competencies, &quot;Yes, we can.&quot; The second one I want to tell you about, I call &quot;problem-first, So in big companies today, So while I'm in the US, my family and I have used Tide, to wash our clothes. And we get a chuckle, every now and then, because we can tell because what happens, They take the blue speckles out of it and turn them green. And they call it &quot;new, improved.&quot; Is this innovation, guys? I'm not so sure. Coca-Cola, what is there? There was Classic Coke, That didn't work out too well. Then, there was Diet Coke, Coke Zero lots of Cokes. I don't think this But for entrepreneurs, we don't focus on products, A guy named Jonathan Thorne developed a technology This instrument you see in front of you It's the tool that almost every surgeon, in any kind of medical discipline, uses to do his or her work. But there's a problem they stick to human tissue. So imagine you're having a facelift, and the plastic surgeon but the tissue sticks to the forceps. Maybe it's not going to look And maybe the plastic surgeon and it's going to take longer And John said, &quot;You know, that's a problem with a new silver-nickel alloy It turned out the business focusing on plastic surgeons. So he said, &quot;I wonder that has an even bigger problem and he discovered one, And neurosurgeons work in our spines and in our brain. So I hope you never have brain surgery, and I hope I never have it, but if they have to take I hope the forceps don't stick because I kind of want to keep John Thorne built a fantastic business, sold it some years later to Stryker. Stryker is very happy, John and his investors are very happy too. Why? Because John focused not on thinking about products. The next one, I call it Like John Thorne, an entrepreneur I'm going focused on a problem but thought very narrowly But the big-company wisdom it wants big target markets, right? Because you've got to move the needle. Why would a big company Like John Thorne, Philip Knight and Bill Bowerman, a company we all know very well today, had identified a problem, but it was a problem Phil Knight was a runner, and he could run almost, not quite, and Bill Bowerman was his track coach. And there was a problem with their shoes, because running shoes, in those days, And when sprinters train, It's a nice, smooth track. But distance runners Where do they run? They run on country paths and dirt roads, and they're always stepping and so they get sprained ankles. And they run mile after mile after mile, and they get shin splints. Well, Knight and Bowerman said, &quot;We need better shoes, shoes that are made especially especially elite distance runners, So we're going to build a better shoe that's going to have a wider footbed. It's going to have to protect against those shin splints -- and by the way, a few ounces lighter, times all the steps in running it's going to make So we know what happened with Nike, right? Once they developed the skills to design shoes explicitly made and once they learned and once they learned what did they do? Well, John McEnroe in tennis, Michael Jordan in basketball came next, and we know what the story is They're the global leader OK, the next one -- "asking for the cash, Big companies today are awash in cash. Even in these tricky times there is cash all over the place, right? Merck, in 2018, spent all this money giving money back to shareholders and they could only find with all that cash. Is something wrong here? I think this just doesn't feel right. But for entrepreneurs cash is the lifeblood So when Musk joined the Tesla team, he said, &quot;What's the plan here?&quot; And that team had a plan, and it was to build make a lot of money from that one, use that money to build make some money from that one, and then, we're going to build that more people can afford. And in so doing, we're going to make a real dent that the global automobile Well, what Musk said is, &quot;Let's go see if we can sell some cars.&quot; So ... they did a little road show in California, and they invited people, with three characteristics. Number one, they cared Number two, they were wealthy. And number three, to have the next big thing Well, guess what? They sold 100 Tesla Roadsters cash on the barrelhead, paid tonight. How much? Do the math. How much money have they got 10 million US dollars before they had built Roadster number one. That principle has carried Tesla So when they introduced nearly half a million consumers of 1,000 dollars each. Do that math. Half a million consumers, half a billion dollars, with which to begin doing the engineering, build the tooling, Wouldn't you like to build with that kind of business model? OK, the next one. I call it "beg, borrow, In B-school finance, we teach our students how to analyze So you figure out how much and then, you figure out going forward, year after year, And then, you ask yourself, &quot;Well, is that return And if the ROI is good enough, That's the idea. But for Tristram Mayhew, who built a wonderful business a treetop adventure business, they didn't think that way at all. They said, &quot;We want to build here in the UK.&quot; They'd seen one in France, &quot;So where can we get some trees?&quot; Well ... Who's got trees in the UK? It turns out the UK Forestry Commission lots of them, in all these Forestry Commission sites, and the Forestry Commission in increasing their visitor count. Well, what better way than to have a Go Ape on their land? So what Tris and Becs was go to the Forestry Commission and say, &quot;Look, if you'll give us a chance to build we'd like an exclusive The deal was done. Today, there are more than 30 across the UK, there are a whole bunch of them in the US, and how did that happen? Because they borrowed They borrowed the trees, they borrowed the loos, all that stuff. All they had to do Pretty cool. Now, entrepreneurs and permission If you're an entrepreneur, But in a big company today, if you want to get something new done, something that's maybe you've got to pass it Because there are a lot and you don't want to do something So it's really hard to get a &quot;yes&quot; answer to doing something and it takes a long time. But it's really easy to get a "no." For entrepreneurs, however, like Travis Kalanick and Garrett Camp, who founded Uber, do you think they would have been of the San Francisco regulators? &quot;Can we start a taxi company No, maybe not, right? Because, had they asked, what do you think &quot;There's no way you're going to do that. That's going to threaten So entrepreneurs don't ask permission, they just get on with it. Now, I don't condone along their journey, many of them unethical, But the principle of entrepreneurs when the regulations or haven't considered that's when you get on with it. OK, so I want to close Question number one: Which of these mindsets maybe one or two of them already? Question number two: Which of the others can you learn? Are these learnable? I think they are. Question number three: Can you teach these who has some challenges And, more pertinently today: Is there a challenge you face today for which one of these mindsets, might help you get beyond the roadblocks OK, so there we go. Six counterconventional, that can help anyone, maybe you, change the world.