- [Falcon] Everybody knows kind of could treat Could definitely treat developers better and just be less stingy, overall, but let's focus on the It can be fraught, it can be tense. But sometimes, it gets to a point, where gamers actually Hi, folks, it's Falcon. And today on GameRanx, 10 times gamers had to sue for their rights. So this one's got a Whenever we talk about legal It's pretty standard, but I'm not a legal amateur. I'm just a bird reading stuff and then saying stuff that is absolutely not an of any kind. So without any further At number 10, Australia versus Valve. So back in 2014, the Australian or the ACCC, the A-C-C-C, ah, The Australian Competition ACCC, sued Valve. You know, the company behind the dominant digital marketplace for PC games, STEAM, because they didn't offer Now these days we know STEAM has a pretty solid refund policy. Being able to refund a as long as you played and refund it in less than two weeks is a pretty good policy. But in 2014, that policy was not in place. It actually wasn't until 2015 that Valve amended their to change how refunds In other countries, STEAM was fine with having basically Before 2015, you could if customer support was feeling generous. But it was an annoying that involved contacting which is a big company in but a small company in In 2011, they employed about 250 people. And by 2021, it was 336, which is a relatively small company and I sincerely doubt are in customer service. Frankly, tiny staff for the It was smaller back in 2014 but it was still the and platform in 2014. The lawsuit wasn't resolved until 2016 and the actual payout was pretty pitiful. Valve was only fined $2.3 million, but the ultimate effect of the lawsuit was that Valve had to for their games, which is good. You can thank the Because although the a year before the lawsuit was resolved, usually in these types of lawsuits, the change that would usually happens before Mostly because it weakens and lowers their ultimate Probably a contributing relatively speaking. I mean I would obviously like $2.3 million but for Valve, that's nothing. They were worth at least $4 billion, years before this lawsuit even happened. And that kind of makes this but the timeline makes sense. Valve was sued in 2014, Suit was resolved in 2016. The big question here is if Valve would offer refunds anyway. And in my opinion, they probably, at least, eventually were. But in order to lawfully they would eventually have had to do that. Like it wouldn't have been out of the goodness of their hearts, but the lawsuit had effects beyond that. They did grant Australia, special privileges when it comes to refunding games on STEAM. I don't know exactly how it works, but you can request a refund if a game is particularly bad or even if the game is outside If actually doing this is viable or something anyone even Now we're gamers behind I mean the ACCC depends on So it's probable enough about refunds on STEAM that they acted. I can't confirm that. I don't know what actually And I would argue even likely, I'm not so sure that about STEAM's refund policy So eh, at the end of the day, But it looks like Australia is responsible for Valve's newer and And for my wallet, I am grateful. Ack! At number nine, a California man sued SEGA over allegedly rigged arcade games. There's a lot of chicken in gaming lawsuits. Like did the lawsuit cause changes or did developers and in preparation for an eventual lawsuit? (mock coughs) Nintendo, (mock coughs) Nintendo. Except it's the other Because of a lot of behind closed doors, it's whether it was the chicken or egg, but all that really matters In this case, it was for the better. You know those stupid Key The ones that are claw 'cause nobody ever wins. 'Cause the stupid piece of plastic, they want to go into a hole. It doesn't matter, you're not Period. Well, back in 2021, a guy filed a class-action claiming these machines are rigged and that while they appear they're actually games of (Falcon laughs) I mean, you've played those before, right? I'm guessing you didn't or the iPhone 15 Max or whatever But I mean, go beyond that. Read the manual to one of these things and you could see these games are rigged. Well, I gotta cover my ass here. So allegedly, how they will not reward a prize until there have been a certain The default is 700, but way higher than that. I don't know how the lawsuit but we already know that caused SEGA to change the machines and replace them with the which they claim are We promise this time. So basically, SEGA knew these things were, as the lawsuit claimed, rigged and that they were of state regulations on gambling. So they discontinued the machines. Now you may not be able to but they're definitely still out there, tempting you with iPhones and PS5s that you will never in a But still lawsuits like this to pretend like they're and that's better than nothing. At number eight, mother over stick drift. Remember, stick drift? Trick question. Of course, you do, because Joy-Con still have crappy But back in 2020, a mother in Northern California for Their claim was the controller broke down in less than a year. And while Nintendo continues they haven't done enough of the controllers. The lawsuit alleges that Nintendo is still selling these while aware the product is defective, which is arguably true to this day. I only say arguably is quite a strong word, but Nintendo's been targeted over issues with Joy-Cons. You'd think something would these stupid controllers still There is an alternative. And just to be clear, all of these technologies are imperfect and drift can happen on any of them. But if Nintendo just implemented and a little bit of a dead zone, I'm guessing nobody would see any drift. And they sell Joy-Cons for $79. And yet, nothing good has come of it. This particular lawsuit was dismissed along with another class-action lawsuit. Nintendo just continues Not everybody who tries actually ends up winning, unfortunately. And most of the time, they lose. Even if the thing is very clearly real. At number seven is a class-action suit over Epic Games loot boxes. Here we go. You gotta bear with me The amount of lawsuits swirling around Epic Games and There's a lot of them. It's kind of not easy to If they're not about gaming addictions or predatory dark patterns stuff, then they're about loot boxes. Yeah, oh yeah. There's a lot of lawsuits and they all kind of run together. It was a $26.5 million class-action. You know, the one that getting up to 50 bucks in It seems a little weird to let a company give out in-game currency in the real world that encourages people to remain in the Fortnite ecosystem as a form of punishment to Epic, who owns Fortnite and its ecosystem. It's a weird form of If Nintendo can give out for their anti-competitive sure, whatever. Give away V-Bucks, Epic. None of this matters. It's just an exciting new There's a Canadian class-action, where they had to pay a relatively Not of the V variety. It was for the same reasons. Obviously, 2.75 million when it comes to Fortnite. They made $1.8 billion in 2019 alone. $2.7 million is like $2.70 to these guys. But these lawsuits are that the world is turning on loot boxes. So Epic just dumped dumped Sure Epic released a statement, saying they're just doing it for the fans. They're acknowledging that some people just don't like those darn loot boxes. But let's be serious, the legal pressures were mounting. Countries, not people, Countries were starting to take loot boxes pretty seriously as a, well, and addict children to gambling. And the whole various world governments' having a problem with it. I actually pretty much killed it. Stuff like gacha is more It's not exactly much better but hey, a win is a win. And for the most part, loot like these are what killed them. And at number six, Ubisoft was sued for shutting The Crew down. In early 2024, Ubisoft shut off the an open-world driving game Normally, there wouldn't Like, game servers go down all the time, but this was different. It's high profile enough like a lot of attention. And importantly, it's a game but relies on a central So shutting that server off, a single player game could Online-only games like this, where game makers just take it's been a mounting But The Crew seems like a I guess movement, if The entire Stop Killing because Ubisoft shut down The Crew. And this lawsuit's coming not exactly the same place. At the time of the writing, how this one's gonna progress or if it'll become a Kind of too early to tell. What I do know is the with the lawsuit, basically, on the recent bill signed which requires companies to tell consumers they're So almost like a drum I've I actually get people regularly mad at me for pointing that out because in the download era of games. It was true in the Physical media was a copy of the game, but you did not own the game. You owned the media the game was on and you had a license to play the game. And that's what, essentially, They're alleging false advertising, saying that Ubisoft advertised which I would argue, every If this actually goes anywhere, the implications are pretty big. Anyway, you weren't buying The Crew like every Buy it Now ad says. In reality, you're buying a license that can be revoked any time. And that's true, just look at the EULA. In fact, go back to the for cartridges and CDs and I mean, those didn't have games on them, but it was the same. They didn't call them EULAs, I think they call them something else, but it's essentially the same thing. You didn't own movies Like that whole, you'll own Yeah, they started that a Long time ago. Essentially, every digital game we buy isn't something we actually own. It's actually insane So when you buy a game, it's Now granted, to get those games back, the world would have to And I don't mean the bug part, I mean the managed democracy/fascism part. Ha-ha, give me your hard drive. I'm revoking your license. But I own the hard drive. I don't care. A legally binding agreement by simply playing the game and therefore, control over those files. So either you hand over that hard drive or I watch you delete them. But while a lawsuit like this could inspire companies about what you're actually it's probably not gonna change much, even if it is successful. And that's an open question. At best, the buy button will be replaced with a license button and I don't even know if that's necessary. Like legally, I'm pretty refers to the license, 'cause Man, I hate this issue. I hate it, it's so messed up. And on top of that, you still At number five, crying children save So how a lot of these is governments save us from This makes it sound like and that's not true. In fact, some companies are good and some government is bad. Anyway, the gamer part of this lawsuit is a little bit of a stretch, but I feel like, for some kind of balance, it really fits in correctly. So back in 2016, Lake Park by a hoard of Pokemon GO players. And the response from the county Like I get it, a bunch of It sucks, but their response was absurd. They banned all virtual reality games from operating in parks and said that anyone who has to get proof of insurance for up to $1 million worth of damages. So Milwaukee banned Pokemon What beloved virtual reality game will the mad man target next? Trick question again. There aren't any others. Yet. Still, before the ordinance was passed, Pokemon GO fans countywide to spare their beloved game. And that meant literal children crying, pleading with the council And I'm not kidding, there are really detailed It wasn't the gamers who managed to end this Pokemon It was Candy Lab Incorporated, actually a completely different that had nothing to do with Pokemon. They took the county to and they eventually won in The ordinance was blocked and the city had to pay which amounted to $83,000. You might think that would of Milwaukee having to pay the legal fees, but it was all covered by insurance. So ultimately, the whole thing was a big pointless waste for the country. But at least the insurance guys paid, 'cause they deserve to pay. The rights they were fighting for weren't exactly the most dramatic. I mean, this is also people can but hey, they won, right? At number four, Ultima Online We're going back, all the So there's a court case then that ended up having pretty for the entire industry. One of the first MMOs was Ultima Online. Like a lot of these games at the time, there was kind of a meant to help new players and These volunteer players One in particular was She was the regional lead counselor, one of the top positions in the program. She was playing the game managing an entire team of counselors. And what did she get from all that work? A free Ultima Online subscription and 500 bucks a month as a She was nearly a full-time but she was making way, way So she eventually sued. It took four years, but the and checks were sent out At least as far as I can tell. The employment status thing is still a big problem in the industry, at least a hot button issue. But it could have been a lot worse if the lawsuit didn't happen. Even before it was resolved, it had a chilling effect of unpaid or barely paid volunteer labor. I managed to find a blog from who straight up confirms it. He was working for Second Life at the time and paying really close And in general, it seems like the lawsuit made companies act a little and in the future. The ultimate effect was that and onboarding people in those games, which, in some ways, has made them worse. But ultimately, it's for their hard work, 'cause to make games better for new players. It can't be understated how And to be frank, they were At number three, an NF 2 game, CryptoZoo, sued Logan Paul and NFTs. What could possibly go wrong here? Well, anyone with two could tell you the supposedly CryptoZoo, is the physical But that doesn't mean deserved to be scammed. That's where this A Texas police officer into the project sued Paul and CryptoZoo for along with a whole bunch of other stuff. This was on top of YouTuber Coffeezilla's extensive investigation into the game, where he concluded that But anyway, Paul claims that con men came and took over the game and ruined it. But it's an NFT game, like, the con men were inside the house. And I don't actually know that I completely blame I do think he probably got because NFT was a hot topic trend. But even so, he did not on people he was going into which is a big problem actually. Now he could be lying about that and that would make it But frankly, I don't care. He was wrong either way. Anyway, all the bad press caused Paul to reverse course. First, by promising And then when that never happened, he finally just gave in all the NFTs sold for the game as long as you promised not to sue him. I mean, at least people to get their money back. That's a lot more than you can At number two, a digital rights advocate sued Valve for pretty big money. And when I say big, I mean big. Like 656 million pounds, which is incalculable in American money. Just saved myself doing That's how much Vicki because according to her, and taking advantage of UK gamers. Essentially, they're arguing that Valve has a monopoly on digital games and they're using that market domination to keep prices high. Not exactly false. Valve does force publishers to sign up for pricing restrictions and takes 30% of sales on the platform. But of all the issues with digital rights and gaming right now, I'm not sure Valve stands Then again, how much does it really take to keep STEAM running? Is 30% really necessary? I don't know. Probably not? It's one of those things I don't feel any righteous It just reads like somebody not that it's a bad thing. If UK gamers can get 40 bucks for free because of this lawsuit, And finally, at number one, a 9-year-old baseball fan sued Nintendo. Finally, a righteous cause In 1990, 9-year-old, Clark we'll call them Junior sued Nintendo, LJN Toys, for the despicable crime of not having an updated player roster in LJN's Major League Baseball. Instead of player names, How are you supposed to manage a team if you don't even know what Something had to be done. They can't just get away with this. So Junior did what any 9-year-old would do in that situation. He tried to return the game. This is where the crux of That failed because the store if the game had already been open. So he did the next best thing and sued. The lawsuit aimed to stop Nintendo and LJN from producing Clark also wanted his 40 bucks back. Unfortunately, never came to and it was never meant to be. Clark got an unforgiving lesson in the cruelty of the world Nintendo continued to LJN continued making terrible games and Major League Baseball continued to, you know, let them do it, and reap whatever money And the kid was still out of his 40 bucks. If there's any definitive this has gotta be it. Yeah, sure the lawsuit was but at least give the There's no way to know for sure, but maybe part of the have up-to-date rosters Like, yeah, in Activision, smaller companies than Nintendo, saw the lawsuit and got scared. Maybe they thought, &quot;We gotta He might get better at So let's work on keeping at least for now.&quot; And that's all we've got for today. Leave us a comment, let If you like this video, click Like. If you're not subscribed, We upload brand new videos Best way to see them first is, So click Subscribe. Don't forget to enable notifications. And as always, we thank you very much for watching this video. I'm Falcon, you could follow We'll see you next time,