Hi everyone. My name is Patrick Akil and nowadays, specifically in web development, Joining me today is Lydia Hallie. Software engineer. And I love her drive and curiosity, and using that as an educator We cover that, developer advocacy, Enjoy beyond coding. What do you think nowadays for people come into either web development What is like the biggest bottleneck You know, it's a good question. I mean, in web in general, you can choose from now, you know, like what languages like, and then am I going to go next year I'm just going to go vanilla JavaScript. It's too much. It's it's too much. Yeah. I mean personally as I've always done, just go first into because that's still like the main web And then see what like based on the product Because I feel like a lot of people are kind of moving Like they just choose whatever's popular. And that's also nice is then around those languages So you get a lot But I feel like especially when you're just beginning, I guess constraints are what you're working with. So I honestly, or like choose a framework and only then you kind of work and then Next.js and then server Yeah. But it's difficult questions from beginners, like where, There's so many things I'm like, honestly, kind of easy back in 2015 Yeah. It's difficult. I've never heard the term I think it's a good term. Yeah. So it's and it's definitely something Like I'm, I learned a lot. Not read it. Right. Yeah. Yeah. Cause Well, I love it. I mean, It's like it's one of them. Yeah. And I still see questions But second of all, with AI, is it And I see two camps, people that are just genuinely interested, that really want it, have either a traditional career path or And the other campus just kind of make Yeah. And, I don't think that's helpful. No, no, I fully agree. I feel like and it's such a shame. I often see that also on my Twitter, and I just really miss the time interested in what they're doing. Like, I'm always like it. It's great. The tech makes so much money. I'm like, we're definitely very privileged that is so, like lucrative we get to be so entrepreneurial But I just miss, like that. People are genuinely interested I, I it's so easy to build a product and just get something out real quick Yeah, but it just to me it lacks Like I just see the same content And I'm like, if this is where the internet is going are going, it's such like a, Yeah. And I just truly wish that more people so younger And like, all right. So I have this issue where I'm working with this tool what is it that I'm actually working with And I'm just saying JavaScript now as a, as an example like it interacts with these features or And like how is that implemented? And what did the creators think why is it there in the first place? Yeah, at least that's And maybe it's not like I'm not the most useful, but of course, it's the quickest if you just kind of take something first and like going, But I still think it's really become an expert in that field. And then based on that, you can also, you can definitely improve your You know what to avoid in your prompt. You know what specifics to ask for. What I might have to avoid, Yeah. So yeah, it's, I really hope Yeah, it's. And not to be pessimistic, but like, am. And every time I see that that are just like, or this website But like, how long will it live? Like, Do you know what it does? Do you know the security vulnerability is and I'm starting That's like super negative. But yeah, no, but it's just true. And of course, like, I'm sure that even maybe within two years like it's been improved so much already you know, secure and everything. I would love to see some research like, have either behavior or motivation Because also from this Reddit perspective, that are genuinely not happy Like, I also have friends but maybe are in the tech field, and still in tech companies Yeah, and not everyone is as happy, Yeah, I don't know, Like I like being happy with what I do But I do think it's a sad, Yeah, I think eventually, especially with the comfort you can kind of work from home or like It's absolutely it's selling. So you kind of just get comfortable. It's like, you know, I'm unhappy. But I have all this I have, you know, this comfort and I noticed And I was like, no, like, I need to is truly what is best for my life and my current kind of stage in life, stuck at a job that I am not of course it pays But then, you know, And I just coast. Yeah. Exactly. I think people waste a lot of their lives And it's not because I think with a good idea and like, with good intentions, I want to, like, actually build something and like, contribute But then eventually kind of maybe bigger organizations But maybe it's just human progression that some organizations Like if there's not really a career progression that basically means that, yeah, They want you to be in that position. They don't have any other open positions. Yeah. So they're not worth it or just Like I've never been But I have seen those trends for sure Yeah. And then yeah, I see like right now Right. I can afford not to coast because No kids, no house. Even. I love the flexibility. Yeah. That also means I can take more risk, Like you can reap And when the risks. I mean, when they hit you Yeah, exactly. That's also like I think your younger just really trying many different things try to do the things that may feel wrong Like, And then when you're older yet like when you have kids all these other responsibilities, good to maybe join a, not necessarily totally understand why you might and all these responsibilities Yeah. I mean, preferably they're combined, difficult to find. But yeah, like, I like seeing younger Of course. Like, I think it's amazing. Like, I'm sure that the experience but at the same time, entrepreneurial, I guess, like you don't Yeah. And, at the same time, But I feel like, I don't know, about, like, their own potential and really kind of reflect, like, okay, or am I just following someone else's Because especially in tech, I feel like a lot of people And I'm like, surely not Like, this is too, too much of the same What same thing do you do? Well, it's more like Maybe in crypto or in AI right now, and then, you know, like sell it to either Yeah, for the IPO. And it's and it's great. Like a But I, I notice And then you often meet these founders or And they're just like so unhappy And you can just see that like what their soul wants. Some of that makes sense. Yeah. So it's also really difficult I don't know if it has something Yeah, not not like trusting yourself. I'm not sure. Yeah. But again, like, it's no criticism it's important And you can always combine tech with stuff Don't just try to be one of one And I, I wonder if because there is a Yeah. And I wonder If you don't get fulfillment out Yeah. And if you have an unhealthy relationship and you work more than you're supposed I can see people trending towards Where you just get sick And your body actually hits you Yeah, yeah. Mentally you're still fine, you can't do anything or even the reverse. Yeah, I've never been into a burnout, but I do see this epidemic of people Yeah. It's very alarming. Yeah. And I, I feel like a burnout like I think that's often But yeah, it's working on the wrong thing. It's working on something that you deep It's or like it doesn't And then it's also so difficult in an optimistic way where you're like, you know, If you're currently not taking those steps yeah, I, I see that a lot as well. But it's so difficult to, to realize to get into a burnout like it's good to feel uncomfortable Yeah. So, like, you also need to learn the difference feeling uncomfortable and I don't like difficult things or because it's truly just something But then also, initially, because you don't understand it Like on the surface it looks really boring it more like, It's neat. Yeah. So, yeah, it's a bit of both. I think it's it's difficult to learn But yeah, it's it's so important I agree. Yeah. I'm very curious recently of developer advocate or developer who's a colleague I've known him for, No, close to two years. Two months But in any case, he joined this company and he was always creating videos and that was something But in his free time, he was even though he had never used it I don't I also don't think it matters. But in the end, that company do you want to work for us? Right. The things that you do, So he basically got his dream job, in his free time. Yeah, he hasn't done so yet. But I do feel like for me, career seems very interesting. And I also think that as people technologies, developers So a person that is responsible in that aspect But for me, I talk to him and I'm like, are you going And he's like, I talk to people. Some people, that's what they do. I say like understanding engineer. More like But his title is going to become But it's like the most vague job Like, yeah, if my previous job ever. So I was but like my whole team consisted of people like we were a team, which is doing something You know, like some people worked on worked on organizing meetups Others were on Twitter like, So, yeah, the term like whenever people you need to be more Yeah, I know personally kind of how So I first started as a full time I made, kind of content on the stuff on a daily basis that I felt like I mean, it was talked about enough, that just didn't really fit with my, like, Or like, I guess every time I work in life, really, I just create this It's it's difficult to explain, slightly different than most people. Yeah. So I wanted to almost recreate that. And then. Yeah, I shared that a lot on Twitter and then people liked it Because like, apparently I'm not the only weird one that tries you know. Yeah. And that felt good. But yeah, so I like I only wrote about the stuff and that was great because it was kind of my, like, writing yeah. Like my free time. Like, I could kind of at the end of the day, in my head by writing about it Yeah, like answering the questions And yeah, that kind of progressed. And then I got into like I did that But what I found the most difficult is that I had to be in creative And I couldn't do that because, like, Like I'm definitely more logical. So like, I like creating content like the what I'm doing now, like educating because otherwise I get no inspiration Well, not fully, of course, If I have to be in this creative mode, Yeah. So I feel like a lot of people advocacy, Make sure that you can also still do if that was your full time job previously, like I can only of course but I found the creative work Like, I'd much rather just kind of be than having to, like, write stuff needs to understand, that needs to be Well, I don't know, like, yeah, to be better at developer advocacy But like, of course, like, just, again, like, do it, see if it fits and then, But personally, I found it I can see that. I can say, like, And so the content of that, I know it because I've done it before, before that. But this year I'm a CB as a consultancy, I now I'm a product manager role since January, so I haven't actually done And then I'm like, man, right now, it's fine because I feel like I look about what is new, but if it's going to be in a year or two manager role, Like, I haven't worked and then I do educate others Yeah. So also from your perspective, then about material on what people should use, and you don't actually do that I could see that you burn out from that perspective your mind is blank, Yeah, no, but that is exactly that. And I felt so bad sometimes because like, and people would come to me and ask I'm like, truly, I don't know, in like a product or like a production and everything move so fast within that Even though I was talking about it. I was like, this feels strange. Like I should understand better what I'm talking about. And like, if this was my own content, because, like, I always want to make sure and like it's from my own, But yeah. So either you need to then like code Like that's fun, but it's. Yeah. Like, it's so there, then to really kind of, combine that, This is, no, no worries. I am I am interested though, because this, this responsibility That does sound a bit. I want to say perfect. How do you say that Yeah. Is that still possible in in creating Oh yeah. No I right the worst. No. I really I suffer from it like it's the worse because I don't want I mean, I make mistakes, like, I'm not saying that anything I do is perfect, And every time that I. Because I can't because that is just inaccurate. And I feel like it kind of accumulates the topic, then you watch or read or it's just simplified in a way So then you are confused, but actually you're still confused because you still don't really get it and then those people share the wrong way because they understood it Like, I don't know, you kind of built Yes, exactly. So to me, I like with I mean, I don't have a big following, a big responsibility to any, like, confusion or that at least That's not like a specification Just. And I can only base it on like my own frustration that I And also, I think everyone approaches but personally, what I really like to do like just go as in-depth as I can and then after I know the actual But if I read someone else's that has already gone through their you know, like they have their own filters I don't know, emotional state attached So it's not accurate. Sorry. I have a really hard time Yeah. It's already distilled content. Yeah. Yeah, exactly. And, yeah, that's why I feel like it's so important and do more research, because I feel like with like, So then try to simplify it. And that's also a skill But when you can really explain a topic you know like explain it like I'm five Like that's so difficult. But it's so important Absolutely. But just make sure that you don't explain Yeah. Because that's what a lot of that's And it's it's yeah, kind of annoying this trend of people creating content Like, also as part of your learning journey, You're like, okay, I'm not perfect. And you want that feedback to incorporate Yeah, I really like that. But then also, especially with AI, first of all for productivity, And like you're saying, if it's ground, on the content that everyone else creates Then factually it can also be inaccurate. And then if people that start out to boost their educational path that's going to be very strange then the world works like X, Y, and Z It's like A, B and C. Yeah, no, but I see that all the time AI for any of my content, like that would have been a Google but whenever I ask it more like sometimes just for fun, an essay on this topic Then it's yeah, like you said, or the type of content that it bases in such a way that it seems specifically, That it's so difficult to kind of question because it seems to have like arguments Yeah, yeah. You're like, So the more like now, now I can see that So I can see that it's wrong, but I can. Yeah. It's so easy if you don't know Like I'm sure that I would do the same thing you know, like something And it will explain something to me like that sounds, yes, convincing, But yeah, it's so yeah, it's very trippy big group of people that are convinced And yeah, try to convince people that It's Yeah, it's difficult. I think high quality content always wins. But then it's the question of visibility, How do you get the the people that education towards the quality We have the documentation of the people But even then, I mean, it's but it doesn't work for everyone. Yeah. So then people pick up on the and create, for either what they would want in an educational path Yeah. And then that gets distilled. And if we then also have an AI layer on top of that, I don't know how to fix this, because it it will accelerate Yeah. I mean, now it's sometimes helps and then I see the sources and I'm like, blog for ten years ago. Like, So now especially with JavaScript I'm always just use the HTML spec or like the W3C group so that it can only use And even then it's sometimes still like loose. Announcer. But like it's. Yeah, again, it's easier if you know what components Like if I'm asking about a promise Like I need to understand that it needs or the promise job to you. Or like all these, you know, the then Because otherwise it might just Like never asks like imagine and then like a promise is like the sirup. I'm like, dude, no, like, I don't want to do this. It always does that. So, like, yeah, you need to, yeah, I think, I guess it's called, like, Like, you can become a better a technology really well or like In our case, technology, And you know what's to ask. Better because I always have to be like, Don't pretend like I'm a child. Like aim it at like expert developers. Yeah, you need to be so specific Yeah, yeah. Interesting. We started this episode with okay, if I'm either new in the field of JavaScript in one of them, And it's something I jumped right into react. I want it to be productive, And then when I was less effective, well, That's when I was like, And I stepped back and I looked and and educated myself Yeah, creating their own frameworks, and I think If you jump in web development nowadays, Now I saw Deno 2.0. We have fun. We have node and they all are on this kind Yeah, introducing new features. And I think it's a good thing. Competition breeds success But the companies also need to make money. So at the end of the day, they have they might host a certain solution And that's what you then pay for. Yeah. I don't know if we need all of that, Like I can do a lot And I'm curious from your perspective, We have a lot of them and they are there for people to make money, Not all though. Well, need is a bad word, I think. I mean, they definitely make things easier But I again, I mean, I often use I also understand how I would set Like that's also what I worked So I feel like before or not even hosting also with like bun Yeah. Understand Why do we have runtimes. What does Bunn have that Deno And also with hosting like go straight to Cloudflare AWS like again Like what are the problems What is their solution? What's their pricing? All these things and yeah, definitely You don't have to go but then you definitely understand just as an example. Yeah. Because then you can like also like when you're starting to you need to like kind of use certain tools or, and you need to be able But if you're just like, well, and a lot of people are using it and there's a lot of community support And also in a lot of cases, it might be cheaper then you need to know the risks, like, DDoS attacks, all these things. Like you need to understand what are the potential risks to hosting You know, like, what are these hosting I would otherwise have to set up myself. Like, to me, it's just so obvious. Like, first just try it yourself. Like, you're not stupid. You can do it like it's. It's difficult, That's fun. And sure, your initial approach Yeah, you learn from it. And only then. And also like you need to suffer first other people have done for you. And so I like I'm like, Or like all these other hosting providers exist because otherwise And then like if some if one of these providers goes out every time because they get attacked Like, I also don't like the feeling that I put I always want to make sure that in case can always just take over. Yeah, I don't. It might not always be possible. I love this notion of you have to suffer What like, isn't it? It's true, though it'd be hilarious and they're like, You have this piece of metal, I would love that. Yeah, I would love like a course it goes Like I want to go to the actual Like how does memory work, you know, But I'm the opposite. Like I do want to be effective, it becomes a problem because as you say, I have to take control. insecurities and uncertainties And then I have to figure things out. I don't know currently. I mean, I know conceptually what it does in a data center, I don't think I have to. I do think it would be helpful but from a curiosity standpoint, I don't Yeah, I have it for other things, and if I were to have it for everything, because we have quite a broad like Yeah. And then it's Like which one do you want to focus on and which one That's also what I like, though, that get enthusiastic Yeah, People can go anywhere, right? If you're sick of software engineering, you might become a developer You might be really enthusiastic or the people aspect And then you become a people manager Yeah, you can leverage whatever knowledge Take that with you to the next domain. But for me, indeed, like you mentioned, that should be at the forefront. And that can always change. Yeah, but as long as you have that, If you don't have that, I don't think No, no. Or like. Well, yeah. Or unless you're maybe part yeah yeah yeah. But I Like, it's just part of, And I feel like once that dies, you know, that you've done something wrong, But, like, try to try to avoid that. Do you see yourself kind of on this path as well, or what like interests you, Yeah, I'm having like a quarter I don't know, do you like I'm 26 now I guess that's a proper quarter life. So hopefully, maybe it's my midlife. I know, who knows, but, Yeah. No, I don't know. Like, it's still my passion is still in it's my my safe space is in the IDE. But I get the most Like, it's after I can, like, go to bed, feel like, okay, I've done something today, like, software engineering alone. Maybe unless I work on a project So maybe I just need to find that, like, I just really want to focus on stuff That actually interests me. But in the meantime, yeah, I love to help as I said, to do that full time in that creative mind full time. And that's what burns me out. So I kind of need to find the right And I'm also not sure like, long term thing, I feel like a lot of the educational stuff be a thing anymore in a couple of years. So, yeah, it's kind of, Yeah. And, but yeah, it's difficult. I'm not sure. I have no idea what I'm doing or what Well, see, I've kind of but just see what life has for me Yeah. I'm. I'm in the same camp, though. I don't think it matters too, too much. But I love thinking about it At the end of the day. Yeah, if what you're doing fulfills But if you have an inkling of something That's usually what I think of for me But then I, I get these conversations and I'm like, time, full, full time. Well, You might enjoy it. I love creating videos. I love creating educational content. But like for what? Like what do you get from it? Or like, Like, what's the reason that you enjoy it? I don't know, I just I think it's It's helping people, right? Either with specific moments. Yeah. Or you phrase it in a way. You communicate Because I feel like everyone And you might see similarities, Yeah. The way you explain it or the way you communicate things with the insights And insights are not just the only thing You have to communicate it Yeah, that I really enjoy those moments. That's why I'm now on a full time I still do educational content. Yeah, but I like to do it full time. Sometimes I edit and I'm like, yeah, But then I don't know in practice if that's actually going to play out You won't know until you try. Otherwise But now it's really, Right now I'm, I'm not coasting. But it is comfort, right. Because I can do everything in the next assignment, And it's still kind of a safe space. Yeah, where, as you said, many responsibilities. There's no escaping. No. There's excuses. That's very fair. Yeah, yeah, I have a lot to think of now. Yes, exactly. Yeah, yeah. I really enjoyed this conversation, Is there anything you're still missing that you would like to share Oh, I can't think of any. I'm sure that on my drive home and I can't think of any. You're never going to escape Then we're going to rounded off here. I'm going to put all Lydia's socials reach out to her, this episode, I'm coding.