This episode was sponsored by Skillshare. This picture right here. I've been sent And since my sub count has been spiking So here it is: Tier Zoo's guide to winning The puzzle goes that you can choose two Real quick, that's a choice between: 50 golden eagles, 10 saltwater crocodiles, 3 brown bears, 7 bull cattle, 1 human, 15 gray wolves, 10,000 rats, 5 lowland gorillas, and 4 African lions. To start, let's take a look at the So eagles easily have the highest as they're the only option with the ability to fly. With mid-to-high damage and intelligence coupled with the second highest group size on Next we have the saltwater crocodile. It's got the highest power stat of any animal on this list and could easily one-shot anything it can get its jaws on. But, it also has the lowest mobility of Next up we have the bear. None of its stats are the highest of their respective category, but combined they do easily have the highest base stat total. But they also have the second Next we have the bulls. Bulls have the highest HP and defense of any option on this list and their power and mobility Next we have the human. The human has the highest intelligence stat of any of the options on this list, allowing it to use equipment. In the photo, it appears to be armed with a rifle - meaning that it's the only option with a ranged attack. While normally, a human's base power stat is pretty weak, with a rifle it jumps up to tie with the crocodile, which can one shot any of the other contenders. Next up we've got the wolves: excellent mobility plus decent intelligence and power, but low defense and HP. Notably also has the third highest group size. Next up, we have the rats: the lowest base stat beating the next highest by three orders of magnitude. Next we've got the gorillas: very comparable to bears except with slightly lower stats And last we have the lions: very high damage output, Pretty low group size, but a Alright, so now I'm gonna rank them on the tier Keep in mind this is specifically ranking them as to as well as how important it is that The bottom tier picks are going The gorillas are strong, but every other option that Gorillas are not gonna win in a one-on-one They could potentially hold their own against lions if but lions are stealthy and I highly doubt But more importantly, gorillas don't really Strong as they are, defending against an and five gorillas just don't seem that useful for that. The cattle have a similar problem. Honestly, the cattle's biggest strength is It would be really useful for reaching a defensive wall. If we were to flip the script and say: 'Choose two cattle would be a lot higher on the tier list. In D tier, I'm placing the bear. Honestly, if this list only had one of It's the best jack-of-all-trades option, but In C tier, I'm going to place all the depending on the environment the battle takes place in. If there's cover to hide in like bushes or they could potentially take out larger to reach the VIP and Crocodiles could do the same. If I were allowed to choose the starting location for Then all of the aggressors would be forced to swim to me, leaving them hilariously But if the situation is a level playing neither of these builds really have much of a purpose. In B tier, I'm placing the pack of wolves. Wolves and dogs are excellent at crowd control and could reasonably be tasked with diverting While they do have low HP, they could easily dodge attacks from the other builds on the I think their numbers would be enough to deter them. Wolves are also much more trainable so I'm not exactly sure how much control it's contingent on their ability to understand commands, wolves are definitely standouts in that regard. Okay, so in A tier I'm gonna do something a bit The human is alone and armed defending against multiple targets is extremely difficult. It would almost certainly lose if put in a fight But it's more important to note that the human does All it needs to do is land a clean shot on the VIP, which it can feasibly do from nearly a kilometer away. And so, if the VIP does not choose the human as one Initially, I thought that was impossible But after thinking it through further, the human actually does have some hard counters. That's why I think the top tier choices are going to while also serving other purposes, and The eagles could circle the battlefield looking for could almost certainly see him before he sees the VIP. Then they could easily go for the eyes and effectively making him a total non-threat. They could then easily harass the rest of the attacking army, attempting to blind them and Obviously the top choice is the rats. If you don't pick this as one of your two, you're gonna get overrun immediately. Choosing the rats and eagles means you have which is more than enough to win the fight. Strong as bears are, 200 rats will especially if they've had their vision damaged by eagles. So, there you have it. Rats and eagles is the correct choice. You can all stop sending me this meme on Twitter now. But picking the right options is difficult This is true for animal deathmatch puzzles, but is also true when it comes to This is why I highly recommend the class investing 101 Which is taught by my friend from It can be viewed on my favorite If investing isn't your thing, Skillshare has which can enable you to improve your skills, Join the millions of students already learning on my subscribers: get two months of Skillshare for free. To sign up, go to skl.sh/tierzoo4 or use the unlimited access to over 20,000 classes for free. Act now for the special offer and start learning today. Thanks for watching, and thanks If you'd like to support me and get cool