they managed to I'm trying to ask to anyone where the Hijra village is but no one knows him. I keep looking. Some of them become violent if you don't give him money. The truth is that this life is too difficult. I can't even explain it in words. This world looks at us with hatred. He is a man. Why is he dressed as a woman? "You are acting effeminate." "You walk like a girl on the street." "Your voice is like that of a woman." Yes! I act like a girl. This is my divine gift! I can not change. If I really want to be happy, I can't live life that I'm experiencing now. My name is Giuseppe. and I have a mission: to travel the world to meet the characters most extraordinary people on the planet and ask him a simple question What is happiness for you? Welcome to the Happiness project. Something tells me today's mission will be more complex than I expected, because there is incredible chaos here in Dhaka and also crazy smog. There is much more traffic than normal because we are at the end of Ramadan. Everyone is returning home, especially in rural areas but I'm looking for a community, a very special village, a unique Hijra village in the world. If they don't put me under first it's a village where transsexual women they managed to achieve an extraordinary goal - stop there. they built a mosque just for them, where they can finally pray and can pray freely. Now I want to try to communicate with a group of Hijras that I saw here in the market to let me know where this village is, because it is totally far from the city. in a remote area. Unfortunately the Hijras they normally live far from society, but we want to meet them to understand what happiness means to them. And it is here in Bangladesh that the transgender community is believed to have been born oldest in the world, with traces of their existence already in the ancient Hindu texts of the Kama Sutra and the Mahabharata, written around the fifteenth century BC. Hijras has always been the term used to describe a transgender person in the Indian subcontinent and historically they were venerated almost like divinities, especially during the Mughal empire, who ruled most of India during the 17th century. The Hijras belonged to a sacred caste and held important roles as priests, healers, sacred dancers and protectors of festivals and celebrations. However, despite their social importance, during the period of British colonialism, the Hijras they were subjected to persecution and discrimination. The values and norms imported from British society of the time, such as the sodomy law of 1861, which punished sexual acts considered unnatural, led to the stigmatization of transgender identity. From then on the Hijras were increasingly marginalized and from semi-divinities they quickly became outcasts of society. In Bangladesh alone there are estimated to be around 50,000 Hijras that is, people who define themselves as belonging to the third gender: neither man nor woman. Relegated to begging or even selling their bodies to survive In the middle of a river of people I notice two Hijras asking for alms. And so I try to talk to them. We are begging. A few cents. It's almost time for Eid And we are collecting donations for the celebration. With us there are other sisters, Let's all raise the money together. There are around 30-50 members here. We have set shifts for begging. From morning to evening. We ask Bangladeshi citizens 5, 10 cents. This is how we survive. If we find a sensitive person he helps us, if it doesn't, that's okay too. We don't force anyone. If they gave us a job though, we would all work. You can be sure of one thing in this life: none of us are happy to come here to beg. Our way of being is a gift from God. But if God hadn't made me like this, Everything would have been easier. The truth is, this life is so difficult. That I can't even explain in words. This world looks at us with hatred. What should we do? We can only defend ourselves. Does this feel like living to you? The men here are even afraid of them. It is believed that they can curse you if you don't make a small offering. Their goal is to find weak people who will give them 10 or 20 cents. They ask for some change. Here's what they do every day. But some of them are violent if you don't give them money. They threaten you with curses. They have magical powers. Are they men or women? Acting like females by dressing like that... It's not normal. He is a man! Why is he dressed as a woman? Interesting story so far, right? well... and the best is yet to come and while I enjoy my first decent coffee in weeks, I want to talk to you about an app which is revolutionizing the world of digital payments Satispay. Once you download the app for free, register with my code "HAPPINESS" you will receive EUR5 free which you can use however you want. But the great thing is that for every new user who registers with my code, Satispay will donate another EUR5 to support Action Aid, which, as you have seen even in the last video here in Bangladesh he helps many children and if you are already using Satispay you can anyway participate in this special initiative by passing the link to as many friends as possible. It's a fantastic opportunity to do good. While discovering the conveniences of Satispay. See how simple and fast it is to pay with Satispay. Just open the app, select the desired amount and confirm the payment with one touch. Here, I just paid for my coffee in seconds without the need for cash, cards or pos. It is a very convenient tool to pay in affiliated shops of which there are more and more, but also to pass money between friends, divide expenses, take up collections and even pay fines or car tax. And as always I leave you the link in the description to download the Satispay app. And now we return to Bangladesh to meet the Hijra community who built the first mosque for trans women. Good vision. In the midst of so much prejudice and discrimination we have great difficulty finding someone willing to accompany us to a remote village in the countryside on the outskirts of Dhaka, which seems like it could become the first bastion for Hijra rights. As in the best adventures... We managed to find an unexpected ride because our new friend Samar it would appear that he knows where this village is located. It was enough to say that they are looking for Muslim trans women, It would seem that he knows where she is... Let's hope. We are really going to the very remote area, but we understand if we will reach it. The village we are about to reach is tiny, practically unknown, like many others in the area, but its inhabitants have made it unique in the world because they had the courage and determination to build the first mosque dedicated to the Hijras, where they can finally pray like everyone else. In fact, although nothing of the kind is written in the Quran, most mosques categorically prohibit entry to transsexual people, except in this one. I know it seems incredible, but what you see behind me is actually the mosque, the mosque that they managed to build with their own savings The Hijra, or the transsexual community that lives here. Now we should go and meet the leader of this community who awaits us in front of the mosque. The leader accompanied by the community's reference hijra, he welcomes me, almost apologetically whether the simplicity of their mosque may have disappointed my expectations. But for them it is precisely this modesty, this humility which recalls the fundamental values of Islam. A group of more than 50 hijras lives in this community. They prefer to live among themselves because it is safer. Those who don't take refuge in communities like this often they encounter serious daily violence totally unpunished by the law. Here, however, under the guidance of the leader, they are safer and together they fight for their rights. To rewrite our future, we organize training courses sewing, beautician, driving and a computer course for educational purposes. For example, I bought sewing machines for some hijras, and parrot I lurk home. Some of us work in beauty salons. Others clean the house. In this way, we are gradually moving away from the streets and we are creating our own jobs. Furthermore, we as a transgender community must struggle every day To have essential rights like every human being. So we are constantly having meetings with government officials across Bangladesh to claim our rights and have a place in society. From the age of 12-13, we were beaten and removed from our families because of the way we were. "You act this way." "You walk like girls on the street." "Your voice is like that of a woman." Yes! I walk I feel like a girl! This is my divine gift and it cannot be changed. A girl is a girl, a boy is a boy, but I am me. Then, due to social pressure our families disown us and we don't know where to go. We certainly don't have boyfriends. Obviously we have no friends. We can only be among ourselves This is why we create communities like this In which everyone lives around the guru's house. When we moved here, there was a village mosque. When we tried to go inside to pray, some local people and Islamic scholars have banned us to pray in that mosque. They told us that we were forbidden to enter. That people like us don't need to pray. They threatened us never to return. But we are human beings. We are Muslims! We practice our religion and we must pray. Even when we die, we are not allowed to follow Muslim ritual. We can't have a funeral. And not even have a humble burial. One of our sisters died. She was killed in a park Nobody looked for the culprit. If a normal person dies, if someone is beaten, there is a trial, there is a sentence. But if a Hijra dies, there will be no trial, there will be no sentence. Traditionally hijras have always performed a very important role in celebrations related to the birth of a child. It is believed that their songs, let their prayers, and their rituals be a bridge between heaven and the land, bringing blessings and prosperity to the new family. That's why the whole hijra community is preparing to go and celebrate a new life in the nearby village and I take the opportunity to get to know them better. When I wear makeup, I feel like myself and more comfortable. It's nice to see myself well-groomed and presentable. People find it more pleasant to see a well-groomed person, and that's also why I do it. Who were you before you became Akhi? As a child I always played with girls. We had fun playing games like hopscotch, hide and seek, and many other games for girls. Everything seemed normal to me. I was happy. The older I got though, the more my mother scolded me, asking me why I played with girls instead of boys. That's when I realized something was wrong. Now, the way we live can't be called life. It's a fight. We don't have the opportunity to work, study, sit in a market and do business, or run a shop. This society doesn't allow us to be like everyone else. If we had that opportunity, then we shouldn't spend our lives begging going from door to door, from market to market. We could aspire to a happy life like other people. Have you ever been involved in sex work? Or just raise money? No, I've never done anything like that. Many of us choose various ways to earn money. But that kind of life isn't for me. Life means struggle and battles. I already know that as long as I live, I will have to fight to survive. That's why I will try my best to earn halal money legitimately. I will be satisfied even with little, but I will never go against my principles. How does it make you feel knowing that around the world, in Italy, in Europe, there are transgender women who live normal lives. They are politicians, lawyers, they do what they want, they are free women and also transgender. How does it feel? Now it seems impossible, but we too will get there. We will study like them, we will work hard like them and we will fight for our dreams, we will win our freedom, I can assure you. I think that with our efforts, future generations will live like this. And then we will have won them. What do you think is the secret to being happy in this life? In theory it would be simple. To be happy, all I need to do is feel normal, like everyone else. Having the opportunity to work with dignity would already be an extraordinary success. If I found a job, I would be able to live a life without shame. Then yes, I would be happy. His words make me think. For a trans person to get and keep a decent job it means much more than receiving a paycheck. In saying: having the opportunity to express oneself, to be able to contribute and above all feel part of society. Precisely these fabrics hung like this indicate to the Hijras that a child was born in this house and therefore they must come here to perform, to do a dance, a dance, a song Here they are about to begin. And so the family can donate, donate a sum to also support the Hijra community and I believe that now we are about to witness one of these dances, one of these ceremonies It is a real blessing to be able to witness this ceremony live because it is unique, authentic. The whole village gathered to see the Hijras practicing this welcoming ceremony and good luck for the baby who has just arrived. In fact, as a matter of practice, they had a basket brought to them with rice, potatoes, onions and oil which are the staples of Bangladeshi cuisine. And now they are about to bring the child who will be welcomed by this dance and from this dance practiced by the Hijras. What might seem like a simple baby shower in reality it has a very strong symbolism, since it does not only integrate people of inclusion and solidarity for the Hijra community, but it is also the sharing of an emotion that they will never be able to feel. In this story of resilience, however, there is a figure who was decisive to allow the Hijras to have a place all to themselves where they can meet God and the Imam of the mosque, a very young boy who against all prejudice he decided to dedicate his life to defend the rights of hijras to have a refuge where they can pray to Allah, like every Muslim on earth, They are our last forgotten brothers in society. They want to walk the path of Allah and learn the Quran. And I'm honored to be able to help them. This is precisely why I decided to become an Imam. I feel very proud that I can teach them the Quran. What is your opinion on those people who believe that the Hijras can't they pray with them in the mosque? In reality, from a religious point of view, both we and the Hijras are Muslims in the same way. So it is mandatory for everyone, as Muslims, pray and learn the Quran. Each of us must pray and learn the Quran if he wants to go to Jannah (paradise). On earth and in heaven there is no difference between us. It's time for the last prayer of the day to thank Allah before going to sleep. What an amazing scene they are to pray to the hijra community with the men of the village community around this reality would be only for them but they open it for everyone else for the whole community. The villages, the children, the men, everyone can pray together with them. Unfortunately, very often the opposite is not true. But today is another day and we are about to join them in the evening prayer which is called Tarawih. How it feels to finally be free to pray without fear in the house of Allah? Thank God, I feel reborn. Here I can pray like everyone else, while in other mosques I am forbidden. Now this is my mosque! I feel so proud to pray together to all the inhabitants of the nearby villages. The great joy I feel it cannot be expressed in any language in the world. Our leader asked all the villages around the permission to pray freely. Everyone slammed the door in his face. But our leader is strong and has never given up. So, we built it with our savings and with our own strength while allowing everyone to pray with us men, children and people of the third gender. This is our refuge where we pray every day. We are Muslims, And being followers of Islam it is our greatest duty pray in the mosque and fast. Read the Holy Quran freely it is our greatest success thanks to the determination of our leader. This is one of the greatest blessings from Allah. What it feels like to be empowered to pray in the mosque of transgender people After all the surrounding villages rejected them? Now they are allowing people to pray with them. How does it feel? Here we are all human beings, created by Allah. Allah has made prayer obligatory on all of us. So it is mandatory for everyone. Everyone has the right to pray. If we had known before that our brothers could not pray, we would have fought with them. So now all our brothers stand in line, shoulder to shoulder with them and with love. They gave us the opportunity to pray with them. They gave us a great chance. We want to live forever in this mutual love. I appeal to everyone in the world may they pray like this in sharing until the last day. They respect us a lot as locals. As guardians, as if we were their protectors. Likewise we also see them as brothers and sisters. We treat them like our family. It is a gift to be able to pray all together. Through their friendship we recognize the love of God. How much meaning can four sheet metal walls have. This mosque represents much more than a place of worship for the hijra community. It's a sanctuary of acceptance, a sacred place where they can find a refuge to talk to God. Here they can finally pray freely, without being judged for their gender identity or perceived as outsiders. In this mosque the hijras can finally hear each other an integral part of the Muslim community. Welcomed and respected for who they are. With strength and faith they chose to rewrite their own destiny, transforming marginalization into dignity and discrimination in acceptance. And it is a great emotion for me to be here with them, living up close their greatest victory was to be able to pray, pray freely and in silence. I admire in their eyes the pride and awareness of having traced a new path, of having built a future in which the next generations they will no longer be victims of what they have suffered, but witnesses that history can also be changed by the determination of an individual, by the courage of a few, by the resilience of the last. And also from the smallest and most remote village in the world.