Jojen Paste is a Game of Thrones fan theory crazy, but may actually be true - so let's and Book 5 of A Song of Ice and Fire, Bran and, in the books, Coldhands, a mysterious three-eyed crow, or Bloodraven, a "Dreamer, weirwoods and the children of the forest and this, apparently, is for Bloodraven to teach the powers of a greenseer. So in Dance, we Luke Skywalker's training in Star Wars - amongst powerful mentor trains a young hero to unlock the past through the eyes of weirwood trees of animals . As part of this training, Bloodraven bowl of white paste apparently made out of with dark red veins running through it" the purpose of this paste is to "help awaken . So Bran eats it, then has a vision through finds Jojen and Meera curiously absent . He and that's the last we've seen of Bran. weirwood paste that Bran eats actually contains the evidence? really really dark and ominous. Its imagery "blood stew", "murder"s of crows, corpse" and "whispers in the dark", There's particular emphasis on flesh , and was a crescent, thin and sharp as the blade as the phases of the moon are used to track of this chapter really set the scene for something and flesh and blood. bad is going to happen to Jojen. Of course, stabbed, then mercy-killed, then blown up that's what you do, but in the books, Jojen he mopes around Bloodraven's cave, growing and ... rest" improve his physical health sadder now, sullen, with a weary, haunted that he has reason to be afraid . And this prophetic dreams of the future. Meera says He says the greendreams do not lie" . Jojen in his dreams . What seems to be going on his death is coming. So why might Jojen have Jojen's job is to bring Bran to Bloodraven of the old gods. But magic in A Song of Ice bullshit, magic in this world is messy and uses magic to try to keep Drogo alive, the unborn child. Melisandre needs king's blood . Euron Greyjoy makes blood sacrifices to many other examples from many different cultures need for human sacrifice, or blood sacrifice, awakening Bran's magic would also require talking about the magic of the old gods - we're human sacrifices to the weirwoods - and Bran's last vision in this chapter is of a weirwood tree, and "as his life flow[s] the blood" . So in the same chapter where paste to awaken his magic, we're reminded old gods and the weirwoods and human sacrifice. one person's blood can be more powerful specifically needs king's blood for her Jojen's blood is needed, rather than Meera's, a fully-fledged greenseer like Bloodraven, , and special moss-green eyes that mark his in his blood, so it makes sense that his sacrifice magic. Paste is real is cannibalism. And cannibalism starving soldiers eat their own fallen , Wyman human flesh while warged into his wolf . And is a recurring theme specifically in Bran's recalls the tale of the Rat Cook , who cooked his father, then was cursed to live as a rat, three-eyed crow, Bran and co. eat suspicious something else ... And when Bran is travelling Night's Watchmen and tells him that it's flesh while warged into his wolf . So Bran on some Jojen would be just one more example the journey north, Bran and co. eat Coldhands' he considers the elk a "friend" . So Bran but he's already been eating his friends. This chapter is really dark and ominous, it's to Jojen, it makes sense that Bran's magical is a theme of Bran's chapters. It looks of the forest secretly kill Jojen and put feed to Bran in order to awaken Bran's magic. Bloodraven doesn't exactly seem like a good "half-corpse and half-tree", with "weirwood flesh". He's "less a man than some ghastly rotted wool" . He lives in a cave full of of thousands dead" - his home is literally shit he says - "Never fear the darkness, . To return to the Star Wars comparison, Bloodraven or the Emperor. He's dark, seductive, manipulative, be "a wise old wizard who could fix his tree . And what about Jojen, Meera and Hodor, return to the Wall with winter setting in. this. Leaf says he works "For us, for you, true, Bloodraven really doesn't seem to interests at heart. He risks their lives bringing is that he wants, and he's turning Bran If sacrificing Jojen was necessary for Bloodraven's do it. character arc. Bran starts the story as a in the fairy tales , just like Sansa dreams get what they wish for - Sansa courts a into danger in search of a magical power. she dreamed of is actually pretty terrible. a - quote - "vile, scheming, evil bitch" - Coldhands is a "monster" , and the half-corpse tree-man. Maybe part of this disillusionment he ate his friend. And there are a bunch of after finding out, Bran would try to get away for someone who can't walk - or maybe has done some messed-up stuff lately, like it clearly makes Hodor distressed . However Bran at a time when he's frustrated by his in his greenseer power to notice or care about here is that Bran has a crush on Meera . How how would Bran react to Meera? And what will ways this could work, but the point is that in some really interesting ways, possibly So. Is there any strong direct evidence that against it, either. But here's what we do it's strongly implied that Jojen knows his bloody weirwood paste, and afterwards Jojen to awaken Bran's magic power, and we know especially the magic of the old gods and the in Bran's chapters, with Bran having already Bloodraven is a creepy, nasty dude who seems of others, and Bran's story seems to be So there's nothing concrete here, but the likely, even, that Bran unknowingly eats Jojen Thanks for watching, and thanks to all supporters Cameron Weiss, @Vineyarddawg, Michael Appell, and Madeline Cockrel. Thanks to your support, means many more videos, starting in the coming comment to tell me what you'd like to see