Hi everyone, Kevin here. Today, we're going Charts are a great way to visualize and variety of different chart types. You have line We're going to start with the basics of creating a and we'll also cover some tips and tricks to this out. Here I am in Excel, and if you'd like to workbook in the description of this video. On this Cookie Company cookie sales, and currently it's try to make sense of it to see what was the best it would be a lot easier to understand and also insert a chart, highlight all of the data that you the month, and cookie sales, and then highlight at the very bottom and let's exclude that, and not a good idea to include the total down at the top, let's click on the insert tab. And right Over here, we have recommended charts. we've highlighted and it recommends the maybe you already have a chart in mind and Let's see what Excel recommended by clicking on dialogue, and here we can see all the different that we selected over here. And at the very top, Over on the right-hand side, we can see an example can see that, look, January is the worst month of not consume as many calories or sugar. And for whatever reason, people seem to forget about Over on the left-hand side, we see a few other chart where it highlights the different and that could be a good way to represent this a funnel chart. Funnel chart probably doesn't work Up at the very top, we can also jump into Within All Charts, over on the left, you'll have available within Excel. And you have over 17 these chart types, you also have variations of it. clustered column. You could have a stacked column, have some 3D variations of that. So, there are On the left-hand side, you'll find that you'll a line, a pie, and a bar. Those are the these tend to be more specialized where you'll use chart up above. And here again, we see an example I hover over it, you'll see a large version that since we're trying to show changes over time, I let's click on okay. This has now inserted a line happening with this data by looking at a visual When I click on the chart, you'll notice the table being used to populate the chart over here. This that's being fed into the chart. Say for example, the year. I'll go down to the selection area and months, and when I change the selection, that also February, and March. Let's say I just want to could also click on the selection, drag it down to three months. I'll adjust this so we're looking at you generally do not want to include totals in I'll include the year total down at the bottom. it overwhelms all the other data, and it's really data. So, let's deselect that just so we have all You can also select non-contiguous periods at January through March and then also October select the first three months, and then I'll press Let's go to insert up on top, and for this, button and let's insert this right here. We months. I don't think this analysis really makes different pieces of data. I'll delete and here we have our line chart again. you may be having second thoughts and maybe you'd With the line chart selected, up on the top tabs, that, and over on the right-hand side, we have the this, that again opens up that dialogue where we Let's say actually I want to go with a column and then click on okay, and that changes the I want to show you a trick that'll help you make then let's press the delete key to remove it. Now Over on the left-hand side, highlight all of and selecting the type of chart, instead on F1. And check that out, we now have a chart By default, using that shortcut key combination want that to be a different default. Up on top, that maybe instead of a column chart, you want it up here let's say we want this to be the default. as the default chart. I'll select that, then let's line chart. Let's now delete the chart one more that you can use to very quickly create charts. and this time let's press the F11 key. And default it used a line chart because we set that worksheet, and it's not alongside the data. Maybe key that you have available to you. But I'd rather chart design tab over on the right-hand side, currently it's on a new sheet, but let's move it on. I'll select that, and then click on okay, and I want to start modifying my chart, starting with like to be a little bit more specific. Instead, To edit one of the elements on your chart, you can of the text, and I'll delete that, and in place of Now as a little trick, instead of just typing so it uses one of the cells on your worksheet. the title. I'll type in equals, and then I get Sales 2026. I'll hit enter, and that's now looking this cell value changes, let's say instead of hit enter. Over in the chart, you'll see that that cell. It's a neat little trick. Looking number refers to. Is this the revenue? Is it the clarify that by maybe including a label here or an and over on the right-hand side, we see these a plus icon. Let's click on this. This allows us on or off any one of these different categories. you can simply turn it off to see what happens. information to show, so I should probably turn alongside this vertical axis. So right here, we check this box. When I check this, this adds a I think the date's pretty clear what that is, so hover over axis titles, we get this icon. And when And here, we have a primary horizontal and primary but if you're ever unsure of what something is, what it does, or you could also hover over the here you see that this is the horizontal when I hover over the numbers, we see that that's the vertical. So over here, let's turn off the Just like we did with the title, I could highlight cookies sold. So now I have that label there. That element that shows a trend line. I'll click on the you see all those different chart elements. And line. When I hover over it, it shows me a sample that's a good addition. I'll check this box, and plus icon, I also have other options. For example, the different elements, I could hover over and I could also adjust the color, and at the Kevin our brand. I'll select this option, and that way you can also filter the data. Let's say, for It was such a bad month; I'd rather not show it on at the bottom, click on Apply. And that's now little misleading. I should probably represent the and that brings it back and turns off that filter. you'll see that we have two new tabs. If you tabs disappear, and when I click back into the called Chart Design, and the other is Format. many of the same options as what we saw with these can turn on or off the different chart elements. We also have something called Quick Layouts, and chart. Maybe one of these quick layouts has what this to very quickly format your chart. I'll your chart colors, and here, too, we could also Again, you have many ways to get to the same Format, and this allows you to make formatting and let's say I want to add a background. I could and there I could remove it. I could also change title as well. You could click on the different let's say I want to go with a slightly different here. I could change the color all using the different formatting changes to my chart, and future. I can save all of these different changes and here's the option to Save as Template. I'll name. I'll stick with the default and then click and then we'll press the F11 key. That's the and we see that it doesn't have the coloring for of that. With this chart selected, let's go up On the left-hand side, there's a folder for I just created. I can click on OK, and look at the line coloring, it adds a trend line. To manage up on top, let's click on Change Chart Type. and then in the bottom left, you have the option or rename any of your templates. Let's click on we've looked at a number of different ways that what if you want to adjust how high the vertical with the trend line? To modify any of the specific click on these numbers in the vertical axis, and that gives me additional controls. I could click things like the fill, or the way the line appears, You can also apply a shadow, a glow. You could we have some axis options. Currently, it goes December, it goes right under 80,000. I could hit Enter, and here we see it's now adjusted it. I double-click on that, and that modifies the right too, I could also adjust the fill, the line, the options. I could adjust the type of trend line. down, I could also forecast forward. So, let's in a 12, hit Enter, and now we're forecasting and to the right, exactly what we like seeing I can click on the X to close out this pane. trend line on my chart. I think it's already throughout the year. I can click on the trend line press the Delete key, and that'll remove the clicked on this plus icon, and I could remove the bit faster. The chart is now looking good, but I To move your chart around, simply click on it, and When you click on the chart, you'll notice these and then drag to adjust the size. Here I can If I press the Shift key, that'll maintain the key, and that'll lock the chart to the different bit of a cleaner look. One thing to be cautious less wide, it makes changes look more extreme. changes look less severe. So just keep in mind can very much affect the way people interpret the let's now switch into the row and column here we see four different cookie types and the Alt F1, and that'll automatically insert a chart. month. So here in July, we could see what the sugar, and fortune. But maybe instead of grouping With the chart selected, up on the top tab, we called switch row and column. Now it's not doing is it's taking the date and it's taking when we click on this, instead of organizing it or it by the cookie type. So here we see chocolate just a quick way that you could toggle back and Let's now click on the chart and then press these sales performed directly in the cell. let's highlight all of the data that we would like click on insert. And this time, instead of to this other category called sparklines. This Let's click on line. This opens up the create identified all of our data. It's in this range of place our sparklines. I'll highlight all of these a sparkline directly onto my sheet that helps time. With the sparkline selected, up on top, we you have all sorts of different ways that you can I'd like to see it as a column or a win-loss. You can also indicate whether you'd like to see different options here. You could also adjust marker colors. So again, lots of different Down at the very bottom, let's now shift into the here we have different cookies that we sold here But just looking at this table, it's hard to get type made up. So, with chocolate chip, more than think a pie chart can help us with this. Let's But this doesn't quite answer that question. So, let's click on change chart type. Over on And here I'll stick with the default and then chart. But which one is chocolate chip? Which one a tool tip that tells me that this dark blue is Up in chart design on the left-hand side, let's of these different quick layouts to see if this this first design, I think this one works well. on top of the slice. Now the color is probably format and I'll change the font color. Let's readable. So, there you could use a pie chart to each individual item makes up. Let's now shift This brings us to the last worksheet titled powerful way to create charts in Excel. pivot charts are very closely related to pivot tables, be sure to check out the video in the top to create a pivot chart, you'll want to organize column headers up at the top and then all of for instance, I have a column with cookie type types. And you'll notice that some of these has some sales in an associated month. And over To insert a pivot chart, up on top with your insert and within the charts category, you'll see This opens up the create pivot chart dialogue. but Excel has automatically identified the data. can decide where to place your pivot chart. You worksheet. I'll go with a new worksheet and then pivot chart, but you'll notice there's no chart pulling it together by dragging and dropping we have a pane titled pivot chart fields. And type, month, and sales. Each field aligns with Let's go back to the pivot chart. This is the your chart simply by dragging and dropping this a column chart showing or visualizing the total it into values. You typically place something So here I see the sum of all of the sales, and it Now let's say I want to see that by cookie type. drag that down to the categories and I'll release. updates it to show the number or the total sales maybe by month. I'll go up to this field, drag month as the legend. So here I see the type as was really easy to pull this chart together. Now I drag something into filters if let's say I want very easily do that. With this chart, I can click standard charts, up on top, I'll click into the type. So, let's go with a line chart instead. I'll line chart. So, we have all the same controls all of those also apply to pivot charts. Pivot you to generate different views just by dragging you now have the power to visualize your data and watch more videos like this one, please consider