Hello everyone Today, I'm planning to shop at the Jeju Market and have lunch there. And I'll just put on some sunscreen. I still have plenty of time before the bus, so I'll also curl my hair. It's windy outside, so I'll make sure to brush my hair thoroughly too. Jeju is known as the &quot;Island of Wind&quot; because of its frequent windy days, and today is one of those days. So, I'm wearing a warm coat. Today, I'm challenging myself to shop at the Market with just 10,000 won. I almost missed the bus because I was taking my time getting ready. I'm glad the weather is warm today. One of the unique things about Jeju Island is the fields right next to the roads. Maybe that's why it feels like a more charming island. While looking around outside, I've already arrived at the Market. There are so many delicious foods here. But today, I'm planning to have gukbap for lunch, so I'll check out the snacks later. He gave me a tangerine for free. I'll come back to buy some next time, thank you I was drawn in by the warm and cozy atmosphere. It's a shop that an old-fashioned gukbap restaurant. Is this a complimentary side dish? Is this barley tea? They even gave me a pajeon for free, and the pajeon tastes pretty good too! The Gulfweed Soup has a lot of Gulfweed and plenty of meat as well. I also took a bite of the tangy-sweet seaweed side dish. There was so much food that I couldn't finish it and had to leave some. I heard the kimchi here is really delicious, so I'll have to try buying some later. I was checking out all the market snacks I missed during lunch and trying to decide which ones to buy with 10,000 won. But the scene of puffed rice exploding was so fascinating that I found myself lining up without even realizing it! Could I get one puffed rice snack too, please? The owner gave me two extra puffed rice snacks for gift I also found a giant puffed rice machine I've been away from home a lot lately, so I'm holding off on buying any seedlings for now. I spent 5,000 won out of the remaining 7,000 won on some sundae (blood sausage). I have 2,000 won left now. There's a carrot I really need to buy, but I'm not sure if I can get it with just 2,000 won. I'll head to the vegetable section and check. I only have 2,000 won though... I asked if I could buy just 2,000 won worth, and they said they can give me two for 2,000 won! This was bought with my emergency money. I bought puffed rice, sundae, and carrots with 10,000 won. The prices have gone up, so I couldn't buy as many different things as I had hoped. Now, I'm heading to a nearby beach to see the sea after a long time. Although it's not raining, the strong wind is making the waves sway, and there are people surfing on the waves. After being out in the sea breeze for a while, , it got cold. So I stopped by a cafe near the beach. I think hot chocolate is the best choice for weather like this. I wanted to enjoy the view of the sea, so I settled into an outdoor chair. The hot chocolate is so warm that it feels like I'm in the heaven. Watching the surfers while finishing a full cup of hot chocolate. This is fried sweet potato a sweet potato snack. And these are Gujwa carrots, a specialty from Jeju. I'm planning to make carrot rapee and carrot kimbap with them! And this is soondae! It has a bit of pig's lung in it, and I'll try it later with tteokbokki. I soaked the rice cakes and glass noodles for about three hours. I'll also prepare the vegetables and the batter for frying. There's one sheet of seaweed left! I should buy more seaweed when I go grocery shopping In the meantime, I'll boil an egg as well. I was thinking what flavor to make the tteokbokki, and since I had some buldak sauce at home, I decided to make buldak tteokbokki. And one tablespoon of buldak sauce. Since the rice cakes have been soaked, they cook quickly. The tteokbokki is cooking up nicely and looks delicious! The spicy smell is making my mouth water! For the drink, grapefruit kombucha! With soondae, big big bite! Kimbap rolls are delicious when dipped in tteokbokki sauce. Chewy glass noodles I'll have some sweet potato snacks too, and since I have an important day tomorrow I'll spend about an hour on skincare tonight. This is a face mask that's good for blemishes. I'll apply a rubber mask before the essence on my skin dries. After using a rubber mask, my skin feels more hydrated, so I try to do it once or twice a week I often apply Eucerin cream before using a rubber mask, but I've already used it all up. Lastly, I apply lip balm, and that's the end of my night care routine. Today, I'm going to Gwangju in Jeollanam-do. I'm getting married next March to my longtime boyfriend, so I'm visiting a bridal shop today to try on wedding dresses! I'll probably be cooking for two more often than just for myself now, but I'll continue sharing delicious Korean food and daily life in my videos These are the gifts my boyfriend bought for my mom. I was at the Paris Baguette in the airport. I wasn't planning to eat because I didn't have much of an appetite, but my boyfriend picked something delicious. So, I ended up stealing a few bites! My mom picked us up from the airport. Since it was the day before her birthday, we went to her favorite sushi restaurant together we enjoyed trying a variety of delicious dishes Last bite! My mom had to leave early because she was busy, so we stopped by my sister's house to see my nephew for a bit. However, since my nephew started attending daycare, we all went together to pick him up. I'm not really that into the idea of dresses, so I finished choosing one in about 30 minutes It's already evening, and I'm heading back to Jeju. Even though I took a flight, a day trip still feels a bit tiring. I was so tired, so we came to have some soju and beer (so-mak) The side dishes were so delicious that I only had one glass of so-mak. I'm wrapping up this week happily with delicious food as always I'll see you in the next video!