- Today we're talking coffee creamers. I had no idea before researching and, honestly, how kind Now - they've become very, I suspect, in part, driven by TikTok and people making where I think I'm just supposed of sort of syrups and stuff and then drive engagement But it's been around for a long time. I mean, I remember in the '80s into instant coffee. That, But now, well look at it! We're gonna taste our way at the end of this an informed I kind of have an uninformed opinion and that's bad. What we'll do is break it into categories. First up we've got the kind of sweet and creamy traditional, Then we've got a good to taste our way through. A brief journey to hazelnut Then to the national cremes. I think it's creme not cream, it's written as creme I wanna say cream. Irish, Italian, those kind of things. Then some weird flavors, that sort of a thing. Ending up in, I think the The branded category, things like Rice Krispy I don't know if it's gonna taste like that but I'm kind of looking I'll taste these blind, I'll but I won't know which And at the end of which, we'll if they're all good or all bad? I don't know! We're going to find out. A quick PSA. There will be a lot of slurping and I know for some of you those As a solution we're gonna abuse YouTube's and upload an audio track for this video that just Hopefully YouTube don't take it down for whatever reason and you can enjoy that and not have to suffer through the slurps. Secondly, you might be wondering about the coffee we're gonna use today. And that's a good point. If I used delicious specialty coffee, really bad. Don't worry, we've gone We've got some Folgers for today. Not the best part of waking up but I think a suitable And if you're really into every bowl will have 150 mls of coffee and 7.5 grams of creamer added to it. That is a half portion, that I think for a half portion of Here we are, the original flavors. Which one I guess is closest (slurp) (slurp) Whoa, that's sweet. (slurp) Maybe a plant-based alternative. (slurp) You are the plant-based alternative. Let's find out what's what. The classic coffee mate. I guess this is what I kind This is what I grew up around but the powdered version, super weird. This, yeah, sweet. It was the plant-based one. (slurp) Quite thin, doesn't have the And then Splenda, did not like that one. Let's move on. So for this round we have vanillas. I'll be looking for not just that really synthetic in really cheap vanilla products. (slurp) Not a lot going on there. (slurp) Bit more sweetness, not (slurp) I don't like it. It has I could be wrong, but there's something in that that I don't really like. (slurp) These two are the weirdest makes me wonder if it's a plant-based one because those can sometimes than dairy based ones. (slurp) Okay, that is the fuller, that I would expect. I guess you win on that? Let's see what they are. Nestle Coffee Mate. of not being offensive but also not being very Did not clock that this I'll have a little taste again, (slurp) just doesn't taste of very much. I think me and Splenda just don't get on in terms of its flavors. This one was indeed a vegan one so I guess I was kind of right there. These are French Vanilla - I in the world of flavor but clearly Vanilla Bean I guess, to me. Hazelnut! Should be safe territory. Does it taste like hazelnut or not? (slurp) A little nutty. A little insipid. (slurp) Too sweet. Too sweet, too sweet! (slurp) Oh, dirty hazelnut, no. I don't like it. (slurp) No! I'm disappointed. Let's see what they are. International delight. than some of the other So a surprise. The UK one. Yeah, I just feel like the sweetness is not quite right there. I don't like Splenda, it seems. Me and Splenda, we're just not Coffee Mate! Coming in surprisingly bold. Actually kind of interesting? I'm not gonna say good. &quot;Triple churned&quot;. Your ingredients are water, and less than 2% micellar casein. What are you telling me Because you churn butter. That's fat. This is vegetable oil. Nestle! You know you've got a so I dunno how I'm Anyway, let's move on. So the national cremes, I wanna say cream, but they (slurp) It just tastes like sweet. (slurp) Sweet and kind of wrong! (slurp) You are kind of hazelnutty. You're - I guess you're the odd one out? What are these? How is this okay? You're back to the triple churned. Italian cream - creme! Whatever. (slurp) I don't understand what's happening here. Are you supposed to taste of cannoli? I don't get it. You? There's a pot of coffee and stereotypes, apparently. I'm not doing the accent, no. And then you, with your Definitely not lucky. Fair enough. (slurp) It's natural and artificial. I get the artificial. What are you supposed to taste of? I don't - I'm just mad about this whole section. If you're gonna do this to your coffee I would have more fun than this. That's all I'm saying. This is where the excitement (surp) It's just sweet. It's very boring, (slurp) Very artificial. Tremendous. (slurp) You - taste of benzaldehyde, now don't freak out It's the primary flavor and it's why almonds and It's a naturally occurring compound but it's quite easy to synthesize I think. And so that's the one I reckon. Just call it &quot;almond,&quot; cowards! It's just, it's &quot;almond&quot; - ish. No. (slurp) Weird, don't have much to say about you. (slurp) Kind of milky? (slurp) It's a bit odd and fruity, weirdly gentle. (slurp) Doesn't taste of anything. (slurp) No, I don't like you. Really, really cheap raspberry ice cream. (slurp) No, no. Stop putting mint in things. Mint chocolate chip ice cream is bad. That might be a controversial There's so many better than putting mint in it. Just mint. No, get it out of my coffee. Get it out of my ice cream. Get it out of just about everything. Except, you know I don't know what? Toothpaste? No, no, no, please no, no. I need to know what they are. The caramel. (slurp) Ehh, whatever. (slurp) Oh, no. No, no, no, no, no. Amaretto as described. Just very synthetic-tasting if I'm honest. They do disclose, I think, &quot;artificially-flavored&quot;. Tremendous. Southern butter pecan or pecan tasted nothing. (slurp) Cafe mocha (slurp) You know chocolate syrups that have no chocolate in them? They're.... bad. It tastes like that kind of chocolate with a dirtier coffee taste in Who knows? What were you? White chocolate mocha. You've got nothing to add. (slurp) A little bit sour almost. Not - not great. Caramel over here. You at least more interesting? (slurp) So subtle, so delicate! White chocolate raspberry: not subtle or delicate. Relatively hilarious (slurp) (regret) Don't know quite why I put it in my coffee but you know, you can. I'm not tasting peppermint mocha again. I don't want to. I don't like it and I don't want to. So we come to the final the round of branded flavors. Around where science realized they could but didn't stop to think if they should. I've had too much coffee and it's always about this point that I and not drink it, but it's too late now. I'm in. Let's keep going. I hope something here is ridiculous. At least, if not delicious, But I feel like I don't have high hopes. (slurp) There's a lot of something, (slurp) Very sweet. (slurp) Just nothing. (slurp) What are you, this is very confusing. I don't like you. (slurp) Could you be the rice krispies? (slurp) You could be Snickers. (slurp) You're vaguely nutty. Are you hazelnut? (sighs) These looked so ridiculous. I'm so mad. (slurp) Hello (laughs) What are you? Oh, you are into cinnamon now, right? Ooh! That's good - That's good fake cinnamon! Finally! Something shows up to the party! (slurp) (total disdain) You are the hazelnut. You are the hazelnut and I don't like you. So here's the thing, you might Add more creamer&quot; and that But it's plenty sweet right now. I don't need any more I just want more flavor. If I'm gonna dose something make it taste like a Snickers! Where is it? (slurp) It is cinnamon. Hah! It's a weak cinnamon, Cinnabon. I don't think you should I don't think - I don't think you've let them (slurp) (considering...) Neh. (slurp) (configuring) That does not taste like a Twix! I understand now why Pop tarts. (slurp) I feel none of the delight they eat a popped tart Almond joy: chocolate, coconut and almond. (slurp) Kind of sour almost. Yeah, there's a sort of like artificial, offensive coconut present in this, but none of the joy and none of the almonds. Just cheap coconut and slight sourness. Rice Krispy treats!! [thud] up next. Let's have a go at you again. (slurp) It's time to go straight. I know that the packaged rice like homemade ones, even slightly - they have a real synthetic vibe. I'm hoping for that. Times 10. (Tastes a mouthful) (laughing) (whispers) So sweet! (more laughing) So bad. (more and more laughter) Oh no, that's not good for you. (chuckles) Ohh. Mmh. Do you know? It's not good. It's very sweet. Unsurprisingly. Interesting how it made... I don't know what that taste is! It's not Rice Krispies. It's the kind of marshmallowy oddness. That was quite fun. Okay, Snickers. (slurp) I'm gonna have a little (spoon taste) Ha ha ha ha ha! Oh god, that's so sweet. Okay, disappointing. Sweet, a little tang. Oddly a little acidity in there. Lacking the true joy of the Hershey's. (small slurp) Yeah. Nothing is good. Nothing is good here. I'm not gonna taste this. Oh! This was the cinnamon vanilla creme! Now we put cinnamon in here because there was already and we thought we'd add If you are into cinnamon, (slurp) It's properly like big red cinnamon, like the very kind of floral cinnamon, the top end cassia bark style cinnamon. I don't hate it. At least it's got some character to it. Friends Manhattan, hazelnut mocha. They clearly couldn't of anyone from Friends. I think that's hilarious, just the brand 'Friends'. That's very funny to me. Does it taste good? (slurp) Oh no, no, no. It's the bad hazelnut back again. It's no better than any Pretty disappointing. I had high hopes. You know, I enjoy a Snickers. I like a Twix, who doesn't like a Twix. I did not like them as a coffee creamer. I did not have a good time. And that feels disappointing. I guess it's time for a big wrap up and to try and pick my single favorite from the whole day if Now I'm conscious that lots of people like creamers and I've just about just about everything I've tried in what were like 30, 35 That's a lot of different things. I think the thing that surprises of intensity of flavors The more kind of dairy ish ones, I get it. If you want some sort of 'cause you use 15 mls once or something like that, you're Sure, I guess I get it? I don't know. The very sweet ones, I just had higher hopes. I thought they would turn up with a bit more presence And certainly for my palette, which is an important distinction, I don't wanna add so much because it would just be too I mean, these things are So I'm not trying to add much, you know before it's just overwhelming. If I had to pick two it would be the Rice Krispy treats for being identifiably Rice ridiculous. I'm not sure really I should include them because I don't think I feel But it was very funny. And then this one, the at least it turned up. At least it said &quot;cinnamon!&quot; and tasted identifiably in a not pleasant way, And I suppose if you really It does make me feel like could you make your own Do you know what I mean? Like homemade syrups taste I don't how you'd make homemade creamer. If you want me to find out let me know in the comments down below. Like, should I investigate stable delicious coffee creamer at home? Or is that just an absurd Did I miss one out? Like we worked really of these as we could to have but is there an amazing one Is this just a weird thing for I don't know. I'd love to hear your thoughts But for now I wanna say thank I hope you have a great day.