INTERVIEWER: Marvin Minsky, artificial intelligence present young person growing up? MINSKY: I think the first time was when I was an undergraduate was looking through Widener thick book called 'Mathematical And now we're talking the late words around. I opened it and it was full of by a prodigious guy, Nicolas of Illinois, I think, And it had chapters about divide and how populations And maybe 40 or 50 And one of the chapters was networks by McCulloch And I had been curious about long story, but I was trying to thing that seemed interesting But there were other people who very good, and in mathematics second best because it's And I was interested in biology people pretty good at that. And chemistry, I had a it looked like that And then there was psychology there wasn't anyone good at Freud 50 years before. But what to do about it because have any theories of how And here was this strange paper were completely new about finite things like that. And I got very excited. INTERVIEWER: Is it fair to say glimpsed an enormous field that and become an almost uncountable disciplines. MINSKY: I don't think I saw I had been reading psychology a theory, for example, about They had philosophical theories: and somehow they get connected make a new idea and you put it later you fish it out. And no one had any good theory-- didn't seem to be any theories represented or retrieved or how together and get a third one. And I could see in were just little switches there was a way that perhaps be represented. And the paper was And I couldn't understand And after a long time I decided it must be wrong. And that's very important something to do. And I worked on various ways It finally got fixed much mathematician named Stephen and said this doesn't seem right to do about it. And incidentally, his theory state machines in switches and as another theory that I'm trying to remember their calculating the impedance of a complicated electrical circuit. And I don't know if anyone had theories-- one is called Regular Kleene and his theory was so used in all search engines today that he invented. And the Mason and Zimmerman-- I think were the professors-- used everywhere for calculating circuits would work. But those are 10 years apart Interesting to see two theories different fields that are INTERVIEWER: In your childhood back for a bit-- what encouraged you were capable solving insights into existing problems What kinds of experiences MINSKY: I think when I was feeling that I could solve could solve. On the contrary, I found things And when I tried to read hour a page and I'd get some of And usually it would be six would click. And so I think I thought of On the other hand, I thought as incredibly slow. But I didn't think of myself And it's just-- but I never And as far as I can tell, I've slowly and steadily. It was only when I was older people work on something, they then they get stuck. And I started to make theories how to avoid it. And the best thing is if you've should be ashamed of it instead And I notice a lot of people that a long time ago and that trying to get recognition INTERVIEWER: You went to Bronx you went to Harvard? MINSKY: Right INTERVIEWER: Which of those liberating in terms of your about subjects as opposed was given to you? MINSKY: I think I was incredibly because when I went had interesting teachers. And there was a school for then opened up called And it had lots of And then we-- and so I in that who were more or less my own And I've had the good fortune by one accident or clever planning or something. And then I went to Fieldston Ethical Culture School, which with extraordinary teachers. In fourth grade I had somebody chemistry book and he gave me allowed to synthesize And I had some friends there who because they were Then their High School of because most of the high school teachers were PhD refugees. Because we're talking about the smart people in the world who America, as far as In fact, when I got to Harvard kids are not nearly as smart as of Science. And they're finding these like a step back. Andover, I was there just for teacher who was also the pretty good. But most of the year was english teacher, Dudley Fitts, Greek and back-- but the jocks of various sorts. But then Harvard again was a I met a great mathematician named Andrew Gleason. And I didn't know it at the either, but he was one mathematicians in the world. And the math department had 10 created some field I met a great psychologist, named George Miller, who is now pioneers of cognitive And when I met him, he knew I paper and he said he couldn't And I said, well don't looks like it's wrong. And we became great friends and in fact, when I did invent Miller-- first he gave me a department when I was And then he got money from the actually build this So when I was an undergraduate laboratories. Another professor, Welsh, John interested in neurons, he gave Harvard had just built this with hundreds of rooms. And it had been designed with more than twice as large And I happened to go there and experiments. Somebody said, well here's Which included a black you could go in and experience And all sorts of equipment. And so I got to-- I was interested in the crayfish claw. It turns out this is Welsh recommended it because the so big that you can see them. And if you have a magnifying can really see them. And you can move them around them to your alligator clamp. And here you're doing screwdriver. And the crayfish doesn't seem to off because it snaps off. It has a detachable joint. And it sits in its tank for the another one. So I didn't feel any ethical this wonderful animal. INTERVIEWER: Did some of that motivate your development MINSKY: Well maybe the most meeting Warren McCulloch. And Warren McCulloch was a and great poet. I think maybe a hundred years one of the great philosophers Right now, he was sort of well cybernetics, Norbert But he's been forgotten. And he would look at a problem do something with it. And one thing he was I believe circuits that would work if you How do you make a reliable enough that it will correct And he wasn't good at out all the possible simple which was self-repairing. Did many things like that. And I followed him around for the reason I developed so well listen so much to what Andrew how to prove some theorem or particular theory but I was think of that? And sometimes I'd ask him and because nobody knows how But the idea that what students their teachers is how subject they're teaching. And I think it was just a encountered this Warren that as much as-- he was think and tried to explain it. And even today, which is 40 I'm stuck writing something, could hear his voice. He's saying, oh that's too pretentious enough. I think I've accumulated a There are four or five people years and whenever I'm stuck, I Dick Feynman or Andy Gleason time, why didn't you look It's almost as though I'd made INTERVIEWER: So there's a MINSKY: There's a little Richard Theodore Sturgeon, the science around with. Because his science wasn't very about it were good, and he could things and create And I just wanted to know Never got very good at it but would Richard Sturgeon say or I have about ten of these INTERVIEWER: What did you want MINSKY: How he got such good made theories. INTERVIEWER: What period MINSKY: I think I had met him It was interesting. I was traveling around Los Edward Fredkin, who was a Ed has discovered all sorts of He started the first company word processing and that And he was one of three or four we're never afraid Normally when you say let's do say, well that would be very But there are three or four John Mccarthy, Oliver Selfridge, think of doing something And then we'll do it the And usually get anything done-- you have to convince a lot a plan and so forth. But I've worked with a few of that's a good idea maybe, instead of next year. So until the 1980's, I never I just was always in the be somebody like Jerry John Mccarthy and I had started intelligence in about 1958, or And we had a couple of students And Jerry Wiesner came by once And we said, we're doing fine, could support three or four And he said, well go over and think it Zimmerman-- and should give you a lab. And two days later we had three or four rooms. And a large pile of money which the advancement of computer to do with it. So they gave it to us. And-- INTERVIEWER: Not a bad move. MINSKY: Right. And for many years that We'd think of something I had a great teacher in Licklider and Miller were was an undergraduate. And we did a lot of little And then about 1962, I think, to start a new advanced research called ARPA. Just started up. And he said to them, well there have all sorts of nice ideas. One of our students have built built a machine that showed vision research, And then Larry Roberts also had There were a few-- I mean that I idea came But Licklider got them him and Washington to help run So now I was in this situation budget to MIT to do Which had been invented by John and a few other people. Also it'd been invented in INTERVIEWER: Time sharing than batch processing? MINSKY: Yes, using a computer In fact, we went to visit IBM Bell Labs also to suggest that And the research director a really bad idea. We explained the idea, which presses a key on a terminal it that the computer was running to the program that was this particular person. And if you had 10 people typing five or 10 characters a second computer was being interrupted second to switch programs. And this research director said, to do that? We would say, well it take six because you run a batch and And you get the results back instruction 94. And you figure out why. And then you punch a new deck of next day you try again. Whereas with time sharing you change this instruction right And so in one day you instead of 100 days. And he said, well Why don't people just think more program so they're And so IBM didn't get into time successfully made And years later I had a sudden bothering this research I think he said, well if times per second, I would But-- INTERVIEWER: Identifying an humans and computers that IBM MINSKY: Right. And making computers easier to business interest anyway. Making them solve problems I'm sure making them But that came from-- none of the very much for computers. It was all hackers here and gradually filtered up. INTERVIEWER: Two questions. You described that your calculus was also wrestling coach? MINSKY: Yes. INTERVIEWER: Did you try out MINSKY: I was in wrestling class interesting. But one day-- in fact I got to good-- but I was in the class weight up to 137. And then one day they weighed us 138 so now you have to be in which is from 138 to And then I was the worst one. And I decided there was And generally I developed an is that there's absolutely The people who are good at it reflexes and they're a lot about whether they're And there's just no point. And when I see 20,000 in a first thought or last thought very good critic What's all-- it's a waste of having mediocre thoughts Why don't they just hire someone And basketball is the best statistically significant. If you see a score like 103 to and one shouldn't regard that So it's very unscientific. INTERVIEWER: Right. And I think it's safe to say unlikely to catch on MINSKY: Well eventually they'll be a couple of hundred the culture has adapted. INTERVIEWER: Describe What motivated you or what place a home for you? MINSKY: Oh. Well when-- as I said, I undergraduate. And it was wonderful. And I had a neurology lab and that was great. Most students never got that. I happened to be at the right And I was majoring in physics weren't particularly good. So I thought I should writing a good thesis. And it turned out you couldn't They just didn't have So Gleason said-- my why don't you just switch You can write a thesis there. So I wrote a nice these about It was pretty exotic. I sort of-- there was an half of it. Got some really striking INTERVIEWER: What MINSKY: The problem was: it three points on a sphere-- It's like the earth, It turns out that if you take equator, equally spaced, there's them where the altitude of all In other words, if Well, that's the theorem. It was proved by a Professor But it was only true for three And it seemed to me this ought That is, you ought to be able to it so that-- like a three-legged would stand straight up. I couldn't quite prove that, but for several different And then I got stuck and a strange person I never heard of the thing in general. And he sent me this paper and I possibly be that smart. Because it was just But anyway, Gleason said I mathematics. And I could write a And then I said, this is-- and well I'd like to stay here. And Gleason said, no. You should not stay here. You've been here four years and what we have to teach you must go to Princeton. So I felt very rejected. It turns out Princeton was the half of the great-- well, they Princeton had another mathematicians who had-- Sure. Von Neumann. Von Neumann who became Not quite my thesis adviser. But anyway, I felt rejected And I went to Princeton. INTERVIEWER: Godel. MINSKY: There was Princeton I had lunch with Godel once. He was wearing gloves because Einstein, who I couldn't used to German accents. Anyway, that was And then I met Oliver Selfridge pioneering researcher who had In fact, he had been Walter And he was at Lincoln Lab and research group there who were and then I got a message from inviting me to come and So all this happened. I was just being I never actually made or applied for anything. INTERVIEWER: I suspect that when the significance of your work, they would use to describe places you've gone and the though you sort of naughtily MINSKY: Well I was always trying way to solve a problem. And I think that could lead what the simplest solution is. INTERVIEWER: What was the arrived in the math What did you see needed there rooms and labs? You described what Wiesner got but what sort of things were MINSKY: Well, of course When I arrived at MIT, McCarthy there for a year. And he already had laid the students and potentially good them into being computer Computer science was just talking about 1960 weren't And today I'd say that computer new area science that was never by a few pioneers like Godel A handful of people had had something like mathematics for Mathematics itself is for very simple things. Because if you have 10 or 20 there's nothing you can do. What you can do is take one or very thoroughly and build great those things. But if there are ten different is helpless. Computers are helpless at sense you can-- they let you could never do by hand And so then you could discover things down to see, well phenomenon come from? And what part of the And progress comes from taking behavior you can't understand Of course some things no one's understand them. INTERVIEWER: Is it fair to say artificial intelligence lab got road of mathematics was algebra abstract complex mathematics And that computer science was science, more of an engineering MINSKY: Yes. Applied mathematics was not many great ideas as pure simple sets of axioms and build huge towers. In fact when I was in graduate in the world was this-- to me-- algebraic topology. Topology which is the principals you don't actually care about the properties of the shapes. Like are all the parts connected are there holes in it or is it And strangely, the hardest year old problem practically-- plain two dimensional surface never crosses itself So in topology that's considered you just care about how it's about it's shape. Well everybody knows that if exactly one inside and one into these two sets of things ever proved that. The first proof was So this was called the I'm not sure whether Jordan had the first one to state And it's sort of obvious And the reason why it's hard isn't really smooth but If it wiggles an infinite number here, maybe there could be some that you sort of almost That's a very strange-- there there is a strange phenomenon Antoine sets. There was a mathematician named this very simple example. Imagine a regular chain-- Yeah. Anyway, you have a So here's two links. So now let's have another link called a change. Now close it by putting a last ring of links. Now if you put a string through you can't get it out. There's nothing stopping it. But you bump into this chain and it through but that And so here's an Antoine set. Each of these links does not But it does have the property through it, you can't Because it hits the walls. Now here's this chain where none of them are touching So that shouldn't make much they're not touching And yet, if you put a string here and a string you could With this Antoine chain, a you have a string you still But it's not being stop by I mean, it hits this link So what's that? Somehow this said in three up in some queer way. And there's nothing like Two dimensions if you have a-- circles room because you In three dimensions you can. In four dimensions it's much knows what happens really. So I got fascinated with that. And this is a long story but understood a proof by C-e-c-h-- of the Jordan And of all the experiences I can my feeling of accomplishment was Cech's proof than anything It is a strange thing, but it a sort of infinite space of And step by step he shows And so here's a case-- it's Shakespeare play when you can't still might say, oh I understood this play that nobody else did It's not that I created it. So that's always bothered me and other people admire it, I have done it unless So that's another way If you have a theory and it Now is a chance to do And you run into people who being proved wrong. INTERVIEWER: Not a MINSKY: Well, no, because another problem to solve. Can I make a theory that exceptions to it and so forth. INTERVIEWER: How did-- you sort of impetuous behind the formation of your lab McCarthy. What happened in the beginning mission to really specify in the human brain? MINSKY: Well when I built this really started before-- this connections between things. If you would give it a little was something like a little rat, and if it managed to make the then you reward the machine. And it changed the probability would increase the probability the same paths again. And so it did in fact learn to But after awhile, I could see understand how it solved them. So it couldn't-- what was conditioned reflexes all right, I've learned a lot about this and what's the reason? And I might have gotten stuck time except another friend of found a different theory of how and make good generalizations Because you can think of any you've had a lot of experiences higher level, simple thing that And Ray Solomonoff invented generalizations. And I instantly said this is the psychologists have done forth in 1900. And so suddenly seeing this new which also occurred to a Russian the same time and later Gregory Chaitin in I think he first saw this new idea by Ray everything in psychology was handle the right kinds Ray Solomonoff's theory said if make a lot of descriptions of is shortest because it must abstractions in it. Like if you could have a short same results as a long one it And over the last 40 years discovery was around 1957-- INTERVIEWER: So from the artificial intelligence was processes that were MINSKY: Yes, right. Why do descriptions work? And how do you make And if something happens, in the somehow make some very crude record of exactly what happened another one. And that might work to explain mammals think, but it doesn't about what you've recently And the-- so although I was very to improve reinforcement theory statistical theories of I saw Solomonoff's idea realized never get anywhere. And that was the reason why my transfer what it had learned that was similar and so forth. INTERVIEWER: What kind of those early days to do your your results? MINSKY: Well in the early relays and vacuum tubes. And you could build almost although it was slow. Because Claude Shannon had I think 1947 giving-- Shannon's was a remarkable He made two major discoveries, new field and solved almost So in 1947 I think it was, he about switching circuits. And nothing much has happened That was the whole thing. And then 1950 he published this number of symbols it takes to And for about 10 years people theories and found better Shannon's 1950. But essentially he had solved INTERVIEWER: So vacuum MINSKY: Right. And the SNARC machine-- this machine-- it had about 400 couple of hundred relays So that when something happened increase a probability, a little a bicycle train would turn It was all electromechanical. You could now write a with a hundred computer make it run a billion INTERVIEWER: What was the breakthrough in those early deeper access to the kinds of limited in exploring with MINSKY: I think a very simple the language Lisp-- L-i-s-p-- by John McCarthy. Lisp is a language-- computer only about eight or nine But these instructions are called a List. And most of the instructions are So in this language, you can And then you can write another edit and modify the first one. Now we have languages-- languages today are still--- Lisp is 1960 I would say. The great languages today large extent pre-1960. Because they can't understand to write a program in C that can say, oh if this happens I should do this or that. Now you can in fact do that. And people become so expert at Lisp-like programs in C or Java But it's hard. And I shouldn't knock them learn to be good, to write But the big change was going a sequence of commands to structure sitting in the can manipulate. So this made it possible in that could even think Now no one actually And that's what I'm still trying which has programs that mostly about why those programs to do something else and have about how can I change myself And this is just not catching trouble convincing other people to go in that direction. INTERVIEWER: Yeah. You're stuck for the moment. MINSKY: Right. But I think I'll write a book they get ready for it. INTERVIEWER: Your book, 'Society matter for the operation fundamentally different from What is that? MINKSY: Well most of traditional to imitate physics wonderful modus operandi. You see a phenomenon, And one thing you could do is that would predict that. And for example Ptolemy the behavior of planets. And he said, well they were seems but they're not So what could we do? We could-- maybe we could turning faster with And so if the planet looks like going a little too far here and circle which is added to goes happens fast. So then it'll bulge out here. So that was called epicycles. And the ancients use that too-- everything's made of circles but at different speeds and And it takes quite a few description of a planet, And Kepler discovered that you just one ellipse. Ellipse is slightly more because it's like it has two So it's little worse. And that made a tremendous explained the behavior of Eventually you discovered that bit affected by the orbit of ellipse, and Newton discovered which was even simpler. Which is that planets attract one over the squares the And Newton discovered three everything for mechanics. It wasn't-- it explained And Maxwell added a couple more so now we had seven laws. And Einstein discovered that to much less. And so physics ends up with about five laws. And then things got worse just being discovered-- partly INTERVIEWER: Psychology was MINSKY: Psychology was-- I called it physics envy Psychology said, well we've simple laws that explain And if you look at old has a little set of laws. Like the most obvious phenomena observed is if you ask a person ten items, you say I went to soda and cabbage and wings and so forth. If you say 10 of those and The other person will say, well cabbage and a soda and chicken the ones in between. So people made up a law of remember the most recent And then they made up a law of the first thing most. And maybe there's another law loudest thing most. And for many years psychologists Newton to get a small handful of works or perception works There was one honest did the same thing, only INTERVIEWER: How do you intelligence slash psychology physics envy? MINSKY: Oh well, yes, the last this Occam's razor or finding tremendously well in physics and some other sciences. But in psychology it does And a simple reason is that we has 300 or 400 different And they're each somewhat We know how three or four of about the visual system But we don't know how any of work in the frontal lobe and language areas and so forth. But one thing we can be sure of 400 different kinds of machines specialized and behave in different things. So 'The Society of Mind' starts opposite way and says, let's of the things that people do explanations for how each And then let's not try to find a of those but let's try to find these different things could be thing would work. And in fact the book didn't Society of Mind'-- didn't come So it's basically what we call a a lot of things and different different ways. INTERVIEWER: You know it was a figure out how these work? MINSKY: Right. So 'The Society of Mind' had these would be organized. But most of the book is-- it ideas about how different it doesn't have a picture of And the new book, which took And it says that, let's start by a lot of different things it can full of different computers-- should you use and when? And the answer is that-- or that you have to have So there's a chapter on what And that chapter comes from 1960's by my colleagues Alan In fact, if I can interrupt were just two major centers intelligence. One was the group with McCarthy Papert at MIT. And the other was Simon and And they also had a crowd of little theories. And their students went other Anyway, one thing that Newell theory of how would a And their answer was-- it's feedback things that Norbert cybernetics, but In order for a machine to have kind of picture or of a future situation. Now you'd say informally to have that situation. But like is no good, because you're trying to explain. However, what it could have is description of what you have now of what you would &quot;want&quot;. And it find differences and eliminates them. So having an active goal is to situation and the present And then a process which does by changing the present Now another thing you might do future one and that's if you're and that you want something could always just change, edit something less. But that's another story. So the new book is a little bit idea of Newell and Simon which And it says, in order to has to be full of difference In other words, there's just reacting to things. You have to react to things in that you don't. Like if you're hungry you have absence of food. So you could always express Okay. So, that's a simple picture It has a set of goals, difference reducing machines. And has to have some machinery So whatever those are, let's not they would have-- whatever they the creatures who didn't Animals that lost the urge to else they think, they'll So what's the next step? Well the next step is what if mechanism which says, well I've for a long time and So I call that a critic. The critic says, there's has gone wrong with The best example is, I kept achieve a goal. So what should I do? I should change my strategy. Of course I could change And sometimes we do that. But the main idea is to think of as a bunch of critics which are and looking for failure. If it's a success it's Then you do something at low more likely to happen. That's trivial. Obviously you want to learn what not profound. However, if it fails, you have Namely do something new instead learning is how to do That's why I discarded it in the suggested another way. So the top level of the new Machine' is that the important look for are these things called when some effort to achieve And what should you do? Well you should think You might change some of the and then you have the chance So that's the other idea. And that becomes a very rich ask, what kind of goals And there's two answers One is that evolution provides don't have-- if you don't you'll die and so forth. INTERVIEWER: And also ideas manifestations of these very and reaching some sort MINSKY: Right because critics don't work either. Then you want to hire one which the critics I've been using. And that's means you have to recent thoughts. You stop thinking about what how you were thinking. And to me the word consciousness for-- there is no such thing as dozens of processes that involve you've been recently doing and and describing things in and so forth. And in fact the existence of the main reason why psychology-- you writing, and William James popular writing today If you read William James you guy who's telling you If you look at Aristotle, you'll ethics is just as good is adviser and so forth. It's because they got stuck consciousness and ethics are complicated structures that explanation. So anyway, we have five or And the higher level is one whole self but they're And you say, what would happen actually doing it. Stuff like that. Those are the things we call there's about 50 of them. INTERVIEWER: Let's talk a little time that you were at- It spans the late 1950's Think for a moment about changed in that time. But before you answer, tell beginnings of the Media Lab MINSKY: That's in the INTERVIEWER: Right. MINSKY: Well when I came to MIT, it's hard for people today to in a golden age. World War II was over. If you were a kid who wanted you could go to something called I did excessively-- and you would have cost half a million gears and take it apart There are no surplus If there were, they would have things that you can't understand And you'd have parts with A computer processor is So first of all we had Also, we had companies like small price would sell you the So tens of thousands of young laboratories. What else about the Well, there were these great Europe and in fact filled Okay, when I got to MIT the wars was about to start, I suppose, the universities MIT was growing. It never-- it decided MIT has 4,000 undergraduates to stay that way. And Caltech has 1,000. Boston University has 50,000. So some universities grew. But what happened at MIT was So there were more graduate And there are more laboratories then you can imagine. So every student at MIT, if laboratory. It's heaven. If you want to do something, And now, as an assistant And I have the smartest people could tell-- I got some names. Ray Kurzweil wrote me from high of the great adventures Gerry Sussman I knew, Danny These were kids who wrote and making thinking machines. So I didn't do anything. I was just there in And the world was beginning to and so forth. And the right people And as I said before, Jerry Larry Roberts and Every time we needed something somebody would hand it over. This stopped around 1980 by a Senator mansfield who was a defense department might be a Congress to pass some rule that you can't do basic research. It should only support research application. It's a great example of whatever INTERVIEWER: Unintended MINSKY: Of shooting yourself And, but anyway-- INTERVIEWER: But right after MINSKY: Okay. Then now there was a thing-- this very building where had some training as an computers were going to was going to change. And by the year 2000 there And all sorts of ideas that people didn't do the And so he had started And in fact, some of the most had happened-- not in the place in the civil engineering where developed graphics so that buildings and move And Negroponte's, it was Machine Laboratory. And that was doing similar improve communication. He invented something called call, television by phone? There's a name. Anyway-- INTERVIEWER: Telemetry? Zero bandwith? No. MINSKY: Well this is a joke. For a long time Bell Labs and to make television available see who you were talking to. And they failed. The technology wasn't ready. It was too expensive. In fact, I had a video But no one else had one Bell Labs gave us. INTERVIEWER: So you used MINSKY: Yes. Anyway, zero bandwith television made by some students in which was very clever. It was a complicated sounding sometimes could guess what of your voice. It was better than chance. It could tell when you were when you were smiling. And if your voice lowered and that you had a less So they managed to get a few You're talking to someone and camera looking at the other a cartoon face. And it was uncanny because it it looked like you were person who was talking. It disappeared. They never even published it. And I just noticed last week said, oh we're going to make voice and shows the expression A little 30 year-- INTERVIEWER: Hiatus. MINSKY: But it's the old timers' publishing it. It was just such fun and they INTERVIEWER: And was that Media Lab in the beginning? Fun, exciting, new ideas, MINSKY: It was exactly. Nicholas had the idea that laboratory because there was couldn't do in the architecture And he got a wonderful idea, how of research which nobody And he went to companies what research was. And they all piled in. They said, oh we're worried. Various newspaper chains for there wouldn't be any paper would have things like iPhones Well that didn't happen for 30 expected but who cares. They were scared so they started Lab money to say what's-- company-- they began to realize work from home, maybe people wouldn't need office furniture. What will happen to them when So some visionary people at gave us a lot of office All the chairs-- not this one-- the Media Lab were Steelcase modern things. But anyway, the nice thing Nicholas's inspiration to see you explain to people And for almost 20 years it was I got into when the The Media Lab again started. Enough money poured in that we It had enough sponsors that sponsors would be pleased. And Nicholas invented a kind rights and so forth that there I think it started in 1984 INTERVIEWER: So during MINSKY: And for 20 years. Now it's getting harder to have spread and the Media Lab is what's the next revolution? Can the new director I certainly hope he can been a historic moment. Nicholas has said that he could lab 10 years later because they the other departments INTERVIEWER: So it sounds like your period at MIT you scored A big one and a little one. Not bad. MINSKY: And the second golden started to work with And I'd never been interested in engineering. So we worked together And then when Nicholas started great engineers and great And he also invited And we started to move So my artificial intelligence education started to develop And again, it was a golden age idea there would be someone Today things are different. The United States has very few The government is broke. If you look at the National now in the situation where they of 100 proposals. Now suppose some scientist going to take two years. That's fine if he gets it. Suppose 200 scientists do that They have spent probably 100 writing these applications. And so now we might be better facility completely. And the United States is headed destructive track. INTERVIEWER: What kind of late '50s and contrast that students you see today? And how broadly have the students at MIT changed in the MINSKY: I don't think I could recording your question? INTERVIEWER: Yeah. MINSKY: I don't think I have a I have a qualitative sense wonderfully-- we're still possible students. But we have a lot of machinery rapidly because they take take course-- a lot into management science. As you know, when a science in it, it isn't. But it tries. And also if a student gets a spite of the great internet whenever it was, they can get What this means is that the exciting research as an graduate student not to become a professor. In the golden age, as I graduate students became Virtually everyone. Somewhere or other, usually Now very few students become jobs in start-ups or in the laboratories like Google and places like that-- even thousands of people who most cases. It disappears. They just-- sometimes they're go somewhere else. I don't know. But the future is fairly bleak can't look forward to a It's just closed. Some are going to China. China is starting research closing them. INTERVIEWER: You invented Why? MINSKY: That was Well, one of the reasons that neurological community was to how neurons worked and about It turns out that there is, to neuroscience. Because we know a great deal work and how they connect to complicated little things And when one neuron gets chemicals over to the next one activities. And a lot is known about how under which these synapses conductors or more quick Then we know a little bit about relation between two cells. And almost nothing about when there's 100 cells. And most of the brain of the brains in general-- most of the not really made of cells so These columns were discovered And most of the brain-- there's 1000 cells which acts as And we're just beginning to In the case of vision, what the columns do. In the case of the cerebellum little bit. And in the case of the front thinking goes on, we don't And-- well what was INTERVIEWER: You wanted MINSKY: Yes and one reason-- could try to guess what these find a wiring diagram of one. So I started to think about-- sections with the people knives or broken glass. INTERVIEWER: Microscope MINSKY: Microscope slides. INTERVIEWER: Two dimensional MINSKY: Now the interesting if you-- of course it's pretty pigment in the brain cells to stain them. And there's no empty space. That tissue is full of cells. Many of them are nerve cells and connective tissue cells And the connective tissue cells much like what you'd think Each of them have thousands coming out and so forth. Well, if you stained all the thing is black. There's a wonderful stain things-- rare metal-- and when the whole thing. And a neuron may be a whole And some of its wires go And if you stain them all then more than a thousandth of be completely black. So nobody had three dimensional pictures of what happens. Because even a thin microscope light-- very little light-- INTERVIEWER: So you were looking MINSKY: Yes. So the question is, if you can't then what can you do? And I thought of-- and one of you can get light through if light through. But then this light that comes because it's bounced It's called scattering way and this way. Finally it comes out this where it came from. And I figured out a very simple microscopes back to back, that this microscope-- if light reached the point you're looking into this, then that would be and it would be no good. But if you put a pinhole at each went the wrong way would just get rejected. So now I could use an extremely just collect the rays that many there were. So now almost every laboratory Unfortunately it took more first one I built and the second so that the patent But I get lots of letters and thanks for making this gadget. Funny part is that by the time exactly the time when I had read and decided it wouldn't help to is wired until you have high So although I-- after building and blood cells and I never actually used it INTERVIEWER: It's possible that smile so broadly if they expiring before they could MINSKY: Well, it's too bad. I could have used-- if I had a project now. INTERVIEWER: There you go. I could do my project too. Last question: a theme of your describe your success, it seems the right place at That you entered into And that-- MINSKY: One other thing is if then you, don't waste Never compete. INTERVIEWER: Right. MINSKY: Always go away and do does better. So I kept moving around. INTERVIEWER: If you'll indulge With the sentimental possibility something about Marvin Minksy many students that have would it be that you imparted to be at the right place? MINSKY: That's not a I think the useful one is if hard to fix it but Because if you get stuck it's good enough at that. And you probably So find someone else But if you've got stuck it's really good problem. So find another really INTERVIEWER: Is MIT a great you get stuck? MINSKY: It certainly was. You know that the nature of legal structure. When I was a-- I came as an assistant professor because William Martin, who mathematics department, thought, this good guy at Lincoln and like that have a future. I never actually And a couple of things One thing happened is that I was things were in those days. And I said I could teach-- I was teaching two courses But still if you're teaching I found this hard. Because after I'd give a lecture to figure out what I And I also needed a day to say, about tomorrow? And so I couldn't get So one day I was walking down mathematician scientist Peter EE department. He said, how's it going? I said, well I wish I could one term and do research And he said, well why don't department and we'll Oh he said, well what happened And the math department everyone did this? And I thought, well why not? But they thought it was bad. And then when I got there it had so much money that two courses. But anyway one day, Peter came you should get tenure. And I never thought First of all, I'd never staying at MIT forever. In fact, I went to schools and hung around. And after awhile I didn't like practically every student And that's just wonderful. Other schools, you'd have to beside the point. What's the difference is that somebody becomes an assistant to make a reputation and get all the time. And they arrange their career instead of several. They don't waste their time. They publish a lot of papers. A candidate for tenure here which are all almost the same. It's a scandal. They write slightly They somehow get them And they count them. What happens is these people because they're so desperate I don't know how to conclude So the situation is very because of well-meaning civil process has to be very open and their favorite friends and you the same institution or it will all sorts of rules. So they made this It's very rigid and turns and it's really five. Because there's also another somebody you have to pay their This has nothing to So really you have to make the firm when they're in So the pressure is enormous. And I-- INTERVIEWER: So it's harder MINSKY: You're almost And finally the chance of because they're not making And you know there's another the longevity-- you're not of age in the United In England, professors But the age of the-- life three months per year for So people are living 12 when I started college. So the number of vacancies for eaten away by mere longevity And so the pressure -- INTERVIEWER: And it begs be being at the right place MINSKY: Well I'm also not-- I'm lucky not to have gotten But that's just luck too. INTERVIEWER: Well, thank