This video introduces functions and their between input numbers, usually the x values that sends each input number to exactly one of as a rule or machine, in which you can as output. So, non mathematical example of function, which takes as input and a person, This function satisfies the condition that get sent to exactly one output person. Because biological mother. So that rule does give and just use the the mother function, which no longer gonna be a function, because there right, they could have a biological mother or any number of situations. So since there's, put it as input, and then you'd get like more this rule of functions, that would not be with functions that are described with equations, can have the function y equals x squared plus x squared plus one. Here, f of x is function of y. Notice that this notation is not representing x, instead, we're going to be putting in a of f of x or y. For example, if we want to input for x either in this equation, or in plus one, f of two is going to equal five. for x. So that's going to be five squared evaluate a function on a more complicated case, remember, the functions value on any when you plug in that whole expression for quantity a plus three squared plus one, we plus nine plus one, or a squared plus six complex expression, it's important to keep way, you evaluate the function on the whole to write f of a plus three equals a plus three because that would imply we were just squaring plus three. Sometimes the function is described example, this graph is supposed to represent represent functions. For example, the graph That's because the graph of a circle violates line, and I'll intersect the graph in more the vertical line test, any vertical line that means is a function because every x value to it. Let's evaluate gf two, note that two find the corresponding y value. So I look the graph. If that has that x value, that's of that point looks like three, and therefore the same thing to evaluate g of five, I run it on the x axis. But there's no point on g of five is undefined, or we can say it does y values make sense for a function leads us of a function is all possible x values that the y values that makes sense for the function. five didn't have a corresponding y value for in the domain of our function J. To find the the x values that correspond to points on shadow or projection of the graph onto the like we're hitting all x values, starting So our domain is the x's between negative or we can write this in interval notation To find the range of the function we look on this graph, we can do that by taking the y axis, we seem to be hitting our Y values range is wise between negative five and three with square brackets. If we made a function a graph, one way to find the domain and range possible to find the domain at least more We think about what x values it makes sense need to be excluded, because they make the Specifically, to find the domain of a function, denominator zero. Since we can't divide by make an expression inside a square root sign of a negative number. In fact, we need to any even root negative because we can't take we can take an odd root like a cube root of logarithmic functions, we'll have some additional these two principles should handle all functions examples. For the function in part A, we don't a denominator. So we need to exclude x values we need x squared minus 4x plus three to not 4x plus three equal to zero, we can do that or x equals one, so we need to exclude these So if I draw the number line, I can put on of those. And my domain includes everything this means my domain is everything from negative from one to three, together with everything we don't have any denominator to worry about, to exclude any x values that make three minus include all x values for which three minus that inequality gives us three is greater less than or equal to three halves. If I can in interval notation, notice that three halves 2x is allowed to be zero, I can take the square not a problem. Finally, let's look at a more square root and his denominator. Now there the denominator to not be equal to zero, and to be greater than or equal to zero. from means that x is not equal to three, and x means that x is less than or equal to three on the number line. x is not equal to three everything except those two dug out points. equal to three halves means we can have three to be in our domain. And to be legit for our to be true. So I'm going to connect these looking for numbers on the number line that that above and purple. So that's everything one because one was a problem for the denominator. that are colored both both colors red and see negative infinity, up to but not including to three halves, and I include three half Also, in this video, we talked about functions, and ranges. This video is a brief introduction on their graphs. In this first example, I've function. Because as the x values go from this can be written more formally, by saying to be x values. So that means that x two is it's bigger than x one. So whenever we have means that f of x two has to be bigger than bigger when the x values are bigger. The second Because here as the x values increased from So again, we can write this more formally x two that's bigger than x one, for example, then the y value f of x two is less than f have a bigger x value, we want to have a smaller gives the graph of a function that's increasing This part of the graph, here the functions from left to right, the y values go down. where the function is decreasing. Now this because as x goes from left to right, the in green, for increasing. And finally, on neither increasing nor decreasing, it's completely the intervals on which the graph is increasing in terms of the x values. It wouldn't make because the y values can be the same for different unique. Describe where this function is decreasing. and negative two, and between four and seven. for less than x less than negative two, for whether I use less than or less than or equal or equal to signs at the endpoints of the existing altogether. And I'll use strict less or stops decreasing in the middle of its domain. where the function is increasing. That's for So I can write that as an inequality as negative describe these intervals in interval notation. negative to open bracket, a cup sign for union, part, and the increasing part is negative just a little bit. Now by putting arrows on are just hard stops, that signifies that the So if I write it like that, then the place the same, it's still going to be from x values decreasing part of the function extends further. the way out to infinity in it, we assume that would write that as for infinity, and similar infinity, negative two, because the function x values go all the way to negative infinity and decreasing parts of functions based on going to be heading from left to right. As that y goes up. Decreasing means that y goes you have to do that in terms of x values. minimums for functions from their graphs. f of x has an absolute maximum at the x value C is as big as it ever gets. We can write that's the y value at x equals C is bigger at some other x value for all x values in c is called the absolute maximum value for given is called an absolute maximum point. absolute maximum value, f of c is the highest absolute maximum point is the point where for a function to have more than one absolute where that highest value is achieved. But maximum value. function f of x has an absolute equals C is as small as it ever gets. We can of c is less than or equal to f of x for all of c is called the absolute minimum value absolute minimum point in the graph of f of graph ever achieves. And the point c f of low y value. For example, this function has eight, and it has an absolute minimum point this function stops here, and has domain from function will have an absolute maximum value for 10. If however, the function keeps going maximum value at all. absolute maximum minimum minimum values. A function f of x has a local x value of c is bigger than any y values nearby, anywhere in the domain. For example, for this it just has to be the biggest y value nearby, X values around C. We can write this by saying x for all x values, and an open interval around value for F. And the point with coordinates function f of x has a local minimum at x equals x, for all x values in an open interval around value. And the point with coordinate c f a might have many local minimum values. In this zero to four, we have a local minimum point is the lowest point anywhere nearby. It also our attention to local maximum points. This to say, because this point here is the highest the highest point anywhere in the domain since So we have a local max point at one two, which use different conventions as far as whether point or not. Some sources do consider it anywhere nearby. But other sources say that technical reason that you can't get an open is not defined in an open interval around I'll just write this as a caution that some max point, because f is not defined. In an maximum and minimum values can also be called pause the video for a moment to mark all local function, as well as all absolute max and here at the point with coordinates approximately it's the highest point anywhere nearby. There's with coordinates to to, since this is the actually existed, it would also be a local But this drilled out circle means that point no local min point here, and no absolute min is considered by some sources to be a local a local max point. Since the function is not our attention to absolute maximum and points function keeps going up and up and up forever. the function just keeps going down and down a lowest value. Now if we're talking about of the local maxima endpoints. So there's And there's a local min value of two this or min values for this function. In this video, points and values. This video is about symmetry is symmetric with respect to the x axis, if axis as the mirror line. This graph here is that the point five three is on this graph. is also on the graph. Similarly, the point two, negative two is on the graph. For any you flip over the x axis will have coordinates the y coordinates. Therefore, we can say that axis. If whenever a point x, y is on the graph, We say that a graph is symmetric with respect with the y axis as the mirror line. This graph is the mirror line. Notice that the point Its mirror image, which is also on the graph same y coordinate, but the opposite x coordinate. x, y, and I want its mirror image with the the point with the same height the same y So I can say that a graph is symmetric with x, y is on the graph, the point negative x, symmetric with respect to the origin if it the origin. This means that if I spin it by with itself. Rotating a graph by 180 degrees So one way to see if a graph has symmetry down and see if it looks exactly the same. I noticed that the point one, negative two the origin by 180 degrees, I get to the point with a point on the graph with coordinates, get the point with coordinates negative two, with a point x, y, and I rotate that 180 degrees negative x, negative y. so we can say that If whenever a point x, y is on the graph, the graph. Please pause the video for a moment with respect to the x axis, the y axis and one type of symmetry. Graph a is symmetric rotate it by 180 degrees, that is you turn It does not have any mirror symmetry, so it's the y axis. Graph B does have mirror symmetry, both symmetric with respect to the x axis It also looks exactly the same upside down. origin. Graph C is symmetric with respect And graph D is symmetric with respect to the words even and odd to describe functions whose is even if its graph is symmetric, with respect with respect to the y axis means that whenever negative x, y is also on the graph. That is, x are the same. Using function notation, I coordinates x, f of x and negative x, f of is given by f of its x value. So we can say X equals f of x, for all x values in its domain, negative x. For example, we can see the function And one way to see this is by looking at its I've drawn. And that is saying that this graph also check that this function is even algebraically. all we have to do is check that F of negative negative x for x into this formula, that's x squared is the same thing as x squared. of x. And the property of being even is satisfied. graph is symmetric with respect to the origin. to the origin means that whenever a point point, negative x, negative y is also on the the graphs y value at negative x are the opposites sign. If we use function notation, for the f of x, and this one is negative x, f of negative at the x value of negative x is just F of see that F of negative X, that y value has y value. A function f of x is odd if F of x in its domain. Let's look at this example. odd by seeing that rotational symmetry around it out algebraically by checking to see if of x. So let's plug in negative x for x in negative x minus one over negative x, that And we can see that that is actually the negative sign, which is negative f of x. So the property about symmetry with respect to the x axis with respect to the origin. functions that even functions and functions that are symmetric There's no word for functions that are symmetric if your graph is symmetric with respect to This video gives the graphs of some commonly The first function is the function y equals this function. If x is zero, y zero, if x to x doesn't have to just be an integer, it the dots we get a straight line through the x squared. If x is zero, y is zero. So we'll y is one, and x is negative one, y is also four and the x value of negative two gives we get a parabola. That is this, this function symmetry across the y axis, the left side of the right side. That happens because when get the exact same y value as when you square The next function y equals x cubed. I'll call x is zero, y is zero. When x is one, y is one, two goes with the point eight way up to give us negative eight. If I connect the this. This function is what's called an odd symmetry occur around the origin. If I rotate words, turn the paper upside down, I'll get has this odd symmetry is because when I cube get n cube the corresponding negative number gives us exactly the negative of the the y Let's look at the next example. Y equals the this function is just x values bigger than square root of a negative number. Let's plug is one square root of one is one, square root get a function that looks like this. The absolute in a few points, x is zero goes with y equals of negative one is one to two is on the graph to I'm ending up getting a V shaped graph. two to the x is what's known as an exponential in the exponent. If I plot a few points, two squared is four, two to the minus one is one fill in a few more points. So let's see, two two gives me 1/4 1/8. Connecting the Dots, might have heard the expression exponential growth, this is function is represents exponential time we increase the x coordinate by one we at a function like y equals three dx, or sometimes about 2.7. These functions look very similar. little more steeply. Now let's look at the when x is zero, but I can plug in x equals one is one, and one over two is one half, first quadrant, but I haven't looked at negative negative one is negative one, whenever negative looking piece in the third quadrant. This an odd function, because it has that 180 degree down, it'll look exactly the same. Finally, Again, it's not defined when x is zero, but see one over one half squared is one over one over two squared is a fourth, it looks just a little bit more extreme rises a little But for negative values of x, something a one over negative two squared is just one that point there, and one over negative one negative values of x is gonna lie in the second an example of an even function because it These are the toolkit functions, and I recommend way, you can draw at least a rough sketch That's all for the graphs of the toolkit functions. the graph of the function changes or transforms rules and examples for transformations of it's helpful if you're already familiar with them toolkit functions, like y equals square absolute value of x and so on. If you're not to watch my video called toolkit functions start by reviewing function notation. If g of x, then we can rewrite these expressions x minus two is the same thing as the square two means we plug in x minus two everywhere as the square root of quantity x minus two. two on the inside of the function, because square root function. Whereas on the first outside of the function. We're doing the square In this third example, g of 3x. We're multiplying evaluate this in terms of square root, we root function, that gives us the square root by three on the outside of the function, this Finally, g of minus x means the square root because we're not used to taking the square if x itself is negative, like negative to or positive two. So we're really be taking case, let me record which of these are inside In this next set of examples, we're using this time, we're starting with an expression it in terms of g of x. So the first example, because I'm taking the square root of x first, g of x plus 17. In the second example, I'm the square root of the whole thing. Since inside of my function. So I write that as this notation means I plug in the entire x gives me exactly square root of x plus 12. root first and then multiplying by negative my function, I can rewrite this as minus 36 I take x multiplied by a fourth and then apply as g of 1/4 x by 1/4. x is on the inside of parentheses when I use function notation. of this function, y equals the square root since the square root of four is two, it looks the square root of x minus two, notice that that means we're going to take the square for example, if we start with the x value that's zero, then we subtract two to give one, which under the square root function decreased by two, one minus two is negative under the square root function had a y value or zero, its y value is also decreased by with negative two, one goes with negative graph. Because I subtracted two on the outside by two, which brought my graph down by two root of quantity x minus two. Now we're subtracting we subtract two from x first and then take y value of zero as we had in our blue graph, need our original x to be two. In order to blue graph, we need to be taking the square one, which means that we need to start with our y value of two from our original graph, be two, which means we need to start out by our x minus two is four, so our x should be my corresponding y values of square root of that the graph has moved horizontally to the two units, makes sense because we're subtracting but the minus two on the inside that kind expect it to to move the graph left I might units, but instead, it moves the graph to up by two units, in order to get the right again, the observations we made for these according to the following rules. First of like in our example, y equals the square root values, and result in vertical motions, like you expect. So subtracting two was just down would move us up by two numbers on the inside y equals the square root of quantity x minus in a horizontal motion, these motions go in Remember, the minus two on the inside actually had a plus two on the inside, that would actually in a shift those are called translations, three times a squared of x, that would result I start with the square root of x, and then root of x, that stretches my graph vertically to graph y equals 1/3, times the square root a factor of 1/3. Finally, a negative sign with a graph of y equals the square root of root of negative x, that's going to do a reflection is on the inside of the square root sign. reflection across the y axis. If instead I of x, that negative sign on the outside means the x axis. Pause the video for a moment and these four transformations. In the first example, function. adding or subtracting means a translation the function affects the y value, so that's should take the square root of graph and move like this. In the next example, we're adding But now we're moving horizontally. And so we are going to go to the left by 12 units, And the next example, we're multiplying by on the outside of our function outside our So and multiplication means we're stretching we reflect in the vertical direction, here's before I apply the minus sign, and now the Finally, in this last example, we're multiplying we know that multiplication means stretch it's a horizontal motion, and it does the shrinking by a factor of 1/4, horizontally, a factor of four horizontally. that'll look horizontally by a factor of four looks kind one half. And that's actually borne out by x is the same thing as the square root of same thing as one half times the square root that vertical shrink by a factor of one half of four, at least for this function, the square for transformations of functions, which I'll to changes in the y values or vertical motions. the x values and raise out in horizontal motions, or shifts. multiplying and dividing by numbers putting in a negative sign. correspond corresponds the negative sign is on the inside, and a on the outside. Knowing these basic rules to sketch graphs of much more complicated root of x plus two, by simply considering introduces piecewise functions. A piecewise by two or more different rules that apply this function is you calculate negative x negative 2x plus three if x is greater than negative two, well, negative two is less than f of negative two by plugging in negative four. Next, we want to find f of one. Well, two rules. But because we have a greater than we apply this rule. And so we could plug one negative two times one plus three, which gives to compute f of three, since three is bigger And we plug three into that role. That gives it makes sense to also draw the graph in pieces. x squared, just x squared would be a problem opening down goes through the points negative it looks something like this. Now I've drawn only applies when x is less than one. So I'll than one. And I'll erase the part of the parabola leave an open circle here, when x equals one either. Next, I'm going to draw the second So that's a line with slope negative two, through this point 03. And then it goes over the point one, one, over by one down by two. I can continue and draw this straight line. part where x is greater than or equal to one. one, this part here. This time, I'm going to one, since that point is included on that to think about what happens when x equals where we actually include that point. And include that point, but we kind of have to here. Now the last question asks us if this of continuity that I'm going to use is that whole thing without picking up your pencil. pick up our pencil to get from the jump here, it's got a discontinuity when x is one, which rules. Often piecewise functions will have one role to the next. However, it's possible has no discontinuity if the two pieces happen changed the functions definition slightly, the negative x squared when x is less than if x is bigger than equal to one, then when the same, but the linear piece will be two start right here at one, negative one and That's all for this introduction to piecewise what the function does. So the inverse of the inverse of the function that adds two two from a number. This video introduces inverses function defined by this chart. In other words, four is six, and f of five is one, the inverse 1x undoes what f does. Since f takes two to So we write this f superscript. Negative one to five, F inverse takes five to three. And is four. And since f takes five to one, f to fill in the chart. Notice that the chart of values, when y equals f inverse of x are but the x values for f of x correspond to values for f of x correspond to the x values key fact inverse functions reverse the roles y equals f of x in blue. Next, I'll plot the Pause the video for a moment and see what How are the blue points related to the red points and the red points are mirror images key fact is that the graph of y equals f inverse f of x by reflecting over the line y equals the roles of y and x. In the same example, open circle means composition. In other words, compute this from the inside out. So that's and f inverse of three, we see as to similarly, that means we take f of f inverse of three. same thing as computing F of two, which is and compute these other compositions. You take f inverse of f of a number, you get back And similarly, if you take f of f inverse you started with. So in general, f inverse of x is also equal to x. This is the mathematical each other. Let's look at a different example. video for a moment and guess what the inverse the work that F does. You might have guessed root function. We can check that this is true F of the cube root of function, which means back to x. Similarly, If we compute f inverse And we get back to excellence again. So the the cubing function. When we compose the two we started with. It'd be nice to have a more besides guessing and checking. One method of y and x. So if we want to find the inverse x over 3x, we can write it as y equals five x to get x equals five minus y over three multiply both sides by three y. Bring all without y's and then to the right side, factor us f inverse of x as five over 3x plus one. inverse function, f inverse are both rational of each other. And then General, f inverse x. This can be confusing, because when we one or two, but f to the minus one of x means It's natural to ask if all functions have you might encounter. Is there always a function answer is no. See, if you can come up with an inverse function. The word function here between x values and y values, such that for corresponding y value. One example of a function the function f of x equals x squared. To see a function. Note that for the x squared function, both go to number four. So if I had an inverse, negative two, the inverse would not be a function, when you look at a graph of y equals x squared. roles of y and x and flip the graph over the graph over the line y equals x, I get this of a function, because it violates the vertical line test is because the original green function 2x values with the same y value. In general, only if the graph of f satisfies the horizontal the graph. And at most one point, pause the four graphs satisfy the horizontal line test. functions would have an inverse function you the horizontal line test. So their functions C and D satisfy the horizontal line test. have inverses. functions that satisfy the One to One functions. Equivalently a function x one and x two. the y value is f of x one Sometimes as I said, f is one to one, if, then x one has to equal x two. As our last where p of x as the square root of x minus same axis as p of x, we get the following equals x. If we try to solve the problem, of x minus two, reverse the roles of y and adding two. Now if we were to graph y equals parabola, it would look like the red graph arm on the left side. But we know that our right arm, we can specify this algebraically bigger than or equal to zero. This corresponds the square root of x, y was only greater than the domain and range of P and P inverse, we x such that x minus two is greater than or root of a negative number. This corresponds two, or an interval notation, the interval see from the graph is our y value is greater zero to infinity. Similarly, based on the values greater than or equal to zero, the of P inverse is Y values greater than or equal If you look closely at these domains and ranges, exactly to the range of P inverse, and the inverse. This makes sense, because inverse domain of f inverse of x is the x values for or the range of F. The range of f inverse to the x values or the domain of f. In this inverse functions. inverse functions, reverse f inverse of x is the graph of y equals f we compose F with F inverse, we get the identity compose f inverse with F, that brings x to other. The function f of x has an inverse f of x satisfies the horizontal line test. of f inverse and the range of f is the domain functions will be important when we study functions. There are different ways of describing how to convert between them. angles are commonly If we're talking about degrees, then a full circle then would be 180 degrees. And if I would be a third of 360 degrees or 120 degrees. all the way around the circle is called two that's the circumference of a circle with of two pi radians, which is pi radians. And that would be a quarter of my two pi radians, between degrees and radians is handed to us radians. Both of these represent half of a to radians. Now, you might be wondering, what convention, if we go in the counterclockwise And if we go in the clockwise direction, that's 135 degrees to radians, I could multiply by degrees cancel here, and I end up with negative negative three Pi over four radians. Or if 2.3562 radians, up to four decimal places. times pi, it's better to leave it in that I can also go the other direction and convert Now again, I we need to use the fact that it like this, with radians on the top and cancel. So that doesn't work. Instead, so over hi radians, so they got cancel the radians pi times 180 over four pi degrees. Now the degrees. Converting seven radians to degrees over pi radians. If I work out seven times O seven degrees up to two decimal places. is more than 360 degrees, so this is more seven radians is more than two pi radians. Sometimes angles are given in terms of degrees, minutes, and 25 seconds. A minute is defined 1/60 of a minute, but since a minute is itself degree, or one over 3600 of a degree. You 60 minutes in one degree and they're 3600 number of degrees minutes and seconds to a have 32 degrees plus 17 minutes plus 25 seconds. I need to convert the minutes to degrees. If I want the unit's to cancel, I better put to 60 minutes. Similarly, if I want to convert there are 3600 seconds in one degree, I want the seconds on the bottom to cancel with a Okay, now I can write this as 32 degrees plus And because the minutes cancelled, and the my calculator, I get 32.2903 degrees up to direction, and convert a decimal number of I'm starting out with 247 degrees plus a decimal 0.3486 degrees, two minutes, well, I know time, I want the minutes on the top and the will cancel. So I just multiply my decimal me copy this down. And now I'm going to take So I know that they're 60 seconds in one minute. by 60, which gives me 54.96 minutes, I can seconds and get 247 degrees, 20 minutes, and of measuring angles is all about unit conversion. use the fact that pi radians corresponds to seconds and degrees, we use the fact that 60 seconds corresponds to one minute. If you is called an arc. And a wedge of pi for that how to calculate the length of the arc and and the radius of the circle. the circumference equals two pi times the radius. Let's use pool has a radius of eight meters, find the radians. So this angle from the center of I've drawn the angle is a little bit less would be pi radians, which is 3.141 radians. I know that the total circumference is going want a fraction of the circumference. The the fraction of the circle that the angle The fraction of the circle that I want is total number of radians in the circle, which a conference, which we said was two pi times and I'm left with just 2.5 times eight meters, is related to the angle it spans by considering you get by taking the angle over The total which is two pi r. Since the two PI's cancel arc length is given by theta times r. here, the angle, it's important to note that theta for this to work. That's because when I took the total measure of the circle. So it's important a circle is given by the formula, pi r squared, to find the area of the sector of a circle pi over six radians, we know that the total meters squared, or 100 pi meter squared. But us the area of our sector. So we want to take makes times the area of the circle. Well, angle of pi over six over the total angle that by the 100 pi meter squared, that simplifies pi meter squared as a decimal, that's 26.18 general, if you want to find the area of a that the sector spans out times the area of fraction of the circle is given by the angle by the two pi radians in the circle. Since by saying the area is given by theta over of the sector in radians. Again, it's important how we're doing our fraction of our circle of the circle. Notice that if you don't have instead, not a big deal, because we can always using our formula. In this video, we saw that the arc length is given by the formula theta by theta over two times r squared, where r linear and radial speed for a rotating circle, Consider a spinning wheel. The angular speed time, I can write that as angle per time, second if the angle is measured in radians, guess we could do degrees per minute, etc. the rim of the wheel. So that is the distance in a unit of time. I can think of that as something like meters per second for example, we have a ferris wheel with radius 20 meters. we want to find its angular speed and the Ferris wheel is going one revolution every per minute, I want to, I want to find the through in a unit of time. I've already got but I've got to somehow convert revolutions per minute, one revolution, but that on the revolution is going through an angle of two going to be one half times two pi radians linear speed, the speed of a point on the minute, I got to somehow convert radians into so that's all the way around the circle, I'm and distance, so that would be two pi times two PI's cancel as do the radians, and I'm how we got from angular speed to linear speed call the angular speed, omega looks like a problem, we found the linear speed v, by starting it by the circumference divided by two pi. the whole circumference as it goes through circle. So I'll write that down here, circumference is given by the formula two pi r, and the problem, that shows that the linear speed radius of the circle. In this video, we defined linear speed was radial speed times the radius functions, sine, cosine, tangent, secant, For a right triangle, with sides of length sine of theta as the length of the opposite opposite to our angle theta has measure a measure C. So that would be a oversee for as the length of the adjacent side, over the side adjacent to theta. Of course, the hypothesis as a partner, so we don't think of it as the tangent of theta is the opposite side length be a over b. The pneumonic to remember this Cosine is adjacent over hypotenuse. And tangent a relationship between tangent and sine and to sine of theta over cosine of theta. If some of theta over cosine of theta is given divided by cosine, which is adjacent over by flipping and multiplying, the high partners, adjacent, which is, by definition, tangent that are defined in terms of sine, cosine of theta, by definition, that's one over cosine adjacent over the partners, which is the high triangle is C over B. cosecant of theta is one over the opposite over the hypotenuse, And for this triangle, that's going to be as one over tan theta. So that's going to multiply, I get adjacent over opposite, which values for cotangent cosecant and secant are sine and cosine, respectively. Let's use these six trig functions for the angle theta in That's the opposite of our hypothesis. Well, down here and has measured to the high partners five. Cosine theta is adjacent over hypotenuse, But fortunately, I can find it using Bagaran I know that a squared, I'll call the side leg of the triangle is equal to c squared, a squared plus two squared equals five squared, 25. A squared is 21. So A is plus or minus about the length of a side of a triangle, to my computation of cosine theta, I can write 21. Over high partners, which is five, tangent that's going to be two over the square root one over cosine theta, so that's going to is five over the square root of 21. The reciprocal over sine theta, that's going to be the reciprocal theta is one over tan theta, so it's going root of 21. Over to finally, we'll do an application. of elevation as the angle from the horizontal 100 meters, we want to find out how high it to relate the known quantities this angle, the unknown quantity is the opposite side equals opposite of our hypothesis, then we degrees to our unknown amount y, which is solving for y This gives that y is 100 meters to compute sine of 75 degrees. Be sure Use in the 75. When I do the computation, I get places. Notice that we're ignoring the height the definitions of the trig functions, you that secant is the reciprocal of cosine cosecant of tangent. In this video, I'll use geometry angle, a 45 degree angle and a 60 degree angle. angle is to use a right triangle with a 45 has I have hotness of length one. Since all to 180 degrees, and we already have 90 degrees be 45 degrees. So we have an isosceles triangle that side length a. If we want sine of 45 then sine is opposite over hypotenuse. So is, I'll be able to compute sine of 45 degrees. length squared plus that side length squared that a squared plus a squared equals one squared. So a squared is one half, and a is plus or talking about the length of sides of triangles, customary to rewrite this as the square root is one over the square root of two, and then the top and the bottom by the square root the numerator, and the square root of two root of two over two. So the side lengths can figure out the sine of 45 degrees, by That's, I'm looking at this angle. So opposite one. So the sine of 45 degrees is the square is adjacent over hypotenuse. That's this side square root of two over to over one again, triangle with hypotony is one, we use this hypotony is five, not quite drawn to scale. the computation with this triangle. This time, tells me b squared plus b squared equals five b squared equals 25 over two, B is going to over two, again, I can just use the positive over the square root of two, which is five the denominator, I get five root two over over her partners, which is five square root to the square root of two over two as before, of 45 degrees is also square root of two over and cosine are based on ratios of sides. And they'll have the same ratios of sides. To use this 30 6090 right triangle with hypotony an angle of 30 here, so a total angle of 60 So we have a 60 6060 triangle. That's an equilateral this side length has length one, this side is one, which means this short side of our back to my original triangle, let's use the his longer side x. Pythagorean theorem says squared. So x squared plus a fourth equals or minus the square root of three fourths root of three over the square root of four, Now using our original triangle, again, let's We know that sine of 30 degrees is opposite is one half and the hypothesis is one. So is one half cosine of 30 degrees is adjacent of three over two divided by one. To find we can actually use the same green triangle of 60 degrees instead. So sine of 60 degrees. opposite to this angle is the square root over hypotenuse gives us one half. I'll summarize a 30 degree angle corresponds to pi over six is pi over six. Similarly, 45 degrees corresponds to pi over three radians. I recommend that two over two, and root three over two. And two go together. And root two over two goes hard to reconstruct the triangles, you know so it must have the side links where the same has one side length smaller than the other. larger side must be root three over two since three over two is bigger than one half. Doing angles, the smaller angle must be the 30 degree one. In this video, we computed the sine and 45 degrees, and 60 degrees. This video defined unit circle, a unit circle is a circle with cosine and tangent in terms of right triangles. theory, you could draw a right triangle with the sign as the length of the opposite side use this method to try to compute sine of we draw this 120 degree angle, and this right to get a right triangle. So instead, we're of radius one. The figure below illustrates related. If you draw right triangles with angles, then the top vertex sweeps out part in more detail. In this figure, I've drawn hypothesis of the triangle is the radius of right triangle is at the origin. And another of the circle, I'm going to call the coordinates right triangle has length a, the x coordinate, the y coordinate. If I use the right triangle right here is the angle theta, then cosine a over one, or a. Notice that a also represents circle, at angle theta from the x axis, I'll use the right triangle definition, that's which is just B. But B also represents the circle at angle theta. For tangent theta, its opposite over adjacent. So that's B over of the point over the x coordinate of the part of a right triangle, because they're now I'll call this angle here theta, I can to calculate the sine and cosine of theta. this line at angle theta, if I mark that to I'm still going to define as the x coordinate and tangent theta as the ratio of the y coordinate circle definition, we always draw theta starting Let's use this unit circle definition to calculate In our figure, we have a unit circle. And x&amp;y coordinates of this point on the unit that lies at angle fee for the positive x cosine fee is equal to the x coordinate. And two, which works out to negative 0.3639 up method for calculating sine cosine and tangent the positive x axis, you draw the angle theta of the point on the unit circle where that is the x coordinate, sine of theta is the ratio. This video gives three properties of be deduced from the unit circle definition. sine and cosine for an angle theta is that of theta is the y coordinate for the point property is what I call the periodic property. are periodic with period two pi. And what angle plus two pi, you get the same thing when we write this down, we're assuming that measure theta in degrees, the similar statement equal to cosine of theta, we can make the plus two pi is equal to sine of the original If we want to measure the angle in degrees, is equal to sine of theta, we can see why of sine and cosine. This is our angle theta, a full turn around the unit circle to our and theta plus two pi are just two different And since sine and cosine give you the y and they have to have the same value. Similarly, theta minus two pi, the minus two pi means circle clockwise, we still end up in the same two pi, the x coordinate of that position of theta minus two pi is the same thing as we add or subtract multiples of two pi. For the same thing as cosine of theta, this time, and still gotten back to the same place. So the same thing as cosine of pi plus four pi, about the unit circle, pi is halfway around x coordinate of this point right here. Well, so cosine of pi must be negative one. If I well, that's sine of negative 360 degrees, as sine of minus 60 degrees. Thinking about start at the positive x axis and go clockwise And so that's one of the special angles that of negative root three over two. And therefore over two the y coordinate. The next property cosine is an even function, which means that as cosine of theta, while sine is an odd function, the negative of sine of theta. To see why And the angle negative theta. A negative angle direction from the positive x axis. The coordinates sine theta, whereas the coordinates of this negative theta. But by symmetry, these two therefore cosine of theta must equal cosine have the same magnitude, but opposite signs. Therefore, sine of negative theta is the negative of theta isn't even or odd function. Well, by definition, is sine over cosine. Well, negative of sine of theta, whereas cosine We're getting negative sine theta over cosine tan of negative theta is the negative of tan last property on this video is the Pythagorean squared plus sine of theta squared is equal with this shorthand notation, cosine squared But this notation, cosine squared theta just it. This property is called the Pythagorean Theorem. Let me draw a right triangle on the the coordinates of this endpoint here are to be a unit circle, the hypothesis of my my right triangle is just cosine theta, same the height of my triangle is the y coordinate theorem says that this side length squared squared. Since one squared is the same thing But the green property is handy for computing vice versa. And this problem, we're told that is an angle that lies in quadrant three. When means the terminal side of the angle lies of t is to use the fact that cosine squared is cosine of t squared plus negative 2/7 squared of t squared plus 4/49 is equal to one. And 4/49, which is 4540 nights. taking the square t is plus or minus the square root of 45 over 45 over seven. Now, since we're in the third represents the x coordinate of this point, t is going to be negative square root of 45 problem using the Pythagorean theorem for fact that sine of t is negative two sevens think of this information as telling us that opposite side is to and whose high partners Tiger in theorem says us a squared plus two four is 49. So a squared is 45. And a is plus worrying about a triangle, I'm going to use to be adjacent over hypotenuse. So that's Now I go back to thinking about positive and in the third quadrant, my co sign needs to in front. This alternative solution uses many and ultimately gets us the same answer. This the periodic property, the even odd property, about the graphs of sine and cosine. I want y equals sine t, where t is in radians. I'm this being the y axis. One way to do this using my knowledge of special angles on the graph, if I convert them all to decimals. the dots to get a graph of y equals cosine continue the graph for t values less than points. Or I could just use the fact that two pi to the my angle T, I'll be at the same be exactly the same. Therefore, my values on this graph, repeat themselves. For example, about like here, it's cosine is the same as this dot here and repeat it over here. Similarly, I get the same value of cosine is when it's and I can continue repeating all my dots. say pi over three. And so my whole graph will on this side, something like this. Since subtracting the same value of cosine. We can also plot it by repetition. Going forward, I'll usually cosine of x and y equals sine of x. When I to an angle, while y refers to a value of of x and y, compared to when we're talking cosine value, and y refers to the sine value. of sine and cosine. The first thing you might graph of sine are super similar to each other. as just being the graph of sine shifted to of x as the sine function of x plus pi over move the graph horizontally to the left by of sine as being constructed from the graph by pi over two, that means we can write sine two, since subtracting pi over two on the by pi over two. Next, let's look at domain all real numbers. Alright, that is negative from negative one to one. That makes sense, circle. The input values for the domain come angle positive negative as big as you want, circle, the output values for the range, that from the coordinates on the unit circle. And one or any smaller than negative one. So that you can tell from the graph, here's cosine, axis, and so it must be even. Whereas the the origin and must be odd. The absolute maximum absolute minimum value is negative one. We period to describe these two functions. The between the maximum and minimum points. Here is the vertical distance between a maximum of the amplitude as the vertical distance as half the vertical distance between a min and the sine function, the amplitude is one. at regular horizontal intervals, the horizontal the period. For y equals cosine of x, the the horizontal distance between successive troughs, or minimum points. algebraically, cosine of x and sine of x plus two pi equals themselves over an interval of two pi and graphed y equals cosine of x and y equals a midline at y equals zero, an amplitude of of functions are functions that are related stretching and shrinking and shifting. This start by graphing the function y equals three function y equals sine x. So I'll graph that this graph vertically by a factor of three, horizontally by a factor of one half. If instead one, this plus one on the outside shifts everything amplitude and period of our original y equals 2x, and are further transformed y equals three midline at y equals zero, an amplitude of function, y equals three times sine of 2x. by a factor of one half. So it changes the times two pi, which just pi. Since the two distances, it doesn't affect the midline, is a vertical distance. But the three on the particular, it affects the amplitude, since a factor of three, the amplitude of one get case, the midline doesn't actually change, is still a y value of zero. Now on the third and added one on the outside, so that shifts having a midline at y equals zero, we now doesn't change though, it's still three, because the distance between the mid mine and the still pi since the period is a horizontal affects vertical things. Next, let's graph two times quantity x minus pi over four. This function we graphed on the previous page, if we give the name f of x to that function, then we can get g of x by taking f of x and for x. In other words, g of x is f of x minus idea for graphing g of x the function we want did that on the previous page. And then we four, because that's what you do when you So here's the graph of y equals three sine stretched vertically by a factor of three, half. Now, to graph the function that I want, four to the right. Notice that since I had just read off the horizontal shift. But if sine 2x minus pi over two, which is algebraically and think that I needed to shift over by pi figuring out what the shift is, we're factoring to graph this function, same as the one we the outside, that minus one would just bring to look at midline amplitude, and period for of x, and our final transformed function, x minus pi over four minus one, our original amplitude of one and period of two pi. For stretches vertically, so it makes the amplitude everything down by one. So it brings the midline, the two on the inside, shrinks everything period becomes one half times two pi, which going on, are transferring function shifts shift is sometimes called the phase shift. three sine 2x minus pi over four minus one, sine 2x minus pi over two minus one. This B x minus c plus d, where b is positive. If function with cosine in it, then we know that That's because the original midline of sine by D, we know that the amplitude is going stretches everything vertically by a factor say the amplitude is the absolute value of then that amounts to a vertical reflection, the period of the original sine or cosine B amounts to a horizontal shrink by a factor stretch by a factor of one over b if b is a period of two pi, and we're multiplying be two Pi over B. The trickiest thing is the like to factor out this be from my equation. minus c plus d, I'm going to write y equals plus d. Similarly, if it's a sine function, c over b plus d, then I can read off the horizontal to the right, if C ever be as positive and this might seem backwards from what you're sign there. So if C over B is positive, we're shifts right, if C of b over b is negative and that's why it shifts it to the left. So y equals 1/3, cosine of one half x plus three equals minus five, an amplitude of 1/3, a is four pi, and a horizontal shift. But a to the left, the horizontal shift is sometimes graphs of sinusoidal functions. This video secant, cotangent and cosecant. To gain an of x, I think it's handy to look at the slope The slope of this line is the rise over the and the run is given by cosine of theta. So theta, which is simply tan of theta. So if of x as being the angle and y as being the the angle is zero, the slope is zero. But the slope gets bigger and bigger heading towards negative pi over two, the slope is getting at exactly pi over two and negative pi over is undefined. Using this information, let's we're thinking of x as the angle and y as of negative pi over two and pi over two. So zero, and then it heads up towards positive towards pi over two with an undefined value negative infinity as the angle heads towards value at negative pi over two, you can also pi over two, we have the same line as for two, and therefore this picture repeats. And period not to pi, like sine and cosine, but if you take a line and rotate it by 180 degrees, therefore has the same value of tangent in x intercepts all right values of x of the two pi, etc, you can write that as pi times or negative whole number or zero. This makes of x over cosine of x. And so you're gonna which is where the numerator is zero, and two pi, and so on. From the graph, you can like negative three pi over two, negative two, these values can be written as pi over this makes sense from the definition of tangent, the denominator is zero, and cosine x is zero, two, three pi over two, and so on, the domain So that's going to be everything except for as x such that x is not equal to pi over two or the y values go all the way from negative mentioned previously, is pi. Since the smallest to graph y equals secant x, I'm going to remember with a graph of cosine, I can take the reciprocal the reciprocal of one is one, the reciprocal have a value at pi over two, negative pi over pi over two. When I take the reciprocal of get numbers just greater than one, but I would close to zero, I'm going to get really big Similarly, on the other side, over here, I so their reciprocals will be negative numbers of negative one is negative one. And similarly negative buckets and upside down buckets as has a period of two pi, which makes sense, a range that goes from negative infinity to That makes sense because the range of cosine taking the reciprocal of those values. The asymptotes. Now the vertical asymptotes are of the form pi over two, three pi over two, where k is an odd integer. So the domain is to pi over 2k. For K and odd integer. The any, because you can't take one over something We've seen the graph of y equals tan x and equals cotangent x. It looks similar to the function instead of an increasing one, and in different places. Finally, this green graph related to the graph of sine x, since cosecant the graph of sine x in between, you can see reciprocal. I encourage you to memorize the figure out the details by thinking how about of x, and sine x. This video is about the cotangent and cosecant. Before I graph this parent function, y equals cosecant of x. Recall So the graph of cosecant of x has a vertical puts the vertical asymptotes at pi, two pi, one where sine is one. So here, and so it my fancy function, I know that the two on the plus one shifts up by one, the PI means pi. And so the period, instead of being two be two pi divided by pi, which is two. Finally, shift. But in order to see by how much we pie first. So if I rewrite my function, as plus one, I can see the horizontal shift is in pieces. First, I'll do the vertical motions. stretch by a factor of two. And now I'll shift motion, instead of a period of two pi, I'm everything is going to be shifted left by asymptotes at zero, pi, two pi and so on, shifted over by one half. So that means the a half, a half, one and a half, and so on. is by noting that cosecant is one over sine, does not exist when a sine pi x plus one half is equal to a multiple of pi. canceling the number minus a half. So those are exactly halves, and so on that we've drawn. So once we can see that our graph fits in between and shifted by a half, so it ends up hugging all the other pieces also get shrunk horizontally like this. In this next problem, we're given the shape of the graph. And the fact that graph. But y equals tan x by itself would graph has a period of need to find the horizontal easiest to measure if I sketch in the vertical of negative three to an x value of one. So graph might be something more like tan of that pi equals four B. And so B is pi over related to Y equals tan of pi over 4x. But 4x, then that middle point right here would point is at negative one, one, that means up by one, the left by one, I can accomplish over four factored out the up by one I get as possible, there might also be a vertical for that is by plugging in x equals zero and front I might need to get this y intercept pi over four quantity x plus one plus one, pi over four, zero plus one plus one. And is just one, this equation simplifies to two a has to be one. So in fact, this equation summarize, if we have a function of the form a accomplishes a vertical stretch. The number the number D shifts vertically by D. And finally, to rewrite our equation in factored form factoring shift right by C over B. The same things hold. cotangent, we can say the same things for The only thing to be careful of is that B pi over B, simply because the original period the original period of tan and co tan is just tan, secant cotangent and cosecant look like, to graph more complicated functions. This sine inverse cosine inverse and tan inverse. first on the thin black line. This is a graph of a function can be found by flipping the y equals x. I've drawn the flipped graph with the blue dotted line is not the graph of a line test. So in order to get a function, need to restrict the domain of sine of x. with a thick black line. If I invert that x, I get the piece drawn with a red dotted vertical line test. So it is in fact, a function infinity to infinity are restricted sine x over two. It's, its range is still from negative Because I've taken the biggest possible piece a function. The inverse sine function is often a function reverses the roles of y at x, it sine of x, the inverse function has domain pi over two to pi over two, which seems plausible the work a function. So if the function sine inverse sine, or arc sine takes numbers x, of pi over two is one, arc sine of one is arc sine of x is the angle between negative x. y is equal to arc sine x means that x is angles, y who sine is x, right, they all differ y is between negative pi over two and pi over domain restriction in order to get a well notation for inverse sine. Sometimes it's But this notation can be confusing, so be one of x does not equal one over sine of x. is another word for cosecant of x. But sine arc sine of x, the inverse sine function, function, let's go through the same process with a graph of cosine of x, we flip it over line. But the blue dotted line is not a function. our original cosine of x to just be between the vertical line test. So it's a proper inverse from zero to pi, and range from negative one has domain from negative one to one, and range angles to numbers, arc cosine takes us from of pi over four is the square root of two of two over two is equal to pi over four. and pi, whose cosine is x. In other words, to cosine of y. And y is between zero and answers for an angle y whose cosine is x. cosine inverse. And again, we have to be careful. thing as one over cosine of x. one over cosine the negative 1x means arc cosine On the inverse same. Finally, let's look take a look at inverse and black. These vertical lines aren't really asymptotes. So in order to get the actual x, we take just one piece of the tangent function. we flip that over the line y equals x, we function because it satisfies the vertical possible to pick a different piece of the is, yes, we could do that. And on another on our planet, we use the convention that is kind of a convenient choice since it's two examples, our choice of restricted domain that led to a conveniently defined inverse our restricted tan function has domain from include the endpoints in that interval, because at negative pi over two and pi over two, so tan function is from negative infinity to from negative infinity to infinity, and range Once again, tangent is taking us from angles to angles. For example, tangent of pi over is pi over four. So arc tan of x means the over two whose tangent is x. y is equal to of y. And that y is between negative pi over can also be written as 10 to the minus one the inverse trig function, arc tan of x. And is called cotangent of x. And that's all for functions. sine inverse x, also known as arc arc cosine x, and tan inverse x, also known to solving trig equations. Let's start with zero, I want to find all the solutions in get a general formula for all solutions, not by rewriting this equation to isolate the going to write two cosine x equals negative I'm looking for the angles x between zero Since negative one half is one of the special of the unit circle to see that the angle between three, or four pi over three. My answer needs no other spots on the unit circle whose cosine because we can always take one of these angles want to Find all solutions, I can take these and four pi over three, and simply add multiples three plus two pi, or two pi over three minus so on. A much more efficient way to write pi times k, any integer that is any positive I can write four pi over three plus two pi principal solution for pi over three by adding is my final solution. Next, let's look at I'm going to start out by cleaning things this case is tangent. So let me add tangent x equals the square root of three. And so the square root of three over three looks square to three over two, which is a special that my unit circle will again, help me find that tan x is sine x over cosine x. So I'm zero and two pi with a ratio of sine over three, I actually only need to look in the those are the quadrants where a tangent is angles whose either sine or cosine has a squared see that tan pi over six, which is sine pi me one half over root three over two, that's three, which is one over root three. If I So that value works. If I try tan of pi over not equal to root three over three. So pi work out some the values in the third quadrant four pi over three does not. So my answer six, and seven pi over six. Now if I want interval from zero to two pi, I noticed that and add multiples of two pi to it, because over six plus two pi k, and pi over six, sorry, This is a correct answer. But it's not as over six over here on the unit circle is exactly both of these and adding multiples of two by just taking one of them and adding multiples to say that x equals pi over six plus pi times all the same solutions. Because when k is when k is odd, I'll get this family. For example, is just the original seven pi over six. If a period of pi instead of two pi, it makes write the solutions in the form. In this video, sine, or tangent, or the same thing would circle to find principal solutions, Principal and two pi. And then adding multiples of two solutions. For tangent, we noticed that it and add multiples of pi instead of two pi. that can be solved using the unit circle. that don't involve special values on the unit solve. Let's look at the equation two cosine start by simplifying and isolating cosine. t equals one divided by three gives cosine values on the unit circle, but I can locate of a point on the unit circle. So I'm looking is approximately 1/3. So maybe right here, are angles in the first and fourth quadrants. these angles, I can take arc cosine of both arc cosine of 1/3, which, using my calculator of 1.2310. Up to four decimal places, it's convention, the answers to trig equations specified. It's also important to notice that same thing. Since cosine t equals 1/3, has to a certain interval, and even if we restrict two different solutions. On the other hand, solution. And that solution lies between the the 1.231, a radians must be giving us this zero and pi. And to get the other angle this This angle and this angle are the same size. go all the way to pi minus r 1.2312 radians. that two pi minus 1.2310 radians is equal on our interval from zero to two pi, are given emphasize that we found the second solution Now it's straightforward to find all solutions, and add multiples of two pi. It can be helpful our equation, cosine t equals 1/3. We want of t intersects the horizontal line at y equals to our first solution of 1.2310 radiance. our second solution. Notice that it occurs here and all the other initial action points points shifted over by multiples of two pi. x minus one equals two. I'll start by rewriting equivalent to sine x equals three fourths. on the unit circle, we can still use the unit there should be in the interval from zero of a point on the unit circle, we're looking is three fourths. So that might be three fourths about right here. And about right here, so the arc sine of both sides to find one of to be arc sine of three fourths, which my be this angle here. To get the other angle, you can get by going up four pi minus my previous So that's my second angle. Notice that this the first angle, not to pi minus the first we can find all solutions simply by adding solutions on a graph of sine, we're looking intersects with the horizontal line at y equals these two solutions where the second one, and then we have all these additional solutions and negative multiples of two pi from the 10x equals four. If we simply take x to be we'll get a single solution. But thinking that graph with the horizontal line y equals two solutions in the interval from zero to of tangent is pi. So any one solution will makes sense by thinking about the unit circle. of a line at angle theta takes on all positive the third quadrant. So there are going to tangent is for. We've already found this one. pi. This gives us our answer for the interval two pi to get all other solutions. Or if we the first solution plus multiples of pi instead by exactly pi. Taking the first solution, all solutions corresponding to both of these our solutions to cosine t equals m, we need two pi a minus this solution and add multiples to the equation, sine t equals n. We can start this and adding multiples of to pi. To find take t equal tan inverse of P, and tan inverse Or we can just take 10 inverse of P, and add we saw were more simple than some, because function always landed us in the first quadrant, all for this video on solving trig equations identities involving trig functions like sine examples that just involve quadratic functions. I can rewrite it x squared minus 6x minus times x plus one equals zero, set the factors plus one equals zero. And that gives me the one. Next, let's look at this more complicated x by multiplying out the right hand side. side. So that gives me x squared minus 6x. equal to x squared minus 6x. That's true no all values of x satisfy this equation, we numbers. The second equation is called an of the variable. The first equation, on the only holds for some values of x and not all and try to decide which of the following three these equations hold for all values of the test them by plugging in a few values of the first equation is not an identity. It does x equals zero, then sine of two times zero zero. So it does hold when x is zero. However, times pi over two, that's the same thing as of pi over two, that's two times one, or two, does not hold for x equals pi over two. Since it's not an identity. The second equation for this by plugging in numbers. For example, one is the same thing as negative of cosine cosine of pi over six plus pi is the same even if we check a zillion examples, that's holds, we could have just gotten lucky with bit stronger evidence by looking at graphs, pie graph, y equals cosine of theta plus pi. over to the left by pi. On the other hand, that's the graph of cosine theta, reflected same graph. So graphing both sides gives us it holds for all values of theta. Now the proof, which we'll do later in the course, sum of two angles. In the meantime, let's C is an identity. And we could build evidence or by graphing the left side and the right the graphs coincided. But for this example, verification. In particular, I'm going to rewrite things and rewrite things until I first thing I'll rewrite is secant and tangent and cosine. Since secant of x is one over cosine x, I can rewrite this expression as x over cosine x. I can clean up those fractions sine squared x over cosine x. Now, I noticed So I can pull them together as one minus sine rewrite the numerator one minus sine squared that cosine squared x plus sine squared x squared x is equal to cosine squared x just So I can replace my numerator, one minus sine one cosine from the top and from the bottom, is the right hand side that I was trying to and the Pythagorean identity allows me to of x, it's an identity. The best way to prove algebra, and to use other identities, like of the equation, till it looks like the other is not an identity is to plug in numbers that not true. Now, if you're just trying to decide not worried about proving it, then I recommend and right sides to see if those graphs are that holds for all values of the variable. called the Pythagorean identities. The first sine squared theta equals one. The second secant squared theta. And the third one goes squared theta. Let's start by proving that equals one. I'll do this by drawing the unit the definition of sine and cosine, the x&amp;y and sine theta, the high partners of my triangle circle. Now the length of the base of my triangle point. So that's equal to cosine theta. The as the y coordinate of this point. So that's right triangles says this side length squared squared. So by the Pythagorean theorem, we squared equals one squared, I can rewrite theta equals one, since one squared is one, notation for cosine theta squared. That completes at least in the case when the angle theta the angle was in a different quadrant, you holds. But I won't give the details here. squared theta plus one equals secant squared identity, which said that cosine squared theta to divide both sides of this equation by cosine left side by breaking apart the fraction into plus sine squared theta over cosine squared squared theta is just one. And I can rewrite of theta squared. That's because when I square and square the denominator. And sine squared Similarly, for cosine squared theta. Now on this fraction as one over cosine theta squared. I just get the one squared, which is one divided I'm almost done. sine theta over cosine theta over cosine theta is the same thing as secant says one plus tan squared theta equals sequencer the identity that we were looking for. The is very similar. Once again, I'll start with squared theta equals one. And this time, I'll break up the fraction on the left. And now over sine theta squared plus one equals one can be written as cotangent. And one over me the identity that I'm looking for. We've one, we proved using the unit circle and the identities, we proved by using the first identity formulas are formulas for computing the sine of two angles, the sine of a difference of of two angles. Please pause the video for it true that the sine of A plus B is equal not true. And we can see by an example, if equals pi, then the sine of pi over two plus over two, which is negative one. Whereas the equal to one plus zero, which is one, negative does not hold for all values of a and b. There hold. For example, if a is zero and B zero, need more complicated formulas. It turns out A plus B is given by sine of A cosine of B A plus B is given by cosine A, cosine B minus with a song, sine cosine cosine sine cosine back up the video and sing along with me, for the sine of a sum of angles and the cosine to figure out the sine and cosine of a difference of sine of A minus B as sine of A plus negative this works out two, sine cosine plus cosine, is even, I know that cosine of negative B of negative b is negative sine of B. So I minus cosine of A sine of B. Notice that this as the formula for the sum is just that plus same trick for cosine of A minus B, that's A cosine minus b minus sine of A sine of negative gives us cosine A cosine B plus sine A sine is almost exactly like the for the sum, just Now let's use the angle sum formula to find Now, 105 degrees is not a special angle on sum of two special angles, I can write it the sine of 105 degrees is the sine of 60 this is sine, cosine, cosine, sine. And I, sine of 60 degrees is root three over two of 60 degrees is one half, and sine of 45 to root six plus root two over four. For our W, given the values of cosine v, and cosine the first quadrant. Remember, to compute the the two cosines. That wouldn't even make sense point seven would give something bigger than than one. Instead, we have to use the angle of v plus w equals cosine, cosine, minus sine, v and the cosine of W. So I could just plug of v and the sine of W from the given information. So here, I'm going to draw a right triangle angle W. Since I know that the cosine of V over 10. And I can think of that as adjacent decorate my triangles adjacent side with the since I know that the cosine of W is point seven on this adjacent side and attend on Theorem, lets me compute the length of the the square root of 10 squared minus nine squared, And here I have the square root of 10 squared root of 51. I can now find the sine of V as the square root of 19 over 10. And the sine Because we're assuming v and w are in the need to be positive, so we don't need to Jimmy our answers, we can just leave them as is. So we have that cosine of v plus w is equal square root of 19 over 10, times the square works out to a decimal approximation of 0.3187. formulas and use them to compute some values. please watch my other video. Remember the for computing sine of A plus B, and cosine cosine, sine, cosine, cosine minus sine sine. formulas. There are many great proofs of the with you one of my favorites for those who up here, so we'll know what we're trying to by drawing an angle A and angle B on top of to this middle line. And I'm going to extend making a right triangle. Finally, I'll draw just touches its vertices. My rectangle is And I'm going to choose units of measurement, has length one. Now let's stop for a minute Since the top and the bottom edge of the rectangle is a transversal. This angle up here must Also, this skinny angle here must have the is 180 degrees, minus 90 degrees minus this the measure of the angles in a triangle minus label this skinny angle with a. Next, let's Based on the middle right triangle with high down here must be cosine of B, since adjacent side length here must be sine of B. Since we see that sine of B is the hypotenuse of little side here has measure sign a time sign of this angle has to equal sign a. A similar measure cosine A time sign B. Please pause side length of this right triangle. In this A cosine B cosine A cosine B, sine of A plus have a rectangle here. So the opposite sides of A plus B has to equal sine of A cosine exactly the first angle sum formula. Also, is exactly the difference of this side length sine of A sine B. And that's the second angle geometric proof of the angle some formulas. theta and cosine of two theta. Please pause this equation sine of two theta equals two true means always true for all values of theta, false. This equation is false, because it's to see this is graphically, if I graph y equals sine theta, squished in horizontally by a I graph y equals two sine theta, that's like by a factor of two. These two graphs are not formula for sine of two theta. And that formula theta. It's not hard to see why that formula that sine of A plus B is equal to sine A, sine of two theta, which is sine of theta theta, plus cosine theta sine theta. simply this angle, some formula. Well, sine theta sine theta. So I can rewrite this as twice formula. There's also a formula for cosine theta minus sine squared theta. Again, we this comes from. cosine of A plus B is equal B. So if we want cosine of two theta, that's cosine theta cosine theta, minus sine theta This can be rewritten as cosine squared theta the formula above. Now there are a couple are also popular. One of them is one minus is cosine of two theta is two cosine squared two formulas from the original one using the squared theta plus sine squared theta is one. squared theta. If I plug that into my original in instead of cosine squared, I'm going to have a nother minus sine squared theta. So grade data, which is exactly what I'm looking identity to write sine squared theta as one this equation and copy it below. But this right here. So that gives me cosine of two one minus cosine squared theta. That simplifies distributing the negative sign, and combining for sine of two theta. And I have three versions two theta. Now let's use these formulas in theta. If we know that cosine theta is negative quadrant three, we have a choice of three to choose the second one, because it only And I already know my value for cosine theta. but then I'd have to work out the value of two theta is twice negative one over root tenths minus one or negative eight tenths, the equation two cosine x plus sine of 2x is that one of the trig functions has the has the argument of 2x. So I want to use my I'll copy down the two cosine x, and now sine this point, I see a way to factor my equation, of these two terms. That gives me one plus That means that either two cosine x is equal That simplifies two cosine x equals zero, I see that cosine of x is zero at pi over x is negative one at three pi over two, there's is going to be pi over two plus multiples of two pi. This video proved the double angle cosine theta. and cosine of two theta is cosine also proved two alternate versions of the is about the half angle formulas for computing over two. Cosine of theta over two is either cosine theta over two. To figure out whether about what quadrant, the angle theta over two to be negative, then you're gonna need to be positive, then of course, you want the is always positive. Notice that this formula the square root sign is always going to be be any more negative than negative one, we two, and that's plus or minus the square root that the formulas for both cosine of A half in them, they just differ by the positive root. To see why these formulas hold, let's we know that cosine of 2x is equal to two cosine of 2x as one minus two, sine squared cosine of 2x as cosine squared x minus sine to our discussion right now. So I'm going going to make the substitution theta equals is two cosine squared theta over two minus over two. Now, I'm going to solve for cosine sides. Divide both sides by two gives me that cosine of theta over two is of cosine theta plus one over two, which is a similar process out with the second formula. that x is theta over two, that gives me cosine over two. Now I'll solve for sine of theta theta over two to both sides. Next, I'll subtract both sides by two. And finally, I'll take me sine of theta over two is plus or minus over two, which is the formula I was looking know where they come from, let's use them is four fifths, and theta is between pi over quadrant, we want to find the exact values two. Since theta is between pi over two and four and pi over two. So theta over two is that cosine theta over two and sine theta down my half angle formulas. And I know I the positive version. Now unfortunately, I'm cosine theta, so I can't plug in directly, out what cosine might be. I'll draw a right of theta is four fifths, I'll decorate the That means that this side length is going minus four squared, which is the square root theta is going to be either plus or minus Now since I'm in the angle, the second quadrant to be negative three fifths. Now I can plug over two is going to be the square root of to the square root of two fifths divided by over the square root of five. Sine of theta theta, so that's one minus negative three one plus three fifths, or eight fifths over the square root of five. In this video, we and the sine of A half angle and use them finding the lengths of all the sides and the In this example, we're given the length of we know the measure of this right angle is the third angle labeled capital A, and the b and lowercase C. To find the measure of of the three angles of a triangle add up to plus 90 degrees plus a is equal to 180 degrees. minus 49 degrees, which works out to 41 degrees. a couple of possible options. We could use opposite over adjacent is B over 23. So b to 26.46 units. Alternatively, we could use b since now if we're looking at the angle that's a little bit harder to solve algebraically. which means that B is 23 divided by 1041 degrees 26.46. The reason we want to use tan in this tan of say 49 degrees relates the unknown that we know the measure of if we had use 49 is B over C and we'd have two unknowns, to find the side length C, we can have a few For example, we could use the cosine of 49 which is 23 oversee. Solving for C, we get to 35.06 units. Another option would be to we know 23 squared plus b squared equals c plus 26.46 squared equals c squared, which which works out again to 35.06. To review is equal to 180 degrees. We used facts like and similar facts about sine and cosine. And us to find all the angles and side lengths of one side and the angle of one of the non we don't know any of the angles except for lengths. To find the unknown angle theta, overhype hotness, so that's 10 over 15. Cosine this equation relates our unknown angle to in our equation to solve for. To solve for 10/15 which is 0.8411 radians, or 48.19 degrees. use the fact that sine of fee is 10 over 15 a little easier just to use the fact that us that fee plus 90 plus 48.19 is equal to we can find x, either using a trig function it using a trig function, we could write down 10. To find that using the Tyrion theorem, equals 15 squared. I'll use the Pythagorean root of 15 squared minus 10 squared. That use many of the same ideas as in the previous of the angles is 180. The Pythagorean theorem cosine, we also use the inverse trig functions angle. This video showed how it's possible right triangle. And then measures of all the the measure of one angle and one side or from means finding all the lengths of the sides information. The Law of Cosines is a tool not necessarily right triangles. Recall that triangle, like this one, the length of the sides by the formula c squared equals a squared of cosines. As a generalization of the Pythagorean right triangles. loosely speaking, the Law a squared plus b squared plus a correction on the size of the angle, that's opposite left, the angle that's opposite to side C c squared is exactly equal to a squared plus angle opposite decides C prime is a little the side length C prime should be a little previous triangle that had the same side length should be less than a squared plus b squared, equal a squared plus b squared minus a little C double prime is a little bigger than 90 should be a little bit longer than the side size legs. So C double prime squared should can write this as C double prime squared is bit. The Law of Cosines says precisely what that for any triangle with sides, a B and c squared is equal to a squared plus b squared what happens with this equation when angle and greater than 90 degrees. If angle C is C is equal to zero. So we have that c squared ordinary Pythagorean Theorem. If on the other from the unit circle, we know that cosine positive number, and we'll be subtracting just like we saw in the picture. Finally, we can see from the unit circle that cosine C is going to be less than zero. And we're which means we're actually adding a little When labeling a triangle, the convention is lowercase letters for the side lengths. And When we wrote the law of cosines, on the previous plus b squared minus two A B, cosine angle a, which side we call B, and which side we is opposite to the side and between these written a squared is equal to b squared plus done is replace C with A, A with B, and B we could put the B squared on the left side c squared minus two a C, cosine B, we can convenient for the problem at hand. Let's lengths and angles in this triangle. By convention, a and the side opposite angle B, little B. angle between them. So that's an S, a s, side law of cosines, with the unknown side, c squared for the variables on the right side. So let's mode to find that c squared is equal to 44.44. to 6.67. Next, I'll use the law of cosines. of the Law of Cosines that has cosine be right squared on the left side and goes b squared a C, cosine B. I can plug in values for all B. To do that, I'll subtract eight squared I'll divide both sides by negative two times gives me that cosine of B is equal to negative that my angle B must be greater than 90 degrees, take cosine inverse of both sides to get that which works out to 96.73 degrees. The last could use the Law of Cosines again, and work here. But a simpler thing to do is to use equals 180 degrees. In other words, a plus So A is going to be 180 minus 37 minus 96.73, example, we were given two sides, and the we're given three side lengths. So I'll call we need to find all three angles. Although the ideas are the same as in the previous the form of the Law of Cosines That has cosine left side. To find angle A, we need the form the right side and little a on the left side. Law of Cosines that has cosine of B on the side. For each of these three equations, I'll and use inverse cosine to find my angles. point 20 degrees, and 87.79 degrees add up is just around off error. In fact, I could the measure of angle C, and the measure of degrees to get the measure of angle B. In used it to solve some triangles. The Law of Theorem, with the correction factor to account Recall that solving a right triangle means the measures of the angles from partial information. us solve triangles that are not necessarily theorem says that for a right triangle, like plus b squared. I like to think of the law Theorem, two triangles that are not necessarily of Cosines says that c squared is equal to factor where the correction factor depends see, in this first triangle, on the left, So we know that c squared is equal to exactly triangle, the angle opposite to side C prime this side, C prime should be a little shorter C prime squared is equal to a squared plus says the angle opposite to side C double prime side length should be a little bit bigger it as a squared plus b squared plus a little this little correction factor is. It says C and angle capital C are opposite to side squared minus two A B, cosine of angle C. 90 degrees, cosine of C is going to be a positive quantity, just like we saw in the picture 90 degrees, then cosine of c is negative. actually adding a little bit, and we get a a triangle, the convention is to use lowercase letters for the angles, and to put angle A the law of cosines, on the previous page, squared minus two A B, cosine C. But it doesn't call B, and which side the coffee. All that this side, and between these two sides, so equals b squared plus c squared minus two plus c squared minus two a C, cosine B, we most convenient for the problem at hand. Let's the angles of this triangle, by convention, B, side, little B, and the side opposite angle and the angle between them, we have all the cosines. So I'll plug that in. And use a calculator 44.44. taking the square root, I get that To find the angle B, I need to use a version of angle B here, so it'll need to mention form b squared. On the left, I'll get a squared the right, I'll plug in values from my side by subtracting eight squared, and 6.67 squared by negative two times eight times 6.67. using B is equal to negative point 1172. The negative must be greater than 90 degrees, which agrees of both sides to get that b is equal to cosine out to 96.73 degrees. The last thing I have Law of Cosines again, and work it out just method is to just use the fact that the sum be 180 degrees minus 37 degrees minus 96.73 In the previous example, we were given two angle, were given instead, three side lengths, there are a lot of computations involved, problem. To find angle capital C, we need of capital C on the right side, to find capital that has cosine of B on the right side, and equals a squared plus c squared minus two a little A squared on the left side. So that For each of these three equations, I'll plug of the angle and use inverse cosine to find degrees, 87.79 degrees, and 32 point 20 degrees just a tiny bit off due to roundoff error. by just finding the measure of angle C, and subtracting their sum from 180 degrees to law of cosines and used it to solve some triangles. Pythagorean Theorem with an adjustment factor triangles. The Law of Sines is a tool that necessarily right triangles. It's especially and it can also be used in this situation not between them. The Law of Sines says that two sides, lowercase a, b, and c respectively. of side A is equal to the sine of B over B, C. Notice that we're taking the sine of the side lengths. Suppose we know that angle A Side B is 20 degrees, we want to solve the sides and the measure of the third angle. the third angle by subtracting from 180 degrees. Law of Sines to find my remaining side lengths. of angle A over side length A is equal to I already know three of these quantities, plug in and solve for the unknown side length then multiply both sides by 20 over the sine to 20 sine 55 oversized 58, which works out same method to find side length See, this see in our equation. And we could use either for the other side. I'll plug in values as In the previous example, we use the Law of because we already knew the angles. In this And we're going to need to solve for some write down the law of sines and start solving angle. But there can be two plausible angles if sine of the angle happens to be one half, or 150 degrees. In some cases, this can lead conditions given When this happens, and there ambiguous case. With that warning, let's figure in my given information into the law of signs, where there's only one unknown to solve for. times sine 40 degrees over seven, which works see that there'll be two possible angles with in the second quadrant. If I take sine inverse in the first quadrant, which is 47.27 degrees. so is this angle here. And so the angle that going 180 minus 47.27 degrees, which works an acute angle, the other one and obtuse angle, the possible triangles in both triangles, B is the same But everything else is different. and side in each case. In the left side, I'll C, by taking 180 degrees minus angle B minus 90 degrees 92.73 degrees. Now we can use either find the final side length C, I'll use the of angle C into this part of my equation, degrees times seven over sine 40 degrees, triangle, we can carry out the same steps of Sines. To get side length to see, we finish these given side length, and angle. In this triangle in two different situations. In the side between them. So that's an A s, a triangle, we ended up just using the law of science ambiguity. In the second situation, we had and an angle that was not between them. So did find two possible triangles. That would two possible triangles. Sometimes when you the other angles and side lengths, you'll for example, that's got to be negative. Because degrees by but you do have to be on the lookout a triangle with the SSA information given. of a parabola. Its vertex, focus and directrix. all points that are equidistant the same distance horizontal line y equals negative P. I'm assuming the origin will be among those points as it the line. But the other points on the x axis the point. So if I want the set of points of the line, that's going to be a curve that example, a point out here will be the same line. So our intuition is suggesting that a parabola. Let's confirm this with some algebra. x, y, its distance from the point zero P is squared plus y minus p squared. Its distance given by its difference in Y coordinates. y plus P. Let me set these two quantities both sides to get on the left x minus zero y minus p squared equals y plus p squared. plus y squared minus two p y plus p squared The P squares cancel out as do the Y squared, y after move In this negative two p y to the one over four p x squared. And you might recognize transformed by vertically stretched it stretching for pee. You might recall that this lowest This point here is called its focus. And the that the number of P in this equation represents and also represents the distance between the if you're interested in the focus and the more useful than the equivalent form something distance P is more hidden. Now, so far, we've than zero. Let's look for a moment at what we draw the point zero, P is going to be below P is going to be above the x axis because makes it a positive y value. Our parabola works out the same is just in our equation, number instead of a positive one. Or if we more familiar, our coefficient of x squared signifies that the parabola is pointing down. to talk about distances, we should write absolute things sideways by looking at the equation zero. on the x axis. Here, we're assuming and a vertical line at x equals negative P. a parabola pointing sideways. And we can work for it. Starting with an arbitrary point, going to be given by x minus p squared plus line x equals negative P is going to be given going to be x minus negative p, or just x to each other, square both sides like before, squared equals four p x, which I could also or x equals A y squared, where my a corresponds negative, then I probably pointing the opposite same, it'll just have a negative coefficient number of being hidden inside this variable me the distance between the vertex and the the vertex and the directrix. Now let's find some arbitrary point h k instead of the origin, If the parabola had its vertex at the origin, x squared equals four p y, or I could rewrite So this parabola should just be shifted to of functions. We know we can accomplish this putting a plus k on the outside. In other P times x minus h squared. Or we can write y minus k. So this is the original All with by shifting right and up to have a vertex the same. It's just you stuck in a minus h transform parabola will have its focus, a going to be the point h, k plus p, that's down from the vertex. So that's going to be the same for this other parabola pointing case, the same story holds for the parabola y squared equals four p x gets transformed k squared equals four p x minus h. This time, right of my vertex. So here it would be h over by P also from the vertex. So this would works the same way, when the parabola is opening, P is negative. Let's use this information at two, four, and focus at negative one, four. help me see how the parabola is lined up. focus is at negative one, four. So here's has its focus, that means that this problem like this. The directrix is going to be on as the distance between the vertex and the three to minus negative one is three, the the right, and so that would be the line x left, I know I need to use the form of the minus h, where h k is the vertex, so that's negative. And since the absolute value of and the focus, I know that P must be negative get y minus four squared equals four times that to y minus four squared equals negative special forms of the equation for a parabola, x minus h, and x minus h squared equals four the vertex and PS absolute value gives the and between the vertex and the directrix. if p is bigger than zero, and left if p is are opening up if p is bigger than zero, and about ellipses. Recall that a circle can be from a fixed point is a constant. And he lips the sum of the distances from two fixed points focuses or foe sigh The sum of the distances string, which is held constant as I draw the ellipse in more detail. In these pictures, The red line segment that cuts through the and passes through this low sigh, it's called through the middle of the ellipse in the shorter two points at the tips of the ellipse where are called the vertices. And ellipse could consider ellipses that are elongated either direction. Let's find the equation of an ellipse zero, and whose vertices are at negative a elongated in the horizontal direction. For the distance from x y to the first focus, to be some constant. And in fact, it turns show you why. If you look at this point right its distance from the first focus is going from the second focus is just going to be minus c plus a minus C, you get exactly to the distance from a point x y to the first to be the square root of x minus negative distance from x y to the second focus, the of x minus c squared plus y minus zero squared. a fair amount of algebra, this simplifies squared plus a squared y squared equals a we let b squared equals a squared minus c x squared plus a squared y squared equals by a squared b squared, this gives us the over a squared plus y squared over b squared minus c squared, it follows that b is less minor axis. In other words, this point right is the point zero negative B. To see why this The sum of the side lengths that I've drawn So that equals to a, which means each of these triangle is C. So by the Pythagorean Theorem, c squared. Since b squared is defined as a be B. To summarize, for a number a bigger plus y squared over b squared equals one represents direction, whose major axis terminates in minor access terminates in the points zero points negative c zero, and c zero. And the is a squared minus c squared equivalently. b squared from both sides, we can write See The way I remember this is that the biggest going to be a, since a is half the length the length of the minor axis, and definitely and one of the focuses. Since a is the biggest, between a, b and c, the equation must be b can be rearranged to either of these two equations. than B still, but this time, we're dividing x squared by the smaller number squared? Well, y in my equation. And so we end up with the the points, zero a, and zero negative a, whereas axis going in between negative b zero, and here on the y axis again. So in this case, Our previous ellipses were centered at the of an arbitrary point, HK, well, then we need direction, and K in the vertical direction. a squared plus y squared over b squared equals over a squared plus y minus k squared over B, that's for an ellipse elongated in the elongated in the vertical direction, we'll the roles of x and y. So this becomes x squared equals one for the center at the origin. And over b squared plus y minus k squared over below. With some thought we can label key over by an amount a, since a is half the length H plus a, k was this vertex will be h minus b, and this one, h k minus b, the fo cy are label the points on the ellipse that's elongated of the ellipse drawn below, and then we'll direction, right here. Its top vertex is at at the point for negative nine. Its center is right here, at the point four, negative at the end of the minor axis. So this one at negative one, negative three. Since my an equation of the form x minus h squared a squared equals one with a bigger than be to four negative three, a is half the length distance between this point and this point, and see that a is equal to six. B is half the difference in x coordinates of these two that all into my equation, I get that x minus three squared over six squared equals one, the major axis somewhere above and below the need to use the fact that c squared is equal c squared is six squared minus five squared, root of 11, which is a little bit bigger than of squared of 11, above and below the center, three plus a squared of 11 and four, negative detailed the anatomy of ellipse, including and its fossa. This video is about hyperbolas. of points x y, such that the sum of the distances fo cy is a constant. Well, I hyperbola is of the distances between x y and each of two In this picture on the left, the two blue The two red points are the focuses or foe If I look at the distance from x, y to one focus, the difference of those two distances on the hyperbola that I choose. If I draw is called the transverse axis. In this left And the hyperbola itself reminds me of a person picture, our transverse axis between the two itself kind of reminds me of a person standing to be oriented other ways besides horizontally and vertical orientations in this video. If the blue branches of the hyperbola, you'll the vertices. Notice that the vertices are closest to one another. The point halfway between the two foes side is called the center that I've drawn that form an X are not actually asymptotes. And you can think of them as guidelines gets closer and closer to these asymptotes, the asymptotes later. Let's find the equation c zero, and c zero, and vertices at negative at center at the origin. From the distance have a point x, y on the hyperbola, then if first focus, and the distance to the second We're always taking the positive difference take the distance to the left focus minus if we happen to be on the left branch, then focus minus the shorter distance, the left we should always get the same number. And I'll show you why. The reason is, if I take distance to this focus is exactly c minus to that focus is going to be well let's see, So that different distance will be a plus difference, A plus A plus c minus a minus c plus a, which is two a. Now I'll focus on write a formula for its distance to this point. be x minus negative c squared plus y minus distance. Now I subtract the shorter distance, the distance formula gives me x minus c squared equal to A for any point on that right branch. a little bit. After that a chunk of algebra, this equation to see squared minus a squared equals a squared times c squared minus a squared. is appearing a couple times here, I'm going squared b c squared minus a squared. Now I minus a squared y squared equals a squared b squared, you'll have the equation x squared equals one. In this equation, notice that to a vertex. The quantity C is not directly b by this equation, which can also be rewritten Or if you prefer, a squared equals c squared remember that C, which is the distance from the three quantities A, B, and C. So you might I'm going to draw a box, whose center is at in a from either direction left, right, and and down. It turns out that the corners of lines. In other words, the slope of this asymptote, this asymptote that's slipping downwards. a. So I can actually write the equations of at the origin as y equals B over A x and y work for a standing up hyperbola with its me rearrange things. And we'll see what changes In this case, where we have a vertical transverse switched. So our equation, which we could a squared minus x squared over b squared equals equals a squared plus b squared. And the two minus a squared, and a squared equals c squared the center to the vertex. And c still represents our box will extend up and down by a units the slope of the asymptote, the rise over that sloped up and negative a Overby for the which go through the center at the origin over b x and y equals negative a over bx. a is going with x in one form of the equation but it always goes with the positive term, B goes with the negative term, the term that x squared or the Y squared determines the way. So far, we've been considering only hyperbola for them, if we sent her as an arbitrary point, term and subtract k from the y term. The graphs get to the vertices, we just start at the and down by a depending on which way the hyperbola plus a K, and H minus A k. Whereas over here, a. To get to the focuses, we have to go over equals a squared plus b squared. Finally, as before. But this time, they have to go of 00. Their equations are going to be given y minus k is negative B over A x minus h, thing y minus k equals a over b x minus h, over b, x minus h. We've done all the abstract If we're given this hyperbola, we can read the x term is positive, I'm gonna let A be square root of 25. Since the x term is positive, is going to be oriented standing up like this. from the center to each vertex is given by will have coordinates for negative three, eight, negative three. To find the full side, squared plus b squared, or four plus 2529. ballpark position of my first eye here, and the center is six, so six minus square 29, six plus squared of 29 negative three. Finally, the center with slope given by B over A, which five halves. The equations for those lines equals five halves x minus six, and y plus six. This gives a decent rough sketch of the I could also plot some points by plugging In this video, we gave two equations for hyperbolas. is oriented. A has to do with the distance c, which can be figured out from the equation is going to represent the distance from the help determine the slope of the asymptotes. Polar Coordinates give an alternative way plane. Instead of describing a point in terms Cartesian coordinates of the point. When using point in terms of radius r, and an angle theta. and theta is the angle that radius line makes points given in polar coordinates. So the the negative two thirds pi is the value of that I need to go clockwise from the positive I normally would for a positive angle. So I need to go to this line right here. And go eight lines out from the origin. So my point has a radius of five and an angle of that I go counterclockwise starting at the two pi. And here, I've got an extra pi to I need to go five units out from the origin. I could have also labeled this point with more than one way to assign polar coordinates pi over four, and a radius of negative 12. to the other side of the circle before I plot the point at an angle of pi over four and here, I go to the opposite side of the circle, origin, but 180 degrees or pi radians around labeled this point using a positive radius plus pi, or five pi over four. And in general, r theta means the same point as the point pi just makes us jump around to the opposite and Cartesian coordinates, it's handy to use to r cosine theta, y is equal to r sine theta which means that R is plus or minus the square theta is equal to y divided by x. Let's see a point with coordinates, x, y, and draw lines triangle is y, the length of the base is x. is the measure of this interior angle. From adjacent over high partners. So that's x over theta. Similarly, sine theta is opposite over y is equal to r sine theta. That gives us tells us that x squared plus y squared is third equation. Finally, tangent theta is which is the fourth equation. To convert five, coordinates, we just use the fact that x equals So in this case, x is equal to five times times square root of three over two, and y So that's equal to negative five halves to to polar coordinates, we know that negative we need to use the fact that r squared is is negative one squared plus negative one over x, so that's negative one over negative r and theta that satisfy these equations are root of two, and theta could be Pi over four, of two pi to either of these answers. But to the right point. The point with Cartesian in the third quadrant. But if we use a theta of square root of two, that would get us to use the polar coordinates of square root of negative square root of two, and pi over four. either of these values of theta, and get yet polar coordinates. This video talked about Cartesian coordinates and polar coordinates, video introduces the idea of parametric equations, f of x, we can describe the x coordinates third variable t, usually thought of as time. y as a separate function of t. This is especially satisfy the vertical line test, and therefore of y in terms of x. A Cartesian equation for only. parametric equations for a curve give usually T. The third variable is called the graph the parametric equations given here this by finding x and y coordinates that correspond t is negative two, you can calculate that you five and why, when you plug in negative video for a moment and fill in some additional of t. Your chart should look like this. And dots, we get something like this. It says of negative two. And this point over here think of t as time, we're traversing the curve for this curve, we need to eliminate the variable is to solve for t and one equation, say the x, which means that t is one half minus x for t into the second equation and get y equals which simplifies to the quadratic equation, 17 fourths. Let's try some more examples. us draw the familiar graph of a circle of since the equations x equals cosine t and a way of describing the x&amp;y coordinates of t equals zero, our curve lies on the positive pi, we traverse the curve once in the counterclockwise circle is given by the equation x squared the trig identity cosine squared t plus sine for cosine t, and y for sine t. Please pause curve and rewrite it as a Cartesian equation. the graph is again a unit circle. But this we actually traverse the circle twice in the double arrow going clockwise. The Cartesian plus y squared equals one. And so we found graph on the X Y axis. Let's take a look at specified for t here. So let's just assume from negative infinity to infinity, our Y between one and negative one. Our x values the graph of this curve has to lie on the parabola. But a parametrically defined curve that y is given by cosine of t. So y can only we're only getting the portion of the parabola zero to pi, I traverse this parabola one time. back again in the other direction. And as infinitely many times. The Cartesian equation squared with the restriction that y is between where we went from parametric equations to a Cartesian equation and rewrite it as a parametric as a function of x. So an easy way to parameterize. y is equal to the square root of t squared restriction in terms of x just translates the copycat parameterization. Since we've but T just copies, whatever x does. In the to t, then we get 25 t squared plus 36. Y we'd have y squared equals 900 minus 25 t square root of this quantity? This is a very that even a function of t here because of a better way to parameterize this curve. Because is a good candidate for parameterizing using sides of the equation by 900, we get 25x squared to one, which simplifies to x squared over If I rewrite this as x over six squared plus x over six equal to cosine of t, and y over for any value of t, x over six and y over cosine squared plus sine squared equals one. six cosine of t, y equals five sine of t, As a final example, let's describe a general point, x, y on the circle, we know that the of the circle is equal to r. So using the root of x minus h squared plus y minus k squared gives us the equation for the circle in Cartesian has radius five, and has Center at the point, minus negative three, that's x plus three 25. One way to find the equation of a general with the unit circle and work our way up. centered at the origin is given by the equation we want a circle of radius r centered around everything by a factor of R. So we multiply the center to be at HK instead of at the origin, and add K to all our Y coordinates. This gives equations. to match the Cartesian equation and parametric equations as x equals five plus 17. In this video, we translated back parametric equations with a special emphasis about the difference quotient, and the average related to the concept of derivative and calculus. whose graph right here, a secant line is a the graph of the function. I'm going to label this point here on the graph is going to have a, the second point will have x value B and for a function on the interval from a to b line between the two points A F of A and B over the run, or the change in y over the coordinates f of b minus F of A over the difference average rate of change. To put this in context, of a tree. And x represents time in years, in height, or the amount the tree grows. And so a time period. So this average rate of time period. For example, if it grows 10 inches two years, or five inches per year would be of growth, let's compute the average rate root of x on the interval from one to four. minus f of one over four minus one, well, a square root of one. So that's going to be calling these two locations on the x axis, first location, just x and the second location, horizontal distance between these two locations to label this point on the graph of y equals a y coordinate of f of x. The second point a y coordinate of f of x plus h. a difference using this x x plus h notation. So a different of a function, f of x on the interval from quotient represents the slope of the secant the points with coordinates x, f of x, and formula for the difference quotient. Remember could be written as f of b minus F of A over on the x axis. But now I'm calling instead plus h. So I can rewrite this average rate x plus h minus x. That simplifies a little x, I can cancel the Xs, and I get the difference x over h. The quantity h on this nominator represents a difference in x values. Let's for this function given first, or write down That's f of x plus h minus f of x over h. I do this by shoving in x plus h, everywhere that's going to give me two times x plus h how I use parentheses here. That's important entire x plus h for x. So the entire x plus so the parentheses are mandatory. Similarly, x plus h is squared as it needs to be. I mean now. I can multiply out the x plus h squared, sign. So if I multiply out, I'm gonna get Now I can distribute the two to get 2x squared minus x minus h plus three, these two terms get 4x H. And I think that's as simple as out F of x plus h minus f of x. So that's of x. Again, I need to put the F of X formula whole thing. I'll distribute the negative. out. So the 2x squared and the minus 2x squared zero, and the three and the minus three add squared minus h. Finally, I'll write out the by H. I can simplify this further, because of the numerator. If I factor out this H, h, these two H's cancel, and I'm left with one. This difference quotient will become difference quotient for smaller and smaller and ending up with an expression that has or slope of the function itself. In this video, B minus A to calculate an average rate of h minus f of x over h to calculate and simplify