You're probably going to hate me by the Lets start this off by saying that I don't They're average AC games for sure, good that are damn near perfect. Today I'm going to be spelling out my opinions the best, and lets just get this pain train time. Assassin's Creed Rogue I actually read in my comments every day how the story is great etc etc You're wrong - and I'll tell you why. Released on the same day as Unity but for limited. This meant, which is arguably the strongest copied and pasted over from Black Flag, and and more are all largely the same. The naval battles were also expanded, which and the parkour is just as good as Black Flag. But, the world is small, the game length is Rogue is the god awful writing. I loved the idea that we're on the templar awesome, a concept that I'd actually love The execution though is just terrible. They simply make the Assassin's out to be just being the good guys; a simple role reversal. The Assassin's, instead of the Templars for their own gain; and there's also no either, the entire plotline could have been To me, Rogue feels more like an alternate almost insulting to the audience as a long Overall, this entire game just feels like incredibly rushed with a badly written story, I've said this before too, but Shay has making me firmly believe this game deserves "Sorry to drop in on ya" 2007 was a monumental year for gaming, we Uncharted, Crysis, and to top it all off, Actually inspired by the very popular Prince years old, and I'm ashamed to say I can fair to judge this on certain aspects of the were issues with this game. Gameplay wise, the parkour itself was a little cities of Damascus, Jerusalem, and Acre a If I had to give props for the best part of is by no means perfect, but for a first attempt The combat too whilst a little repetitive like grab, counter grab, heavy attack, defence find now that the newer games just have light, There was however lot of distance to cover of this game feel really up and down; but Story wise, and probably my most divisive sucked. You play as Altair, who don't get me wrong but in AC1, he's boring, he has very few an attack dog, He never thinks for himself, murdering whomever Al Mualim tells him too. The gameplay loop is really repetitive too- the city and find some side missions to find guards, return to bureau, and then rinse and Don't get me wrong though, despite this, Creed concept, and was absolutely ground breaking Without it, we wouldn't have the series Creed 1 deserves our respect. I obviously can't not mention that Altair the animus, apparently. Assassin's Creed Mirage Assassin's Creed Mirage again has a very After the period known as the RPG 3, older focused game, and Mirage was supposed to be As you probably know, Mirage initially was decided to make it it's own stand alone It's main positive was undoubtedly an actual In fact if I was rating these games based easily make the top three. It is an absolute joy to take out your enemies those really satisfying throwing knives, and with a good number of black box missions throughout The setting of Baghdad, which looks gorgeous Mirage's stealth, with the parkour; although enjoyable with almost non stop free running If you don't want to, you could almost spend ground. It runs really well too, with everything feeling for some absolutely glorious stealth clips. The controversial Assassin's focus, which your enemies, I actually don't mind. If you want to use it, great, go for it, it don't, you don't have to. I often forget that it even exists. It's biggest issue however in my eyes, is In Mirage, Basim has one set of weapons, a light attack, heavy attack, and parry. I can see what they were trying to do here, which definitely worked - but when you do isn't enjoyable. It's a constant barrage of parrying your next one. I will say though, the combat finishers do is dull as anything. In terms of it's story, it's sadly pretty but mostly it's that same formulaic AC scenario. Basim in himself, to me anyway, is kind of In many ways he just reminds me of a more nod and smile so you know there is some form I won't go into the ending today, as I'm point yet. Content wise too, with that lower price tag story clocking in at around 15 hours, and Overall, the setting and stealth is one of other elements sticking this game in 11thth Assassin's Creed Syndicate of London was, and still is, absolutely gorgeous. Being London born and bred I am trying not Big Ben or St Paul's Cathedral, whilst traversing is absolutely iconic. The time period of 19th century London is ever, which in some sense aids to the games The parkour, whilst almost identical to Unity's, of London doesn't always allow it too; you great, give you a lack of parkour opportunity. Here is why they added the grappling hook, repetitive, and further negates that need Assassin's Creed game. The combat in Syndicate too definitely divides Not only were enemies absolute tanks who can is designed with putting your enemies into around whilst you stun everyone else, and a giant kill animation. They're also only 3 weapons in the game, in my opinion just feels lazy. With our protagonists Evie &amp; Jacob, I actually I enjoyed the concept of the assassin brother and whilst I personally am a fan of Jacob, bring a really jokey tone to everything, which murder around every corner. Our bad guy too, is cartoonishly evil, and Assassin's feels like a really weird choice The story itself is fine and pretty simple, and killing the head honcho, a very standard historical characters along the way, and that Overall, the setting is one of the best in added, but everything else feels pretty formulaic, Assassin's Creed Valhalla I ever made, and I'm a big fan of shows hard for me to look at this objectively. It may surprise you to know, but this is actually all time; however I'd also imagine this Creed games of all time too. As an exploration RPG game, it's honestly The world is vast and beautiful, they're on, finding weapons, world events, raiding even in your ship - and that's outside of long, and the three DLC's on top of that. Combat wise, I actually really really enjoy There is a massive variety of weapons and as well as some really decent kill animations, even playing on the hardest difficulty, you Parkour, whilst in my opinion the mechanics and Origins, is largely useless, as there around on, and very little opportunity for The same can be said for stealth too, where to the environment, but due to the difficulty not needed, and in true Viking fashion, charging thing to do. The story itself is just fine, I like Eivor typical gaming protagonist, a cheeky chap around you taking over England , you go to and on you go. There is actually some decent old school AC the worlds worst modern day protagonist Layla To summarise, AC Valhalla is a great RPG game, some would say too much, but it's absolutely think they're part of the same series. Assassin's Creed Odyssey and again, I think it's a really solid RPG Graphically it's utterly incredible, with is the furthest back Assassin's Creed has to look at, and despite it's size it doesn't Again much like Valhalla, they're bags of largest complaints about the game; although boasts the largest map of the series, although 45 hours. With the story, it's not bad, better than is why I've decided it's just managed It's very much a Greek tragedy which obviously liked the whole choose Kassandra or Alexios choose a multitude of endings, I can understand The combat too, is enjoyable, and again much weapons and abilities for you to try out, off cliff edges being everyone's favourite. But again like Valhalla, and we're following lacking. In Odyssey, you're not an Assassin, and you instead have the spear of Leonidas. Within this, the game forces you to make different you want to, but it'll mean your combat on. There is also a level scaling issue in Odyssey, which we'll get to later, some enemies can topple over. On a positive note, the mythology in the game us some of the best boss battles you're likes of Medusa, The Minotaur, the Sphinx Again just like Valhalla though, it is so but it is a great RPG game, no doubt about By the way guys if you're enjoying this that and subscribe button, as it would really Assassin's Creed Revelations arc, Revelations should have been the ultimate It's best positive for me has to be that aged favourite protagonist, even coupled with our original protagonist Altair, and in my story of the entire franchise, if it wasn't The side characters too are also worth mentioning, out amongst the others. It's next greatest positive has to be fantastic it look great, but it's absolutely built gadget, allowing us extra awesome rooftop "they're two parts, the hook and the blade" let us down in many ways. Whilst the story was great, it only has a content, it's practically non-existent. The next time you decide to load up Brotherhood take a look at the map and how many mission Revelations. It's just downright lazy. To top this off, the side content they did missions, and I'd love to know what the at the time they thought this up. It's not like a terrible game mode, it's Creed game. If it was available for mobile download, hell, Revelations is a good Assassin's Creed game, but it's lacking in actual content to enjoy, greatest Assassin's Creed protagonist is Assassin's Creed 3 Creed games they ever played, and at the time The pacing of the game was a big complaint; man Connor having massive Ezio sized shoes our charismatic Italian, which makes a lot Other complaints included the naval missions, upcoming Black Flag, but they were definitely lots and lots of bugs and glitches. Everyone's biggest complaint though is the to play as our main protagonist for hours. You instead play as the cold British Haytham be a templar, when you then begin playing Connor though actually has extra parkour abilities finally get to playing him there is even more a tutorial. There were a lot of positives though, with but with the parkour now allowing us to climb exploration feel fantastic. Many also claim AC 3 as having the best combat absolutely brutal, making Connor feeling like The story and setting though is probably the Revolutionary War setting being near perfection, to give us as much detail as possible. Within that setting comes a fantastic revenge amazing second antagonist of Charles Lee; tier, particularly those Desmond missions. Some people say that after Desmond died, the to agree. The Homestead missions within the game really character really nicely. We're now eleven years on since Assassin's remastered version from 2019, I would highly To me, it definitely deserves being in the Assassin's Creed Unity of the worst game releases of all time. It was absolutely rammed full of bugs alongside almost ten years on, I'm not going to factor We'll start with it's biggest negative, story. Arno as a character is fine, to offset the us a charismatic French Ezio, your standard of Unity is very similar to AC 2's. Their biggest mistake with the story though, This can hardly be considered a spoiler now you were ever going to play Unity Shay? Considering he is the one to assassinate Arno's were literally setting up potentially the and then just decided to bypass it all together. This would without a doubt have likely increased own both games, and to this day I'm genuinely this. The combat too, to me anyway; is nothing special. It's very much a standard parry and attack unresponsive, or not as quick as you'd like The stealth, particularly when sneaking through places, can also feel a little detached. Now on the good though, and where the game The setting of Paris as a start, is absolutely Graphically, if this game was released today, and bustle of Paris, the grime, the crowds, incredible. The NPC's in this game are actually really experience - if you assassinate someone away from you. You probably know this too, but when the Notre the AC Unity schematics to help with the rebuild Other benefits include the games customisation as well as the new detection system, and the When I was a younger, I can remember coming having an absolute blast. Unity's biggest pro though, of course has I do see some comments actually bashing Unity's agree it is the best Assassin's Creed has Even to this day, YouTubers like Altair Stealth haven't) are still making incredible Unity so addictive. Arno just has a certain panache for free running with that beautiful Paris setting, Unity deserves AC Origins 4th best game in the entire Assassin's Creed of the massive change in format. After the incredibly disappointing sales of launch of Unity I'd add, Assassin's Creed direction, and honestly, I'm glad they did. I've said this before in previous videos, to the RPG style, and had kept going with people would have been moaning. Change is difficult in any circumstance for an AC title, and spending it building a monumental the sales of AC Syndicate, and with good reason. To begin, the setting of Egypt was and still and rich world, teeming with life and so much At this point this was further into the past before, and on top of how good it looks, Origins ancient Egypt we've ever seen. It's so good in fact, that The National gameplay from Assassin's Creed Origins part The other massive positive of this game is Different than your usual good guy hero, Bayek past, out on his own path of personal revenge. We're also treated to his character shaping us the player, a reason to care so badly about On top of this; the voice actor Abubakar Salim, gutted that's cancelled by the way) is incredible, for any Assassin's Creed character so far. The cut scenes too really deserve a mention On top of this, the combat was enjoyable, down a pyramid could be so amazing, and this where we could decide exactly how we played. Origins would be a 10/10 if not for thing, In order to play the Origins storyline , you'd levelling up Bayek until you could move on I really don't mind grinding in games if for a number is a real pain for me, and there With this change in format brought a lack fans just instantly turned their noses at Overall though, this is one of the greatest wise, a fantastic Assassin's Creed game. Assassin's Creed 2 aren't many gamers who don't know the He is without a shadow of a doubt the most within the top 10 gaming characters of all fell in love with Assassin's Creed. He's cocky, funny, loyal, and although outside even the moment he's born. After doing some research I actually found stating that he had little growth throughout safe to say they're in the minority. The story itself is a massive strong point, our happy protagonist and his family, then very eyes, and we follow Ezio's journey as Our villain of Rodrigo Borgia, or future Pope get us all riled up against. The modern day storyline too is one of the from Abstergo, meeting Shaun, Lucy and Rebecca, and everything that then follows. The other massive positive of this game has missions of all time. Whether it's soaring over Italian rooftops a young Ezio against a rival family, or heading missions will stay with me forever. One of the games very few negatives in my any of these incredible missions, you have The setting of renaissance Italy is also absolutely Monteriggioni and more, all of which have historical setting. It also improved on everything from AC 1, combat, and I could not neglect to mention To many, this will always be their favorite Assassin's Creed Black Flag game of all time, we have the legendary Assassin's This is almost a perfect game with so many start with the obvious naval aspects, where to those memorable sea shanties with our crew; to leave. Naval combat too was really satisfying and enemies and a complicated upgrade system. This was the largest Assassin's Creed game world, lush jungles, quaint towns, open seas, Everything in the previous games had been the combat was also on par with some amazing too was absolutely iconic; perhaps only second Our story though just shone through, set during into to a conspiracy between the high-ranking We are treated to a new and extremely likeable different to his future grandson Connor, and Edward is hilarious, strong, serious when end we see a huge change in Edward, with his Supporting Edward too are some very memorable shortly be getting a spin off of his own, ever of Blackbeard, who totally steals whatever It's worth stating that Black Flag was a - sure most of the aspects were very similar, to exploring just a few close knit cities, explore. It was the next step up from AC 3, and I'm - change is after all mostly a good thing. My one and only complaint, and this is definitely tailing missions. Tailing missions are a staple in Assassin's streets or stalk your enemies over rooftops; 25% of the missions, and that is a problem. If it wasn't for this fact, Black Flag would I sincerely hope just like AC 3, we do eventually "Edward, in a world without gold, we might Assassin's Creed Brotherhood so worthy AC Brotherhood. Interestingly, Brotherhood was initially designed bigger and bigger it had to become it's own in 2010. Because of this; the gameplay didn't advance The combat had minor improvements made, where joy, seamlessly combining our hidden blade being incredibly brutal and never getting The parkour was just as on point as it was fantastic, with one added extra bonus. What made Brotherhood truly amazing was the Assassin's on missions. We're not the low level assassin initiate utilising them in times most needed. We we're also introduced to a fantastic particularly the Wanted mode; which is a bit hunting players and also being hunted yourself; like an NPC, adding an actual degree of stealth This servers have been abandoned now, but concept. Our setting of Rome was absolutely gorgeous, like the pantheon, Colosseum and more; and was split into different districts which feel like Baghdad from Mirage or Paris from Unity, feels sort of the same. We're also treated to one of the best villains treacherous he even murders his own father, Taking the fight to the templars, liberating Brotherhood; even the modern day story which hiding out in the Auditore villa, searching The missions are just as iconic as AC 2, whether infiltrating the Colosseum and becoming part of the best boss fights ever. Best thing too, was now you could replay them Like our two previous games, this was incredibly but if I'm really being picky, the biggest feels very out of place, and this makes total There were some issues with Kristen Bell wanting Kristen off, hence why it feels so strange Aside this though, in general the modern day entire series. Overall, it improved on the almost perfect it added a killstreak system, everything was amazing, the story was fantastic, Rome was assassins; and we get to play as Ezio at his game as the best Assassin's Creed game ever. So, do you hate me? Do you agree with my rankings? Let me know down in the comments; and if you Assassin's Creed to take us too next, then