The following under a Creative Your support will help MIT to offer high quality To make a donation or from hundreds of MIT courses, at ocw.mit.edu. PROFESSOR: So into the meat of Matt has very kindly-- has very kindly agreed Yeah, so for those are in recitations talked about polarization And Matt will pick MATTHEW EVANS: So back this was a week ago. We had our that were sorting things. It all seemed very theoretical. And in recitation, I said And I said, look, if we can do exactly the same We just need to set up a and the results are identical. You can use the one But I didn't have this or to give a demo, so here we go. What I'm going to show with something polarized here now I have all vertical and if I just put there, which is going to be the same way, this is all coming through all white. See? It doesn't really do much. And if I look at the of the second Keller the same as turning my so nothing comes out black. So if we remove this you have just exactly You sort here, you have white, Great. Everyone thought that was easy. We all had that figured out. This box got thrown and it became sort of confusing, they were white-- my box in the middle here-- And then if I throw this guy well, they were all white identified the soft ones And now we have white and soft. And it should still So I put this guy on up here. They should all come out And if you say, Well, no, they're not They're some sort of strange All right, so that's this But let me just play the because it's fun. So this is if I say, and how many of them So here I'm saying, white, will come out black? That's the analogy. The answer is none of them. And strangely, if I seems to just attenuate-- and I just stuff I can get something to come have crossed So you can see the middle and you can still see of the crossed polarizers. And as I turn this guy around, The maximum is and then it goes off again. So this is a way our electron-sorting, in terms of polarizations. And here it's just on another vector projected everybody knows how to do. So here's the of the Stern-Gerlach experiment. PROFESSOR: Awesome. So the polarization analogy in quantum mechanics in the texts of So you'll find lots of It's a very useful encourage you to We won't talk about but it's a useful one. All right, before questions from last lecture? Last lecture was pretty It was experimental results. No, nothing? All right. The one thing that I lecture-- one last I glossed over of important, which So we started off we know that if I it's an electromagnetic has some wavelength lambda. And yet the photoelectric that, in addition to having the it has a frequency, as And the photoelectric that the energy is And we write this as h nu and and omega is equal to 2 pi nu. So this is just the angular the number-per-time frequency. And h bar is the So I'll typically write h because these two pi's will don't use the bar. Anyway, so to an we have a wavelength and the photoelectric to predict that the proportional to the frequency, coefficient h bar-- Planck is equal to h upon as-- I'm going to write is equal to h upon h bar is h upon 2 pi. And so k is equal So k is called the should have seen this in 8.03. So these are our basic We know that light, as has a frequency or a wave number, an And the claim of the is that the energy and are thus quantized, that So it has a wave-like has properties that are more Now, early on shortly after a young French physicist named OK, this is true of light. Light has both wave-like and Why is it just light? The world would be if this relation were true of all particles. I am thus conjecturing, that, in fact, not just for light, Any object with momentum p has or a wave number, Every object that has energy a wave with frequency omega. To those electrons that we send experiment apparatus, which are there must be a frequency and a wavelength lambda And what we saw from the was experimental confirmation that electrons have both features simultaneously. So these relations are called BROG-lee&quot;-- I leave it up to that. And those relations are going in the next few lectures. I just wanted to give them This is a good example of the theoretical to an idea that turns out Now, that's a dangerous Boy, wouldn't it be nice if--? Wouldn't it be nice if we but we also had Medicare? So it's not a terribly but sometimes it in the right direction. And this is a great example wildly divorced from in the right direction. I'm making it sound a little it was shocking. It was just shocking. OK, so with that said, for the next few lectures. For the next several lectures, I am not going to give you I've given you I'm going to give you a set These are going to be the And what quantum is a set of rules to allow about the world. And these rules will be awesome And if their predictions are We will avoid bad rules I'm going to give you what years-- wow-- of developing That is amazing. Wow. OK, yeah, over of developing quantum mechanics. And I'm going to give them to and then we're going to work and then we're going to spend studying examples to develop the rules of quantum So we're just going to and start over from scratch. So let me do that. And to begin, let me start with And to understand I want to start with classical So in classical mechanics-- classical system you can-- sitting somewhere. In classical mechanics how do you specify the just different words how do you specify or state of the system? AUDIENCE: By position PROFESSOR: Specify the So in classical mechanics, if the configuration of a is give me x and And if you tell me If you know these numbers, In particular, what you know everything is that, you want to measure-- The energy is just some function And if you know the you can unambiguously Similarly, the angular you can calculate and p-- which is just r cross p. So this gives you complete There's nothing more to Now, there are certainly that you can't answer For example, are there standing behind me? I'm here. I'm not moving. Are there 14 invisible You can't answer that. It's a stupid question, right? OK, let me give you The electron is x Is it happy? Right, so there are still The point is, complete to answer any physically any question that could into an experiment, contained in knowing But this can't possibly be because, as you saw and as we've there's an uncertainty says that your knowledge-- in the position of mechanically-- to say quantum mechanically. I'm just going to So in the real world, in the position of and our uncertainty is always greater than or that's proportional You can't be arbitrarily and of the momentum You worked through a on the problem set. We saw this in the and the interference This is something we're So as a consequence, specify the position with confidence of a system. You can't do it. This was a myth. It was a good approximation-- So the first thing the state, the So what specifies the And so this brings us The configuration, or and here again, I'm going to talk about a single is completely specified by function, which I psi of x, which is The state of the quantum specified once you know the wave is a function of position. Let me emphasize that this is What we're going to do is go of quantum mechanics, then we'll them a little more generality. And then we'll go through full generality. That last pass is 8.05. So let me give Let me just draw some And these are going to turn So for example, consider So here is 0 and we're And then plotting the So first consider a very It's basically 0 has some particular spot Here's another It's basically 0 except for And again, I'm plotting And I'm plotting because A, psi is a complex specifies a complex number. And B, I can't draw So to keep my head I'm just plotting the real But you should never forget that So for the moment, that the imaginary part is 0. I'm just going to So let me draw a What else could be a Well, those are fine. What about-- again, we want going to draw the real part. And another one. So this is going to be a And let me draw two more. So what else could be a Well-- this is harder Oh, God. OK, so that could be the That is actually my signature. My wife calls it a OK, so here's the deal. Psi is a complex function. Psi also needs to not OK so you have to ask me-- Any arbitrary function? So this is going We're going to to be not-stupid function. Well, this is a completely it's fine. This is a reasonable function. Another reasonable function. Reasonable. That's a little weird, That's stupid. So we're going to with a good definition So fine, these One of them is multivalued and but they're all functions. So here's the problem. What does it mean? So postulate 2-- The is that the probability the object is found is equal to the norm If you know the system is psi, and you want you want to know with find the particle there, Notice that this is a complex squared, or norm squared, is always a real, And that's important because to be real, Could be 0, right? Could be 0 chance of something. Can't be negative 7 chance. Incidentally, there also So that means that the be normalized. So let me just say this So P, which is the determines the probability-- the probability density-- in the state given by the will be found at x. So there's the second postulate. So in particular, when density, what I mean is the between the position is equal to P of x dx, which is Does that make sense? So the probability in this infinitesimal equal to this density Now again, it's crucial is in fact properly normalized. Because if I say, look, or it could be of the probability plus the probability It had better be 1, or there's So probabilities Total probability that you find So what that tells you is is equal to the integral over if I sum over all possible all values-- should And we can write over all values of x. And I write &quot;all&quot; here rather to infinity because some from 1 to minus 1, some systems infinity to infinity-- all all possible values-- hold AUDIENCE: Are you going for probability density PROFESSOR: I'm not going to. Probability density is going and total probability an interval as an argument. So they're distinct and this Other questions? Just as a side note, of the wave function? So everyone think about What are the dimensions? AUDIENCE: Is it 1 over PROFESSOR: Awesome. Yes. It's 1 over root length. The dimensions of psi And the way to see that is It's a total probability. This is an infinitesimal has dimensions of length. This has no dimension, so over length. And so psi itself of x most have Now, something I I'm going to emphasize, is dimensional analysis. You need to become comfortable It's absolutely essential. It's essential for two reasons. First off, it's going to be merciless if you do write down a If you write down something on like, a length is equal to But the second thing that I'm going to Dimensional analysis is an for you. You can check something and, better yet, avoid a calculation entirely and seeing that there's only one of dimensions length So we'll do that But this is a question asking yourselves at of a calculation-- what the objects in my system? Something smells like smoke. So with that said, if that's the what physically can we take functions? Well, if this is let's draw the What's the probability P of x. And the probability distribution It's again 0 squared is just a big spike at x1 and Everyone cool with that? So what do you know that this is the wave function You know that with you will find the particle to So what this is telling you and our uncertainty Everyone cool with that? Similarly, here you see that and your uncertainty your confidence is another way to say so your uncertainty is small. Now what about these guys? Well, now it's norm squared. I need to tell you what Here, the wave so here is 0-- is And here the wave function And remember, I'm because of practical So the real part is just the cosine-- and similarly, is a cosine. And I really should put 0 but-- that worked out well. So now the question is, what's P of x, associated to So what's the norm squared If I have a complex number and I take its norm 1. Right? But remember complex numbers. If we have a complex if we have a then beta squared beta complex So e to the i alpha, if is e to the minus i alpha, e to the minus i alpha, So if this is the the probability distribution? Well, it's 1. It's independent of x. So from this we've learned The first is, this is That's not so key. But the most important thing is, and we subsequently measure the look at it, we say ah, where are we likely to find it? Yeah, it could be anywhere. So what's the value of x I have no idea, no None. But and correspondingly, in the position of x It's very large, exactly. Now, in order to tell you I need to stretch this off and constant off to infinity, so I'll just say large. Similarly here, if is e to the i k2 x-- the wavelength is the probability distribution? It's, again, constant. So-- this is 0, 0. So again, x-- we have no idea, is large. And in fact it's very large. Questions? What about these guys? OK, this is the real challenge. OK, so if this is and let's just say that is to believe that-- then what's Well, something something-- you get the point. OK, so if this is our where are we likely Well, now it's a little Because we're unlikely while it's reasonably likely reasonably likely, unlikely, So where is this? I'm not really sure. What's our uncertainty? Well, our uncertainty because-- OK, my name So this is going to go to 0. So whatever else we know, So it's not infinite, But it's not arbitrarily Or sorry, it's not Our uncertainty is not gigantic. But it's still because I can say that it's more likely but I really don't know it's going to be found. OK, now what about this guy? What's the probability you see why this is a because it's multiply valued. It has multiple different So what's the probability? Well, it might be root 2, I'm really not sure. So this tells us an important And what I mean by stupid So the wave function-- a lesson-- should And we will explore some more will be posted There are problems that of other potential pathologies and guide you to For example, the needs to be continuous as well. You'll see why. All right. Questions at this point? No? OK. So these look like pretty because they corresponded being at some definite spot. And I, for example, am at These two wave look pretty much useless, no information whatsoever Everyone agree with that? Except-- remember the The de Broglie relations say is also some wave. And the momentum is determined by the wavelength. It's inversely related It's proportional Any energy is proportional Now, look at those Those wave functions give whatsoever, but they have Those are periodic functions In particular, this guy has to here. It has a wave number k1. So that tells us the momentum of can be pretty has a reasonably corresponding to some upon the wavelength. It has some momentum, we should be pretty confident be h-bar k1. Everybody agree with that? Looks like a sine wave. And de Broglie have a wave of that corresponds to a Now, how confident can of the momentum? Well, if I tell you it's e a periodic function with So how confident are we? Pretty confident. So our uncertainty in Everyone agree? Similarly, for have a wavelength-- it's but the wavelength If the wavelength then k is much larger-- the So the momentum we which is roughly h-bar k2, What about our uncertainty? Again, it's a perfect so our uncertainty in Everyone cool with that? And that comes, again, from So questions at this point? You guys are real quiet today. Questions? AUDIENCE: So delta PROFESSOR: It's pretty small. Now, again, I haven't but if it's exactly it turns out to be 0. Now, an important thing, so slightly. So the question Is it really 0? So here's a problem We don't have a So what is the I haven't given you one. So here, when I said what I mean is, intuitively, our confidence in that using the de Broglie relations. I have not given and that will be part of of lectures. Very good question. Yeah. AUDIENCE: How do you code PROFESSOR: Awesome. AUDIENCE: Do you just PROFESSOR: Yeah AUDIENCE: As you go along? PROFESSOR: Awesome. So for example, this-- does Not so much. So hold that question and wait that I put on this board, your question, ask it's a very important question. OK. AUDIENCE: When you you always say a photon Doesn't that mean that it have to fix the wave number k? PROFESSOR: Awesome question. Does every wave packet of does it always have a No, you can take multiple and superpose them. An interesting choice All right, so the has some wavelength, have a definite-- this Yeah, so and the doesn't always can have light has many different wavelengths and break it up into So you can have a superposition of light. We'll see the same OK, so again, de Broglie that E is h-bar omega This was verified in the that we ran. But here, one of sort of latent in is, look, associated to and momentum P is a plane minus omega t. And this, properly, in three But at this point, this is For the rest of 8.04, we are going to be doing mechanics. So I'm going to remove arrow There's going to be one dimension. We're always going to have but sometimes we'll have But it's going to be a So for now, we're So this is a general plane wave. And what de Broglie is that, somehow, associated and momentum P should be with wave number k And that's the wave The thing is, not every wave Some wave functions Some of them are just Some of them are just a mess. So now is the most important I remember vividly, I took the analog of this class. It was called Physics And the professor I know him well now, this is what quantum And I was so psyched. And then he told me And it Seriously? That's what quantum So I always felt like this old physicists go crazy. But it turns out I'm going to This is the most important thing It is all contained in Everything-- the two experiments, all the cool all the strange and comes directly from So here it is. I love this. Three-- put a star on it. Given two possible wave I'll say configurations-- I wish there was &quot;Ride playing in the background-- distinct wave functions-- is going to be my because I have to write and I'll say, of x-- can also be in a superposition. of psi1 and psi2, where alpha Given any two possible there is also an allowed corresponding to superposition of them. If an electron can be it can also be in an of being hard and soft. And what I mean by that to some particular soft will correspond to some and the superposition function which is a linear AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE] have to be normalized? PROFESSOR: Yeah, OK, that's So and alpha and beta subject to the So indeed, this wave function Now, let me step There's an alternate way distribution here, and I'm going to put it here. The alternate statement of is that the probability is equal to psi of x by the integral over So notice that, if we properly this denominator is equal to 1-- and then it's equivalent. But if we haven't then this probability is automatically Because this is a constant, when equal to the bottom, So I prefer, about this for the first pass be careful to choose That won't always be easy, useful to forget and just define the probability Is that cool? OK. This is the beating soul Everything in quantum Everything in quantum from these few principles of matching to reality. AUDIENCE: When of linear, some of can you get interference? PROFESSOR: Yes. Excellent. So the question is, when functions, can you get some And the answer is, absolutely. And that's exactly So in particular, let me of superpositions. So let's swap so the parallelism is So let's scrap these and come up with a little more interesting. So instead of using those as I want to build superpositions. So in particular, by taking an arbitrary-- have a simple interpretation. This corresponds to a This corresponds to a I want to take a So here's my superposition. Oops, let's try that again. And my superposition-- so here x2-- is going to be some plus some amount There's a superposition. Similarly, I could have taken functions on the And again I'm taking of the complex e to the k2 x and then taking So that's a particular a particular linear combination. So now let's go back to this. This was a particle This is a particle When we take the is the probability distribution? Where is this particle? Well, there's some and there's some And there's rather more but there's still that it's over here. Where am I going to I'm not so sure anymore. It's either going to be here It's more likely is to be here, but So where am I going Well, now we have where am I going to Look, if I did this experiment it'd be over here more So the average will be it'll be in between the two. So x is somewhere in between. That's where we expect What's our uncertainty Well, it's not It's now of order x1 minus x2. Everyone agree with that? Now, what about this guy? Well, does this thing No. This is like light that It has many wavelengths. In this case, it has just two-- So this is a plane wave which e to the i k2 x. So in fact, it has two lambda1 lambda2. And so the probability if we take the norm squared distribution is the norm is no longer constant, but And let's just see Let me be very Note that the probability plus psi2, which I'll call e to x, is equal to the norm squared is the superposition psi1 is equal to alpha squared psi2 squared plus alpha let me write this over alpha psi1 beta star means complex conjugation. But notice that this is is alpha squared times or the probability of is equal to probability 1. This term, beta is the probability that But these terms in terms of the or the probability They're interference terms. So the superposition with the interpretation of squared of the wave function, to the classical addition which is these Everyone happy with that? Now, here's something very These things are norms That means they're real, non-negative. So these two are both But what about this? This is not the norm However, this is its When you take something and you add them something that's But it's not So this is a funny thing. The probability that something our two configurations, we has a positive probability term. But it's also got have a definite sign, It's always real. And you can check but greater than or equal to 0. It's never negative, So remember Bell's inequality Bell's inequality have the probability of one and the probability of being P2, the probability is just P1 plus P2. And here we see that, probabilities The wave functions add-- is the norm squared The wave functions add, And that is what underlies all we've seen. And it's going to be the mechanics. So you're probably all going, like I was when I took but I mean, it's just, you know, But trust me on this one. This is where it's all starting. OK so let's go back to this. Similarly, let's We've taken the norm squared. And now we have an And now, our probability instead of being totally trivial our probability distribution about the position It's likely to be here. It is unlikely to be We now have some We don't have enough But x is-- you have Now, our uncertainty Delta x is still huge. But OK, we just added Yeah? AUDIENCE: Why is big, small, small, PROFESSOR: Excellent. This was the real part And the wave function When you take e to me do this on the chalkboard. When we take e to the i x-- Let me write this e to the i a plus e to the i So this is equal to-- this in a slightly the norm squared of e to the minus a parentheses So first off, the norm is the product of So I can do that. And this overall phase, the norm so that's just 1. So now we have the norm squared And so the norm squared of The norm squared of the complex And the cross terms are going twice the real part-- a, which is going to be And so what you see have a single frequency So good, our So let's look at in a little more detail. By superimposing two states with or k1 and k2 we get it's still not don't know where the to be-- but it's better right? What happens if we superpose or four, or more? So for that, I want to pull You guys should all have in 18.03, but just in case, on the Stellar page, a through the basics of Fourier You should all be If you're not, you come up to speed on it. That's not what we wanted. Let's try that again. There we go. Oh, that's awesome-- where It's coming. OK, good. I'm not even going to mess with So I'm not going to go through but what this does is walk of wave packets. So here I'm looking at the from summing up a with some definite frequency. So here it's just one. That's one wave, let me make this bigger-- yes, So here we have and here we have the probability And it's sort of So that's for a single wave. And as you see, the probability And that's not 0, just that I arbitrarily So let's add two plane waves. And now what you see is the You see a slightly more Now you have a little bit of distribution. So there's the structure in We have a little about where the particle than it is to be here. Let's add one more. And as we keep adding to our superposition, the wave distribution associated more and more go to very high numbers of plane we get an extremely narrow and wave function, for that corresponding to a particle and unlikely to Everyone cool with that? What's the expense? Want have we lost Well we know with now that the particle will be But what will its momentum be? Yeah, now it's the of different momenta. So if it's a superposition of different like superposition of a whole likely to be here, likely to be here, What's our knowledge It's not very good. Similarly, now that many different momenta In fact, here they were We now have no information about It could be anything So now we're seeing the uncertainty relation. And here it is. So the uncertainty pretty clear from these guys. So that didn't work? And I'm going to leave it alone. This is enough for but that Fourier with extensive commentary AUDIENCE: Now is in the position caused by those waves and all that-- PROFESSOR: That's Precisely. It's precisely the interference nodes that leads to That's exactly right. Yeah. AUDIENCE: So as we're we will not be certain PROFESSOR: Exactly. And here we are. So in this example, we have but we're quite confident Here we have no idea but we have great Similarly here, we have of the position, and here we in the momentum. It would be nice to what our uncertainty and what our uncertainty So we're going to That's going to be Other questions? Yeah. AUDIENCE: In this half you said, obviously, if it'll have more in PROFESSOR: Yes. AUDIENCE: The average, it will PROFESSOR: Yeah, that's right, distribution, it won't But it'll be nearby. OK, so in order to be more for this what we do How well do you know the Pretty well, right? But how well do you Well, we'd all like to say Why is your uncertainty in the AUDIENCE: Heisenberg's PROFESSOR: Yeah, because we haven't actually principle. It's just something AUDIENCE: I believe it. PROFESSOR: I believe it, too. But I want a better believe all sorts So-- I really do. Black holes, fluids, I mean Yeah. AUDIENCE: You can take the PROFESSOR: Yeah, excellent. OK, we'll get to So before taking the is an excellent-- just take a Fourier going to give you We're going to do But before we do just intuitively, why would and say, no, that doesn't AUDIENCE: There's PROFESSOR: Yeah, there's It's not periodic by any It doesn't look like a thing And de Broglie said, look, if then you have a And if you have a you have a definite wavelength. This is not a wave with so it is not corresponding for a particle with So our momentum is And similarly, here, our is large. So to do better to introduce the and I want to do that now. So you should all have seen Now we're going to do And I'm going to in 8.04 conventions And the theorem we're not going to prove it by but the theorem f of x that is sufficiently discontinuous, it any reasonably well-behaved, of x can be built by superposing e to the ikx. Enough may be infinite. So any function f of x can be and this root 2 pi is a choice has their own are the ones we'll be minus infinity to infinity So here, what we're summing over plane waves These are modes with a definite f tilde of k is telling us with wavelengths lambda And we sum over all And the claim is, be expressed as a superposition Cool? And this is for non-periodic on the real line, on the interval, which is what Now, conveniently, if you can compute f of But suppose you want to determine what the expansion coefficients. That's the inverse And the statement for is equal to 1 over root 2 pi to infinity dx f of OK, that's sometimes referred transform. And here's something f tilde of k, the Fourier of f of x, are If you know f of x, you And if you know can determine f of x by just adding them up. So now here's the physical I can't slide that out-- Oh. No, I'm not. I'm going to put that down here. So the physical that any wave function as the superposition is equal to 1 over root 2 pi to infinity dk psi tilde of k functions, with a definite And so now, it's useful transforms of each In fact, we want this up here. So here we have the function and Now I want to draw the Fourier So here's psi tilde of a different but nonetheless, to draw them next to each other. And again, I'm And here, x2-- had I had I would have put x2 Good, so it's further I'm so loathe to erase the But fortunately, Let's look at the Fourier The Fourier transform Psi tilde of k well, with a definite value of k. And it's Fourier transform-- And for this guy-- And now if we look at of these guys, see, have to erase the superposition transform of this guy, a sort of pleasing If your wave function corresponding to a reasonably then your Fourier transform corresponding to not On the other hand, if you your position is but the Fourier transform at the value of k corresponding function. Everyone cool with that? So here's a question-- sorry, Yeah? AUDIENCE: Are we going how to determine the of these non-stupid functions? PROFESSOR: Yes, that On your homework is of functions for you to And that will be the job of So Fourier series you know what's are assumed to have been covered in some linear And Fourier transforms-- [LAUGHTER AND GROANS] I couldn't help it. So Fourier transforms of the space of Fourier looking at periodic functions. AUDIENCE: So when we're of a wave function, we're as a continuous set Can we write it So as a Fourier series? PROFESSOR: Absolutely, what is true about When you use a discrete which are linear, which are-- exactly. So here what we've look, we're writing our arbitrary wave function, of a continuous value This is absolutely correct. This is exactly However, that's because maybe you and two momenta What if you want So discrete is fine. But if you make integer-related to is what you do with you force the function And we don't want because life isn't periodic. Thank goodness, right? I mean, there's like one film a good movie. So that's the between Fourier series Fourier transforms and do not assume Other questions? Yeah. AUDIENCE: So transform associates and a phase for each of PROFESSOR: Precisely. Precisely correct. So let me say that again. So the question was-- effectively and a phase for each And that's exactly right. So here there's some this is a complex is a complex function-- there's is an amplitude and to every possible momentum That amplitude may be 0. There may be no contribution or maybe insignificantly small. But it is indeed It is associating an amplitude wave, with every different And you can compute, precisely what that is by using the inverse So there's no magic here. You just calculate. You can use your calculator, OK so now, here's So if this is the Fourier we already knew that this to having a definite-- we know that it has We also see that its Fourier So that leads to a What do you think the is-- the probability to have wave vector h-bar k? AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE] PROFESSOR: Yeah, that's a So we're totally of the dark-- psi OK, well let's So psy of k norm is going to give us a nice, And so that makes That's exactly what Definite value of P with Similarly here. Definite value of P, with Rock on. However, let's look at this guy. What is the expected value transform? Well remember, we have to take was e to the i k x1-- You will do much Fourier transforms Where did my eraser go? There it is. Farewell, principle one. So what does norm squared Well, just like before, is constant, because the norm And again, the is psi tilde of k norm we're conjecturing You will prove this relation You'll prove that it follow And similarly, this is So now we have no So that also fits. The momenta is, we have no idea. And uncertainty is large. And the momenta is, And the uncertainty is large. So in all these satisfy quite nicely the small position momentum, Large position allowed to have small And here, it's a little We have a little bit of and we have a little bit of We have a little bit of and we have a little bit So we'll walk through like this on the problem set. Last questions OK so I have two things The first is, after lecture And anyone who wants you're welcome to come on a first come I will start using the So if you don't already But the second thing is-- I have a demo to do. And last time I told It's like I'm an Last time I told you that one of is-- of lice. One of the experimental One of the experimental is that there is and that there is probability. There are unlikely with some probability, And a good example of the involves radiation. So hopefully you can hear this. Apparently, I'm not You'd be surprised at the Ah, got a little tick. Shh. This is a plate sold at It's called vaseline ware [GEIGER COUNTER CLICKS] It's got uranium in it. But I want to emphasize-- exactly it sounds pretty random. And it's actually a better than anything you'll find in for some purposes, the decay is used as the perfect Because it really is totally can tell. But here's my favorite. People used to eat off these. [MUCH LOUDER, DENSER CLICKS] See you next time.