The incredible resurrection of a legend: the probably oldest VW Samba Bulli in the world is back. Florian Kalff worked on it for five years. That's why I'm working every night until eleven, half past eleven. Uh, that we can drive at the end of May. Florian wants to drive the Bulli on the autobahn for the first time. His goal: the largest VW classic car meeting in the world. A group from Indonesia, New Zealand and Israel has just arrived. Will the Bulli from 1951 make it? Or does the dream end at a rest stop? The next meeting is four years from now. I'm also a bit paranoid, actually, so every noise that comes from somewhere initially triggers fear. The Bulli still looked like this in 2017. Florian Kalff from Bonn has been a VW fan for over 20 years and just bought this pile of junk for several thousand euros. For someone who has been dealing with old VWs since the late 1980s, this is of course unbelievable. It's like the Holy Grail. Everyone wants an old VW bus, everyone wants a Samba bus. An early Samba is comparable to the Blue Mauritius. That's the most valuable thing, the chassis number. It reveals the year of manufacture: 1951. It is probably the oldest VW Samba Bulli in the world. For decades it rotted on a pasture in the Eifel. Werner Offergeld found it. In the end it was only held up by trees. The trees still grew through, from bottom to top, from top to bottom, there were trees everywhere and when we cut away the trees, it fell apart the way it is now. This find is a sensation. Even then, the news spread rapidly in VW fan circles. Photographers from England came especially and were enthusiastic. It's a totally insane find and absolutely fantastic. At that moment, the incredible reconstruction begins. How did he manage that five years later this Bulli can drive on the autobahn again? The adventure begins in Bonn. VW friends from Bavaria pick up Florian Kalff from Kai, you come behind me somewhere and then we have to level off a bit. I don't know how it behaves on the freeway. I've never been on the freeway. It's safer to travel in convoy, just in case it breaks down. Because he only got the record Bulli a few days ago from the TUV. Here we go! So far there have only been very extensive test drives here in Bonn and along the Rhine. This is going to be exciting. Have we worked well enough? If that doesn't work now, then I, I messed up. I hope not. It's like before, do you have your homework or don't you? You can do that at school, quickly copying it off on the last bench in the bus. Better not here, because it's about your own life. It's about the lives of the others who are driving. So, now it's time to get on the Autobahn. The first time Florian built up the samba for five years. The VW meeting is his big dream. He still has no idea what's going to happen on the Autobahn. The Bulli hasn't driven that far in over 50 years. It is 270 kilometers to Hessisch-Oldendorf. To make the impossible possible. That's always great fun. When everyone says it can never be anything, a car can never be made out of it again, then they say: yes, it can very well be. Florian can hardly believe it himself and drives very carefully and, above all, slowly for the first few kilometers. Are we already at 70 kilometers an hour... 75. Now we're becoming a nuisance to the truck drivers. But then we can't take that into account today. How long do you need to get there? But that doesn't really matter to me, as long as we arrive safe and sound. Everything is fine at the moment, it's fun. And if we get to Hessisch-Oldendorf before nightfall, then we've reached our goal after all. It's nice. It quickly becomes clear: the car can hardly withstand today's traffic on the Autobahn. More and more angry trucks are overtaking him on the Cologne ring road - that's stressful. The nerves are already very tense. The last few weeks have been very tiring. I just screwed through seven weeks, day and night, on the thing. Suddenly he has to go out. Something in the engine doesn't seem to be running smoothly. I'm actually a bit paranoid, every noise that comes from somewhere triggers fear at first. Does the journey end here? Or did he do everything right with the reconstruction, which really picked up speed in 2018? The challenge: more than half of the Bullis has rusted away. As you can see, there is not much left of the door. Nevertheless, we want to save what can be saved. But we need a measure somewhere. And we need a lot of parts at least for the bottom. And for that I actually bought a door from the closed box van bus on eBay from Cologne. But the measure is the same. We can then take the lower area. His goal is to rework and install every part that has been found in the Eifel. Experts from all over Europe help him. In Troisdorf, part of the brake was finished. That looks great. Above all, the philosophy behind Samba is very well taken into account here. The patina is preserved. Nevertheless, it is now a part again, which can also be taken from a safety point of view. It takes more than a year to find spare parts and the right experts. Some parts, such as the steering bushings, even have to be specially produced for him. His mission is getting more and more expensive. He will spend more than 100,000 euros. Is it worth it? For the old Bulli, many are now asking? Yes! Clearly! So today every Samba bus is worth more than 100,000 euros, then I can sink hundreds of thousands into such an object. Of course I don't have them under my pillow, the whole project has been going on for many, many years... He reassembles the restored parts in his workshop in Bonn. Slowly you can guess where the bike is going. In here, there are the sockets that Mr Moll just made for us, and one thing leads to another. Half a year later. The Bulli has a chassis again and should drive across the yard for the first time again, with the original turn signals. He can already blink or wave. That's a winker. Up until 1960, VW actually had completely antiquarian pre-war technology. And that's what's so nice about a car like this, about a project like this, that you can do such fun little details here. And indeed, in May 2018, the Bulli will be driving again. That's great, that's great. It's very special. So if you know, this is a prototype car. And that has such a crazy story. Professionally, Florian deals in oldtimer spare parts. For the biggest task, however, he brings the Bulli to England. Four years later, the Bulli is hardly recognizable. There are only a few people in the world who can do that. Mark Spicer welded the old parts perfectly with spare parts and left the paintwork as original as possible. I was pretty overwhelmed when he opened the door and... look here, he's really great at what he did. So now it's getting very exciting. What are you trying? Yes, now the car is getting power to the on-board electronics for the first time. And the on-board electrical system was my occupation over the last few nights, rewiring the car. Now, of course, it can get super embarrassing. But: let there be light. Yes, one side works, the other doesn't, it has to work. Good. Well, let's take a look at high beam... There were already high beams in 1951. The car has to drive, the car will drive, and that's actually what I'm looking forward to the most. Back on the freeway, back in the engine bay. Florian heard a strange noise, but after a few minutes the all clear. Everything as it should be. V-belt fit, no abrasion anywhere the bus runs better than me. It can go on. But half an hour later he stopped again. Again the anxious look into the engine compartment. Again nothing, so back on the track. So the journey drags on, instead of the usual three hours, Florian has now been on the road for more than five hours and is still not there. It's like a new relationship. You have to test each other out first, how far you can go and how the other one ticks. Then he almost made it. Hi. Hello, are you already registered? We still have to go through the registration process. Over 800 vintage VWs have come to Hessisch-Oldendorf. It is the world's largest meeting of its kind. Cars from 21 nations and people from 49 nations. A group from Indonesia, New Zealand and Israel has just arrived. So we ourselves are surprised at the acceptance. More than 250 T1 Bullis alone are here. An entire village becomes a Mecca for VW fans every four years. Traugott Grundmann is the founder and organizer. He shows Florian his place. He can hardly believe that the Bulli from Bonn made it. And it's wonderful what you've achieved there, above all the patina that the old one has, I think that's beautiful. The car is well-known in the scene because of course many people said this car could no longer be restored. And then, of course, everyone looks and it's a very special car. I have to say that. Because it takes a lot of courage, knowledge and skill to restore such a car. As soon as he arrives, Florian and his samba are the focus of VW fans. He worked for this moment for five years. It's always nice when you take on a big task and then at some point it works out, makes you a little bit happy. Was it worth it? Absolutely. And basically the journey is only just beginning now, because now we are driving. Now we're friends, the bus and I. And now? Now we want to experience completely different adventures. Now it goes through Europe by car.