Today we're going to be patching up the holes left by our bullets when we shot the Tesla Cybertruck. If you remember while we were shooting it, the 9mm bullets did not go through, neither did the 22, but the 17, 223, and the 50 cal all made some pretty massive damage in the stainless steel sheet, and today we have to fix that. Since there is no paint or primer or anything else, we should just be able to weld stainless onto the stainless steel body using a welder powered by the Cybertruck's battery. For how weird this machine looks, One thing I did notice, however, after shooting the Cybertruck is that while all the exterior buttons worked and all the buttons inside the cab, the only buttons that did not work were the buttons inside of the door. The .50 cal bullet ripped through This was pointed out by Wes, one of the Tesla engineers over on Twitter, which is fantastic for customer service, and I'm going to try to splice that wiring harness back together to get the interior buttons working. This button right here still works, I'm sure Tesla will be able to fix the door in one of their service centers, but since we have the tools, I kind There's been rumors that the stainless steel on the Cybertruck is rusting, which I don't think is the case. Nothing that just can't buff out. However, one place that is rusting is inside of my wheel, which is kind of a substantial amount To be fair to Tesla though, I'm sure this rust would occur on every $100,000 vehicle that ships without hubcaps. We could replace this entire panel. Oshkut has brake presses that could even make those bends, but I kind of like the way that these 9mm holes look. So the only thing we really need to patch are the .50 cal, the 17, and the 223. But before we can do that, we need access to the inside, and I'll have to disassemble the interior so it doesn't start To get access to the interior panel, first we're going to remove the upper section of the door, which looks like it's just held Once those are popped out, we can drop down the white soft soundproofing blanket and disconnect two wires, which look like they're The lower portion of the Cybertruck door panel is held on in a very similar way, except this time around we had three And once those are removed, the little With the door panel removed, there's a few wires left, one of which goes to a computer module, which I'm super glad we did not hit with a bullet. And the other one goes to just the rear passenger door speaker. Not quite as important. You can see where the bullets came through. This one was the 50 cal hole, and the 17 and the Barely missing the computer module. And then this is the motor for the window. And then I'm not sure what pulley this is, And this little guy here at the bottom of so if the electronics or the battery ever dies inside of the truck, you can still exit by pulling this lever. This is 4, 5, 6, 9, 10, 11. Being the first people to take apart a Tesla Cybertruck door means we don't really know what we're looking for. There were 11 8mm bolts around the inside of the door paneling, but once those were removed, we still could Turns out that there's two more additional bolts And once those bolts were removed, we could slide the glass directly up and out the top of the door. Alright. Which means that if someone breaks their rear passenger glass window, Tesla could swap out the entire panel in about 5 minutes. Which gets a huge thumbs up for repairability from me. Now, with that glass out, we should be able to remove two more additional 6mm Allen bolts and then pop out the interior plastic paneling, which will then give us access to the bullet wounds that we were hoping to find about an hour ago. Nice. This is where the window motor is that moves these cables, and the pulley where the cable wraps around and heads up to the glass. We were so close to blowing that to smithereens. It's interesting seeing the bullet Some pretty massive bumps from the 9mm. And then when the bullets came through, it broke Talk about that in a second, but up here, even though they were just bumps, it like blasted up the aluminum foil. Now you might be thinking to yourself, hey Jerry, why would Tesla stick rubberized tinfoil on the backside of the Cybertruck doors? Let me show you. So it turns out sheet metal is actually really noisy. It acts as a gong. So when Tesla puts that rubberized tinfoil on the backside, it kind of dampens the sound of the metal. So instead of ringing, Which makes it a lot quieter driving down the road, and it's actually a pretty coolinvention. The rubber dampens the noise. The reason we pulled the Cybertruck into this particular warehouse is because we're going to patch the bullet holes with lasers. This video isn't sponsored, I've just been friends with the guys over at Oshka for a few years now, and they let me use their massive Well, I mean, technically anyone can use the machines, and that's the whole point. We decided to use a Cybertruck-shaped piece of stainless steel to patch the stainless steel door of my Cybertruck. We upload the drawing into Oshka's online portal, and within about 3 seconds worth of laser time, and about 25 bucks, my stainless The patch just needs to be large enough to cover the 50 cal hole, Since my superior grouping ability put all three pretty close together, we can get the entire job done with just one patch. I'll trace the patch's shape onto the surface of the door, and then surgically extract the damaged material to make room for our new plug. I decided to leave the 9 millimeter divots make for a good story when people see us out on the road. With the Cybertruck shape cut out of the Cybertruck door, we can insert our Cybertruck patch. I've been prepping And now it comes time to weld them both together. Welding stainless steel, however, is more of an art form. It takes a very highly skilled person to do so. Luckily I have my buddy, Jacob, who's He was also one of the guys who shot the 9 mil at the door. How are you feeling about it, Jacob? - Fingers crossed. - It should be interesting. I don't know if you've ever - No, I've never done automotive. I'm a pipeline welder. - Okay, here we go. Since welding is not a service that Oshkod offers, I brought my own welder and we're using the 240 volts worth of onboard power supplied by the Cybertruck's battery. Extremely handy. The welder is plugged in, Welding Thank you. Since the extreme heat coming out of the welder can warp the flat plate, we have to weld in very small sections and let the metal cool down enough to touch in between the short welding bursts. And since this metal is thin enough to get red molten hot on both sides, we have to shield the pool of liquid Argon not to be confused of course with the noble Aragorn, heir to the throne of Gondor. If the liquid metal reacts with the oxygen in the air, it gets compromised. You know, instant oxidation. So this argon gas filled back purge floods the immediate area with argon displacing the oxygen just long enough for the stainless to solidify back into solid form where it doesn't need any more protection from anything. And coming around to the other side, you can As it gets to different temperatures, it Kind of like how we've And I think Elon floated the idea of making the entire truck out of titanium at one point way back in the early days, but I'm Now we're going to grind down the weld beads and kind of flush out this surface so we can wrap it later. Nice work, Jacob. Thank you. Better than it used to be. It's a low bar. I think it turned out pretty well, And now the welds are ground down completely flat, and it almost makes me want to do the whole truck like this. That is a super cool finish. Minor...at least this part is flat. Getting the door put back together was super easy. With the closeout panel in place and the window regulator back in, we can drop the passenger window into the door opening. Incredibly simple and easy to repair Something I absolutely nailed however was the door trim wiring harness that got yeeted in half by a 50 cal bullet. And now we have to splice those wires back together if I ever want to use the buttons again. Tesla did make this slightly more difficult by using the same color wire for multiple switches. But I'll let that lazy cost-saving maneuver slide since I did the exact same thing on my EV Humvee. And Tesla has gone out of their way to provide the complete inner wiring diagram of the Cybertruck available for free on their website. Pretty much unheard of. Tesla's free repair guides are the most detailed I've ever seen in my entire life. I can check for continuity between the And I can use Tesla's pin out diagrams to get all the interior door buttons put back together again and functioning. With the wires spliced back where they belong, What we've learned so far is that the Cybertruck However, the surface finish of the stainless So if you are trying to repair any scratches or bullet wounds, there is going to be a visible patch in the surface. However, this doesn't matter much to us because The bare-metal industrial dishwasher aesthetic But with how many people are taking pictures I might as well turn the flat-faced I'm working with a company called Lux Automotive here in Salt Lake City, Utah. They're the same people who wrapped my wife's Certified by both Tesla and Rivian, they are the obvious choice to install my bright blue 3M not-a-wheelchair vinyl. For the most part, wrapping a Cybertruck is easier and faster than most other cars thanks to the extremely flat surfaces. He said it smells pretty good. Yep, I am. But for each flat stainless steel sheet, the edges are all visible and wrapping those edges are the most time-consuming part. We also put on a layer of self-healing clear transparent This Lamar PPF goes over top of the blue vinyl to physically protect it, as well as help keep the blue from fading. The self-healing part comes from the heat of the sun, or a heat gun in our case. Any scratches or divots from rock chips will just disappear, and it has a crazy 10-year manufacturer's warranty. Personally, I think they should be building phones out of this stuff because extra protection is always a good thing. I'll show how we worked One downside to owning an EV is that even when they appear to be turned off, they are actually always on, monitoring and controlling the battery temperature to keep it healthy. If the cabin gets too hot, the AC will kick on automatically to make sure the battery stays within its optimal temperature range. If we were to take out a heat lamp and a BTU meter, we could see that the lamp puts out about 350 BTUs worth of heat, and about 57 of those BTUs pass through the front factory windows into the cabin. Moving to the back windows, about 51 BTUs worth of heat get in through the dyed rear factory glass. Combine that with the glass roof and It's just a gigantic solar oven on wheels. However, once we add the strato-ceramic window tint to every piece of glass, those BTUs that are able to enter This means that the automatic AC and battery coolers won't turn on as much, giving us more overall range and just Aside from just looking cool, a ceramic tint is especially functional on EVs. And finally, to make this traveling billboard a reality, we used a third layer of reflectivewhite v inyl for the Not-A-Wheelchair logo. To get the vinyl to wrap around the stainless steel edges of the Cybertruck a bit better, Lux uses a lighter. Flame goes a long way to warming the adhesive and getting the edges to wrap around and grip the corners. And, of course, in our case, sink into My Not-A-Wheelchair company manufactures the least expensive off-road wheelchairs on the planet. And in a few months, thanks to your views and support of the channel, we are also releasing the most affordable custom rigid wheelchairs on the planet called the Paradox Project, all made right here in the USA. More information will come out in a later video, of course, but would you look at that? The billboard is already working. Thanks Elon. And at night, the reflective decal pops especially well. Here's thanks to Lux Automotive and Lumar for the wrap. If you're ever in Salt Lake City, Utah and have a ride you want to protect, definitely check them out. And thanks a ton for watching. I'll see you around.