This video's brought to you by Mubi. to elevating great cinema from all free at mubi dot com slash m m fish. You know, ever since I was young, I always wanted I'm getting into off-grid content. I just love Thanks babe! So thirsty. Mmm, small batch Frappuccino. It was truly only a matter algorithm sent me down the funnel Being from Pure Michigan, I love the outdoors. I love camping. I love looking at bugs. I've also been obsessed with Tiny Houses type of way. There's something about watching while the host giggles about the There are only so many episodes I like there becomes a moral obligation housing problem is that we don't "They need to sell their house now mortgage, a tiny house mortgage, and But by god I will watch all fit your piano and baby crib into Anyways, all to say, not even my love Nation could prepare me for the endless abyss of: Off-Grid Grifters The off grid grifter is just one variety of umbrella. Here's some other You got your standard doomsday couple. You got your illegal camping videos, There's an entire genre of hot girl The hot girl category actually dovetails into two And video with hot girl thumbnail, but the I cannot emphasize enough how many undressed women are on these thumbnails. Maybe youtube There are men in the woods reinventing "I wanted to make a steam-powered but it won't be so much a public thing. Andof course, the classic, sapphics And I'm sure there are many, many favorite off-grid subgenre . You can file content" off-grid content. But what makes Yes that makes sense. What makes Money! Money! Money! And I don't even mean that off-grid grifters makes a grifter is a lack of transparency who are very up front about the People who have alot of money. People who They have brand new vehicles and you think people pay their bills? How can they have all Well the chances are they aren't really remote. "If you don't have a decent amount of savings to though I'm spending less on my lease than I was So to be honest I'm working a lot more now than I With this person, who's very... vague. "A couple years ago I bought two rustic there ever since. I love them and I purchased this place." "But, that being And just to say it out loud, my I'm not accusing anyone of fraud, Off-grid grifters can pop up in any they can be hard to spot, like those to me look exactly like the trees How can you spot an off-grid grifter in to identify some common characteristics Of course, the most obvious flag-of-red is how the off-grider responds to questions about It takes a chunk of capital to cost much less than buying a house people choose this lifestyle. But it "We found six acres just 3 and a half miles create this beautiful place, not only for Glossing over what I hope is an obvious ethical large gap between finding six acres of land and yeah, how did he- "And, from the beginning, here on the site. We hired a sawyer that we could use for decking and framing were going to build. We built this tiny a Appalachian State student to come with us for The most egregious examples of is when one rich off-grid youtuber person's architecturally "I owned 400 acres. You know as a I could not believe that nobody wanted this." "We came on the land and there was no water, no were trees. You gotta remember we came This cost 85 hundred dollars to build." Well it doesn't sound like you had no money, it Even if the houses are not they'll still go check it out if "I learned a lot of things, co-founding a UFO in their backyard. They want It's almost like there are all these people all belong to "resource" in abundance. I'm at a loss. If Besides being obscure about how off-grid grifters are also obscure about "We did almost all the work ourselves. probably be spending around $400,000. One is this painting. It was actually painted by my painter. He actually helped a lot with this say half the time I was building here he was So just to recap: being an off-gridder is doing everything by yourself. Except when you Or when you need specialized laborers like a "almost all the work yourself," implying but then on youtube you show a photo and in another part of the video you admit have some of your "guys" help out without even them. And also you couldn't have done this Another flavor in the palette of off-grid too... "philosophical" about how or why they chose "This project has taught us so much about what about this journey is just feeling a new While there is absolutely nothing wrong with some off-gridders are clearly romanticizing and not because it was actually good for but because it feeds their ego and their masculinity via seclusion. An attitude "I have an old 1919 hit and miss engine." There are also off-grid grifters who I simply label as grifter because it's clear they But they present themselves as if... "I just got tired of the city. always had the idea that I could do it better." Who I admire for trying to "I try to live without money as much as possible" but maybe doesn't know how water filtration works. "This is for natural filtration. As well with dishes or you're done brushing and when it goes back into the ecosystem, it When I first watched this, I was pretty And any questions I had were confirmed explaining his gray water filtration method. "There's nothing dumped overboard on the float it goes through a series of filtrations boxes and evaporation takes Yeah... I think those chickens "So this is the library and this is the biolab, this is where I do a lot of my own research and this is how I know what kinds of Oh, well that's a relief. "Drinking water is still an issue, filtration systems yet. I have a few ideas." Now there are various degrees of audacity, used their inheritance to build a cabin It's just a pattern of behavior that paints obtainable, and at worst encourages someone community in order to feel like they are 13 again "I've completely failed. I'm really just gonna have to stop doing it. This is "It's really disheartening to work at and just to get the legs cut out from underneath But mostly, I just find these videos the explanations, the compostable toilets. And But what if I told you there encapsulates all of these qualities? An have not seen in my many years of being Did I mention I'm from Michigan. RURAL Michigan. WHY YES THAT FONT IS TOO SMALL, THANKS FOR ASKI- This, is Brent. "Hello there! My name is Brent." If Brent were to tell you his story, he'd say mining town called Serro Gordo three hours outside wait to fix up Cerro Gordo for generations to over 150 years ago. While he's completely alone articles about the town that subscribers have sent walking around and talking about all the little "I go down there mainly to there still is some very cool minerals down But if I were to tell Brent's story, I would put banker who became a partner in a marketing firm. dollars in 2018, with an investment group whose American Apparel Executive, and he can't wait "We hope to have this online in a month or two, this could be the first place you The idea of "preserving" the town of Cerro Gordo to Brent. "I just think it's so cool to see people preserving cool towns! I think most people do! His as well. He's amassed a huge following on YouTube, videos thinking that he might have died between "There's dynamite box, and in "Well let me get around the In the first Ghost Town video I ever watched, Brent shows off the various "Second house we hope to get It's where I typically stay so He gives a tour of the old "American Hotel" along with all of the historical "We see the saloon and the American Hotel." But just two videos later. The hotel burned to the ground! "About five hours ago, around 2, 2:30 in the at Cerro Gordo. The American Hotel. Last night in the hotel. By the time I got outside The American Hotel was presumably fine for 100 propane tank blew up. A PROPANE TANK NEAR THE OLD Now, yes. It is a tragedy that the hotel burnt channel were very emotionally affected by this. a bunch of investor's money) to turn the hotel But knowing that he's backed the last part of the video that much more... well "I could use some help. A lot of you and our progress. And if you could donate we could this. If you're close and you have any time of truck to help move some stuff, we We're gonna rebuild, what other It finally happened. I finally saw Brent. Brent. Brent. It's just you and me else watching this video cover your ears for a Did you not get fire insurance? I staying at your 150 year old I know at least in California to get a mortgage without fire insurance. "Upstairs is where the rooms used to be. No it's not structurally sound up there." Wait, so if the building to the point where you're not even supposed Brent's gonna have to tear down the whole building the American Hotel. It's almost as if he had a The fact that we don't know whether or not vague these videos can be. It's either, incredibly irresponsible. Or there was fire worms since he's asking money from his audience Or some other secret third thing that have a 401k. Do you not show proof of on Airbnb? Do businesses like theme parks "And Cerro Gordo's gonna be here after I'm and that hotel is gonna have No no no, no no, you don't get to watch the hotel history you are so intent on preserving. What the opposite of preservation. Arguably the burnt to a crisp, and even though his entire TOWN, this is somehow not his fault or his Everyone likes to think they're "off-grid" and and then suddenly it's like, why did it take If I'm being harsh I am sorry! The only reason Harrison, who lives off-grid in Alaska, thought nothing against him personally, it just gives me of nonprofits for his for-profit westworld. We're and I have just as much confidence in Brent From an audience perspective, and raised over a hundred And this was back when we were like... As I mentioned earlier in this video, about off-gridders is because of finances. And Brent is a prime example of emotionally charged language to wave away Brent uses his marketing skills to romanticize its legacy, "Back in 1800s they pulled hole behind me," and whatever mineral his taking. "Cerro Gordo smithsonite goes the one selling it so if it's you, where Here's Brent on the Half Hour Intern media manipulation skills he learned from "(Brent) Giving any bloggers what they would running with that story whether there's half-baked Yeah, there's certainly a world that I'd never every single article I read online to this day. I influence the content within it... (host) I mean this companies themselves, it's very obvious. written by the news organization, might've had a mentioned in there. God it's just so interesting. somebody assumes that it's been fact checked... fact checking standards that NBC news does. fact check because they assume somebody else reality. Is kind of, as you're trading it along, fact checking when in reality probably Unreal news. How adorable. Quaint After Brent's baby exploded, the project since the town is so remote. Getting a nightmare. Brent mentions that he "I was looking into renting these helicopter company that quoted me But... well golly gee wilikers Tom Bombadill has arrived (recommended by his and a mutual love of facial hair and tobacco. The When Brent talks about this newly forged price tag disappears. "I need 81 and he'd just seen the road. And I remember And so, the magic man and his magic concrete, new hotel after the old one magically burned will magically now be up to code and able Maybe I'm in the minority here, but place like Cerro Gordo actually seems we'll never know... until it opens, and When Brent isn't building a luxury hotel from building methods, he is doing the second most exploring the abandoned mines. "Dark vein there." "That's cool, yeah." To Brent's credit, he has absolutely you know what? Top tier content. "Now we're See what happens from here." In this lower him down via the elevator shaft and "Got your phone? Take a picture of him. Take the last known photo of What do these guys know that we don't know? "Used to be a millionaire Brent... so clearly wants them to shut the f up. "What's the combination to the safe! "Bye" "Where's that money in that suitcase." "Aw man" You know, you can edit that out, Brent. grounded or something. I think he's trying "You know if you wanna come back "Yeah... I didn't think about that." "Goodbye cruel world!" Now suprisingsly, or unsurprisingly, i don't know, there is one thing in the mines that will get Jeans. "And the reason that these jeans are so My favorite moment is when he finds a and it just immediately disintegrates Our dear Brent even edits screenshots videos, to let us know just how much minerals he collects and the crusty old blue "People that are really into that piece sometimes for these jeans. And for "They're a collector's item!" This might be a bit of a sidenote, suffering through a snowstorm and the entire helpful and common sense advice, stuff and he posted a weirdly defensive he still doesn't know anything about living Cerro Gordo was established as a mining town, to extract as much value as possible from the pockets of whatever mining baron owned a marketing executive is able to buy romanticized American West to extract value, Then when the hotel burns down, he gets fans so he doesn't have to pay taxes on his GoFundMe. But Brent also mentions that he has "Whether you're here moving blocks this channel is what's making this hotel I think it's safe to say, Brent still has a lot the hike, and I'm completely lost. The sun I honestly don't know what to do." Brent has made big strides in over If you compare his recent videos to his in tone and production quality. Early on, he "intimate conversation" vibe. "That stained called Nevada Smith." Fast forward to today, It's pretty obvious Brent is trying to model But those two will chase stories and take you Brent is taking us on a journey to his hotel, of the future American Hotel," where you Brent and other off-grid grifters insist BIG part of it is the money. "This isn't think about it in month-over-month growth." My You have an investment group and your goal In the past, Brent has assured us Gordo will stay in Cerro Gordo to preserve its "You know my mentality from day one has to stay at Cerro Gordo. That said, we also the way to build. So all that to say I'm going to I wouldn't think Brent cared he wasn't constantly bringing up the money. The reason Dave Sparks helped kindness of his heart-no matter what the I gotchu." He did it because he was getting multiple videos out of it, with what Ironically, a sponsorship for Dave wasn't even able to get all the concrete the cement company refused to come again that road is too dangerous. It's too have much easier jobs everywhere else, turned to... "This time we're taking a this community that cares so much about this town it happen." His fans and volunteers again, I do have a lot of respect for people who the capitalist hellscape that most of us are the off-gridders who are breaking down what things we could change about our society to For most of us, that's why we watch this core homestead in the woods, as I clickity But for an off-grid grifter, the goal isn't It's to escape capitalism, by using the Rich people have always been able happens when you become rich! You no longer people's happiness. And they aren't own." They regurgitate rugged individualism There are also much more sinister that if you're not paying attention, seem remember all those naked women thumbnails? air that these women are creating this content There are whole off-grid channels that are to live off grid in the woods, or even It's...extremely uncomfortable Time for an obligatory Thoreau quote: "If half of each day, he is in danger of being whole day as a speculator, shearing off those he is esteemed an industrious and enterprising forests but to cut them down!" And even The reality is-as much as off-gridders love to out there "on their own"- if you're saying "I'm When you use a tool like a hammer, over that tool as part of your body. As far as your And I feel like these "self-reliant" youtubers to other humans. If you hire someone and then they do it, it can FEEL like YOU did that a certain sense of ownership over it. After all That's how executives are able to tell themselves company," while the actual laborers do everything This is why the tool itself is such a Focusing on the tool restores in our minds the and the actual labor that goes into production. bosses-and off-grid grifters -often try to obscure This whole subject is extra-relevant because I In 2020, as the pandemic raged and Brent a little community started to form in Echo the police, they'd tell you horror stories But if you went there, you'd see that because I happened to go to Echo Park What struck me most about walking through the community gardens. People were bartering free. It was this little alternative But in March of 2021, Echo Park's city council park. The city claimed that they'd move those But a year later, out of about 200 people that were in permanent housing, and at least Unhoused people are the ones living like they're permanent housing, every day is a struggle to rich locals, and vigilantes. They don't they can fall back on. And they're But living in a tent in a metropolitan people doesn't conjure images of the "wild west," so the media will never portray them the "Self-reliance" is a myth. All of us are that lesson the hard way during lockdown. I or talk into the camera. That's At the end of Brent's last video, he actually came to a similar conclusion "It has been three years... But for the past the past three years... I see my own memories three years. It's been a challenging three here... It has been three years... The last three YEARS. Thirty-six months... Three years ago... Brent tells us, "And after a lot of thinking, you know, I don't think it's the best And you know what, Brent's right. Which their time for should demand free stays AirBnB combination spa and mine tour experience. My mustache and I will see you there. While on my off grid journey, I like to fill my video. Just as soon as I figure out how to is a curated streaming service dedicated to I said that in the intro, and you can't me movies to discover and I can't wait to check out an adaptation of Virginia Woolfe's unfilmable curated with really helpful descriptions, so every that I've never even heard of before. Whether constructed from your favorite discarded DVD cases Cinema, Mubi will ensure that you won't run out or rapture! Or whatever event gets you the most at mubi dot com slash m m fish. The creature from sure he'll want to join me for a double feature with me. Mubi dot com slash m m fish! Mubi dot Thank you so much for watching! An and everyone watching on Nebula. Who I am deeply, might I recommend my video on Motel two ladies renovating a motel, for profit! the video and subscribe so you don't miss