Spring 1945. After nearly With millions of dead on both sides, The Red Army has arrived The German capital will witness some of the As Hitler's Third Reich collapses Red Army tank crews looked on intently They began to fix them It seemed a flimsy kind of armour, but this As Soviet tanks advanced into German they were regularly ambushed The Wehrmacht They had been forced to conscript But even in their hands, the Panzerfaust The commander of a Soviet Guards "Here's a tank, standing There's a small hole burnt just wide enough This is a Panzerfaust's work. We have to weld off the hatch We pull four dead men from the turret. A hollow charge round has and the spitting of melting metal Engineers believed steel meshes by causing the Panzerfaust warhead to The report read: "The surface of the mesh There was a hole in the tank's slopping So the panzerfaust could kill a T-34 even Nonetheless, many tank crews adopted they were willing to try anything that gave On 31st January 1945, reached the Oder River They crossed without waiting They had advanced 35 destroyed enemy divisions and hundreds They were now just 100 kilometres But now the Stavka Soviet High The frontline troops needed before they were ready In March 1945, Pomerania to the north, were cleared of German troops. The flanks The Germans attempted a counterattack at In the process, some of the last for the defence of Berlin were destroyed. From his Fuhrerunker Hitler raged at this latest failure. He was particularly scathing of the But when Chief of the General Staff, Hitler's wrath fell on him instead. Guderian was sent on leave, His successor was General Hans Krebs. Hans Krebs had been a military attache More recently, he'd been Chief of Staff which that winter had launched against the western allies. During his career Krebs had shown a talent Now, Hitler expected a miracle As Guderian packed his bags, for the final push on Berlin. He was The two men had met during the Nazi-Soviet Semyon Moiseyevich Krivoshein began his In 1939, as part of the Nazi-Soviet his brigade occupied Brest, This was when Krivoshein met Guderian, for handing over control In 1945, Krivoshein commanded It was the only unit to be completely equipped 1st Mechanised Corps was on the eastern its soldiers crossed the river to help On the night of 15th April, the Corps crossed the Oder As Hitler ranted and raved at his generals, Commander of the 1st Byelorussian Front He and Stalin were to discuss Zhukov had prepared two plans Plan "A" envisaged a thrust Plan "B" -- from the bridgehead The Germans would be kept guessing forcing them to disperse their troops. But bad news awaited Zhukov in the Kremlin. In his memoirs he described He was told, "The German front The Germans don't seem to stop the advance of the western Allies." British and American troops They had destroyed German Their armoured divisions were Although the Allies had agreed at Yalta that Berlin would be the Western Allies hadn't ruled out Winston Churchill had expressed "Russian armies will no doubt enter Vienna. will not their impression -- that they to our common victory -- I therefore consider that should Berlin be Zhukov understood. He put forward the plan a single assault Marshal Konev, also flew to Stavka headquarters in Moscow. In his memoirs, Konev recalled: the point of which was that the Western to capture Berlin. "So, who is going to take Berlin? I was the first to answer: "WE shall take Berlin, The General Staff worked night One of the directives received by "After the German defences tank armies are to be introduced to enable the envelopment of Berlin The purpose of this manoeuvre eastward advance on Berlin. Zhukov planned to deliver the main held by General Weidling's Then the Soviet armies would race west and establish a perimeter This cordon would prevent German Konev was unhappy that he was Instead his Front would encircle But Konev ordered his staff one following the Stavka's Directives... Meanwhile, in Berlin life went on. Most services continued to run, In reponse to the air raids, many or to help clear debris. There were still films and concerts. But over everything hung a sense of fear -- Berlin bore the unmistakable scars ruined buildings. as the city prepared to defend itself. Berlin's barricades They could be up to 2.5 metres high They made many streets and the approaches to them were mined. Immobilised tanks were dug in at crossroads, Berlin also boasted built to defend the city These were 40 metres high, Many Berliners now wore the German equivalent of the Home Guard. These units were controlled The Volkssturm was formed in October 1944, after Hitler ordered between the age of 16 and 60. By 1945, this meant the conscription teenagers, invalids and the elderly. The Nazis hoped to create but most had little stomach There were very few weapons Some received Italian or Dutch rifles, But there were plenty of Panzerfausts.. The Panzerfaust was a one-shot, disposable anti-tank warhead. The Germans produced between 1943 and the end of the war. The most common version, had an effective tank-killing Its warhead travelled and was able to penetrate This was very bad news The front armou of a T-34 was Standing between Zhukov and the capital They consisted of nearly more than 1,000 armoured vehicles, More than 200 Volkssturm battalions were formed into the Berlin The Berlin garrison itself totalled Busse was extremely cynical "We will consider "if American tanks strike us in our back." The German general staff would be decided on the Seelow Heights. Therefore most troops rather than held back inside the city. On 15th April, a proclamation from "Berlin will remain German, Vienna will remain German Form a single community to defend but your families, your wives, The slogan "Berlin will remain German" Many still believed that somehow Troops of the 1st Byelorussian Front "Our troops have travelled Our battle standards won at Stalingrad and Kursk, at Warsaw and in Pomerania, With our own sweat and blood, to be first to enter the city. To Berlin!" At 3 a.m. on 16th April 1945, and Katyusha rocket-launchers began an earth-shaking It was one of the greatest concentrations In Berlin, the bombardment was heard In houses closer to the front, pictures In Muncheberg, the cross tumbled Amongst the guns were six, from the 34th Independent When the bombardment stopped, pointed straight at the German lines. The searchlights were Zhukov's idea. They were supposed to light the way, But they struggled to penetrate and the smoke and dust The searchlights proved just And many were silhouetted by the lights, The Germans had known the initial So most of their troops had already This allowed Soviet troops to advance the As the sun rose, Despite the early success, it was clear by afternoon that there The Seelow Heights were defended and gun emplacements. for the Soviet infantry The advance of the 1st Byelorussian Unchallenged by the Luftwaffe, they arrived "By 1pm", Zhukov explained, "I clearly understood that the enemy's so to reinforce the attacking troops we decided to feed both His decision created huge traffic jams Tanks, artillery tractors, and supply By committing his tank Zhukov had altered the plan It showed desperation. He rang Zhukov to reprimand him for And he demanded to know Zhukov tried to remain calm. will be breached tomorrow", he told Stalin. Now Zhukov had to make it happen. Zhukov's advance, and Katukov's 1st Guards Tank Army, Meanwhile Marhsal was advancing towards the Neisse River The Germans had no forces here On the evening of 17th April, Konev informed Stalin that he was ready Stalin thought about it for a moment. "Very good" he said, Konev immediately issued orders and Lelyushenko's 4th Guards Tank Army, At the Niesse River, Rybalko's troops found Rather than wait for bridging equipment, his tank crews made their vehicles By the third day of the offensive, were poised to breakthrough At the same moment, to breakthrough German positions General Krivoshein's motorised an intact bridge at the town of Platkov. Now his 1st Mechanised Corps Behind them, rolled the T-34s "On 20th April", wrote General Weidling, "our units, having suffered huge losses could no longer withstand Weidling's corps That evening Zhukov entrusted General to lead his 2nd Guards and to become the first Soviet The next day Krivoshein's 1st Mechanised reached the Berlin suburb of Weissensee, For this, Krivoshein received the title 'Hero of the Soviet Union'. The main force was now sweeping and arriving en masse Konev's dream of conquering Forests and lakes, minefields There was hard fighting around Zossen, from where the Wehrmacht High But his advance had trapped and 4th Panzer Army These men could no longer Hitler faced a dilemma: stay in the He pinned his hopes on the army Hitler telegraphed the general: "The primary task before Army Detachment The fate of the capital of the Third Reich depends on how successfully It was an impossible order When Hitler was told this accusing the army of cowardice and treason. The Fuhrer would stay in Berlin. But he clutched at one last straw, facing the Americans on the Elbe River. On 23rd April Wenck But neither Steiner nor Wenck The Berlin garrison was formed from supplemented by Volkssturm battalions, about 120,000 men in total. although many of the SS men The Soviets outnumbered the Germans And many Red Army soldiers graduates of the Stalingrad Soviet tanks advanced on both sides They kept 30 metres behind the infantry, to take out defensive strongpoints Infantry squads and snipers worked The Soviets knew that the Panzerfaust So tanks would pull up 150 metres and shell it from a safe range. When assault teams captured a building, they used smoke grenades allowing more troops to move up in safety. General Krivoshein's mechanised corps After crossing the River Spree, it joined to complete the encirclement of Berlin. The River Spree curled In places the river was 200 metres wide. an impenetrable barrier, The appearance of Soviet motorboats was therefore an unpleasant These boats of the Dnieper fleet and were now launched onto the Spree. The amphibious assault succeeded in Reinforcements were then quickly This sudden advance, threw the German defensive plan into chaos. Several blocks were gievn up as units raced back to avoid being cut off. The Red Army troops were all aiming The Reichstag building In the interwar period it was where the lower chamber In 1933, shortly after Hitler came to power, Hitler accused the communists as part of a plot against the government. The next day, the Reichstag emergency powers to deal In effect, it was the death The Reichstag building The centre of government inside the Fuhrerbunker, 25 feet beneat The bunker had been built during By April 1945, it had become and the site of his military headquarters. According to those who experienced the place smelled of wet cement, from the ventilation system. It was claustrophobic, The Red Army didn't know even as their tanks fired on The observation point was located in an elevator They couldn't see the Reichstag -- On 27th April their unit As the artillery spotters looked for A voice demanded to speak Sergeant Pavel Larin, commander "18th orders you to fire Target 21 was the Reichstag building. His battery hadn't fired on And Larin knew that there were Red Army Firing from a range of 3 miles, could end up killing their own comrades. Larin also knew that any delay The BR-5 heavy mortar fired that weighed 246 kilograms This shell made a crater The battery fired 42 shells, one At the other end of the line They'd been hitting their own positions. The new order was to fire on Target 20. Target 20 was the Reich Chancellery. The forward unit came back on the phone. "Good shooting. I officially thank you Pavel Larin had just played The Soviet 3rd Shock Army Its commander was Vasiliy Kuznetsov. The same Kuznetsov who'd faced near the Byelorussian town of Grodno, as he struggled to save His war looked like it where he'd been a Deputy Front Commander. Zhukov clashed with Nikolai Simonyak, It was just two weeks The experienced Kuznetsov The 3rd Shock Army had fought its way Now Kuznetsov's men were just 800 The first attempt on the Reichstag But the attacking troops by Germans in the Kroll Opera House. So first the Opera House had to be cleared. Soviet infantry attacked again They were supported by artillery fire falling directly At 10.30 p.m. the Victory Banner finally The previous morning, Hitler commanding the defence of the Berlin "How long will you be able to hold out?". That evening, Hitler ordered a report The answer came at 1am -- Wenck had been forced to abandon 14 hours later, Hitler shot himself. His body was carried to a shell hole covered in petrol, and burned. Under a white flag, a delegation led Hans Krebs approached the Soviet lines. They were taken to see General Chuikov Krebs informed Chuikov of Hitler's death, and the formation of a new German But Chuikov refused to negotiate. His demands were simple and to the point: He wanted the immediate and unconditional The Germans refused. The fighting went on. After returning from General Krebs committed suicide It fell to General Weidling to surrender Weidling contacted the Soviets by radio: We will send truce envoys to the Potsdam The arrangements of the surrender At about 6am the next day, 2nd May, the headquarters of the Berlin Garrison From captivity, "On 30th April the Fuehrer thus abandoning those The situation makes I order the immediate This order was relayed The Germans began The Battle of Berlin was one About 3.5 million men fought on both sides. Red Army soldiers liberated from German concentration camps. Amongst them were more They included Edouard Herriot, and General Otto Ruge, On 7th May, the German Instrument of The signatories were the German US General Walter Smith, and French General Francois Sevez, But the Soviet Union decided Susloparov to sign the surrender. And so on 8th May, Field Marshal Keitel, General Stumpff, of the Luftwaffe, and signed another Act of Surrender in Berlin, in the presence of Marshal Georgi Zhukov On 9th May the Red Army entered Prague. On 10th May the Red Army occupied And on 11th May, German Army Group In these last days of the war, 1.2 million including 101 generals. On 24th June 1945, a Victory Parade Marshal Rokossovsky commanded the parade. Thus ended the Great Patriotic War Sergeant Pavel Larin never the voice who'd ordered him to fire on He was just thankful On the morning of 3rd May, Larin and document the effects The Berlin Garrison had surrendered, but suddenly they came under fire Luckily he missed. Larin wasn't allowed it was being visited by Zhukov The artillerymen made his notes It was difficult to get in there too -- the building was crowded with thousands Then, standing on his comrade's shoulders, he wrote on the wall: