The human voice: It's the instrument we all play. It's the most powerful sound It's the only one that can start a war And yet many people have the experience that when they speak, people And why is that? How can we speak powerfully What I'd like to suggest, there are a number of habits I've assembled for your pleasure here I'm not pretending but these seven, I think, are pretty large First, gossip. Speaking ill of somebody Not a nice habit, the person gossiping, five minutes later, Second, judging. We know people who are like this and it's very hard to listen to somebody if you know that you're being judged Third, negativity. You can fall into this. My mother, in the last years of her life, and it's hard to listen. I remember one day, I said to her, and she said, &quot;I know, isn't it dreadful?&quot; (Laughter) It's hard to listen (Laughter) And another form Well, this is the national art of the U.K. It's our national sport. We complain about the weather, sport, but actually, complaining is viral misery. It's not spreading sunshine Excuses. We've all met this guy. Maybe we've all been this guy. Some people have a blamethrower. They just pass it on to everybody else and don't take responsibility and again, hard to listen Penultimate, the sixth of the seven, embroidery, exaggeration. It demeans our language, For example, if I see something what do I call it? (Laughter) And then, of course, and we don't want to listen And finally, dogmatism. The confusion of facts with opinions. When those two things get conflated, you're listening into the wind. You know, somebody is bombarding you It's difficult to listen to that. So here they are, seven deadly These are things I think we need to avoid. But is there a positive Yes, there is. I'd like to suggest that there are four that we can stand on if we want our speech to be powerful and to make Fortunately, these things spell a word. The word is &quot;hail,&quot; and it has I'm not talking about the stuff and hits you on the head. I'm talking about this definition, to greet or acclaim enthusiastically, which is how I think if we stand on these four things. So what do they stand for? See if you can guess. The H, honesty, of course, being true in what you say, The A is authenticity, A friend of mine described it as which I think is a lovely way to put it. The I is integrity, being your word, actually doing what you say, and being somebody people can trust. And the L is love. I don't mean romantic love, but I do mean wishing people First of all, I think absolute honesty I mean, my goodness, Perhaps that's not necessary. Tempered with love, of course, But also, if you're really it's very hard to judge I'm not even sure you can do So hail. Also, now that's what you say, and it's like the old song, it's also the way that you say it. You have an amazing toolbox. This instrument is incredible, and yet this is a toolbox I'd like to have a little rummage and just pull a few tools out that you might like to take which will increase Register, for example. Now, falsetto register may not but there's a register in between. I'm not going to get very for any of you who are voice coaches. You can locate your voice, however. So if I talk up here in my nose, If I go down here in my throat, which is where most of us But if you want weight, you need to go down here to the chest. You hear the difference? We vote for politicians because we associate depth with power and with authority. That's register. Then we have timbre. It's the way your voice feels. Again, the research shows that we prefer voices like hot chocolate. Well if that's not you, because you can train. Go and get a voice coach. And there are amazing things you can do with breathing, with posture, to improve the timbre of your voice. Then prosody. I love prosody. This is the sing-song, the meta-language that we use in order to impart meaning. It's root one for meaning in conversation. People who speak all on one note if they don't have any prosody at all. That's where the word or monotonous, monotone. Also, we have repetitive where every sentence ends when it's actually not (Laughter) And if you repeat that one, it's actually restricting your ability which I think is a shame, so let's try and break that habit. Pace. I can get very excited by saying or I can slow right down to emphasize, and at the end of that, of course, There's nothing wrong with a bit We don't have to fill it with ums and ahs. It can be very powerful. Of course, pitch often to indicate arousal, but you Where did you leave my keys? (Higher pitch) Where did you So, slightly different meaning And finally, volume. (Loud) I can get really excited Sorry about that, if I startled anybody. Or, I can have you really pay attention Some people broadcast the whole time. Try not to do that. That's called sodcasting, (Laughter) Imposing your sound on people around you Not nice. Of course, where this all comes is when you've got something It might be standing on a stage like this It might be proposing marriage, asking for a raise, a wedding speech. Whatever it is, if it's really important, you owe it to yourself and the engine that it's going to work on, and no engine works well Warm up your voice. Actually, let me show you how to do that. Would you all like to stand I'm going to show you the six vocal warm-up exercises Any time you're going to talk First, arms up, deep breath in, and sigh out, ahhhhh, like that. One more time. Ahhhh, very good. Now we're going to warm up our lips, and we're going to go Ba, Ba, Ba, Ba, Ba, Ba, Ba, Ba. Very good. And now, brrrrrrrrrr, just like when you were a kid. Brrrr. Now your lips We're going to do the tongue next with exaggerated la, la, la, Beautiful. You're getting And then, roll an R. Rrrrrrr. That's like champagne for the tongue. Finally, and if I can only do one, the pros call this the siren. It's really good. It starts The &quot;we&quot; is high, the &quot;aw&quot; is low. So you go, weeeaawww, weeeaawww. Fantastic. Give yourselves Take a seat, thank you. (Applause) Next time you speak, do those in advance. Now let me just put this This is a serious point here. This is where we are now, right? We speak not very well to people who simply aren't listening in an environment that's all I have talked about that on this stage What would the world be like if we were speaking powerfully to people who were listening consciously in environments which were Or to make that a bit larger, what would the world be like if we were creating sound consciously and consuming sound consciously and designing all our environments consciously for sound? That would be a world and one where understanding and that is an idea worth spreading. Thank you. (Applause)