[Peter] Good morning guys, That is with Mormon fundamentalists. These are the Mormons or as they say, plural marriages. Now in all the Mormons the roughly 17 million of them, under half of one percent have stayed We're gonna get in to see how they live, and get an inside look of a world Let's do this. somber country [woman] Getting our picture taken.. [Peter] Am I in this or no? -[man] We're all in. [woman] One more time, one, two, three. -[man] Awesome. [Peter] How many different -You don't want to be on camera? -Okay, cool. -I don't want to do it -I want to be respectful to them. So... -There's a big difference -Yes, we believe in that Joseph Smith -And they've taken those away. They've taken celestial plural marriage from the government, -When did they take that away? -1890 was the manifesto. -Oh, a long time ago. They've actually persecuted that believe in celestial plural marriage. Tried to rip families apart. -Why do you call it celestial? -There are different ordinances in order to make it I've been in two plural families myself. -Okay. -So I can say I'm a polygamist wife. -So you had a sister wife? -Oh, many sister wives. -Many? -How many? -Who's Annette. -Okay. On the left? -Our husband passed away in 2015. -With her family and then in the previous family Both of the husbands had health issues. -Okay. So walk us through someone Is it super challenging or what's it like -There's challenges. -But you learn to rise above those and to care for each other, It's just a different attitude You have to take on... You have to get over -Can you leave at any time -You can if you want, there's free agency. -Free agency? -In your fundamentalist sect Some of them like Warren Jeffs. -I would say Warren Jeffs is horrible. -That's known as FLDS. -Yeah, there's a lot of mind control We believe in free agency. We are encouraged to keep our covenants But nobody is gonna be hunted down like you've hard of have actually killed -We do not believe in that at all. -We believe that our husbands and do the Lord's work. And so they're not always around. So it's nice to have with other women. A woman relates to another woman and to help be supportive to each other -How many children -Okay, so in my previous family... I had two boys from my previous marriage So I had four. My other sister wife had six. The other sister wife got five. And then our husband actually had a first wife that chose -Okay. -She had seven children, -Wow. -So I would have to add a lot -Do you forget names? -No. -Never? -Are you like under one roof, one house? -There was times we were Just depending on the circumstances, what was happening, it kinda was better to have We always came together -And now you're not -I'm not right now, but my current husband is kind of -Okay, yeah. -He's a little scared. I'm the eager one and he's scared. -See I woulda thought it was the opposite. I would have thought -Not always. -Actually with mother and father, My dad was the one that was holding back. -Interesting. -Yes, because he realized &quot;Can I make sure everybody's happy and...&quot; -The financial responsibility is massive. -That's very massive. So most of the time or there's certain wives and other will take care of their kids or they'll take turns. So not every family is the same. Do you think plural marriage because it comes from your God, -Well the way we look at is that's righteous and to the children, he should have of as many children as possible. We believe that that we are to provide physical bodies for our spirit brothers and sisters. -Okay. -And we want them to have to be raised in a righteous family out in the world, you know, but the man is off doing his own thing -What do you mean, -Cheating on the wife or drinking, or just doing things that is not trying a righteous priested head. There's a lot of really good men out there and live like that but we just feel like and trying to uphold they should be given that opportunity. So we don't believe It's for only those that really want to... -So there's not -We have a lot of people that... -No. The name of your religion... -The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day -Righteous branch, okay. -So that's obviously not FLDS. -But you're fundamentalists? -It's a bit confusing. -There's a lot of different groups, and the Short Creek Group. You're gonna hear -Do you all get along, -We have interacted some. -Some people Some people are fine. I've gone to LDS church meetings because my husband is LDS right now. -Okay. So if your husband agreed you would want him You would want him to pick -How it works is We can have inspiration, but we have a prophet and we believe If they want to be in a family they need and say, &quot;Will you please pray?&quot; And the prophet also on the other hand, that I said once again. So the woman has her final choice. No woman should be forced. -The prophet makes the choice but the woman makes the final choice. -That is correct. And then if she says and she's willing to do that then he will notify and ask them to get their witness. They have to have their witness too. -Okay. -So everybody has to have their witness and there's like So it's not just a man -There's a structure to it? -There's a structure, yes, to try to keep order and... -Wow, so-- -We don't believe in courting and dating. We believe in we try to find out that we covenanted with -So only arranged marriages? -It's like Indians? -Kind of like Indians. -Yeah, like that. -And I learned in India, because it seems like such a far out -Yeah. -They said you form your relationship -Yeah. -But in our arranged marriages but you spend the rest of your life -That's what he told me. -I find that interesting. -If you look at the Bible, that's how the marriages were For us gentiles outside of the religion as a bit immoral? You know, you're dating someone here, You're just choosing on your own. What would your view of that be? -I personally don't condemn anybody. I feel heavenly father has given and not everyone is going to choose and we are not the judge We are to just do what we feel is right of love and charity towards others and we don't look at that way but if our youth grow up and say, &quot;Hey, I want to go out we can't stop them, you know? -We can encourage them, you know? -But I have daughters of my own -Okay. -And I still love my daughters, Because God is unconditional in his love. -Is it tough though as a mother? -It hurts, yeah. Because the way we believe it is if you don't have the marriages that in the next life You will be single. You will eternally be single. That's why if you want to become -Yeah. So you want your daughters That would be perfect if possible? -I would like them to enter that. -But I am not going to force that. -Because that's a personal choice. They have to decide for themselves and what they're willing to sacrifice for. -Yeah. Here's the legend. -BMW stands for big Mormon wagon. -And we have one [laughs] [Peter] Okay, so sister wife, sister wife? -Yeah, we used to be. [Peter] Are you still in -I'm not, I haven't got remarried yet. -Do you miss it or do you like the free-- We became best friends, and did things together. -We had a baby sitter if we needed to. -Didn't have to pay for a baby sitter. -Our kids hung out and they had -That was great. -We did things together as a family, Of course you don't have as you would in a monogamous marriage You learn to love the other wives -As the husband? -How does it work in a plural marriage? Like one day you have, You have full attention, the next day the other wife does, -In a way, yep, that's what it was. Me and the other wife, not Trina. We would live actually in the same house. -Okay. We had our separate rooms but we shared -Okay. -Family time, so... -Right, big family meals. So everything was together. Trina actually had her own home when he went over there. -Okay. -Where me, I got to see him more -Yeah, was it ever hard let's say with your husband and then he has to leave Was that ever a big challenge or just -To me it's just something I accepted. -Okay. -Because I knew within me that he and as long as I knew he loved me -And did you grow up in a family like this -No, my parents were monogomous, My dad did have -Okay. -But she ended up leaving, So I didn't get to see it My dad found Christ Church -Okay. -And so of course I'm young, and so I eventually learned and grew I knew that it was true You know, I got married -So... How old? -Sixteen. -Wow, okay. -Was it arranged or no? -No. -You wanted? -Okay. Is that normal in the church, 16? -No... Oh, no. Back way back then Now they only allow 18 or older. -Okay. -And it's always the female's choice, -Was it back then? The female's decision? -Yep. -In FLDS it was different, they chose -Right. -You think it's interesting -Uh-huh. -To see a former FLDS member. -I'm curious. [laughs] -So you're curious about them. I'm not curious in regards to them, I'm curious in regards to I've heard a lot of stuff. [Peter] So do you think Do you think it's like -I do. -Okay, so you feel like most guys would be down with this? -Most of them, yeah. -[Peter laughs] -Who wouldn't? -But most women wouldn't be? -Right. I think women are a lot more jealous -So Benjamin, tell us what makes you -Okay, so we're all Mormons, right? Or at least they used to use that word. -They say they're not Mormon. [Trina] We are Mormons. -We're still Mormons. -Okay, this gets confusing, guys. I learned this is Salt Lake &quot;No, say LDS or even [Trina] I don't know why they changed -That's a recent thing, [all laughing] -I'm sure everyone -But yeah, it's a thing They're trying to emphasize and emphasize their connection and I think that's laudable but it just doesn't work grammatically. Mormonism is a type of person, That's just the way it always has been, it's gonna continue to be -Okay. -We still identify as Mormons -You're considered -Right, so the FLDS is a specific church They were established in 1993. And that's only one small subset, they're the ones that you're gonna see -Right. -Mostly because of the tragedies in their community. -Warren Jeffs is their leader? -Running it from prison right now. -Well he's hardly running anything. -But he's in prison for good reason. -Unfortunately. Their whole community has been and violence that has gone on -So... -So you have nothing to do with them? -Nothing to do with them, no more than any other Mormon. -Totally separate. -Separate history, leaders, communities. -So even most LDS members -Well a lot of... they think they're the original. -Okay. -You think you're the original? That's why we don't argue with The term fundamentalist was of the LDS church. The Mormon fundamentalist moniker, because it means we stick with We believe in all of that original Mormonism had in it. So that includes things like They've changed their ceremonies. We still practice the united order, and believe in the original doctrines and they've changed -So they have a president -Mm-hmm. -So every president changes the rules -To some extent that's sort of true with the boiling a frog analogy. They don't change everything all at once. But over the 200 years of Mormon history, -Okay. -We're trying to stay with the original that we're static. We have a dynamic community. We believe that God is still speaking. -Still revealing his will on the earth. -And still has prophets, but the difference is that to us that they cannot be changed otherwise God would be a different god. If God says one day that then the next day he changes his rules, or changes like baptism, things like that, then we don't believe And so I would say I never left but the church left the gospel. The church broke away. -What about the 17 million members The vast majority are going that way. -Yeah. -Well, the main thing is trying to make sure It fits in, right? They're trying to be They're trying to be like everybody else. That's not... But if you just tell people you're not telling the truth. -You're styling, I like your shirt. But modest. I was married when I joined -He died shortly thereafter. -So I'm sealed to him for eternity. I consider myself married. If the prophet said to me, &quot;Now you need to go and I always get my choice. I would say I would rather say no that's what I will do and plural marriage is a growth opportunity. -Growth opportunity? -[laughs] -What do you mean by growth opportunity? -I'm 85... Well, patience, -So you'd be open -I have a great deal of love, for many years I married a man who was many years my senior If any marriage fails it's because of two main things. Selfishness and jealousy. One of the big things -Okay. -Our agency is never taken away from us. -That's the beauty of it, huh? -That's part of the beauty of it. Part of it is that we claim that our priesthood authority And I've been reading So you do the math. -65 years ago. -Yeah, 65 years I've been I'm on my 52nd reading Pretty hard to fool me. [woman] That is the all-seeing eye of God. That's a symbol, it's on our dollar bill and it represents God watching over us. And it's a symbol very prevalent back in New England. People who built this building [Peter] So you were worried if they see that eye up there? -Well if they don't understand it. -Masonic symbol? We sing hymns in church about, &quot;Beneath God's watchful eye, [Peter] Four sets of stairs -Spiral staircase with no central support. -The symmetry was so much who designed this building And so they literally incorporated rather than move a door or make it shorter they wanted to make sure it had in everything. This is basically the earliest form Mormons originally would only meet but occasionally in they would build these grand edifices and called them tabernacles. Tabernacles have generally been and temples are closed for ceremonies but even in tabernacles Some tabernacles have Whereas a temple, to do the sacred ceremonies of the temple. -And a temple, -Correct. -Right, in fact generally if you have Which is basically a statement of faith -Driver's license for the church? -Yeah, it makes you [both chuckle] Some people might look at &quot;Oh no, God's watching me but I think the idea of the eye That God is always with us. God is always present with us. Watching all that we do, looking over us -Is it God or is it heavenly father? -Okay, so God of course, is a very generic word Heavenly father is something -Your God? -As the way we view God. We view God as a father and that goes back between Mormon fundamentalists is that we believe and that this is what's called The idea that the human race So in this sense, God as a father, and we are literally his decedents rather than just being a created thing. Like he didn't just make us out of mud. The human race was given birth to Now I'm made of But that doesn't mean that my parents I was born the same way So Mormonism sees a joyful marriage All these natural processes are divine in their nature, Everything in Mormonism points to of the gods, but it's too on the nose and so they've been doing a lot of and the mainstream LDS church away Because it's viewed as heresy. Of course, as far as we're concerned [laughing] Right? But because for us, it's fundamental. [in baby voice] Oh, check out the Belly. Mama, papa, that's cute. -So Benjamin, She's hanging out with her parents but we can meet up with her. -Okay. How many wives do you have? -I have one wife that's with me. I've lost one wife. -Oh, I'm sorry. I didn't know. My first wife was just... She said she was so open to it. -We got married right here in the Temple. -I remember talking to her about how and she's like, &quot;Yes, I'm on board.&quot; When it started coming down she changed her attitude. The funny thing is I was willing to -Okay. -We were monogamous for a long time and I never dated, we don't do that. I never looked for another wife, anything. We were married for almost 20 years and then she finally decided -Okay. -This is my son-in-law, Simion, my daughter Marissa, -Nice to meet you. Maybe a silly question -We aren't living it, no. Just us and the little one on the way. -First one? -Okay, great. -Oh cool, congrats. We do believe in plural marriage in a plural family. -Okay, okay. -You both did? -Would you be open to it or no? -Sure. I think it's important actually. So like not just open, I'm like yeah, -Like whenever we feel like then the time will come or whatever. -Okay, so would it be or you decide on your own -So... -Okay. -Like we're not forced into it, -Okay. -We're not forced into it or anything. -What was it like growing up? [both] Yeah. -What was that like? I'm sure you could speak for days on it -To be honest, awesome. -Awesome? I would describe it as awesome. That, as a kid, no question, -Just 'cause you had -I'm actually the youngest of my dad's and actually my moms too. So I'm the youngest, youngest. -Okay. -So I have 18 other siblings besides me. So yeah, like totally awesome. Like they've gone and careers, and all sorts of stuff. So I get a lot of different experience -Sure. -And do different things with them. So it's way cool. -And you, same story? -I'm the second youngest and there's So having that many siblings is a lot. Which I'm sure you can imagine. -Wow. -My oldest brother, I can't remember how old they are, So I didn't really grow up knowing them and probably married It's important to realize is based off of whether we want to or not. None of us are forced into it. Which, I mean... -In your church? -Yeah, everybody has to consent basically. Let's say a second wife like we would both have to say yes, and then it would happen. So like-- -What if you would say no Or that's just to be determined, like you have to talk that out -Um... If it came down to it, plural marriage we both take that really seriously. -Right. -There's different stigmas around it but making one marriage work -So unless you really believe this... -Don't do it again. [chuckling] -But that's a lot of work. -It's not something -Sure, sure. -We both agreed children are raised under their mothers. Like not just handed off So we both agree that and he would be providing -Would you do home schooling? -I would love to. -Okay. -I was home schooled -And you're... Who was telling me? I met a lot of new people today How did she say it? Plural marriage twin. -Okay, so... -So you met Trina? -She was one of my moms growing up, So they were pregnant at the same time and me and my sister So... Different moms, but twins. -Wow. -Yeah. Same father, -Yeah. -Yeah. -That's very rare, right? -That's not common. Especially in the same family, -Okay. Do you feel like you have to or nobody really knows would you say? -We live in a community that lives it. -There's a lot of explanation. -Right. -They know us and we're all family. -Okay so growing up, the outside world, that being me Would you avoid them at all costs or just you wouldn't associate or... -You know, It depends. I went to public school I had friends and whatnot, so... -Did you ever have to deal with Like judging you, you felt -Probably. -We were actually kind of raised We didn't go to public school but at the time in Utah, where we lived And so there was a time when cops 'cause we didn't want to be taken away So we were hiding 'Cause we didn't want But like... -So that's what's happened It's illegal, as in felony, -Right. -Or it's like a $50 fine -Right. -So the pressure isn't on now -And I've heard stories Danika, his sister would say they'd Which our parents Which was just how they were raised. -There was definitely like... I'm a bit younger but I think some of Like they're gonna get us -Okay. -As time passes and we don't have to or anything like that, so... -What do you think about secular types or they're with one girl, What are your thoughts on that? -I'm sure there's plenty of people but I don't really... I guess for me, like religiously And dating around forever I wanted to pray about and find the one, you know? -Same. [Benjamin] They accept the goldback. -Oh, the goldback? [woman] Yeah, step right over here. We're as far as I know, one of in Saint George, Utah but there are companies like Jed's, you can get soup. Homemade soup -So back in 2011 decided that we were gonna accept A company actually developed and it's actually just that amount of gold Several different states This is actually a Nevada goldback. -and so there's gold in the currency? -There's actually 1/1000ths -Okay, so by saying one, -Yeah, so it's one goldback. It's considered one single goldback. -And it sticks to -Yeah, so the valuation, www.goldback.com And it'll actually tell you with this particular currency. A lot of folks feel like it's going to here very soon, you know? -Okay. -Going towards the actual true value -So it's a hedge -Definitely, it's one of the things -Okay. -We're actually gold and silver brokers. -Okay, cool shop you got. [Peter] That is so cool. [Benjamin] That's an intimidating [Peter] It's amazing -So this is The Daughters of Utah Pioneers all kinds of cool stuff. [Peter] So you guys [Benjamin] Oh, that's really important because we believe that we're connected to all of our ancestors and descendants. So we view ourselves We're not as individualistic The Mormon faith This is why our vision of Zion is this concept In other words, unity of purpose, The past, the present, the future. We're trying to build something A lot of religions that's gonna happen later after this life. We view our purpose more as We need to build it now. -What about the second coming? There's always been a talk of -Oh yeah. -So if you're worried about that's some future event, not the now. -Actually quite the opposite. In Mormonism, instead of us viewing like he's coming out of the blue, we actually view ourselves If we build the earth in which Jesus would want to live And so really we view it as it's our duty to create the Zion where Jesus Christ And so we don't believe his second coming until he has people to come to and that's why we believe for us to continue to live including plural marriage -If society slips, -Sure. -Then you're further away -Could be, yeah. But it doesn't necessarily require or everyone is gonna live That's why the Bible's replete It can happen. But it's more of a Do you want to live in a world of peace? Are you capable of forgiving your enemy or are you gonna gonna be stubborn until the lord's destruction Just taking a look and some of the story. This is about In the 1880s Wilfred Woodruff came. They were arresting and attempting to really shut down They wanted to arrest all the leaders, close down that tabernacle. These firearms at the time to protect themselves Because the feds had come in. There's something called and their job was to come into Utah, and imprison them all if possible, and then seize all the church's assets. They wanted to seize everything that were growing our food. -Why were they doing that? -Well, for one thing If you have the chance you're talking about a lot of plunder. But on top of that, ostensibly it was to enforce So they said there's one way that is to get rid of that was basically all the Mormons. -So you're not gonna see this -No, you're not gonna see this 'cause they don't want they don't want to talk about any of that For more than a century everything they can to appear accepted And it doesn't look as good if you're fighting against At the time though that you could be a Mormon It was like a rival United States. You could think of Salt Lake City with totally different They wanted to be -Currency? -Yep, they had their own currency, -Own language? -Well the Deseret alphabet. We should ask them [Benjamin] Okay, so here's About its history. It was totally unique and actually... -Oh, here we go. -So basically it was a phonetic alphabet. It was still English but it was written All these different Mormon pioneers all over the South Pacific as well. There's a strong Tongan, Samoan, and they wanted to learn and so they used the Deseret alphabet And so this reads, &quot;The Deseret alphabet.&quot; [woman] We were talking about Are we growing or staying stable, And we aren't declining. We actually have had some of members like the mainstream But we're currently teaching and this isn't for everybody. You know, this lifestyle. We're not fishers of men, and it takes a certain type of person He's the temple president and I'm the temple matron -So why Nevada? [laughs] Because we were called to move there. We were asked to move there -So the prophet of the church he told you, &quot;Go to Nevada.&quot;? -Yeah. -The laws in Nevada are such that we can't be as persecuted, as you could in some other states. Because they allow and so it's okay and you'd be able -I mean, men there all the time... -...do those kinds of things. So the law there make it so our lifestyle is a bit more palatable and livable. -Okay, because in Utah -Yep. -It was a felony at one time? -But they're not really arresting anyone. -Not really unless -Unfortunately for you, Everyone thinks -Right, everyone thinks and is the example for everybody and there's various and we're not all the same. We don't all follow the same people, and that's not our group at all. And we don't follow Warren Jeffs, We don't agree with what he did. -So a lot of LDS members -Correct, correct. -Okay, they just think FLDS? -Yeah, they think all fundamentalists This more than just a religion for us. We lean on each other, you know? We're not related blood wise Maybe DNA test but we would have if we hadn't have been in this situation, and became true family. -Okay. -I know that in my community where I live My husband might be at work Maybe the swamp cooler had a problem and it's now I know I can just get on our text group and somebody -So you're spread out in Nevada, Any other locations I'm missing? -I'm in Vernal. -The main thing is We want to be gathered together We haven't necessarily but our gathering place in Nevada because when you come there, That's where we grow our own food. That's where we can -You grow your own food in Nevada? -Which is not exactly the best place [woman] We don't grow a lot of our food -Is it the new Zion? -Well, Zion first First you have to become a Zion people So it's not exactly But it makes us into a Zion people. [Trina] It's the Zion prep. [Peter] Zion prep? [all laughing] So Salt Lake doesn't mean out there in Nevada? -Basically that's just an older, They tried to make a Zion there and that was beautiful They did build a lot of beautiful things but what's come out of that now It's just like any other city in America. -What do you mean they failed? -They failed to become a Zion people. It eventually became about money. -I mean especially-- -Well no, I'm not trying to speak for-- -A lot of good people And we still love the Mormon, But yeah, there are and we love them, and some of them will come to us, -We all have a role to play. [Benjamin] As far as I'm concerned this is part of our faith. It wasn't until long after before they broke off from us. -So I was asking off-camera if this is an LDS church?&quot; -Yeah, this temple was built This was a bastion of plural marriage. It was built by consecration. The men and women that built this temple and they lived the law of consecration The difference is the mainstream and by the 1930s it was really important that these edifices not fall into -So the church has progressed on. -Mm-hmm. -You don't think that's a good thing? Like things progress, things change. -Things should progress We want to live in a modern world, right? The difference to me is that they abandoned the faith. One of the most important things are the holy ordinances performed here. What does that mean? An ordinance of the temple is or we learn how You're supposed to receive actual, when you receive these ordinances. Well, they've changed so much, the fundamental meaning For example, originally here and in our temples today in Christ Church, going to the temple would be Where you can actually You don't just watch something happen. You don't just worship or pray. You actually experience what it's like and you would represent... You would actually and their path through and eventually sending back into heaven. Well, the mainstream LDS church has They no longer have or the same covenants and so I would say if you didn't do it, Now they watch a video about it instead of actually experiencing -Do you have LDS friends? -Oh lots, yeah. -So you get in debates a lot? I was a temple worker in the mainstream LDS church and I remain a temple worker So I do think my opinions But obviously they're gonna disagree. A lot of them think it's good because their fast, or they're easier, They still feel like even if they're making But I would say you can't expect the same results. I think of it like a recipe, &quot;Oh yeah, we want to make cookies.&quot; who knows what's gonna It's the same thing, I think, You put in certain elements, So where do you see -Oh, probably even further afield. One of the big changes is that they're gonna have gay temple -And you're against that? -Well, honestly since I don't think I think they should be -Mm-hmm. There is a certain amount that is really kind of baked into We believe in this idea that -Yeah. Are divine in origin. That means that yeah, That men and women are different. Not to say they're unequal -What if a gay couple -We actually have some gay members and we did have a gay couple and they were welcome -Okay. People need some love and acceptance but that doesn't mean we can change or the entire creation of the world. I mean I also like to think of this Which there are certain Male and female, the yin and the yang, these are fundamental concepts. It's not about any individual's It's about the fact that we view that underlies existence itself. And the fact that You know? It leads to a worldview That's the reason -Yeah. What's that about? It's about procreation but it's also about in that creative, thriving community. That's the goal. [Benjamin] We're hungry. Let's do this. We often cover out heads when we pray. Women often will wear a light veil It's symbolic of eternity. Circular, it's white and it represents our submission to God Our father in heaven, and that we're able Please bless him for providing and bless all of us that we'll be able We'll be able to enjoy all these sights That we will be able So we can be motivated to better -It's a vitality mat. What it does is in just a few seconds It reads the nearest person to it and it changes it into [Peter] Thank you. Would you like one of my shrimps? Thank you, I don't eat shrimp. -Okay. -I'm just fastidious -Okay. -And shrimp are known to have Now I've really done [chuckling] -Get some heavy metals. So you guys all look Is that something in the church? [Trina] It helps. We all try to strive to be healthy. Not super unhealthy but we strive. -Not all of them, some people -That's true. -It's interesting that you because as my observation this group of people are the most unique of all the Mormon groups of any kind. Including the church at Salt Lake. I grew up in the church in Salt Lake. I know it from top to bottom. I lived with general authorities, Been in and out all the way along. This little group of people -Okay. -But it came out of that had the original teachings And this was deliberately about 40 years ago on that basis and on the foundation... The very foundation principles. -And this is just... There's not laws the core requirement is that Joseph Smith and still leads this church and the book of Mormon -So Nelson means nothing to all of you? Is that correct? The current president? -He's just a good man -Right. -We usually don't want to criticize. -Okay, okay, that's great. So LDS members look at Nelson as and you're looking at Joseph Smith. -Well yes, ultimately, and so are they but I mean... So we all go back But our prophet is not Nelson. We have a different prophet. -So most everyone here came from LDS? -They were born in it. -I'm a seventh generation LDS. [child] I have no idea. -Left the LDS church. -What made you leave -Dan. [all laughing] I mean we had a missionary and share the gospel with us, because we had a feeling like It wasn't the same As it was in the '90s and early 2000s. It wasn't the same as in the '70s. And so we were searching. Where did that priesthood go? The power that the saints would say and I was healed of that. I have a great-grandfather who was in the early 1800s and he could walk. He was gonna lose his leg and they healed him They promised him if he wanted to and get baptized, and his leg would heal, and he did, and he converted, and you don't see those things today And so we started searching because -Do you feel like... but the LDS church is Coors Light [all laughing] -Is that a way to say it? -We're not decaf. -You're not decaf, yeah. [all laughing] -All right, Benjamin, I just said goodbye to everyone and didn't have the power button on. -Oops. [laughs] Everyone gave me hugs and smiles. -Thank you for bringing me out. -'Cause you don't have to... No offense. -Fundamentalist Mormons. -Because the camera comes out -People get shy, it wasn't many years ago for having this religion. Wasn't many years ago people So yeah, a lot of people are nervous. In fact one of the people today &quot;Oh man, my father would freak out but we live in a world now They can be more vocal about it -Anything else you'd like to say -Sure, I guess we might come from different but we're all people, I want to build a bridge and that we'll be able because we live in the same world, -Hey, in Mormonism we're all Mormons. -But there are these divisions and I'd like to see us -All right, Benjamin, good stuff. -Thank you, brother You too, man. somber country