Narrator: President Thomas Jefferson to Benjamin (VOICE OF JEFFERSON) I wish to mention to you in confidence that undertake the long desired objective of exploring with that, leads into the Western ocean. About secretary, will set out on it immediately Lewis is brave, prudent, habituated to the character. He is not regularly educated but on all the subjects of nature which present Narrator: When President Thomas Jefferson physician, he was in the midst of the greatest For 15 million dollars, Jefferson had doubled for an empire of democracy extending across lands to the west were shrouded in mystery. satisfy his curiosity, but to fulfill the of discovery were two exceptional men, Meriwether AMBROSE: The Journals of Lewis and Clark are Iliad and our Odyssey. You can open those things aloud and it's just magic. DENNY: These two explorers were given the a totally unknown place and travel 8000 miles job. No one could have done it better. If have any great stories. Lewis and Clark story, but in Missouri we is the story of our river, the Missouri and hand of settlement. This is the story of Lewis (VOICE OF ORDWAY) Honored Parents to you once more to let you know where I am in high spirits. I am now on an expedition Clark, who are appointed by the President through the interior parts of North America. boat as far as is navigable and then to go Narrator: John Ordway wrote these words on into the mouth of the Missouri River and into had swelled to over forty; they called themselves other men prepared for their journey, they trusting with their lives. Meriwether Lewis created one of our country's greatest adventures. Clark was four years older. Young men but officers in the United States Army. Lewis Now their roles were reversed. Jefferson had Groomed him, prepared him for this epic journey. to a friend, William Clark. (VOICE OF LEWIS) Dear Clark, would induce you to participate with me in believe me there is no man on earth with whom as with yourself. With sincere affection and (VOICE OF CLARK) Dear Lewis of the 19th. The contents of which I received fraught with many difficulties, but my friend I would prefer to undertake such a trip as Your obedient servant. William Clark DENNY: One of the most remarkable things about fact of joint command. This is something that don't have joint commands. I think obviously about it , because in the end, despite Lewis's he made him a Lieutenant, and Lewis the captain. certain that this was the way their organization they were going to share command were Lewis the most brilliant partnership, probably in Narrator: Neither Clark nor Lewis made mention the journey. To the men of the crew and to Captain's Lewis &amp; Clark. it was a formidable challenge. As the members of the Missouri, they were looking into the Corps of Discovery, in two large pirogues with supplies. Not only did they face the men and material up the river, they were also STUCKY: Just reading their journals and the wildlife resources, the abundance, the diversity like to think that the river they encountered Eden. Narrator: So it began, the party set out from and into the history books. (VOICE OF CLARK) Set out at 4 o'clock and proceeded up the the Missouri and camped. Wind from the Northeast. Narrator: They lingered a few days in St. and only European settlement on the Missouri French and their new American administrators. (VOICE OF LEWIS) The village contains a chapel, one hundred their houses are generally small and but illy are miserably poor, illiterate and when at hospitable and by no means deficient in point state of harmony among each other..... (VOICE OF CLARK) Set out from St. Charles at three o'clock on under a gentle breeze. DUNCAN: The most recurrent phrase in all of proceeded on" and I think that was their about twelve miles a day. Each day they woke them. They didn't know what was around the what was over the next horizon. And they had (VOICE OF CLARK) We proceeded on past several small farms on This day we passed several islands, and some water. DUNCAN: Well the lower Missouri in the spring They're learning how to manage that keelboat and the sawyers and the snags and overhanging time. Just how do you maneuver against this (VOICE OF CLARK ) Set out very early passed a very bad part This is where the current set's against the current wheeled the boat, broke our tow all hands jumped out on the upper side and above where we were so nearly lost. Hard water, it the Retrograde Bend. DENNY: After the incident at Retrograde Bend that nothing but...literally a miracle kept happened just about a couple of weeks later... started listing it looked like it was going all the men were overboard with a rope and fixed fast and they were out of danger just to do. And Clark at that time said that he boatmen on the Mississippi. Narrator: The previous summer, as Lewis was with Clark, he wrote about the type of men (VOICE OF LEWIS) When descending the Ohio it shall be my duty hunters, stout, healthy, unmarried men, accustomed fatigue in a considerable degree. mostly, hunters from Kentucky, experts with experienced, thoroughly French. There was but considered one of the crew on the expedition. by an Indian woman and her child. In many population of the Western frontier. Together of their newly formed nation. Now the Captains And as the Corps of Discovery set up their River, near present day Herman, Missouri, detachment. (VOICE OF LEWIS) The commanding officers direct that three Ordway and Pryer heretofore forming two messes three messes only, the same being altered DENNY: The fact that you always have to keep expedition. With strict military discipline, and setting up guard duty and all those things boat. A person was designated to watch for for rafts coming down the river with traders. about the way this organization was going were going to work together. (VOICE OF CLARK) Came to the point of the Osage River on the very high. We felled all the trees in the o'clock taking observations this night. AMBROSE: These were men of the enlightenment major part of the expedition, the biggest the Pacific and to explore the Louisiana territory, there, tell us about the flora and the fauna, about the deposits, tell us what grows, tell this lines up in the latitude and longitude Narrator: They recorded everything following particular, Jefferson wanted to know about to pursue." They were to, "endeavor to diligent pursuit of your journey shall admit, numbers." (VOICE OF CLARK) Our scout discovered the fresh sign of about on their way to war against the Osage nation. rock called the Manitou. From this devil to west 7 1/2 degrees. DENNY: The Manitou Bluffs derive their name Manitou figures they're sort of half human, them and they represent the great spirit. a special place with the Native Americans saw Native American artwork like this painted today is in so many places the river is in in Lewis and Clark's time but along the Manitou base of those bluffs. We see the same view (VOICE OF CLARK) Passed some charming land, passing the river the river below its mouth. This is a beautiful Narrator: As the expedition passed the Manitou vast seas of grass that were unlike anything (VOICE OF CLARK) We set out and proceeded on under a gentle water crowded with snags, immediately opposite is beautiful, a high bottom 1 1/2 miles back. DENNY: The first time that the expedition interesting one for them. They grew up with old saying that a squirrel could go all the without every touching the ground because eastern woodlands extended essentially in giving way to the prairie environment, and very unfamiliar with. Clark seemed to be fascinated he thought they were interesting. the quantity of wildlife began to increase. deer taken. The numbers were astounding. A Discover during the Missouri leg of their of Kansas City, it was apparent, even to these a region of incredible bounty. (VOICE OF CLARK) Captain Lewis killed a deer and Collins 3, sides of the river. (VOICE OF CLARK) The prairies come within a short distance in addition to plumbs, raspberries and vast great numbers of deer are seen feeding on on the sand bars on the river. (VOICE OF CLARK) Immense numbers of deer on the banks, skipping bucks on the river and the bank today. AMBROSE: They were able to land on the banks of Eden. It was so full of life, every kind... animals would just be incredible to us today. deer tracks are as common as hog tracks on Narrator: They proceeded on. They passed Blue the tributaries had existing names and were were given names as the party passed. Biscuit Frog creek, Diamond Island. On July 4th the Creek, where they celebrated their young country's an extra ration of whiskey to the men. Later on the lands they were passing through. (VOICE OF CLARK) We camped in the plain, one of the most beautiful diversified with hills and valleys all presenting runs through. The plains of this country are for the sweetest and most nourishing hay -- interspersed branches over pools, springs, or brooks of DUNCAN: One of my favorite passages from Lewis in Virginia after he had traveled up the Missouri waters one of the fairest portion of the globe. a similar extent of country. I mean he's who comes from an agricultural upbringing. paradise of sorts that future generations right. Narrator: Lewis' letter to his mother was Dakota where the party wintered; 1,609 miles they had time to reflect on the country they continuation of their great adventure. (VOICE OF LEWIS) Dear Mother, This immense river so far as portions of the globe, nor do I believe that of country - equally fertile well watered streams. Game is very abundant, and seems starving is therefore consequently small. its junction with the Mississippi to the entrance bear and turkeys; from thence to the Kansas number of black bear, some turkeys, geese, now nearly disappeared. I shall set out on party are now in good health and excellent are anxious to proceed. Narrator: On Monday, July 16th, 1804 the Corps the state of Missouri and into legend. Ahead those terrible mountains, and the Pacific. learned the ways of the river, learned to of diligent reporting and scientific enquiry western ocean. Most importantly, they left by the settlements that were to come. In the to the richness and diversity that this land STUCKY- There is something uniquely special almost spiritual. It's my hope that people river and in so doing just be captured by Narrator: The Missouri River remains, timeless, This great river, our most majestic natural And along its banks you can hear the ghosts canoes plied these currents. Mountain men Steamboats muscled their way upstream, as Two hundred years ago two young men led a They were confident, exuberant and utterly of their young nation. spirit of Lewis and Clark than the Missouri From its banks we can glimpse a bit of the A pristine continent, a natural paradise filled It's this river that remains the lasting