Transcriber: Eunice Tan I have struggled for as long as I can remember. From the outside, my life looked pretty perfect My parents had a happy marriage, and earned enough for us I was mostly happy, but I also had a deep sense My most painful moments were at parties. When I went to Black parties, my friends made fun of me and I couldn't get to mimic the latest dance moves. As the only Black girl at parties associated I was never chosen to dance, I was never the object I felt like I didn't belong. So around age 12, I decided that the way was perfection. Simple, right? If I was just perfect, then I would fit in, I would be chosen, So I threw myself worked hard in school, and tried to be a supportive My self-esteem was high but crashed when I didn't do well In college, busyness became I juggled classes and tutoring and a student government and a sorority barely giving myself time After college, my attention turned to trying The anxiety and ups and downs were exhausting. I remember going out to bars and clubs, and just like in junior high, I began to question my attractiveness: Would my brown skin and kinky hair Despite these questions, I held on to the hope that if I could then I would finally feel worthy. I'll let you in on a secret: (Whispering) None of it worked - not the perfectionism, Well, maybe some of it did for a moment. Right after starting a new relationship But soon enough, my feelings and I was on to pursuing the next thing. As soon as I reached the bar Have you ever experienced that? I'm standing here today because after several years and a PhD in clinical psychology, I have begun to cultivate I'm shedding the belief the anxiety that not doing things means that I'm not OK. I'm embracing myself, quirks and all. And this new path is liberating, Let me share what I've learned with you on this journey You may be wondering if this is just No. Self-worth is distinct from self-esteem. Our self-esteem is derived social positions, and things We can bolster our self-esteem and our self-esteem goes up and down depending on how we're doing In contrast, unconditional self-worth is distinct It's not about comparing it's not something Unconditional self-worth is the sense to be loved and cared for, As a clinical psychologist, I believe that pervasive low self-worth And over the last decade, we've seen a rise in mental illness According to the World depression is the leading cause of ill health and disability worldwide. Think about that for a moment: The leading cause is not diabetes, The leading cause of ill health is depression. Additionally, according to the Anxiety 40 million people over the age of 18 That's almost five times the number Low self-worth can lead It can lead people to opt out of life even attempt suicide, because the pain of feeling unworthy I have sat with hundreds of students at one of the top universities and when we explore their concerns we often find that they are struggling So how did we get here? How did we get to a place where so many of us A place where more and more people are living with mental I believe there are many factors Advertisements tell us that we need to buy things Our educational system teaches us that our worthiness as students Our parents may have implied if we made the honor roll Those of us who have experienced may question our personhood And as social media pervades our lives, we have begun to feel that our worthiness is based on the number of followers Whatever the cause, for many of us, our self-worth is tied and as soon as we fail or lose approval, Unconditional self-worth Unconditional self-worth is a way out of self-criticism, shame, It is a way out of depression, It is time for us to base our worth to cultivate a worth that persists So what keep us from cultivating Some people may fear that if they get they won't be motivated Others may feel that accepting themselves And some may simply believe I often wonder what the world if we all cultivated What would you find the courage to do What would you dare to dream What would you stop doing I believe people would that more people would dare I believe that if our self-worth the world would look a lot better Now, that's a reimagining So how do we make this vision real? Cultivating unconditional self-worth Here are four ways starting right here, right now. First, forgive yourself. Many of us struggle to feel worthy because we are angry with ourselves Forgiveness involves acknowledging Acceptance releases us and allows us to move forward. To forgive yourself, reflect on the circumstances acknowledge the pain you experienced, and identify what you learned Then say to yourself, &quot;I forgive you,&quot; Second, practice self-acceptance. I think many of us because we think and we refuse to accept ourselves the way we are. We receive so many messages We're told that we need to change even our personalities, to be acceptable. See if you can let go about how you think you should feel, Instead, focus on the things And over time, begin to embrace your quirks, your unusual way of thinking about things. Through this acceptance, you are acknowledging Step three, be there for yourself I think many of us abandon ourselves We engage in harsh self-criticism, And what we need most is for someone to say, &quot;I see you. I see how badly you're hurting. I'm here.&quot; And we can do this for ourselves. The next time you experience acknowledge how you are feeling Place your hand on your chest and say something kind Finally, connect to supportive people. Low self-worth can leave us And when we think we tend to pull away and this isolation only exacerbates Knowing that we are not alone reminds us that challenges Connecting to supportive people helps us to get in touch This journey to unconditional self-worth is not always easy. The path is not straight or smooth, I certainly have. It takes courage to free yourself from the conditions The process of forgiveness can be messy. It can be scary Being there for ourselves can put us And connecting to others And I'm here to tell you that this journey is beautiful On this journey, you will find strength, and know that you are worthy. So I challenge you to embrace yourselves and begin living to find your metaphorical dance floor and move freely. Yes, I said &quot;dance floor.&quot; And I returned to the dance floor because that's where my own struggles But I've learned a few new moves Last summer, I went to the Hyde Park And as I sat watching people I longed to get up and join them. But all of my old insecurities about my dance moves showed up. Luckily, an elderly man and after a song or two, And as the notes and I moved my body to the rhythm, I felt free, I felt exuberant, I felt full of life, I felt worthy. Thank you. (Applause)