How do you think an iron maiden worked? This is a genuine question. We've all seen 'em before, in illustrations A sort of sarcophagus lined with spikes, a But really, how does it work? It's usually categorized as a torture device, that would just kill their victim almost instantly Kinda defeats the point of the big evil-looking You're not supposed to think this hard about You're supposed to see one, go "aww jeez, and walk into the next room of the museum. They don't make sense because, historically, There is exactly one written record describing a tourism flier written 200 years after the Although it's ubiquitously referred to as no physical evidence of one existing before of the medieval period. And, I should point out, they weren't used Instead they were fabricated as antiques and who correctly assumed that such a brutal looking Why? Because the iron maiden presents more than Instead, fictional or not, it fits into our we are, in whatever the current year is, the That, for all our contemporary conflicts and At least we didn't throw people in an iron In 1888, the state of New York created a commission method of carrying into effect the sentence This commission delivered a report nearly recommendation, but an exhaustive runthrough The iron maiden has a section in this report, beasts, and lashed to the mouth of a cannon. Many sections, such as the iron maiden, are But it's the section on hanging, a method presents the commission's most self-reflective Quoting from a recent issue of Harper's "We are led to wonder if the time will ever a curiosity in museums, and sight-seers shall who gave evidence of so much civilization have employed such a machine for the amelioration Will posterity shudder at a model of a gallows as we of today shudder when we examine the the Old World museums? Will the American of the year of our Lord We venture to hope so." The report absolutely nails our evolving moral extreme punishment. In the year 2000, many of us did shudder at But what that commission in 1888 can't see of today via the specter of previous barbarism. The 120 years since that report was written only have we found a new solution to execution, This new solution always represents a new that is, until it too is rendered barbaric This is the narrative of capital punishment- From noose to electric chair to injection, with the promise that it will do the impossible; in a way that is gentle, clean, and enlightened. However, the reality of execution methods Each successive approach to capital punishment applied it, but not in a way that presents Instead, the modern history of execution demonstrates are interested in evolving, and which barbaric Now, a little post-introduction preamble (postamble?). The topic of this video is grisly. While I will not be showing any photos or of capital punishment, I will be describing disturbing. If you want to avoid hearing, for example, is botched, I totally understand and suggest I also suspect that YouTube will not allow for long. If you want to support this kind of essay, a lot to put something like this together, a more stable home for work like this. On Nebula, you can also watch an additional later. Finally, my discussion of capital punishment of what crime landed any individual person All of that is easy enough to find if you this essay. The longest chapter in the history of state The Odyssey includes hanging, The Book of And, while the basic equation of rope-noose-neck phenomenon of hanging has shifted to suit The most basic, you could say primitive, version After slaughtering all the would-be suitors, who were insolent to him and his mother, don't He takes the rope from his ship and strings the story notes that the hanged women died for a while. This slow, drawn out death was sometimes the noose is an alternative to a clean death. Hanging was often a public spectacle, an act In Michel Foucault's book "Discipline "The public execution has a juridico-political placed the sovereign in contempt, it deploys Its aim is not so much to re-establish a balance the dissymmetry between the subject who has sovereign who displays his strength..., the to give a spectacle not of measure, but of affirmation of power and of its intrinsic Foucault is writing about more than hanging account of a man partially pulled apart by various executioners. But gallows are easily included in his analysis murder carried out at a leisurely pace in institution doing the killing is unquestionable. In this way, the looming shadow of the gallows in favor of hanging. Foucault says, explicitly, that this "theater from an earlier age." It all serves a purpose- "its entire apparatus of the penal system." Foucault was a French writer, and his theories examples. But it's not hard to transpose his analysis specifically, its history of lynching. A campaign of terror perpetrated on black of lynchings were to be public. Lynching was nominally against the law, but active participation of law enforcement, and the law, the invincible force that Foucault In fact, even though any kind of public execution the United States, many Southern towns in These hangings were by and large a weak attempt But the killings would have occurred with That's as clear an indication as any of and life. Although there were many methods of lynching, power. The victims of lyching would purposefully the image of a tree made into an impromptu white supremacist violence. Outside the American South however, there Starting with the construction of purpose-made in rope grade and fall height, a "good" as one in which the executed party's neck A slower death by strangulation was the less Executioners would occasionally boast of their needed to fall, based on their height, weight, But for all the physics and calculations that method of killing, botched executions continued The fall wouldn't break a neck. Executioners would sometimes pull on people's and occasionally the rope itself would snap, to the ground, alive. Other times, the initial fall would open wounds I'm sorry to put this image in your head, Concurrent to these professionalization efforts, significant cultural shift. As Austin Sarat, whose research I'm drawing middle class that prided itself on etiquette public executions as base, vulgar. At the same time, hospitals became more common everyday life. The idea of watching people executed by the war to mind. In short, it wasn't exciting to watch someone Lynchings, the exception to this cultural perpetrating them didn't see their victims What's absent from these attitude changes themselves. The moral unease over public executions was of violence on spectators, not the painful at the center of the event. And fittingly, just before the turn of the to the "problem" of capital punishment. It was a bold, modern take on execution that walls. It promised to do away with the residual barbarism In 1890, New York introduced the electric Five years earlier, David Bennett-Hill, the "The present mode of executing criminals he said. "It may well be questioned whether the science for taking the life of such as condemned to Science had, in a sense, already demonstrated Nine years before the electric chair was officially speech, a likely-drunk dockworker wandered New York. According to another worker, he yelled that his hands directly on one of the generators, passed through his body. Electricity's early history features a significant The most notorious example might be the absurd earlier, pioneers in the field of electrocution electricity as a more "humane" method As New York sought a method of execution that modern era, the notion of using electricity This is, in fact, the reason for that 1888 After running down all the antiquated methods that "the death produced by a sufficiently and humane produced by any agent at our command." Sidenote, for those familiar with the saga come as no surprise that Thomas Edison enthusiastically The chair ran on an alternating current, which version of electricity. It's impossible to know what happened during But for better or for worse, we know exactly man executed via electric chair. Despite the promises of its inventors and execution was neither rapid nor painless. Kemmler's death took a full eight minutes. He did not die after the supposedly lethal his chest continued to move. The executioner threw the switch again, this Kemmler's body began to smoke and give off He did die, eventually. Not a promising start for the modern solution But even though it initially failed to deliver chair continued operation in New York, and It was, in general, less error-prone than "secondary death" of asphyxiation delivered However, when the electric chair faltered, spectacular than what came before. In several cases up through the 21st century, or even catch fire; in the case of Jesse Tafero on each of the several shocks it took to ultimately In one of the most infamous uses of the electric "went wrong." The execution itself was notable because the New York executed Ruth Snyder, only the 6th 20th century. But Snyder's death wasn't simply immortalized of her execution ran on the front page of The act of capturing the picture itself was Tom Howard, a photographer from out of state him) strapped an improvised camera to his required connected to a bulb in his pocket. The resulting picture is blurry and almost adds to the horror of it. Straps bind her arms and legs, her face is yet her eyes are still visible. The long exposure smears the edges of her It feels as if you can see the electricity. It feels as if you're witnessing the moment It feels, through the clear hastiness, the you're uncovering a new medieval torture And this picture ran on the front page of with circulation of over a million. The first ever published photo of an electric The headline is all caps, one word, exclamation "DEAD!" ... chair in 1890, Kemmler's attorneys argued unusual punishment. He was sentenced to a mechanism of murder of an easy death. In response, the Supreme Court responded that, most humane and practical method known to The court stated that the punishment of death, Cruel and unusual, as used in the constitution, The electric chair enjoyed a long tenure, executions in the US than any other method. But most of those executions happened before chair has been part of less than 10% of America's method of execution in any state. For many states, it took less than half a most humane and practical method" to a relic Its legacy, influenced by the stories of its It's another old and brutal tool, reminiscent Like hanging, its changed reputation was partially earned. Like hanging, the change also happened because I would guess that most Americans are somewhat as a method of execution. The electric chair in particular has little The same can't be said of the innovation Like the electric chair just 30 years before, near-serene execution. The original idea was that the person sentenced their own cell, an execution so gentle they Even in the 20s though, it was hard to shake phosgene, and mustard gas had all been used held in recent cultural memory. And yet, less than six years after the end breathed in hydrocyanic acid in a specially It took a little while for other states to 1930, and by the end of the decade, California, of North Carolina joined the trend. And yet, the chamber too failed to fulfill In 1936, North Carolina's execution of Allen minutes, during which time Foster's body One local professor wrote that the chamber for a more humane way of killing." Proportionally, the gas chamber was less successful the chair or hanging- over 5% of the deaths one way or another. You might assume, as I did, that this was stint in the spotlight- after World War this as a humane, painless way to go? But you would be incorrect. Not only did gassings continue up through all constructed their own chambers after the It's not that the connection went unnoticed; outside were met with the founder of the American the only cure for black crime and Red treason." To be honest, I have a hard time rationalizing chamber was used for as long as it was. It caused death slower than its predecessors, tied to one of the most well-known genocides I can only find logic in the chamber in context The initial promise of the gas chamber was, Rather than gravity, dismemberment, or the not approach death in a way that resembled, used in hospitals? Lethal injection's pitch was almost identical. And more than any execution method that came of presentation. With a delivery no more horrifying than a sleep, lethal injection seemed to fill the involuntary death absent of barbarism. Of course, the irony of a medicalized treatment is clear as soon as you investigate who participates refuses. The American Medical Association, the American of Physicians, the American Public Health professional taking part in the health-conscious Together, the associations stated that "when under circumstances that mimic care, the healing become distorted." This isn't even a new stance; back in 1888, of execution identified the potential deadliness resembled the practice of medicine, "it for the purposes of legal executions against profession." Remember, that's the commission that ultimately In addition to the people who refuse to take of speaking, attempted to abstain. Most states in the country initially adopted pancuronium bromide, and potassium chloride. However, in 2011, Hospira, the primary provider the drug- in part because it couldn't Some states attempted to pivot to another manufacturer quickly blocked sales to death If you're invested in finding the most humane doctors and pharmaceutical companies might With our history of crude and unsuccessful way of the most promising option? But this perspective assumes an effectiveness The promise of the original three drug blend the executed and any onlookers. Sodium thiopental would put the subject to them, and finally potassium chloride would heart. This combination was suggested by the chief in the country to make lethal injection their When other states followed Oklahoma's lead, simple imitation is how these three drugs injection. What's missing from this history is the do what it promised. The selection of the lethal cocktail was done medical examiner, was not an anesthesiologist and paralytic based on 'his own experience did not result in his death. Even at the time, Chapman admitted that he Interviewed 30 years after he unwittingly kill over a thousand people, he said "I business of lethal injection was a pure sidelight." I tell you all this to make sense of the fact rate of any execution method thus far discussed, hundred twenty years. Over 7% of the state's attempts to carry have contained some failure of protocol or painless death into an excruciating sideshow. And despite the drug cocktail's contentious the surface, many executions are botched before Often, the staff- who, remember, are typically a suitable vein. This search can, and has, gone on for hours. While the injection is intended to go in the IV running into an inmate's legs, their Finding a vein is no guarantee of a successful to live for over 30 minutes after he was injected An autopsy revealed that executioners had and the drugs had instead flowed into soft The chemical burns on his arm were compared A similar sequence of events happened with hour of attempting to find a place to administer connected to a vein in his groin. But through a failure of expertise and medical drugs were once again pumped directly into The breakdown of competent injection administration drugs being delivered. General anesthetic doesn't work if it's arrest doesn't immediately occur if the But the most revealing piece of the lethal cocktail, the paralytic. The Human Rights Watch notes: [Pancuronium bromide] is a neuromuscular blocking muscles, including the lungs and diaphragm...It Nor does it affect experience of pain. Without proper anesthesia, anyone given [the because the pancuronium bromide prevents any will be unable to reveal that he is suffering. If the prisoner is still conscious when the bromide] will also prevent him from conveying he is experiencing pain. As the Human Rights Watch then points out, nor quicken the cardiac arrest. Seemingly its only job is, instead, to improve In the event that a prisoner receives too given the lack of medical expertise present, arrest would be agonizing. In the history of lethal injections, there died, absolutely looking like they suffered But because of the included paralytic, we that end in agony. Somehow, that cocktail still might represent what's been practiced over the past decade. As manufacturers have ceased production or states have sought other options with the defined the process. In fact, several states have left the drugs instead deferring to individual correction As legal scholar Corinna Barrett Lain writes, is a world where lethal injection drug protocols processes that would be patently unacceptable One such drug that states have turned to is pointed out that the effects of midazolam one person could require "ten times the In 2021, John Marion Grant received a combination in Oklahoma. He vomited several times after receiving the 15 minutes, officially pronounced dead six In light of the rampant botching and increased states have responded by obscuring more of procedures are done before the execution officially chamber already unconscious. Last year's execution of Joe Nathan James yet, and indeed the single lengthiest recorded stated that there was "nothing out of the An autopsy revealed this was an obvious lie; unexplained incisions, and bruising. On the day of the execution, reporters were meet dress code." Although the process took over three hours, As the fantasy of lethal injection's "quick apparent, so too has its true appeal as a Only the superficial barbarism of the process are the whole game; actually delivering a presenting the appearance of one. Although we enjoy perceiving ourselves as we also frequently exclude imprisoned populations We're the land of the free, so long as you enslaved. And in keeping with this line of thinking, method of execution at all. There is certainly malice towards prisoners any punishment to be actively torturous. But another significant part of the population all, and this is where lethal injection shines. The scientific, near-medical lethal injection bar it needs to clear. This opinion has been more or less stated Justice Scalia said that in comparison to "looks pretty desirable," and continued lethal injection" would be. It's a bit of judicial lethargy disguised Scalia was probably aware that many lethal I just don't think he gave a shit. Recognizing the prison system contained injustices correcting them. Ironically, the stated goal of a quick and by methods that feel most brutal. It is an admittedly shocking fact to learn as a method of execution. It may be even more shocking to learn that as 2010. And yet, statistically, firing squads provide error than any other method discussed. The man killed in 2010 chose to die by firing In 2022, improvising after the state ran out demanded a death row inmate pick a method He too chose the firing squad over the alternative But despite these two cases, trends don't a comeback. Its swiftness and efficacy are undercut by You can pretend that a corpse killed by chemicals impossible to make the same claim about a What might work for the condemned doesn't guillotine has never been used in the states. The violence of the process is just too obvious. If you're a critic of the death penalty system starts earlier and runs far deeper A broad-scale look at death row reveals an are no crimes that carry mandatory death sentences, capital punishment is hugely dependent on state it was committed in, for example, or the crime itself. The average person on death row has been there by a politician who wasn't even old enough You can find countless examples of identical another with a life sentence, random variables the other. But simultaneously, looking at every variable The death penalty is shot through with racial been keeping statistics on it. In decades of studies up through the present lives simply matter less to the justice system. Controlling for all confounding variables, penalty more than four times as often as black Incorporate gender and the numbers come into woman is thirteen times more likely to result black man. Maybe the most striking number is 21, the since 1970 for cases in which a white defendant With the races reversed, that number is more disproportionate to the crime rates between And that's on top of every other level of manipulation, police misconduct, prosecutorial Earlier, I said that courts didn't want because it would mean they'd have to do This wasn't really me being flip; this too, court. In 1987's McCleskey v. Kemp, Warren McCleskey's Georgia demonstrated a clear pattern of racial significantly different sentences based on The Supreme Court generally did not disagree ruled that statistics alone were insufficient Justice Powell wrote, "McCleskey's claim, taken to its logical principles that underlie our entire criminal The Eighth Amendment is not limited in application penalties.... Thus, if we accepted McCleskey's claim that capital sentencing decision, we could soon of penalty." Throws into serious question the principles system!! Yeah dude! It does!! And yet instead of acting, the court shuts the implementation of capital punishment could of cards everything is built on. Even before we get to sentencing, there's the crime at all. A statistic so staggering I've never been the mid-1970s, 1,565 people have been executed 190 people have been fully exonerated from Not had their sentences reduced or plead to proof of their innocence. Defendants of color make up a disproportionately inmates as well. You could view that exoneration rate with at all those people set free before they had Or, you could read it the way I do- that for least one person sentenced to die has been Those odds do not inspire faith in the system's But, after I've spent so much time on it, of all; capital punishment is dwindling. Both death sentences and executions have been 2021 had the least executions in the US in Many states have completely barred capital hiatus. This legislation is propped up by public opinion, lows in support for the death penalty, and It feels like, after a century of promising that the barbarity runs deeper than the literal Yes, the noose, chair, chamber, injection, to slowly and cruelly kill people, but only justice system has done the same. Where is the lack of barbarity in making someone is the week they die? Where is the progress, the enlightenment of selecting a handful of criminals with all The more light you give capital punishment, a brutality that was supposedly left in a The thing is- State-sponsored killing isn't exclusive And although 2021 had notably few capital it still managed to break a record in deadliness. people gunned down in a single year than have 2021 broke the previous record for police record, set in 2019. 2022 was deadliest, again, and virtually every number of police killings is almost certainly Murders by police have increased year over without the presence of protests, and- of If the ethical discomfort with capital punishment the years of court cases, the discoveries over execution method- police killings are...a No court case whatsoever. No uncomfortable process to bureaucratically No chance of an exoneration, no eventual recognition supposed to deliver a humane one. Instead, what we have is a return to Foucault's of "an invincible force. Its aim is not so much to re-establish a balance the dissymmetry between the subject who has sovereign who displays his strength." And when this is the goal, any method is fair Nor does "the law" have to conform to When an individual becom es judge, jury, and decide when their sovereignty has been questioned "This superiority is not simply that of the sovereign beating down upon the body of of punishment, then, is an exercise of 'terror'." Last year, researchers mapped police killings the United States. Wouldn't you know it, even after controlling and socioeconomic conditions, the number of predictive factor for rates of execution by Previously, I talked about the history still that erased the line between mob violence But the problem was never the noose, the humanity have been solved if they opted for a more The legacy of legalized murder instead presents wield it; from the earliest slave patrols to modern-day cops. The trick in shifting a state's violence to theoretically individual actors like cops The process of deciding who lives and who evolving cultural norms, the role of everyday this disappears when the execution is performed And yet, the power and untouchability of the security footage, cell phones, hell, the cops' Does heightened visibility bring increased I guess, but when the results of that scrutiny continues to go up year over year, it feels inescapable, every headline, news station, message that this institution can simply do Late in his book, Austin Sarat writes that only account for a minor amount of movement He attributes their lack of major cultural Write-ups of horrific executions treated the by a single staff member. Even the repeated failures of an execution injustice, because the inherent justice of Working backwards from the assumption of justice and over that a murder by the cops was the made. In a sense, it's a narrative that makes almost redundant. Why spend so much time, effort, and deliberation make all those decisions for us? Finally, we've removed ourselves from barbarity...by responsible only to itself. This video does not mark the beginning of is it the first time I've written about 9 years ago, in a college course on the death of lethal injection. At the time, I remember being very proud of I still have it saved, but haven't read just now. ["Deciding whether or not to use capital states had to make. The method of execution was also left to their On a new video exclusive to Nebula, you can way that I do with my written work now, except in almost a decade. Then, after reading, I go through and deconstruct does poorly, and how I would better format ["You have to lay so much groundwork to have. The essay gets to that idea too late."] Nebula is a creator-owned and operated streaming Free of the constant pressure to only make me to revisit my old writing, or make a lasagna, music. And when you sign up for Nebula with my code, videos, you're directly, monetarily supporting As I said in the beginning, if you want to the best way to make sure I and others have My exclusive companion to this video is nearly If my college essay is great, you simply get If it hasn't held up so well, you can hear insight into how I write now. And in any case, you'll be ensuring that I think that's as good a reason to sign