ANDREW HUBERMAN: Welcome where we discuss science for everyday life. [MUSIC PLAYING] I'm Andrew Huberman, of neurobiology at Stanford School of Medicine. Today, we are Psilocybin is a psychedelic, And in doing so, it changes Psychedelics, such as that we perceive the outside our memories, our thoughts, Not just while one is under but it can also all of those things afterwards of time afterwards is one of the growing excitement about the and other psychedelics of various mental health alcohol abuse disorder, and as well as things like Today, we will talking about what it is. In fact, you may be surprised to is serotonin. Now, for those of you that and serotonin, you might But, in fact, psilocybin main But it does it in because it activates a subset strong fashion leading at the level of the neural areas and the connections and perception. So if any of that is I promise to make it all Psilocybin is one of many There are things like Even MDMA while not considered is considered a psychedelic Today's episode is going in particular. I will tell you how it works at the I'll talk about how it I'll talk about the what's been demonstrated in I'll talk about from psilocybin mushrooms and the compound the effects of psilocybin which but something called psilocin. Psilocin is the goes into the brain to in consciousness and that we associate So understanding how psilocybin has tremendous impact on journey, whether or not is going to lead to a for neuroplasticity. In fact, many people But much of the positive changes and I do want to underscore approaches, takes place after all typical or effects of psilocybin like in thought patterns, et cetera. So today, we are going to talk But I promise to make and everyone, regardless you have a background We're going to talk biology, the actual when one takes psilocybin. And we're going to talk about over time and how all of that most people are interested journey. Things such as long in mood, things such into themselves and to others, and their future, in their levels of to experience joy from to dissociate in a that formerly were depressing In fact, we're going about the conditions inside make it actually This is a very important point throughout today's is that just because neuroplasticity changes does not mean that it's does not necessarily mean For neuroplasticity it has to be adaptive, to function better in life So today, we will talk about how journey, including it's done with eyes or whether or not people closed and eyes open as well as whether or not music and even what types will dictate whether will feel better or worse in following that psilocybin level. Because as you'll there are clinical one psilocybin journey in a long-standing way. But most clinical trials spaced in very precise ways from follow up. But in both of those the structure of the who's not present, closed, the particular All of those of a larger of which psilocybin is critical. But psilocybin is not So whether or not in participating in a clinical interested in psilocybin this is critical So today, we're going to talk of psilocybin possible, how it works at the level and neural networks, We'll talk about the We'll talk about dosages. We will talk about conditions and we will talk about the period in which neuroplasticity including therapy or can contribute to positive from psilocybin. Now, as we go into I do want to underscore the fact this episode, meaning psilocybin is still It is considered illegal There's perhaps just maybe a few others. But the main exception is psilocybin has been approved in for use in particular and some forms of addiction. So in Oregon, it's more of a decriminalized as In other areas of the country, there are some areas in which And perhaps there are a few But, in general, psilocybin are still considered illegal. And this is very important. Not just saying I'm saying this to protect you. Possessing or certainly except for rare instances, and these decriminalized talked about a moment ago is under the law. Today, I'll also I'll talk about whether meaning people 25 or younger given that their brain is of naturally occurring I will also talk about to people who have or may currently be on different And I will talk at risk for psychotic because they know have a propensity for psychosis members who have psychosis, like schizophrenia, bipolar like borderline personality, psychiatric conditions. So today's episode really will So whether or not you familiar with psilocybin or whether or not you're I do encourage if you're willing of the understanding and what it is, of the therapeutic applications of dosing spacing of Because I do believe that you will be able to more informed decisions psilocybin is right for you. Before we begin, I'd that this podcast is separate roles at Stanford. It is, however, and effort to bring zero about science and to the general public. In keeping with to thank the sponsors Our first sponsor Eight Sleep makes smart mattress and sleep tracking capacity. Now sleep is the foundation of and performance. Everything goes far better on a consistent basis. Now, one of the key things to is to make sure that the environment is correct. In fact, your body temperature in order to fall asleep And waking up involves a by about 1 to 3 degrees. With Eight Sleep, you to be a specific temperature and towards the end Ever since I started sleeping I've slept far better So it's an all around has tremendous functionality, but for improving your sleep. If you'd like to you can go to and save $150 off Eight Sleep currently Canada, UK, select countries Again, that's Today's episode is also ROKA makes eyeglasses that are of the absolute Now, I've spent a lifetime of the visual system. And I can tell you that to contend with an enormous in order to make sure under any conditions. ROKA understands all of that and sunglasses so that you're in a very brightly or you go from brightly you can always see with Now, even though they were ROKA eyeglasses and sunglasses of different aesthetics. So they have the what that most people associate and sports-related glasses. But they also have of frames that you feel wearing to work or out If you'd like to try ROKA you can go to ROKA, And enter the code huberman to Again, that's ROKA, roka.com at checkout. Today's episode is also brought Ketone-IQ is a ketone supplement Now, I know most people are heard of the so-called ketogenic a very low carbohydrate diet. It's designed to get your off ketones, which are a great and brain. However, most people, including That is I'm not pretty much ever Nonetheless, with Ketone-IQ, you and thereby improve and physical performance. I find that when even if I'm eating a is the diet that I follow, prior to workouts, sometimes and especially prior to doing so researching podcasts, or or teaching, et cetera, that for a longer period of time. And it does seem to enhance If you'd like to can go to hvmn.com and use Off, again, that's hvmn.com, to get 20% off. Let's talk about psilocybin. And, again, today we're on psilocybin. And we're going to set aside for future episodes. Psilocybin is what's That refers to its not to the so-called In fact, it's Tryptamine is T-R-Y-P. Tryptamines include things like DMT and 5-MeO-DMT. The tryptamine resemble serotonin itself. That's right. Most of you have probably heard And serotonin is what's means your brain and and that it modifies or changes and neural circuits. And it does that generally by the activity of those If I were to show you a picture of psilocybin or its and I were to also an image of the chemical provided that you weren't to focus on the detailed you would say those And indeed, psilocybin in are very similar to serotonin itself. Now, as I mentioned before, that you naturally make. And yes, it's true of the serotonin in is manufactured in your gut. However, contrary the serotonin in your from the serotonin in your gut. You have separate independent That is you have make serotonin in your brain. You also have and those work more or less Now, what does serotonin do. This is really important of the similarity in its active form Serotonin in that changes the activity and the net effects are things that For instance, satiety or enough of various or a social interaction, or Serotonin is involved And an enormous number such as mood regulation such itself, or lack of or not we feel motivated It works in concert with such as dopamine and In fact, if this were an which it is not. You would soon is involved in so many impact our daily life. And that is one reason medications which alter the amount of serotonin will often have a related to things like mood, cetera. It's because in so many different things. And serotonin is involved because there are a lot of receptors. Serotonin is a chemical And the chemical the thing that plugs into the or ligand. The receptors, in this have the opportunity to do They can change the activity more active or less active. They can cause growth factors that those neurons stronger connections more likely to be Serotonin binding to can even change the gene making those cells proliferate. So make more of them. Making those cells more interact with new elements Basically, serotonin and all that it binds to has dozens, thousands of So the fact that psilocybin leads to a very that we should all be asking that psilocybin, which looks takes it in the form or some other form, maybe the itself, which nowadays is and placed in different foods and pills, et cetera. Why that leads to complex sets of experience like visual changes in particular and neuroplasticity in the clinical setting provided Improvements in mood, relief from various compulsive All right. This is really what if you want to understand and how to make for a given condition or goal. You have to understand and what allows psilocybin in comparison to serotonin. Even though psilocybin and is that psilocybin mainly the so-called serotonin The serotonin to of, again, many different But serotonin 2A is expressed and even on particular areas allow for very specific types to take place, not under the influence but afterwards as well. So really in order to about psilocybin, we need to to a receptor. But fortunately for somebody really interested biology, that to be about the binding pocket receptor, or a lot of of the serotonin to a receptor. We'll talk a little bit about But more importantly, at least we're going to talk about receptors really the one all the changes in that lead to the changes, that the relief from compulsive but really it's the serotonin of psilocybin that is that you hear about as a therapeutic tool. Let me say that from a There are data that I'll show that one, two psilocybin journeys of psilocybin lead or occupancy of those in ways that lead to significant for major depression. In fact, you'll soon learn for psilocybin are and outperforming and various other in terms of providing depression staggering not just to me, but at large. And this is where so much of Now that statement one way, which is to here's a compound psilocybin And, therefore, should be on psilocybin. But SSRI stands for Selective In other words, there is now a lot like Prozac, Zoloft, et cetera-- I'm sure you've heard There are people who are are a growing number of that the SSRIs are probably like obsessive compulsive can be very beneficial. But there is a lot of as the be all end all for nowadays because of the And the fact that it's that serotonin deficiencies are in the first place. Now, again, we're talking about but you should be how is it that two and some particular look like and/or transmission in the brain are positive and or to troubling side And, again, it all to the selectivity that serotonin to a receptor. And so in order to understand and in order to understand and spacing of sessions we really need to talk a little to a receptor, where it is in happen when psilocybin binds and how those things the various changes, that allows people to feel and as you'll soon more pleasure and joy from creativity. All the things that I do people are thinking about or for recreational or therapeutic that people want and and perhaps even doing So before going want to place an You can place an image in your is released in the not having taken any It's getting released a binding to a lot of different doing a lot of different things. When somebody takes an of that selective serotonin is that there's more serotonin Because it's a at the synapse, the the serotonin can do its and for longer periods of time. But it's doing it So when you think about standard at least for sake you think of a sprinkling at different locations to lots of different receptors. Whereas when you think though the subjective we'll talk about those in a talking about is a that looks a lot is selectively and very and activating that So that's the image I'd like And then the next image I'd is where these are located in the brain. Now, the serotonin 2A in multiple brain regions. But they have a tremendous in the so-called neocortex, includes things like our is involved in understanding thoughts, and appropriate for how to switch context and from playing sports, to to being in a You change your behavior and perhaps even the You might think some things But you probably keep And your ability to are dependent on a There are a lot of 5-HT2A. And by the way 5-HT is the So there are a lot of in the prefrontal cortex, of the cortex that with sensation and perception. That is hearing of sounds, that And in particular, there expression of serotonin 2A And that is one of the triggers visual hallucinations. And provided at sufficient enough is taken at a will experience profound visual whether or not their eyes are Now, that's an important one of the major that people experience Now, as I'll talk about in terms of what constitutes session, useful meaning that improvements in mood, adaptive in cognition, et cetera, is that for at least the majority this is something I've discussed are running clinical in their laboratories, are going to be guests podcast in upcoming episodes, Again, I can't Because your visual so many of these and because psilocybin binds to a receptor, you're a lot of visual you are under the There's no surprise there. This has been known thousands of years. It's one of the main reasons However, as I mentioned occur even when the And it's now fairly that if people are to their eyes open, much much of their thinking, in that psilocybin on the altered in the outside environment. Sometimes this looks like a into geometric shapes. Sometimes it of things in the including people's faces or All of that has a call it a draw for who are looking for a inside of the But I think if one's goal is from the psilocybin very clear that having an eye or something that ensures for the majority, if not, the going to be very going to limit the extent on those outside changes hallucinations and rather to go inward to combine to be seeing in their mind's and memories and changes that are occurring. And that going inward by at least for the seems to be a very, if of making the psilocybin the therapeutic sense. Now once again, I want to cue to here. I'm going to say this at least episode. As I'm talking now and throughout today's episode, that I'm all for everybody And that is simply not the case. In order for a to be therapeutically useful, it and supports. And there are certain people is going to be they should not do psilocybin. In particular, people a predisposition to psychotic even having a first or schizophrenic, or can be a rule out condition, eliminated from a clinical for fear of triggering not just during the but potentially in So, again, that's The other thing I'm talking about today is really focused on are 25 years old or older. That is their basic wiring that we call developmental All right. Most of the studies talk about involve subjects out to about 70 years of So, again, psilocybin is certainly not for everybody. It's still illegal, it's being and research setting. There are these pockets and potentially soon but again only in the OK. Again, I say that not but I say that also Psilocybin is a Not just to be under but also in terms of its after the effects of I'd like to take a quick one of our sponsors, Athletic Greens now called AG1 drink that covers all of your I've been taking Athletic So I'm delighted that they're The reason I started taking I still take Athletic Greens, is that it gets that I need for gut health. Our gut is very important. It's populated by communicate with the brain, the all the biological to strongly impact our And those probiotics are optimal and vital In addition, Athletic of adaptogens, that make sure that all of my are met. And it tastes great. If you'd like to you can go to And they'll give you that make it really easy to mix on the road, in the car, And they'll give you a year's Again, that's to get the five free travel of vitamin D3 K2. Let's talk a little bit and also about Now, this is an area that I but that there's how There's a lot of this in the non-clinical But within the clinical there is a lot of out indicating what effective all other things Safe doses of And here, we really can go back as quote-unquote magic And if one were to form of psilocybin to the used in various studies-- in these studies, people They're typically taking either intravenously injected And that's how the researchers the amount of psilocybin. And the typical dosage that's ranges from 1 milligram from day-to-day over so-called microdosing. And really that 1 milligram to 3 milligrams per day is what people generally As compared to say a maybe twice in two separate milligram dosage that's Now, those amounts of 1 to 3 or 25 to 30 milligrams much to those of about these things in Perhaps, you've and you've also heard of macro OK. That's common or I should for psychedelics. And I'll circle back to But I think one of the how much psilocybin is present And so the way this is that mushrooms are often or ounces. So an 1/8 of mushrooms of an ounce of mushrooms, or x The breakdown is 1000 milligrams equals 1 gram. And the concentration in most so-called magic So 1 gram of mushrooms means that it contains And, again, it's approximately And in most of the it's been shown that the or I should say, and we'll talk about the spacing taken once or twice is what's therapeutic outcomes. But, of course, with enhanced one also observes enhanced are called adverse events. So there's an important that has to take place. But right now, we're talking of mushrooms to psilocybin. So 1 gram of mushrooms being 1% psilocybin means 10 milligrams of psilocybin. Now, the so-called heroic And this is something More with the let's call Psychonauts. These are people that may but typically are not exploring the in controlled clinical trials. These are people who have been writers, and people spokespeople for psilocybin And they will often refer to It's a little bit from that informal community But in discussing that topic run laboratories at focused on psychedelic is that the quote-unquote often discussed really of mushrooms. So what that translates to is So when you hear someone talk dose, they're probably of 50 milligrams or but in its mushroom form. So about 5 grams of mushrooms. And, again, it's that the concentration in different and in different on the age of those mushrooms, et cetera, can vary tremendously In fact, there are that have explored the range in different mushroom strains mushrooms. And that range is pretty broad. It's anywhere from 1/2% What that means is get a hold of 1 gram of taking 10 milligrams in those mushrooms when, taking 20. Or somebody could take 3 they're taking 30 and in fact they're or 15 milligrams of psilocybin. So the sourcing is as things become more legal, and in the therapeutic setting. And this is what's Or as people start to rely on as opposed to using mushrooms Then certainly, going to be more consistent because we're not talking we're talking about batches So now, I'd like from all this chemistry and talk a little bit about journey itself and relate know about what's during the psilocybin journey. And then a little bit later, we to a receptor. When we talk about some of the chemistry and brain wiring, journey is over. So let's take a and just discuss the of an effective therapeutic And here I'm not that people should do in a psilocybin assisted or to do self-administered That is not what I'm doing. What I am trying to do the consistent present in the clinical the effectiveness of psilocybin and for other compulsive And those data, meaning related to those trials and we'll get into a But we can't really have a and what it does without and setting as it's That is known to at least bias being beneficial and not So what are the variables that psilocybin journey? And, again, when referring to people who are not that don't even have a prone to psychotic episodes. We're talking about people We're talking about people taking antidepressants that This is very important I think a lot of But as far as I know, that have explored to positively impact brain have required that or abstain from leading up to the Now, that is not to say taking SSRIs or something cease taking them I'm absolutely not saying dangerous if not catastrophic. Anytime you're going to taking anything for do need to consult In this case, a So let's talk about from the subjective side and And when I say the is what is a psychedelic And here are the become extremely important. Some of you may have heard the foundation of a well done or psychedelic journey. And all of that really hinges So set refers to mindset. The mindset of the person And setting refers to-- as the name in which they're taking that are present there. So let's talk about The setting for a needs to be one in under the influence of the is safe. That means no windows that means no streets of moving That means no opportunity That means no opportunity for In other words, it requires and perhaps even two or who are not also taking taking psychedelics present that the person is not going to harm I say this not to sound even though technically but because, of course, I don't And I'm also aware that there's in psychedelics, such legal or decriminalized for And if we look back to the when the Controlled to make psychedelics one of the bases for the geopolitical and things like the highlighted instances take set and setting took things like LSD, stared Or took psilocybin, went out, Again, these are very, But these are the that lead to that things like psilocybin, and are considered illegal. Again, I completely are a number of different We could have a whole We talk about the drug But right now, it's such a and the use of psychedelics for And getting setting correct, safe as possible for the is absolutely key. And one of the best ways is to have responsible are not under the present in that environment. So that's one The other component of about earlier, which turns is the opportunity the bias toward the person seated or ideally lying down or at least having so that they can combine hallucinations that occur processes that are under the influence This is far and away different mushrooms and going or taking mushrooms What we're talking of psychedelics for particular that yes can involve things to nature, or changing one's by interacting with And while I'm not trying to of those sorts of if we look at the scientific not just in the but in terms of understanding and positive rewiring that allows people to understand themselves better in more adaptive out of the psychedelic let's say, subdued settings a closed environment with acting as guides or by talking to them from time have to sort through of the psychedelic journey And we'll talk about the contour that almost everyone at somewhere between 20 tends to experience. But the setting is not just a list of things but they're really that also ensure that one can of the psilocybin journey. Now, other things included in from scientific literature to of the experience that things towards a are, again, safety, eye mask, Now, when I first heard about researchers on psilocybin is Robin Carhart-Harris, at University of California one of the major pioneers in And when he first about the critical I thought, OK, that Music can impact our emotion, and could, therefore, during the psychedelic journey. But he really underscored for is not just an incidental in psychedelic set and is one of the major drivers emotional experience has on something like psilocybin journey to be looked at or but, and this is quoted in the of the most profound and that one ever experienced So let's talk about that have been used in Well, first of all, about how long the psilocybin And the typical duration is anywhere from 4 to 6 hours. It's going to depend It's going to depend somewhat metabolism, and it's also on how much food people In all the clinical it was advised that people at the time in which injected with the psilocybin. That's particularly are going to be taking to get their psilocybin. And that has been Most studies however taken orally. Again, that's converted by the acidity of the gut. And the acidity of to be impacted by the various And so that's one of the major to not eat for at prior to the psilocybin journey. So here we've got this 6 journey because that's what That people start experiencing after ingesting psilocybin There's a peak component a maximal intensity of also associated with anxiety. And this is very The anxiety component in the therapeutic setting, they And that anxiety and I think most people would and think, oh, we're talking experience. But no, we're referring to a that people stay with and as one goes from the after taking psilocybin. And that tapers off slowly what, sometimes people refer Of course, hopefully, hope people aren't in while on psilocybin. But I think you get the idea. The music that's typically using psilocybin for the or for compulsive tends to have a matches with and can also drive journey that I just described. Again, we're wearing an eye mask So people who are not taking to ensure that the person The person is typically down, but more often wearing an eye mask-- and the music that's played at session tends to be a lot of vocalizations, things like classical music, it But then transitions into music So often drums that volume, that has a At about the time that one in emotion and perception, that That intense music tends to to 90 minutes, depending And then tends to transition Sometimes choral type or more voices in particular, into nature sounds and things the outside natural synthetic things like drums, or and things of that sort. So why would it be so and even contribute to that people have And here, we should probably and just talk about what those like. So for people that haven't done it's a little hard to describe. But one way to describe a lot of so-called So, for instance, will report seeing some But perhaps the music to will then start to change of whatever it is hallucinating inside of the eye This is referred or the merging of that are not ordinarily merged. In addition, people under or other psychedelics often will report that becomes linked to the that they are hearing, So, for instance, if they take a long exhale out, they may out, that the notes hearing in those drawn out for the duration of and that they're getting as control over the they are not by using their breath. And that perhaps their being merged with that. So those are just a of how perceptual synesthesia can occur of psilocybin. And this really is highly to the next. Some people, for that if they take their across the couch or the to be lying down or sitting a change in the music. Maybe even if they they hear an increase They move their hand in frequency of sound. And all of this is linked at the same time and vice versa. So we're talking about a lot blending and some over one's perceptions in a way that's very We can step back from all description of the what is going on that would to occur? And there you are already of the cell biology makes all of this possible. And that is that when psilocybin to psilocin, it's the psilocin barrier, and then looks a lot like has this incredible ability the serotonin to a receptor. Well, we can understand happening at a subjective level even right down to and perceptual blending, We can understand a lot where the serotonin 2A receptors and what those particular And the simplest is that there's a that we call pyramidal neurons. Pyramidal neurons are found But they're called because they're sort of They have a cell body, which has the DNA in it and a lot like the organelles, And then they also have Dendrites are the little that reach out both from And then these interesting because they also up into layers of neural And they have what's That's the part that grows up. And then they fan And that fanning out them to communicate with other So if you're not getting a good from my description, But simply think about putting And by doing that, with things that are some an obvious thing in that case. These cells are effectively by extending little processes and to the sides. And this is really of the serotonin to receptors in the brain are present those branches of that are above and to the side of those neurons. And so when somebody is under that means that psilocin on those apical dendrites. And it's increasing across brain areas. In fact, this is well-documented effects psychedelics, which a shift from the brain meaning more segmented communicating electrically with other auditory neurons. Of course, they'll communicate too, right? When I hear something off to my is off to the right, And my ability to do that being linked up with system and my visual system. But the key thing that when there is psilocybin that the communication of any the ones involved in hearing, the ones involved in in visual perception of visual hallucinations those are all talking to many, extensively. So what happens a reduction in the modularity, in the brain, and an called integration across what would otherwise We can say that really simply communication across the brain. Now, in addition a reduction in what's called of the brain. Typically sensory from the outside environment. So we hear something, we see we smell something. And in what's called a bottom from the periphery up, through the eyes, through through the skin, or the I should say, up into sit deep to the cortex And then the thalamus it's like a visual stuff to and auditory stuff to and touch stuff to and things that maybe to the memory centers That's the typical organization. It's hierarchical because up to the more regions of the brain link all of that stuff maybe plans about the future. When psilocybin is there's a broadening of the from the bottom up as well. And that has to do with The thalamus is a very We probably don't want to go right now. But it really is in a way station saying, to the visual to the auditory stuff, or just stuff, and ignore touch or vice versa. When psilocybin is and when serotonin 2A receptors there's a tremendous broadening up and through the thalamus. So not only is there of so-called higher we refer to them as higher involved in thinking, and et cetera. But there's also a shift in into the brain be described as broader of the different senses. And when I say I'm also referring to blending of our sense of happening inside of our body. And this without partially explains when under one's breathing can and then suddenly is being controlled or that the sound itself can see in our mind's eye Essentially, what is that serotonin to allows for more broad, less activation of brain circuitry. And when I say is that normally things go to thalamus, to visual cortex. However, when under the as I mentioned before, the visual cortex is even in the absence So then if one hears from music, a particular and that's linked to a that is now being blended with within the brain that And so while the in the brain while under aren't random, they are far less and far less hierarchical than not under the I'd like to just and thank one of our LMNT is an electrolyte drink and nothing you don't. That means plenty of and potassium, the so-called Salt, magnesium, critical to the function of in particular, to the also called neurons. And we now know that in electrolyte concentrations can lead to deficits in performance. LMNT contains a science of 1000 milligrams. That's 1 gram of sodium, and 60 milligrams of magnesium. I typically drink LMNT when I wake up in order and make sure I have And while I do any and after physical especially if I've and certainly, I drink I'm in the sauna and because that causes If you'd like to try LMNT, that's L-M-N-T.com/Huberman to with your purchase. Again, that's drink LMNT, Now in all fairness to there are not one, but four prominent theories most activated or other psychedelic journey. And so for those of in those different models, know that they are While some of them disagree It's very likely that all They include things like changes network. There's a lot of I've talked about it The default mode in the brain that's for spontaneous imagination, and that reflects state of the brain when And the default mode network is rather that is under conditions of psilocybin Again, if you're and comparing and there's a very nice review at Duke entitled, The Neural We'll provide a link to this And, again, I just that all of these models true in different studies. And what they all point to is between areas of the brain as active at the same time of psychedelics, The controversy in to which of these networks is to explain the therapeutic discovered in recent years. So, again, check out that and that sort of thing. In the meantime, we through all of those say that psilocybin connectivity of is under the influence And it does seem that some connectivity persists after have worn off. And that statement about of the brain being not just during the psilocybin has been substantiated But one of the key is one that I recommend if they're interested is entitled, The Effects on Between Network Resting in Healthy Volunteers. And I like this paper First of all, it's a carried out in the laboratory Again, one of the in this area of psychedelics what they do in their therapeutic because it focused on They explored using What brain areas are So things like Then they had people And then they looked between those brain areas when they were not under and found more All of which pointed to an less hierarchical interconnection between different brain areas. I think not only is the at healthy volunteers very but also that they looked of the brain. They weren't providing or visual stimulus for while they were in the as it's called rather, looking at how the brain And so it's very clear that just one of these psilocybin that the brain is We hear this a lot. Psilocybin or other They rewire your brain. Let's go back to what we Rewiring of the brain Adaptive rewiring of the Rewiring that leads to new that are accessible after New ideas and new ways of allow people to function That's the goal of effective Not simply rewiring A brain injury for lead to rewiring of the brain. But that's maladaptive rewiring. The use of things or methamphetamines, will lead to rewiring But that is strongly So now, there are really in humans using brain have evaluated how change connectivity And I think the it expands that connectivity. However, it seems that still allow people to And one of the key things that on the therapeutic for the treatment that very seldom, do people long-term issues with memory. Why is that so critical? Well, you could imagine in the brain reducing hierarchical would lead to disruptions It's as if you're shuffling so to speak. But that doesn't Rather it seems that the is leading provided set provided safety to positive rewiring or adaptive So that's one of the psychedelics and very exciting from the And of course, we it's also it has a lot of people just for the treatment but for expanding the brain's So along those lines, on the issues of creativity of life outside of is impacted by And here this relates to a When I put the call that I was going to do this what do you want to And one of the more common does it increase creativity? Does it increase our in ways that are beneficial positive effects in and compulsive And the short answer But that the positive psilocybin, in and our experience been explored in a fairly However, where there's some really So one of the more I think is a paper entitled responses to music for depression. I think this is a really Because what the authors did is that in these therapeutic that were carried out for music is being played. And there are prior that when music is played, areas depending on what It's somewhat obvious perhaps. Sad music versus intense. You can think about heavy versus Gregorian chants, and on, and on. It makes sense that would be activated when are played. However, there do seem to of brain activation This should probably be the of the Huberman Lab podcast. And indeed it will be. For instance, there are that are activated. No surprise there. And areas of the brain's the so-called ventral striatum reward pathway. I talked a lot about these in that I've done previously. These are brain areas that in other brain areas, and that and that tend to give us the like this. I want more. So in this particular is they took that people are in the they're listening to music. And as you recall, at different stages of are different. They have a different And music is a really nice as we say. Because like with you can break it down into Sounds like dum, dum, or ah, ah. These kinds of things at low frequency versus high Or at the spatial frequency, would be called the is it boom, boom, boom. Or is it boom, boom, boom, boom. All we've changed there The sound was somewhat between those sounds You get the idea. So they have access and these different conditions. And they can put them And they can do that before and And the long and is that psilocybin changes one's during the psilocybin journey And, in fact, it changes to music in very For instance, one of of major depression don't derive as much of experiences, food, or sex, or social sometimes they just stop trying People with depression often has the same impact. It just doesn't really This study found that people according to the parameters can get a return of the the positive emotions associated made them feel good. In other words, they They can feel good in Now, this is interesting could be that psilocybin them to access the emotions more generally. But that's actually and some other papers that Rather, it seems that can increase one's positive that one likes and can the depressiveness or tends to make one sad, even worn off and for a long Maybe even forever. Although no study, of course, because forever is forever. What we do know, however, can rewire the connections in the brain and the auditory perception of music. And leads to this who felt like, I was depressed, I just wasn't getting the same they can start to experience And that music that made has a diminished them feel sad and depressed. And there's a lot in this paper that point to include areas like the can explain why these sorts So this isn't just subjective oh, yeah, I was depressed. And music didn't feel really Or that used to And now, I feel like to listen to that without being The paper included of that sort. But then was able to link those and brain activation in response So in that way, it really and structural, and that psilocybin can bring connectivity Because remember during it's not as if music or is specifically being looked at rather music is playing. People are in the feeling all sorts of they're hearing their touch. It's all happening all at once. There's a peak. It's long. There's a long taper. The music's changing. OK. All of that took place But it is after the session states to music of a And comparing that to the that occurred before that they discover have rewired during in a way that allows in response to music again. So that's one of the I was able to find. That addresses this question really does rewire that allows us to and experienced life differently Now, that paper didn't focus I did an entire that talked about different like open monitoring talked about different that one can actually practice We had arguably one of the most Rick Rubin came on about the creative process and his role in producing music. So you can check if you're interested in the to creativity. At least at the time of There haven't been a lot of at the brain networks are involved in those change in response psychedelics. I imagine those studies or will happen in the future. But the studies I just to the changes in emotionality I think provide a nice likely happening both and after those When we talk about less more connectivity between brain is the fact that during people have the new relationships between states. And those new relationships long after the psychedelic And a lot of people in the clinical setting one of the major reasons psychedelics can rewire our broadly. It allows for new learning, And when we look at depression, people don't have an interested in social or romantic relationships. They're really struggling. And all of that, But another lens to look is that a lot of that of those emotional are somewhat habitual. They relate to and living out of the leads to C. You seek it doesn't work out. Try a new job, you You get the job, it's no good. All these negative outcomes And it does seem have this effect of invoking New considerations about And indeed, may even lead to centers in the brain with these versa in ways that eject people thinking, oh, yeah, I used to work, relationships, But I'm willing to consider Or this other possibility true to the extent that I'm that. Now, here I'm speaking But remember, we have to tie and changes of and emotion, and our and jobs, and relationships and chemistry of psilocybin. Because, ultimately, it activating receptors. Those receptors changing And the journey the time when all of those It's like a boulder In fact, I think the best and other psychedelics the neuroplasticity the neuroplasticity And the journey itself is not occurs. We know that for sure. In fact, if you psilocybin and other to change the brain, as a wedge that gets is the neuroplasticity And then think the plasticity is adaptive or it actually serves you in or not, depending you're using your that Boulder in a Not just bulldozing through but clearing a path through even destructive patterns cetera. I give you that think it more accurately like psilocybin are doing. Rather than the typical psychedelics that we tend it creates plasticity. And plasticity is what you want. For the next couple like to focus on some of is characteristic experiences during a psilocybin journey. Because there's some really These are phrases that Things like letting feelings of connectedness. Well, all of that is very Those words are heard often in psilocybin sessions and along with this description experience as one of the or one of the most positive in that they are worth exploring. We should also, of course, the possibility have a not good time or even under the influence So there have been that have explored what sorts That is thoughts, and feelings, that relate to positive and more generally that the psilocybin journey even tremendously So while there's of writings about describe things like enhanced or dissolution of the ego, and then the regaining of There's a particular some of those things in is the sorts of tests that answer particular questions, like feelings of connectedness that allows us to put and to look at some of with those experiences. And this is really about scientific a measure is subjective. So if someone's self-reporting, or whether or not it's or of a chemical in the It's the use of that allows comparison And that can be that allows us to make some sorts of things psilocybin when it's effective or not. So the paper I'd is entitled quality of predicts therapeutic efficacy resistant depression. I'll put a link to this paper But the basic is that they looked at different psilocybin sessions. One, at a relatively of 10 milligrams of psilocybin. And that would be of psychedelic And a second session taking 25 milligrams or what's roughly taking 2.5 grams of Those people then called the altered states of which allowed them to address. And here I'm of experiences in the 25 So without going it's often the case in that subjects will take of psilocybin, to familiarize And then the higher to the more intense experience. Intense meaning a bigger, more overall, greater and perceptual we talked about before. So what this study found is if not, the key feature of psychedelic experience of oceanic boundlessness during the psychedelic journey. Now, oceanic boundlessness mean anything to any of us. It probably means different Is this idea that one is extremely unusual, even mystical normal experience. But that it's not aligned in the moment. It's not directly attached to or thought process. It's a little bit because I can guarantee you. I'm not on psilocybin or And I can only imagine Although some of you might be. I can't even imagine would be like for somebody But in any case, a feeling of the and not really heading in Just a feeling of massive environment both in Perhaps with the guides with with one's present, with the entire world, that sort of thing. The intensity of that experience the mystical experience seems with positive That is relief from Now, during the as we talked about a number of steps that one So there's the build up the effects of the 20 to 45 minutes into Then the peak. And it is during that feel the sense of However, it's also that it is during the peak of emotion. And we know based on also increases in blood very significant increases that people will experience And the guide's is, of course, to make sure they don't run out of run into traffic. Sadly, these are happened outside of a strong, But the guide's role is but also to encourage through that experience allow it to peak, allow going to die from that anxiety, They won't lose their or they may temporarily lose their sense of self. But then they feel it during the peak or as and move toward the say second, of the session. So when exactly these feelings and ego dissolution occur? It varies from person to person. But typically, it's that the ego dissolution, to quote-unquote let I think perhaps the best in this paper in a way that's is to refer you if you're not won't mean anything to you. But I'll describe it. And if you do want to take you can access the paper What they did is they of different subjective like experience of that one is connected to Things like spirituality, the whole thing felt like whether or not it was a there were insights, whether or out of body, whether or not whether or not they had these of visual, auditory, touch, of that sort. And they addressed, related to the positive were observed later after And while I'm not by point through each there's a general feature to is that the experience of unity, journey was spiritual, at some point inside of The sense that that there were learnings about When those things were that correlated with what was called a responder meaning they got relief Whereas people who OK, so the non-responders the people who do in the long run from tended to report less of less of a spiritual experience, less insightfulness, and so on. Whereas there were very few that derived benefit from the did not along the this blending of that ordinarily doesn't Or complex imagery, right? Put simply everyone who took milligrams saw a they saw a lot of But just seeing lead to the positive clinical Anxiety was a very Because ordinarily, we think the letting go is of the psychedelic of the positive This has been And in full disclosure, has already come on to record podcast. That episode hasn't but it will be released soon. And he talks about of this letting go in terms of of the psilocybin journey. And indeed that is true. And I should also mention from Johns Hopkins who also psychedelics and their like eating disorders, Also, doing incredible work. Also talked about the go during the This ego dissolution, to move through the anxiety. And, again, I can't because it's been told by the top researchers That people head into that journey, and oftentimes it they're feeling like it's and their heart rate is up, and they're having a and they want to calm down. But it does seem that while the and get them more to move through that to somewhat guide oneself or to through that peak. And that anxiety and the and the so-called ego is an important feature for an In this study, anxiety correlated with a positive So this is important On the one hand, I'm telling the ego dissolution important in terms of reporting as effective as having And perhaps even explaining effects to emerge from In this case, However, non-responders, who did psilocybin, a positive therapeutic to the responders, tended to have higher than did the responders. So this is important. And what it speaks that while yes letting experiencing some anxiety, and the dissolving of self, is important. It is also important it seems or subjectively That one does not experience that leads to a more So I'm definitely once because I'm trying to It would not be fair for me to as much anxiety as is possible. And that's part of the process. Yes. Letting go-- again, to be important for of the psychedelic journey, in That occurs about However, extreme seem inversely correlated would be the better with the positive from depression. So this takes us back we've been talking Not just the chemistry of psilocybin, but of getting dosage right, the that you're in a but also one in which the guides I think this is one of the reasons for having well-trained the contour of the but are also trained with their anxiety in under the effects of psilocybin. And, of course, to help people of high anxiety and back down to a calmer state itself. And here I can just mention some And, again, these But through discussions with running these psilocybin of psychedelic trials he and I discussed of having a real-time tool under the influence of And there he asked, and as my understanding, some of that is breathing tools in my laboratory, Dr. can reduce anxiety very And that involves the use of the I've talked a lot about this So rather than explain we'll put a link to I do a demonstration of it I'll also link to a recent in Cell Reports Medicine. This was a collaborative did with Dr. David at Stanford School of Medicine. Showing that the among the different deliberate of the fastest and to reduce levels of anxiety or stress. And Dr. Matthew has started to incorporate within these psychedelic that the guides can refer people teaching it to them. So they realize they down if necessary in real-time. It works the first time, This is not because it's some that I created. It certainly is not. This is a naturally of breathing that occurs But that when done a very rapid and decreases in stress and anxiety. And then when people are inside if they feel their anxiety they're heading toward a quote-unquote bad trip. They're starting think they're going to Again, the subjective going to be layered on top of of one's heart rate saw a stress and agitation. By using the of the psychedelic session, And I believe, at least are starting to use such as the physiological for these people who are under to self-direct their own calm. And to bring that down so that they can continue and move through of the psychedelic be most beneficial for them. So to close out the description study-- and by the way, it's another laboratory, about the subjective or oceanic boundlessness, as so key as a component of a I'll just read for you the because it captures it so well. Quote, it seems vital that is paid to the importance of as the quality of may be the critical determinant Now, before we be a very brief of the other rewiring can induce, and then into some of psilocybin as they relate clinical trials for depression, and things of that sort. I just want to cue that I think many to take a look at in And I'll provide a as well in the This paper is entitled of psilocybin, for dosing and administration. And this is a wonderful goes step by step through the of which you now But it goes into But then it also the contour of a and what's happening at early, middle, peak, and toward session. And then also into issues of dosage from mushrooms, to psilocybin things I talked about earlier. But in a bit more detail, if And then perhaps there's a section on it points out that who are pregnant people who have a those people should of psilocybin and other It also talks about where the and weak for the use of of various disorders. And I can just summarize because it's where we're going is that the most evidence for in response to psilocybin taken that we've been describing today set, and setting is for cancer-related anxiety, and That's where most of There's also some evidence for And, again, this is typically spaced in the cases of from one to two weeks apart. And, again, with all of supports and set been talking about today. And there there's some in terms of outcomes in alcohol and tobacco addiction. And then finally, there's Although there is clinical or partial relief for cluster headaches and due to AIDS diagnosis. So this paper has a lot of in terms of different and again, called adverse events, can and do happen as a and other types of both during and after those sessions. And we'll talk a when we go into some of Because adverse a key measure in So very soon, we'll get into related to psilocybin for the and some other conditions. But before we do if I didn't talk about how change the brain, what is and In fact, when I put out the call many of the questions The first thing to understand is really a way to try and put as I described it to try of a particular kind. And in that way, if you think about it, that different experiences. Psychedelics, in are activating these brain has more broadly than they These are very abnormal patterns and experiencing our emotional And yet so often, the Not always, but the The experience is might have these anxiety moments It's very important to and the journey while important is about. It's really about So researchers, in are very intensely what sorts of neuroplasticity Because it turns of different types or processes For instance, brain networks, cetera can change because of That's one form that's referred to as of new neurons, most typically or other subregions a brain area involved Neurogenesis in other regions are exceedingly rare. And to be honest, This is a debated area. We could do an entire But for the most don't really believe that your cerebellum has that related to learning and or new experiences. And we don't actually think of taking psilocybin either. Now, some of you who for instance, the cerebellum. You might be saying, wait, proliferation in the cerebellum? Or what about the from the subventricular zone spitting out little migrate in through the nose to population? Yes, that's all true. That does occur. It's been observed in mice, And to some extent, it's But, again, I repeat it is not and acquisition of or new emotional states. Perhaps the best for neurogenesis underlying abilities, emotions, et of new neurons in subregion of the hippocampus. And that probably But neurogenesis is not of changing neural It might be a player in young childhood. It is certainly a player when we are still in utero. But then the brain in many different the addition of new neurons All of this is to say that sticky idea and it the addition of new neurons that the brain changes under or just generally. It's perhaps responsible and I'm being generous that are going to be most So we need to set that Until further evidence that's certainly I feel comfortable speaking for out there, professional That is the paper showing adult but they don't of the plasticity that occurs So if neurogenesis Well, it's very clear that and any behavioral or can induce neuroplasticity does or strengthening of or through the of other neural connections. And if you look at the data for psilocybin induced it's mostly focused on animal and rats, in particular. A little bit on primates, because that's where be done of knock out animals, of Of course, there are of Robin Carhart-Harris neuroplasticity at the at the level of of how active are certain brain is the modularity is the modularity, we talked about earlier. So in other words, there the effects of But in terms of underlying I think the predominant theory neuroplasticity through the in those pyramidal neurons elsewhere in the also in the visual cortex. Probably also subcortical as in areas like the thalamus, stem as well. And that those are structural and functional. And they involve a The most prominent of which Dendrites are those little that come out of the neurons, but other neurons as well. But since we're talking mainly Both the apical, They're called the apical tufts. They're the ones that with other neurons, that we talked about before. As well as the of the base of those Those processes grow in as well as the addition of what So the dendrites The spines are these little Actually, here, I don't know Again, I always say I wasn't But these little look like little mushrooms. They have a little stalk a little spine, head. And those little of these as like little OK. They aren't actual mushrooms. OK. The first person that puts in I learned today that mushrooms When we take magic mushrooms, What I'm saying is that protrusions that we're do in fact grow out of when animals ingest injected with psilocybin. And that those little are the sites of new excitatory for input from other those neurons that have protrusions. If you'd like to see examples shots, it's pretty remarkable. There's a paper that I'll note captions. This was published in the Journal, Excellent Journal, Rapid and Persistent in the frontal Cortex In Vivo. So these measurements were more or less of the There are some interesting for instance, that those So they don't just grow out active in the bloodstream they persist. OK. So this may again. May explain some of that occur in people They may too grow new spines. I should also mention in the number of dendritic shaped protrusions neurons of humans occurs We know that from And that drugs that or that treatments including provide some relief seem to be correlated in spine growth in frontal So this raises a very which is perhaps it's the these new dendritic spines That's created by That explains the that people experience. So this is just one paper. But it's one paper of a growing indeed, psilocybin induces plasticity in the It does that in the human of anywhere from 10 30 milligrams per session, I should mention that the quite high doses of psilocybin. I wasn't shocked, but I was to realize that most of the in plasticity in the mouse use the equivalent of 1 of body weight, which and you translate what we were of dosages, I'll just it's about double, the sorts used in humans. Maybe even triple in some cases. Now, it's often the because of the being different, but also in animal studies They did use a dose response to 0.5 to 1 to 2 of psilocybin in the study. So they had a dose But focused mainly on this 1 In any event, the of the studies that dramatic structural changes most typically the to psilocybin use that if translated be about double the So that is something to take into consideration. Nonetheless, it's very clear and humans, both structural and functional And that in humans, the is being changed dramatically. We talked about And that the underlying again, might be. We don't know for sure. The addition of new dendritic neurons that we've been throughout today's episode. Although neurogenesis of neuroplasticity, of certain connections. Perhaps related to unhealthy or feeling that a particular It could be the case that change subjectively of neural connections. If you're going to think like for that matter, to think that one all the effects of a given It's almost certainly the consequence of multiple And because I know there would like to even more about by psychedelics, there's a wonderful review in the show note captions and Neuroplasticity: A the Biological Underpinnings This review is great beyond just psilocybin binding to the serotonin to a derived neurotrophic factor. It actually talks a lot about and exactly how neurons change based on this activation of It's probably more out there are interested in. But if you are interested this is a wonderful So a few minutes ago, there is strong, modest, or rather, I should for the therapeutic to treat various disorders. And across the board, that major depression depression, in some we're seeing the most Now keep in mind that because Act being invoked in 1970 and because it was only only about five years ago, psilocybin received what's status at the FDA. That there are now a exploring how various things like mood and so on. Prior to 2018, when that potential was established I think a lot of people in community had the sense, that these drugs had But they just weren't being So I do want to give a nod such as Robin Carhart-Harris, Johnson, Roland Griffiths, OK. I'm certainly not That would take hours. But those researchers both the legal efforts, and most importantly, efforts defining that I'm about to describe. And here, I'm going to in a bit of a top just giving you the We will, of course, if you'd like to But I'm only giving because I've had the great Johnson on this podcast before. You can find that episode Just simply put Matt's name or function. It'll take you to that or links to all formats rather. I've also had the great fortune with Dr. Robin Carhart-Harris at University of California San Ayahuasca, and DMT as and other disorders. And that episode, be released at hubermanlab.com Apple, Spotify. Really goes in depth into and what those studies really whether or not dose or two doses, how far All of that is covered in that what I found to be Robin Carhart-Harris. So if you're interested as it relates to clinical stay tuned for Again, you can find and on all platforms. In the meantime, if I didn't include about what has been observed journeys as a way to treat just oh, so exciting. Again, these data really as the consequence were initiated around 2006 in And then really of the number of of studies between 2018 and now. So what you'll of the papers I'm about to for instance, New England Journal and New England Journal of of the American Medical just very recently, 2021. So these are very recent papers. Essentially, all of involve either one or The dosages that were explored So placebo, if you will. 10 milligrams, in some in some cases, 30 milligrams. And most typically, people for both sessions if indeed However, there's looking at just of psilocybin administration. So this is the paper entitled. No surprise single dose resistant episode This was published in the New in November of 2022. I'll just summarize the results study. They randomly assigned treatment resistant depression. So they had resisted To receive a single dose of psilocybin. So they're not eating getting a synthetic But the dose is known of either or 1 milligram, which And they receive There were a number of different of depression taken before and They had about 75 to 79 Again, at the three different And they looked at the these depression related There are many results from But among the most I can summarize and here I'm paraphrasing, that of depression that is at week session was That is people experienced experienced more relief than from the 1 milligram dose. And this is important. There was no between the 10 milligram dose This really points to the milligram dose that's used in exploring treatment resistant I don't want to say the best dose at least in this in this set and setting and population. So we want to be careful to say translate that 25 milligrams Although in this study it resistant depression relief. There were a number of other In particular, the exploration So things like for self-harm, actual It's worth mentioning that in essentially every group. The number of adverse in the 25-milligram dose group. This is observed in With higher dosages, greater relief from but also a greater chance Some of those adverse So feelings of suicidal Some of them one could severe, mild headache, or severe or anxiety that was transient. Again, highly We could go line by table through this paper, a lot of data. Again, we'll provide if you'd like to It's fairly That's one thing that's nice they tend to be written in Although there's a little The important point of 25 milligrams of psilocybin from treatment in this particular But it is not the case took 25 milligrams of psilocybin However, the Now, when you say you really need to And the reason I'm not telling or 50% is because it point people were analyzed. People were asked about their immediately after two weeks after, or And the degree of relief In fact, it tended to But it was also stable I should say, at in the 25-milligram dose group. And that is summarized nicely Because they explored these out to week 12. And they still saw of depression relief 12 weeks psilocybin dose session. So as I mentioned earlier, or so excellent exploring the use of single treatment in that 25 to seems to be the most effective from depression. Each one of those studies as is important. Replication is also in order to validate But, for instance, comparisons of psilocybin versus There have been comparisons of or cognitive behavioral cognitive behavioral therapy And so there's a now of the clinical outcomes. And the statistical outcomes and even some objective measures possible in terms of if and how psilocybin is of depression. And the major takeaway does seem to be the case. And the numbers that I feel there, but putting out to with Robin Carhart-Harris. Again, that will at hubermanlab.com, from what I would say are the they have the widest range demographic in terms of the their levels of education, men, And a lot of that in the paper entitled, Effects on Major Depressive Disorder. This was a particular But in the discussion, I quite well, which is that if who take this 25-milligram dose a week apart, what you will to 75% of the people who have do these psilocybin sessions report a good have minimal adverse events and in the weeks following, substantial positive relief In ways that other treatments including antidepressant drugs, and other types of therapy Now, it's a general feature of on psilocybin that to stop taking their prior to participating It's also a general that people are encouraged their antidepressant treatment of course, that could confound treatment. However, and this is a very all subjects were taking those if, in fact, their that it was important for survival. So no one should be about what to add or delete when dealing with depression. All right. The outcomes could be Nonetheless, we can of the paper I just mentioned. Because it really highlights that psilocybin applied in these are providing. And here, again, The present trial administered in the psychotherapy consisting of psychotherapy. So this is going of the psilocybin with Produced large rapid and effects. The effect size is were approximately 2.5 times sizes found in psychotherapy. And more than four times found in psychopharmacologic In other words, four observed with typical of that sort. These findings are consistent showed that combined and psychotherapy were more of major depressive disorder So, again, this that combining drug as it's often called more effective than Here are the drug therapy And, again, please don't take they tended to ask people to medication heading into that one should stop medication. Rather I think this study and which we'll provide note captions that are discussed with Dr. Carhart-Harris really point to that psilocybin can have inside of the or the trip as it's called, neuroplastic events, perhaps the Maybe even some Although I don't think But that leads to these more in the brain, the so-called enhanced activity in brain be talking to one another. But not doing that in any It really does seem that the one that induce these feelings induce these feelings of So mystical. And in many ways, it's about psilocybin and despite the highly mystical, at this time somewhat top they might exert their effects. You can highlight boldface because it hasn't really what the exact cell biological But there is now to as a center of mass of that psilocybin when taken and setting, at the can invoke the sorts of in emotionality, in not just during the but for long periods of time That can provide really from things like and perhaps other And, of course, I are listening to and/or And you're not or thinking about in the context of depression. I hope today's you to better understand how in particular, because that's are able to exert these seem to exert. This is not a call for everyone It is absolutely not that. It is, however, my attempt lens on this incredible that's happening not just in but in the context of trying and how drugs like mimic serotonin, and the activation of particular like the serotonin I mean, just sit back the selective activation of this associated with the expansion of Didn't mention that How that can lead to changed ways of inside of this short that we call the So as is often the case, the case here on the we did a deep dive into the topic of psilocybin. What it is, how it in which it changes how it creates the of as the psilocybin journey, what the so-called set can lend themselves to And in doing so, to highlight several things. First of all, I am very for psychedelics such as for mental health issues very hard for people to access. In addition to that, interested in the brain and how This thing we call To me, neuroplasticity of the human nervous system. As far as we know, that can have long-lasting throughout the lifespan. And if it requires in a safe and controlled in order to achieve maximal of time, that's exciting. But, of course, that also with all of the safety that we talked about earlier, who have a predisposition or disorder, or a relative that has Younger people, meaning people And really anyone with a dedicated and needs to be very cautious They're very exciting. I think psilocybin is interesting compound for and for other reasons as well. But they are sharp And with sharp blades, you but you can also cut So all those considerations So I consider the science to be an exciting, but that I certainly am paying And I know there's a So stay tuned for the episode And we will probably and we will certainly revisit and non-classical psychedelics ketamine, MDMA, mescaline, in future episodes as well. If you're learning from please subscribe to That's the best zero In addition, please on both Apple and Spotify. And on both Apple can also leave us up If you have questions about this, or any or talk picks that or guess you would like me to podcast, please put those in I do read all the comments. In addition, please mentioned at the beginning and That's the best way to Not so much during but on many previous episodes we talk about supplements. While supplements aren't many people do derive for things like enhancing of their sleep, for things and for hormone The Huberman Lab podcast with momentous supplements. If you'd like to learn more on the Huberman Lab podcast, spelled O-U-S. So If you haven't already podcast Neural the Neural Network newsletter newsletter. That includes summaries of of protocols, things like a tool a tool kit for improving focus, toolkit related to deliberate exposure to fitness And much more. Again, all zero cost. Simply go to hubermanlab.com. Go to the menu, scroll and provide your email. We do not share your And, again, the newsletter And to see previous newsletters, a bit further on that page at hubermanlab.com, and And you can just click No sign up required. And if you're not already it's hubermanlab on and LinkedIn. And on all those science and science-related overlaps with the content but much of which is distinct on the Huberman Lab podcast. So, again, it's hubermanlab on and LinkedIn. Thank you once again for joining about psilocybin. And last but thank you for your [MUSIC PLAYING]