I got another big idea let's get AMC to put What if they not only got into online in a going to the theaters and hanging out with They can sell tickets that you can buy using Users would be able to walk to a pizza kiosk hangout with their friends and watch a movie the game! Edit: It's happening someone built a theater this opportunity Man when I walked in it blew my mind something sound and video was clear as fuck Checked it out and it blew me away. This is absolutely sick! Who owns it? This will be awesome once VR is integrated of friends so it'll be like watching the I could even see decentraland movie gift cards where all those gift cards are located. That'd be so cool I wish could take all my bitcoin and live Dope asf! Clap clap clap clap clap clap thumbs up ok What you're looking at is Decentraland. Conceived by Argentine developers Esteban world for unconstrained markets and presently owned by its users." In the pitch version Decentraland is a true that you access via virtual reality, a world goods, and go to stores unconstrained by the body eats and sleeps, a product so promising of dollars. In practice, it's just a bad video game in a real-estate scheme cosplaying as the Most of what Decentraland does, and what it forgivable or quaint in a Kickstarter MMO creators could ever chew, but given that this of those foibles are laced with the language Strolling down Decentraland's spacious boulevards a seemingly endless parade of virtual billboards is all available to rent. This is because of a pretty basic chain of history. While the nominally-playable game launched 2017 broken into two parts: first an initial sale raised approximately $24 million dollars the "terraforming event" where parcels auctioned off for an additional $28 million this. "I'm not selling until it's worth at This being crypto the obsession with scarcity of time to even mention it but the LAND tokens centered a lot of the discussion of Decentraland plots of land in the event that Decentraland the metaverse, the go-to destination for virtual The initial buyers' plans for the land overwhelmingly financial services or just sitting on the This is all baked-in, Decentraland's initial "What if you could own the virtual world? Create, develop, and trade without limits. Make genuine connections, and earn real money. Decentraland. A fully immersive platform powered by the Buy land. Design your experience. And transform he way that people see the world. Purchase the first ever virtual real estate. Get started today." Now, there's a lot of ground that needs of theory that I would like to get out there, here for is failure, so just to whet your expect to see as we talk about Decentraland, [Disco Music] Decentraland Records presents the only collection Bad graphics Dead mall vibes Weed leaves And so much more But before we can get into all that we've In the past two years you have likely been the metaverse and yet, despite the numerous, to having an actual, workable definition in can visualize actually integrating with your There are a lot of definitions out there, them are outright insane, very few agree on almost all of them fall back on gesturing know, that thing, it'll be like that." In the mainstream, the metaverse has been An interesting element to that is that while word "metaverse" out into the public consciousness, typically nod their heads at any metaverse their crypto junk grafted onto it. They don't care about the form or content metaverse require spontaneous mass adoption in that regard. In sharp contrast we have the writing of Ryan A theologian, Bolger's vision of the Metaverse of the real world, a 1 to 1 digital clone. You can leave a digital letter for someone same bench to find it. A clone so accurate that self-driving cars the world around them, but by referencing - the most jacked version of Google Maps you For Bolger, traditional websites and apps should be to astrally project via VR into you through AR glasses and take your order The goal of this degree of reification was that it could be said that the metaverse could in the metaverse can be sacred independent it's not just software, it's a place. Digital fashion and other "phygital" industries physical and digital, but for very different They look at the market for cosmetics in live that business model to reality. Rather than building a reified virtual world, the augmented reality side of things, they so seamless that we all dress in mo-cap suits an advanced spin on Tiktok's hat filter. In this definition the metaverse isn't another a name for the digital skin that gets laid devices. We strongly believe that the amount of clothing needs. But don't shop less, shop digital fashion. Don't shop less. Don't shop less. Don't, don't you, don't you dare, don't There are numerous problems here, which boil claim to the word "metaverse." If you comb through dozens and dozens of definitions broad attributes where some are generally exclusive. It's a vague, largely incoherent cloud of anything can be called part of the metaverse, Decentraland is the metaverse, TheSandbox Roblox is the metaverse, Fortnite is the metaverse, The Lindt Experience is the metaverse. "I look at my fourteen year old and she life living in a metaverse. She doesn't even know that word, right, her friends online in one form or another, forms, right. In Instagram, in TikTok, in iMessage, in, know all of these different, you know, metaverses, "Some leaders within the virtual worlds every company will need to operate their own and as part of leading virtual world platforms As Sweeney has put it, "just as every company at some point every company created a Facebook Of course this flexibility that allows for a natural, inevitable precursor to the True to dismiss any failure as a failing of that ideas themselves. The metaverse cannot fail, you can only fail There's no consensus definition because actual thing that anyone's really building, writer to gesture at the future and pontificate Definitions of the metaverse are, thusly, political and social values. When you understand that the metaverse isn't a rhetorical proxy for The Future of Technology with. The reason it's all so messy is because and because a lot of the people writing effluent the form of blockchain-based social spaces That's not to say that they don't believe that most have not considered if it would That part they take as a given, because it's bother considering that the end result might Now, science fiction and actual science have It's fun to point to all the devices that a fiction writer decades earlier, but there's Sure, some speculations become real, either in cutting edge science or because fans of reality, but even more get discarded as silly, impossible. This might come as a shock, but when a writer they write doesn't need to actually work. They're not real inventions, they're narrative of cool factor can make up for the limitations Star Trek's holodeck is an insanely cool But it can't exist, not as depicted, because of camera tricks and special effects. At the end of the day the holodeck's limitations, necessity. So when Neal Stephenson writes about The Metaverse of a mix of speculation about the future of via virtual spaces, and an overwhelmingly Stephenson's Metaverse is a massive, three-dimensional and interesting, it provides a colourful backdrop stakes pizza delivery swordmaster employed cause brain damage. Snow Crash is prescient in degrees about some technology, but overwhelmingly that prescience We have virtual live events, virtual sports, and even virtual strip clubs where you can and watch someone just absolutely [static]. Really the only things that are missing are three dimensional representation of the internet next, or maybe not even physically possible So this then creates a bit of a trap for a of the metaverse where they have to cling because otherwise they're just talking about As Matthew Ball writes in his 2022 book The "Although virtual worlds come in many dimensions, Metaverse. Without 3D, we might as well be describing Message boards, chat services, website builders, of content have been around and popular for Which brings us to virtual reality. VR is pretty cool tech, I really like it. It's also pretty limited, or more specifically which is the human body. The inner ear really doesn't like moving every VR application is a series of compromises what the body will tolerate. No! Oh god! Oh god! Oh! Because Stephenson's metaverse is a plot the characters are able to navigate the space And because it's narratively interesting, of the metaverse to another they need to traverse Ball, for his part, concedes that users of this to be too inconvenient and prefer to The reality is even more restrictive. The compromise is that overwhelmingly virtual with freeform movement around a small footprint, even within the same virtual room. It's a compromise that VR enthusiasts are is a one-way trip to the floor as your cochlea option. The end result, the actuality of virtual reality, an unfortunately limited number of applications. This creates a very sharp contrast between and the reality of VR that developers and with pundits continuing to insist that a vast, is not only a desirable way to interact with way. How this manifests is a metaverse that exists the inevitability of its existence, with anything encircled as part of the metaverse, along all. Of particular fascination is the way that Lindt USA, manufacturers of terrible chocolate November 2022 and just have a look at the Lindt USA Launches Its First-Ever 3D Virtual Premium Chocolate a Truly Innovative Experience In a beautifully decorated, fully 3D and highly visitors with an engaging introduction by Ann Czaja. Best of all, the immersive store is totally "We at Lindt USA are thrilled to offer customers for the holidays. While there is no experience like walking person, our online store is no different. We're excited to show it off." This is all pretty routine corporate fluff, that it's just words, there's few, if And there's a reason why: the whole of it the actual thing that they're describing, would probably be a camp hit if it were pitched from the 90s. "Want some Rye? Of course ya do!" The vast majority of these so-called metaverse as they are painted to resemble a store. We already tried this 25 years ago, and discarded shop from a list of items or a grid of photos of a display case. Examples like this betray not only the ignorance it, but also a profound incompetence on the Rather than being a "cutting-edge virtual so bad, so embarrassing, that it would be an outright scam, shaking down gullible corporations future or missing the boat on the next big hardest. The fact that Patrick Diggelmann, vice president at this final product and didn't immediately money back is just a nice, tight encapsulation driven by irrational, uninformed FOMO. And this brings us back to Decentraland. All these definitions are pretty bad for Decentraland. It clearly wants to be the Metaverse, it calls have made the mistake of actually trying to whether or not they've succeeded. They have activated the trap card of falsifiability. VR was dropped from Decentraland's core has all but officially been relegated to a it's difficult to get working in the first for VR, either in terms of technical performance The results are dizzying even without a headset Hnnng, okay so the app's just straight up Cool. For many definitions of the metaverse, like virtual reality, or at the very least augmented This, however, in my evaluation is just a Decentraland is embarrassing, which makes of incentive to discredit it as a claim to its failures are meaningless, that there's of the underlying ideas. But the knife that says all these definitions If the concept is so broad as to be little successful and popular things like Minecraft metaverse, then this does too. And if this is the future, then the future It is difficult to fully encapsulate the sheer in the minds of its supporters and the actual this endeavor we shall strive. Maybe we spent our best shot early by opening doors and a photo of a real concession stand probably best to let you know what you're That post that we ran earlier, by the by, Decentraland subreddit. The fact that it's a crossover event with to being disproportionately laden with Reddit it that I couldn't script. Name a more iconic duo than bad products and The pizza kiosk they rave about, where you metaverse and pay in ETH or MANA is long gone, even the world's procedurally generated The details are thin, but from what's available involved in any capacity, which would indicate middleman between you and Domino's, where order, along with payment in dollars, to Domino's The event calls back to one of the foundational the first purchase ever made with cryptocurrency. "22nd of May, 2010 is the date when someone case a pizza." The reality of that is very similar to the bitcoin in exchange for pizza. Floridian Laszlo Hanyecz offered 10,000 bitcoin large pizzas. Fellow Floridian Jeremy Sturdivant took him a pizzeria with his own money and then traded Hey, that's backwards. Wait, it's also backwards from this side! Other groups have tried to recreate amusement in District X. Originally slated to be Decentraland's Red stole all the donated LAND, District X is of Decentraland's ability to deliver interactive sad. Oh yes, I can feel the thrills coursing through In the Decentraland experience there's a of incompetence. Most of the people building this stuff don't bad from first principles, but then on top are also bad, so good ideas are kneecapped but then on top of that Decentraland just particularly heinous and sometimes the camera so no matter what experience you build it'll Some of what you'll stumble across is almost family home populated entirely by official It's almost adorably incompetent, like the to Xander from Buffy the Vampire Slayer. At least until you notice the For Sale sign Mario houses scattered around the world, all They're everywhere, I've completely lost house I've stumbled across. This is in part because navigating Decentraland and attendant lack of landmarks makes it very any given Modern Mario House is a fresh one you've looped back on. "AUG 1, 2022 DecentRally: Setting the Track for Future Code The first of its kind in Decentraland, DecentRally serving as an open source foundation for future Decentraland faces a fascinating problem inherent The language of interaction with the world You navigate the world via an avatar, your This makes games the most obvious implementation there. The problem is that Decentraland is just bad DecentRally is an abysmal little experience, nominally resembles. Of course we can't judge it too harshly given that everything in Decentraland seems to make one suspicious, like maybe "it's of concept" are just a rhetorical shield Either which way, the developer's other it's been featured on Decentraland's front The fantasy of the metaverse is one where in the words of Matthew Ball "entire generations which, as a statement, more or less demands to interactions and activity taking place otherwise it's, you know, stupid, because But regardless, this idea of place requires of place must encompass both the fantastic both Skyrim and your office and the grocery the metaverse ceases to be a world, a true interface, and to that end the existence of Law (A Professional Corporation). Welcome to the metaverse law office of James Los Angeles. James isn't in right now, no one is, and this place with actual people is patently While it was unfortunate that you tripped ashes because you tripped over a rake that you attacked him with that rake it was a, to have to refer you to a criminal defense Uh, this is, this is outside kinda the purview injury lawyer. So, um, unfortunately you are going to need do have some people tha tI can refer you to. I'm deeply sorry for the loss of your grandmother assist you any further in this matter. This is not meaningfully useful in any way When confronted with the actual product, the be engaged with to make the fictional vision comparison to the "next generation of the Ball quotes Tim Sweeny talking about a future a virtual world "just as every company a at some point every company created a Facebook But here's the thing: we already know from need much more to a website than some cursory A website, to most companies, is just a replacement number one job is to carry a phone number, A Facebook page became appealing because it its functionality as a whole in a way that handles running Facebook, you just put in density, up to date communication, like promotions The entire process there is a move towards The construction and maintenance of a virtual The effort to build and update is orders of the information density goes down! Like, this is really important: most business text for... ever, because text is really, But the metaverse is a uniquely terrible medium cannot be presented in an optimized format, space. That's why the only actual meaningful things are links to conventional, flat, text-and-image Because they're just more efficient ways So the virtual workspace, the idea that this functional as a space, with the receptionist via in-world voice chat, that someone is waiting But without that promise, without that story, An NFT gallery and hard-to-use widgets that you that you're not "in the metaverse" I guess at least you can stand on the balcony street. Even official productions, stuff created by sub-contracted, trend heavily towards embarrassing. The festival stage for the first annual Metaverse collision on the stairs and balcony, meaning floor that you would immediately fall through. New Years Eve 2022 was staged in a Duke-Nukem-esque devastatingly terrible jumping puzzle, just riddled with all manner of collision problems, idea that was implemented improvisationally with the reward being a broken scavenger token, party. [barely audible fireworks] "Wait, is that it? Was that it?" After a long day's virtual lawyering, it's load off. And we would recommend none-other than NFT It's always bugged me when I go into a comedy - it's false advertising. But with the power of the metaverse, and a the NFT World City's Comedy Club obtained "Uh, we hope to have content from Decentral And we have also sourced content from an AI for us to show here. It's not all comedy and incompetence and Occasionally you'll stumble across a single one, taken away from this world, too young House. One of the most consistently popular locations a functionally permanent spot on the Genesis meteor mining and crafting game. Now, something to stress here is that this success story. There are people who interface with Decentraland WonderMine. Even just looking at the map it is one of you can find other players in any reasonable And it is an idle clicking game that is so as a skinner box. Meteors fall, and you click on them. And then you wait. The sole value prospect is that at the end an NFT wearable that you can then sell to "So like I was saying, if you want to see marketplace and search steampunk hat and as And if we want to view the value of MANA today, So with such big money on the line, of course and auto-clickers. Decentraland doesn't log users out after in predictable locations, so it's pretty of complexity it's trivial to just leave Wondermine is also immediately adjacent to Rush, which is featured prominently in Genesis Immediately we can spot a problem with the modest game has an absolutely massive footprint to back its terrain. From a standpoint of architecture it is an barrier to both sightlines and traffic. It turns out that having every individual adversarial relationship is, uh, bad. Alright, so, walk onto the dragon's back, the gates and land on the landing pad to finish Now, maybe this is just unfair, after all games in Decentraland. Let's do some due diligence and find something a budget behind it. Knights of Antrom, the ultimate role-playing and fight your way to the top. Those looking for a little more action to further than Dice Masters. An incredible, fully-playable role-playing framework. Within its sizable location, gamers can undertake and craft in game items, all in addition to scourge. Dice Masters Development and Expansion Should the following Tier 6: up to $240,000 in the Gaming category be approved? Yes wins with 93% Okay, that's quite a pitch. And, you know what, let's treat this seriously, or Steam Early Access pitch. $240,000 is modest but realistic, and watching since the buildings are just lifted from World But, like, the features are very straightforward, style. This is eminently realizable. Low rent? Sure. Devoid of original ideas? Also true. Doable? Absolutely. This is it, right? This is the moment Decentraland has been waiting promises! This isn't just a thing in Decentraland, infrastructure invisible beneath an otherwise They even bothered to include the coordinates to go there! [groaning] It's just... it's the same story over It's all the same stuff. No amount of remixing can overcome the underlying Decentraland wants to be the invisible tech it also wants to be a real virtual world, and technical decisions onto the other. You can't really get anything better out The MetaGamiMall is a construction of special by a grant of $220,000 US dollars from the in theory, as the government of the Decentraland The pitch was a gamified mall, and I will on some key details. "Game + Mall = GamiMall" "The game - super dogerio, the vitality "The P2E economic model can incentivise "The first comprehensive traffic road system Highly compatible with Customer shopping habits Interesting piano floor, create more fun while "The Meta GamiMall is an avant gard project and shop activities. The game lives in the mall, the mall needs The actual product is a track that you walk for wearables, while a bad techno DJ repeats plots like this, the track consists mostly is infested with bots that idle on the exact can collect more coins. It would seem that while $220,000 can get experience worth doing with your own human The actual rules of Super Dogerio are oblique, help. "Welcome to MetaMine. MetaMine is a metaverse game event that will in Decentraland." "MetaMine is a metaverse game event" I guess it's called Metamine now? As for the mall component, I don't even The space is so cluttered with the extreme legible as a mall, and the whole notion is interface for actually buying things, which The result, an empty shopping experience plagued an undead mall, stuttering along in a parody Now, they did seek a new grant in late 2022, and revitalize the mall. Unfortunately the proposal was rejected 3 the "no" votes coming from two people. Sorry MetaGamiMall, better luck next time. The Decentraland Report is one of the most it breaks my heart that we can't give it They style themselves as "the first ever latest breaking news of the Metaverse". Between grants and private funding it has dollars of investment. It is an organization operated by Kevin Clark, We'll let him explain what it means: "Decentralized news networks give the public and how the network will evolve over time. Tokens are distributed to the public based event coverage, ad space, and vote on key of actual news reporters." Just to stress this, to highlight it and make catastrophizing or editorializing, the ability feature. "Imagine if you could use a token to vote You can buy the ability to fire a reporter. And that's deliberate, because it gives participation. The editorial agenda of the Decentraland Report it is proudly available for purchase. The Decentraland Report is a news outlet that It takes the very messy subject of journalistic functions as willing collaborators with systemic skeptical, alert, and literate in how we intake populism masquerading as neutrality. The logic is that institutions are inherently bias, and no institution means no bias. Their trust model is explicitly rooted in Kevin's rhetoric is part and parcel with to trust misinformation they found on Facebook that gets flagged by Facebook as misinformation. It shares a table with the belief that reporters journalism you can trust comes from those "With this decentralized approach to news, and focus on fact-based reporting verses biased-based views than telling the truth. Kevin's vision for the news is downright if you're in need of ideas. So what's the product? You want to see some journalism so unprofessional Defiant cringe? "Any giveaways? Yeah, for sure man! If you hang around I'll definitely do a So we're just hop right on in here to Dice Come on through! I just want to show support to Dice Masters." "And then we'll kinda move into the auction "That is, that sounds like a great time." "As recommended by Seanny, upon the passing our monthly revenue to the DAO, in perpetuity DAO. That's amazing. That, to me, is epic." It's just Twitch streams. "No fucking way! Do you fucking hear that motherfuckers! That's what the fucking metaverse was missing! Metal!" "That is very true, holy shit. That is very frickin' true. Wow. That was Big Dave. Says Big Dave is Talking, listen the fuck Wow. That was, wow. Wow. That was sound check? You gotta be kidding me! That was frickin' sound check, you gotta I know, I know, right? It's pretty disappointing that after all this ship runs aground over the fact that in Decentraland in the first place, so the zero. Despite the lofty ambitions of the network, They're just small streamers cosplaying handful of regulars talking about the video That said, there's still a story here. They still raised a quarter million dollars, Did that at least pay someone? Well, no. Reporters aren't "paid" as such. They get paid in the REPORT token, and they revenue on Xpand, a crypto-meets-Twitter-meets-Patreon At time of writing that's around $120 bucks, Xpand takes a 10% cut, there is another 10% shouldn't exist, and then the remainder There's the possibility of one-time donations but on average the individual reporters are This uh, isn't a great deal, especially Sorry, reporters Need to provide their own equipment. So it's no surprise that Kevin has failed Who he's ended up with is an ensemble of stream by associating with an org. They're all broadcasting from their personal is the DCLR branding, which, you know, it Every single stream we caught had extremely viewers, often under 5. Kevin's personal and DCLR branded YouTube is a success if it breaks 100 views. So, where on (Kevin)OnEarth did the money Okay, the reporters only get paid from the or webcams, the only thing left to even spend [Kazoo and fart performance of Also Sprach The Decentraland Report is the perfect showcase evaporate. The build is called the Metaflower, which other metaverse candidate The Sandbox that Know what, doesn't matter. Using allegedly very expensive tech, the flower of subscribers on the Xpand page grows. Of course we need to take Kevin's word on toward the goal of 10,000. So the building has remained in its initial What we're left with is this. We've got walls laced with Kevin's prized the 'studios' where presenters are intended The Decision Room, where DCLR DAO members And then we have the butthole tunnel that tells us that we need to save the Decentraland And it turns out that News Juice means 'please Wait, Kevin's in here twice! Strangely there's no news in the DCLR HQ. What they do give you is a link to an entirely So you're sitting there, computer frying And if you want to see some news at the metaverse another 3D site that loads up two dozen YouTube - it's absurd. Needless to say, the Decentraland build contributes a news network. We don't know precisely how much this whole but given that the $127,000 in grants are that, after the boring stuff like building represents Kevin's $126,000. So let's focus in on those grants. Kevin received 4 grants from the Decentraland Two were to hire an editor for DCLR - both Then there was a $5000 grant in September reporters as a milestone reward for 6 months And then there was the big one, a $120,000 for DCLR's reward system. Since decentralized news is all about rewarding to build that system. Pretty much the same tech that handles Twitch people max. The decentralized philosophy of the project system exist as a starting point. You can't expand into these solutions naturally. So Kevin spent $35,000 on LAND, potentially and $120,000 on this reward system, and then another $240,000, 32 of which was allotted for a marketing director, content manager, In what seems to have been the only lucid Kevin was told... no. Two more reduced proposals have also been You know what we haven't talked about in Chocolate. I mean, sure, Lindt has their metaverse, but be left behind. Well, if you've got a craving, you're Just a hop skip and a jump from the Sugar official Metaverse holiday home of Hershey Sure this plot may look microscopic, but boy For one you can talk to the shopkeepers inside But there's also gamification! There's a quest! It's time for a treasure hunt! Just hop up here and bounce over here, and on the camera and you can get your very own An NFT on the frequently exploited Polygon has been claimed, generously, about 500 times. But once you claim your extremely ugly hat in the Hersheyverse. You see the treasure chest needs opening, just, talk to the shopkeepers and pick the and gain the ability to fly! And by fly I mean that if you double jump lifts you up to a predetermined height, where control of the chocolate cannon which may Brands love the metaverse. Or at least that's the story. Samsung, Nissan, Vodafone, Snapple, CitiBank, Sour Patch Kids, Atari, Miller Lite, JP Morgan, Now, what that means is, uh, extremely flexible. We've already dipped into Hersheyverse, It's just... it's weird, man. Atari has probably the best looking location consists of a large faux-social space full Wait, have I even mentioned that yet?! Yeah, you can't sit on chairs in Decentraland! The whole goddamn world is built of nothing play sitting around a table unless you buy Otherwise in the atari stronghold you have Decentraland and a couple wearables that are The only thing to actually do here is play the gnawing cold reality seep into you as failure as a platform for socialization, for handle properly emulating Breakout, a game images! Steve Wozniak built Breakout fifty years ago and that's still somehow too demanding a The Onyx Lounge by JP Morgan Chase, built a bet on "a metaverse future that could only by a wandering tiger, but has since been The DCL branch of HSBC is a unique kind of and stairs with no collision, with the only is an official HSBC project or not, since builds are glitchy and weird, because it's Particularly though, as you go through a lot First is a subject that we'll talk about of these ventures rarely feature anything They don't tend to tell you how to actually product itself, typically limiting visuals at all. Fortune didn't even bother to mention the It's really more about the headline than Second is a trend of dispersion. It's not Hershey's that's in the metaverse, it's Nissan Italy, it's Vodafone Turkey. Third is a trend towards the temporary. While the Atari metaverse headquarters is Chase still sort of technically exists, most to the metaverse", they're just promotional The Snapple Stronghold, Miller Lite Metalite "And look, we've heard there aren't but marketers say it's gonna be a very big The Meataversity of Steak-umm came and went The Trident Vibe x Sour Patch Kids Chew The "office" for MoZeus Worldwide, the ad While a few corporations jumped in early and already sailed, and now the impetus for this the digital ad agencies that they hire, who as part of the package, a way to recoup some Fourth is that they just overwhelmingly suck Decentraland in order to accomplish anything. The Nissan experience will let you book a open their existing website. The Atari store opens Atari's actual store. The Pedigree Fosterverse lets LAND holders in a partnered shelter in need of a forever The metaverse dog serves as a digital billboard Of the three dogs the platform lists at time adopted out, but their listings remain because is to get a Pedigree branded dog on their to beg for adoption for all eternity. So what does that all mean? Well, the obvious, but speculative, narrative success of "the metaverse" are approaching on a vision of "the future" and dazzling They point to articles in real outlets like dollar future, and, like, in the face of that wrong? It's the lamest version of Pascal's Wager. Back on the Genesis Plaza spawn platform we've really talked about yet. These are Decentraland's solution to discoverability of their attempted solutions. As already mentioned, the Classics pillar spot where you can actually interact without skeuomorphic buttons. On the right hand side, though, is the Crowds has dominated that bottom slot. ICE Poker - The Stronghold, which routinely Now, that number is middling in isolation, 12 qualifies as a crowd, it's pretty meaningful. Of course a ton of those attendees are idle not ruin the fun. As for the legality of this, well, the opinion is that it's not gambling under relevant license to operate. The important thing here is that the only successful is outright just a casino, and LLC, the community seems to be taking it for "So as you can see I've earned $2.98 from And honestly I've only been gambli~oops The odd thing is that it's seemingly only Like, really it's just this one specific There's a whole bunch of different casinos them owned by DecentraGames under the ICE anyone's ever in. Turns out that's because they already ran You used to be able to gamble on the slots but between glitchy behavior that would eat times to resolve bets, and, most critically, bodies, The Stronghold is the only location and it only has poker, all the others have You can still go over to The Aquarium and these people are not here to play, they are When discussing Decentraland, it's hard base. Indeed, the biggest story to come out of Decentraland In October 2022, crypto outlet Coindesk reported had as few as 38 daily active users. Decentraland fired back in a blog post, scrutinizing their own value of 8,000. This back and forth continued, with Coindesk in January 2023 - with their research suggesting Now, it's tempting to fall into this whirlpool, litigate the definition of a "user," but Whether Decentraland has daily activity of in their business these are all the same number. Emotionally it feels like a significant difference. But let's give some context to these numbers. At 810 users, It's competing with Lord of the users of Fishing Planet - which like, The most generous numbers for Decentraland Old Republic. All of these values are just Steam users, the games directly through their dedicated numbers are inherently conservative. Despite having these varying player counts, business model. They are operating a micro-MMO. If you ever wonder how 'dead MMOs' survive, These teams, often small, inherit a product ten, fifteen years ago, and they are tasked small but loyal user base. It is possible for Runes of Magic to be profitable people who just really like Runes of Magic. The same is true for Fiesta Online or LotRO. So it doesn't matter what Decentraland's any number they've ever pushed falls into The fact that Decentraland has a similar user that most people notice first. Daybreak Game Company is a game developer old MMOs. Including Everquest, DC Universe Online, and This is a tough business, and in December 7, in an agreement valued at $300 million So this company, that owns and maintains all to Decentraland's user base, is meant to "And this is the story behind the company peak." It's been said numerous times before, but Decentraland's purported value, based on disconnected from reality. Decentraland's product is clearly trash. As a video game, it struggles to set itself itself as an underdog off the back of its So Decentraland goes all-in on the speculation, Its value has nothing to do with what Decentraland But what it will be... and what it did do "Because the metaverse in its more mature and a lot more sophisticated than this, but This is the beginning of it and you know this next twenty to thirty years, I really believe The way that crypto users talk about Decentraland that it seems like they're talking about Like is this it? Is this the billion dollar virtual world? Surely I must be missing something. "I'm sorry you don't like to make money Like so much of web3, Decentraland has weaponized Since they are the future, the product as The proposed inevitability of the metaverse even need to try. This is the everything-proof shield that Decentraland Decentraland and all its contents is forever what the future will bring. Being bad is not a fatal flaw in the crypto Just look at the Red Ape Family, they're to three episodes, even if the creator is Every successful crypto project is bad, but This generates extremely funny scenarios, through Decentraland's barren wasteland looking at isn't plainly obviously ass. "And I often say that the Metaverse is... And this is what I mean, the world literally a universe where you're always at the center. That is the whole kind of mindset change that Decentraland users understand this need for what they crave above all else. That is why they value brand activations so Being able to put "Vodafone" on their tab, spins the narrative that real companies Even embarrassing brand activations are defended, in, this is just the beginning." Decentraland users seek to encourage brand They'll smile through gritted teeth as they is interesting and successful. By performatively engaging with events and illusion that these events are successful "What's cooking good looking people. We're in Decentraland and we're in Hersheyverse. Can you believe that? Hershey's bro, Hershey. However you say that, Hershey. Pretty sure it's Hershey, the fuck bro Mandela? Bro. Who woulda thought that Hershey was gonna You know before you know it you're gonna You know there's already beverage companies, fucking Yahoo, Amazon is already in here, this shit." This principle scales up from the Pedigree events of the platform. The Metaverse Music Festival, which in its featured performances from Bjork, Ozzy Ozzbourne, of pre-recorded messages from the musicians "It's awesome to be in the Metaverse with I hope you're all having an amazing time My name is Dave Mustaine from Megadeath and tracks. Let me know what you think about this one." [Opening chords of The Sick, The Dying, and I criticized Fortnite for being overly poetic concert, and this is just, this is just so The Metaverse Fashion Week, as the name implies, in March of 2022, scheduled to run just after The event was organized by the Decentraland It was the involvement of the Foundation that attention and media coverage. A number of lifestyle, fashion, and tech journalists many were experiencing the metaverse for the The event was billed as an opportunity to industry. A new way for fashion to be designed, bought It would be the melding of fashion and art. Finally, art and fashion - together at last. The word 'phygital' got thrown around of a digital and physical good. Like you buy a digital hat in Decentraland, Not to get distracted, but World of Warcraft This plush Wind Rider Cub came with an in-game But of course, they don't frame it that with two simultaneous planes of existence. It's not a bundle of two products, it's There are dozens of tech startups eager to label it as the future of self-expression. This so-called 'screen wear' is at its essentially just a Tiktok or Zoom filter. "There are different avenues. So the first thing is you could wear it on So that's number one, and that's the part in progress. It's going to get better and better, we know So I think as we, regular people, start world, spending more time in virtual environments starts blurring more and more, and we will digital makeup, digital jewelry" Fashion Week. So, our ragtag ensemble of journalists and of reality and fashion. How did it go? Do you really need to be told at this point? [annoying sounds from DCL] "What the fuck did I just watch?" "After a pre-show trial session spent exploring it was too early, but the only fashion space "While there were plenty of fashion shows, experience fell flat. Perhaps expectedly, many weren't able to attendees are fully immersed and emotionally The game-ified aesthetic in Decentraland took luxury fashion and, simply put, the avatar "I don't know how I feel about it. I literally canceled everything including And there was just very little documenting This is due to a combination of disinterest, the embarrassing product. Even the brands involved in the show downplayed show. "The shows didn't look the way the brands social networks made clear. This is because brands posted the best photos avatars and simple looks." Likewise, musicians who "performed" at show off the event, either, so footage of sparse. This isn't some grand conspiracy, it's the same conclusion: the product sucks and This is true for both DCL users, but also Decentraland looks so unprofessional that "And this actually looks, it looks sorta I like it so much I'm going to dance for "We do have a whisky distillery" "You've been holding out. Oh, this is cool." "Here we can walk around and actually see "I enjoy your virtual distillery, not so "Cheers to that!" "I mean, so here's the thing, uh, is it of thousands of people who already live in who are buying things or hanging out." This creates an environment where the Metaverse abstract. It was a thing that did happen, but the reality Most people who learned about the event didn't And that narrative went a little something "The wearables were supposed to be available pop-up shop, and for free -- a rarity considering For some reason, a couple of hours after it the paisley-patterned store. A good reason to come back." This journalist witnessed a broken feature, Rather than reporting critically on the failure pulls its punch in the last line through the Out of context, it reads almost like satire. But if you read enough coverage of Decentraland, "Last of all, I can definitely see this there are communities of people who are replicating people (or people dressed as elves) have long And fashion is one of those behaviors. So we're all just going to need a better "However, MVFW did provide a glimpse into narratives in the metaverse--offering immersive offerings beyond the physical. "Once VR glasses are integrated the experience And in the absence of any voices to the contrary, Fashion Week. It had 'some technical issues', 'reviews that left journalists feeling certain that And through that lens, that allows those involved was a success. "It was a fantastic four days. As a proof-point of what is to come; this On the whole, journalists are seemingly overwhelmed the metaverse. We can appreciate why this is the case; a on accident. It is not the job of the writers at Women's It's all too big, too out of scope, they're So they defer to the explanations and narratives "I mean, so here's the thing, I..." Eric Ravenscraft has discussed this phenomenon outlets like the New York Times uncritically the digital groundbreaking of metaverse headquarters coverage given to Decentraland - A BBC story "In Decentraland users can build whatever But the creators are giving BBC Tending a What's important to remember here is that exist for another 2 years, the actual product So by its very nature there is nothing really And it means we get these lovely little artifacts "Right, whoah, I seem to be on some sort colourful. So there seems to be a zombie out in the distance. Oh gosh, he's coming right at me!" "It'll be pretty much exactly like Facebook other in VR. So a bit more of a real experience. As long as we've got the internet, stick friends come round my house in Decentraland, of tea." "How high would the price have to get for "I'm not selling it until it's worth "Ten million?" "Yeah." He sold for $980 a year later. "A million dollars! But it doesn't exist?" "It does here, and it will do, in about The spine of this story is built not on what will do. All of the features that will be implemented Journalists and vloggers who very understandably development still mention VR as a thing that the feature being scrapped. "Once VR glasses are integrated the experience Decentraland craves legitimacy, but it can It is a speculative real estate scheme which level of self-selection. That means that for its purpose, all it needs to feature the defenses we've been discussing. It's just a prototype, it will improve, Because this reporting loads the bases for "Land is hitting all time highs for value afford to buy these plots for a lot? Yes because there's going to be large commercial able to make a lot more than what they're It has long term ramifications in the industry, If you took Kevin's advice at the time, later, have lost half your investment 2 months That is the danger posed by nonchalant coverage major brands and mass adoption are right around There's no such thing as bad publicity for It continues to subsist through performative Decentraland needs to be recognized for what Decentraland is not, and has never been, a You cannot order a pizza in Decentraland. Decentraland is not the future. It has never, and will never be, worth a billion So at this point I think it's plain to see bad. But Decentraland users are battle-hardened against this claim. Many DCL users will concede that sure, the just a prototype - and the real appeal of competition, is its system of governance. Decentraland was built and is maintained by behind the product. Meilich and Ordano always intended for the the underlying machinery of the world akin As part of this invisibility, they wanted and maintenance as possible. This is characterized through the language its users", so naturally the users have This is further obfuscated through the language is to say, Decentraland users present themselves - enacting policies in a democratic fashion. They do this through the Decentraland DAO. Because the Decentraland DAO dresses itself tempting to engage with them on that level We tried to give them a fair go, but we found we just criticized. To contrast them against real governments and humors the notion that these are adults governance. So let's adjust expectations and lead with Upon revisiting the DAO's governance site our eye was this. A proposal to fire a Committee member for And let me tell you, the contents of this circa 2008. A guy got banned on Discord and got so upset puppet about why the moderator should be fired Because when asked, the moderator kinda said the individual." And on and on it goes. The proposal was rejected, but it was rejected of the DAO Facilitation Squad does not count a complaint would need to be made to the Grant a proposal to revoke the grant funding the indirectly. Then there's Kevin's failed grant proposal at least in part because Kevin blocked them When you block someone on Twitter, this is This is a group of people that sees the Sugar $60,000 US dollars to fund its "operating reasonable. When they hold elections, the candidates are stance on bringing physical world ideologies You know, government structures - democracy, In that example, the candidates universally - and they would support politics being patched majority support in an official vote. "This is like a grand experiment, however that we're considering bringing in it would My dudes, the ideology is coming from inside Their philosophy of governance minimizes individual But they pass phaux-legislation that gives no appeals process. The Decentraland DAO is no less of a failure - we're just changing gears from bad video You can't really understand the DAO until the voting situation is. DAOs often makes use of weighted voting schemes. The main purpose of this is to 'acknowledge being that those with the most invested have Though the details can vary between DAO's, forward. Votes are weighted based on the sum of Decentraland 1 MANA is worth 1 point of Vote Power. It's just wealth, the more money you have, Naturally, this leads to those with wealth For instance - Let's look at this proposal. "Should we address the Voting Power Distribution In the proposal, a DAO Committee member pointed And the results turned out like this. 163 votes for, 45 against. That is 78% support in terms of 'real' Voting Power was accounted for, the margin And then even within that, of the 5.18 million a single wallet. 4 wallets make up almost all of the votes the 73% majority. The next step would naturally be to play with '2% of voters accounted for 73% of the VP' this weighted system allegedly exists to combat When you actually look at the votes, 128 of These were accounts with literally no influence 80% of those dummy votes were for Yes. 19 of these accounts only had a single VP, of being socket puppets. But whether Guest#60fd is a real user or not the competition. One wallet told the DAO go to [static] itself, complied. These whales are often burner accounts who decrees are silent, yet drown out all other But there is still an urge to pretend like "But we still did get it denied. Although we met the threshold of approval came in to deny and sort of made us step back bringing this forward because ultimately even community, it seems like the whales still outside of the other feedback that we had." Kevin is clearly upset by this, and despite of the whales", he understands that he's He wants the DAO to give him money, the anonymous money. There is no negotiating or compromising, just So that leads us naturally onto the subject The DAO has been speed-running bureaucratic In 2020 they attempted to automate governance work, no one wanted to pay transaction costs so they moved the system back off-chain six Problem is that without automation you need Decentraland is quite proud of the DAO's for them recently. For the first year they gave away 3.5 million would aid adoption, but the grant application oversight and no accountability - because The initial proposal alluded to the idea of to implement it. So the DAO Committee put forward a proposal grantees deliver their product - and in the or was too far off course, the Squad could But the Committee is administrative, they essentially independent contractors, they a new committee with express permission to Enter the Grant Revocation Committee. We could go crazy with dissecting this, but are meant to have minimal discretion. The authors of the policy seem to think discretion So rather than limiting the scope of consideration they limit the committee to only considering put no restraints on the committee members' them absolute power to revoke any grant for And as the cherry on top, there's no appeals Because to appeal the verdict would require the decision of the Revocation Committee. The committee intended to have minimal discretion Oh and these guys are paid commission for real fast why we don't do that in the real Then we have the Facilitation Squad, the Governance Board, the newly proposed Working Groups. They're expanding the DAO Committee from to replace one of the original 3. In trying to minimize human involvement they at the participation numbers. Generously there's a few hundred people at all, and at this rate every single one or work group. More realistically the couple dozen people role playing bureaucrats are going to be sitting over the oversight work group that advises squad should be paid. Oh, and these bureaucrats are paid in MANA, political power. Like, do you remember that time Yemel agreed in MANA? Would you be shocked to learn that Yemel, an hour, is friends with Melich and Ordano their time at a tech bro flop house they called And through all this bureaucratic garbage, The DAO has no actual authority. Decentraland isn't "owned by its users", While the Foundation cedes the copyright on Use make it very clear that the Foundation of Decentraland. As Catalina Goanta points out, this conflicts by its users, when the most significant legal by the Foundation. Even looking past that, can it really be said the DAO is currently being held hostage by dwarf their peers? Now, being a digital landlord doesn't require I would hazard that whoever owns fifty identical advertisements isn't really a Decentraland I, on the other hand, am demonstrably a user Given how dead engagement is I feel pretty hours per year actively looking around and owner. But I am not an owner of Decentraland by virtue no mechanism that correlates the two, that ownership from those who idly hoard. The mechanism of ownership is not usage, it's The arc of Decentraland's development is They may occasionally ask the DAO what features for technical changes - but the DAO is not "First, Decentraland is always working with As a decentralized platform we are mostly So we are not a corporation, so our roadmap try to look into what the community is aiming." Notice how she doesn't say "we're bound our bosses". Instead the Foundation is "working with where the community is aiming." When discussing Decentraland's prospective can't say with a straight face that representatives DAO Facilitation Squad to outline the contents At a certain point, all the talk of decentralized get put aside so Dolce &amp; Gabbana will actually In Line Goes Up, we all had a good laugh at "Are we a comic book, or a bi-monthly curated But to their credit - that is in keeping with In the case of Decentraland, the Foundation it wants to be. If the DAO were to vote for the project to fourth Punic War, in the visual style of NHL The Foundation acts autonomously whenever When the Foundation implemented "the first the DAO before starting development. And can you blame them? Can you imagine if, as a business, they were Despite the rhetoric, the Foundation isn't The DAO can't function without the Foundation. Not just in the obvious ways, but from top The 2021 proposal to go off-chain came from In the proposal, he nominated three individuals - all of whom were working at the Foundation The Decentraland DAO simply lacks the means Through lack of tools, unimaginable inequality, the DAO is impotent. So is it any wonder that their grant scheme What else could this system possibly produce? One of the most telling moments in the Decentraland the switch from the Babylon engine to Unity. Not because of the engine change in and of added. Jumping puzzles, it's important to note, inherent to Decentraland's mechanics. The only games that you see in the world with interacting with the space and not with a hunts and jumping puzzles. Unless you're headed to the gambling halls, thing to consistently do in Decentraland and 2019, that's four years of development before Ari Meilich and Esteban Ordano are Argentinian known as Casa Voltaire. Most of what we know about Casa Voltaire comes another from 2020. Casa Voltaire hit the sweet spot of anonymity, about what was going on there because it was just enough of a footprint to become mythologised. "the community at the Voltaire Castle became cryptocurrency projects" As Ryan Vanzo describes it, the house was would operate in the house and share resources This was combined with a heady blend of smartboy Both of the previously mentioned articles conversations that would take place within But, ya know, here's the deep, moral dilemmas How should autonomous cars act in a situation Who is liable if a bot malfunctions and causes What kind of neuro-security should we develop So, like, a high school introduction to ethics. One of those is literally the trolly problem. In this environment, and within the context and Meilich conceived of Decentraland as a of the fantasy of Snow Crash, The Matrix, "The idea was basically whether we could standards and the blockchain and whether we Of course influenced by videos and movies Crash." But inside that was an inkling of the political, political movements, for new economies, and, Writing for Rest of the World, Leo Schwartz as "a petri dish for the ideals of democracy on the premise that a virtual world controlled govern itself -- and offer more stable investment by elites." Of course in reality Decentraland is steered bought in hard and early and have the voting or literal project insiders who have the social end-run the will of the whales. Because Decentraland is not a petri dish, In 2003, writers rushed to herald Second Life video game, but a new place that couldn't Two years prior, Edward Castronova had argued were important because the objects in them In response to Second Life, Castronova predicted virtual world over the real. "The exodus of people from the real world, cubicles and shopping malls, will create a warming look like a tempest in a teacup." Philip Rosedale, a developer on Second Life, "The real world will become like a museum So it'll be fantastically cool to go to cool to go see the Mayan ruins. Because the big buildings will still be there, Because no one will bother too much with them There's just one tiny, almost inconsequential talk about it in a moment here, but just maybe issue. Johan Huizinga is known for his landmark anthropologic Huizinga was concerned with the interaction And a key element of that was trying to define What is the difference between a fight and How is it that chalk on grass can produce a game of soccer? Huizinga proposed the concept of the "magic space is delineated from the ordinary world. In a game of Dungeons &amp; Dragons, the rules represent the entire game world, it is "the and aesthetic elements." Essentially, when you buy into the game, everything dimension, a psychological bubble, where board can take on unique meanings distinct from In a game of soccer, the players all agree contract forms. Suddenly the ball, chalk, and their own limbs player's mind, boundaries become respectable If, however, someone then karate chops the bursts - the contract has been broken, the the ground stop mattering real fast. In an honest engagement, where the fiction sake of immersion we would call the circle Tom Boellstroff and Edward Castronova both separate from the real world, where genuine Boellstroff argued that Second Life was a Edward Castronova made a career out of arguing activity. They, not in their words but in criticism, impermeable magic circle, as like The Matrix, Okay, but there's just that one, tiny, minuscule in Second Life don't actually live in Second You can eat an infinite amount of digital starve. But the metaverse both presumes and requires Either the outright reification of Ryan Bolger, property, it needs to be real in order to So the authors of Decentraland, its creators it with a narrative of inevitability, a narrative new world that you will eventually move your Because if your neighbors aren't going to why would you ever want this today? Decentraland is, at every level, a collective Just people playing pretend. "The feeling of these shows was that we participating in it." Whether it be the Pedigree Fosterverse scraping in their corporate offices or purporting to to businesses is plainly absurd. And as we've seen, even its decentralized The DAO has no authority and is comically All the while pretending they have a stake And it's not enough to convince themselves, So that is what they do by any means necessary. They will pander, mislead, outright lie - whatever Because this only makes sense from inside "What if you could own the virtual world? Create, develop, and trade without limits. Make genuine connections, and earn real money." Decentraland is a farce and a tragedy, it of ineptitude and inherently bad ideas, and Whatever other ideals are spit out, whatever is employed, the simple fact that it was materially on a fiction of people &quot;moving in&quot; sets off design and functionality that bind it, forever, scheme, an endless world of uniquely scarce I can't use that right now. I can't use that right now. I can't use that right now. Thank you. I can't use that right now. I can't use that right now. Mighty kind of you. I can't use that right now. I can't use that right now. [gunshot] Oh my god, what did you do!? I can't use that right now.