Hello Health Champions. Is it really possible to Well obviously not if you do it one how you can use five minutes a few times a week, fat, then you have to spend energy. This is the burn up calories. And yes this can help but there need to do which is to change your hormones. talk about and how they fit together. And even is the most important by far. Especially long will need to lower insulin and we need to increase and this one is going to be no different no no no no. All I did was I just exercised I just hormones but different people have to do different than this girl now if he wants to burn some fat eighty percent of the reason for his success and this girl tries the same approach then she's going 10 percent to the weight loss and changing her the success. And the difference is where they are If you have good metabolic health you expend some energy if you have poor metabolic until you change your hormones. What that also his diet. It doesn't really matter so much what as far as health, because he needs to eat whole this person needs to be extremely strict and we hear that you want to do aerobics because aerobics you might be burning 300 calories per can use more calories but just an example. And Let's say you can do that six times a week that's expect to lose about a half a pound a week. But that will backfire because as you spend more basal metabolic rate will be that you spend efforts. However if you do something called high now you might be spending 1200 calories per hour math and you say. Well two days a week that's week. I think I'd rather go with a half a pound of thinking about expending calories and that's so that your body will burn more fat over time. because between workouts your body starts numbers. I'm trying to give you some examples and you can burn more between workouts if you can just increase your growth hormone and burn an extra 20 calories per hour on week that you would lose even though the workout And one more thing we want to touch on is that to burn some fat we want to look good but more to build optimum health for as long as possible. the body parts and the fact that they work and we don't want to wear out our adrenals. Most imbalance in their overall health picture. So the because if we drive a lot of cortisol that's insulin which will prevent fat burning. But more weaken the adrenals further then we can't have have optimum health and so on. Now if we want to put in then we want to make as much growth as possible to really optimize fat burning and high intensity obviously that intensity is going Cardio is medium intensity so we will per unit of time. However because the intensity is a bunch of growth hormone when we do high the hormone benefit the growth hormone produced the body in the moment we're not pushing trudging along. And then here's the key. The I hear a lot of people say oh I'm doing HIIT in That's not HIIT. That's wearing you about. It needs to be short duration. Cardio the so you need to keep it long. And now if we add it duration is very very short just a few minutes, we on and on. Whereas the cardio class makes a lot cortisol by a much longer time. And the growth because we're pushing the body to the limit. whereas the growth hormone with the cardio is this is the picture that we're looking for in bit of cortisol and a lot of growth hormone. not just about the benefit between the workouts we're promoting a carbohydrate metabolism because So we're going to mobilize glycogen we're going to things whereas if we raise growth hormone and hormone is going to burn fat between the workouts. in a very short period of time is that there's If we get our heart rate up 95% or higher of our If we do heavy weights till failure we're really trying and it won't move. If we do it to failure to get better till next time you have to make some next time. And another way to stimulate this is bringing up a high heart rate. And what we have this is what our bodies are designed for it's a tiger like this then your body would produce And even though it's very unpleasant to run that is natural. That is what all species have is to understand it's very short term it is very adapt it helps us get better. It helps us so we can get better tomorrow. And here's an bit of a warm-up for a few minutes and you could You could be on a bike or a stationary bike. You or just step up and down on a box. You could slow and gentle as a warm up. And in doing this circulation you're increasing the heart rate and rate is up to about 120 maybe 140. You're getting intensity portion of the workout and whatever you you can be sprinting. If you are on a bike you can If you're doing the steps now you start running to take your heart rate from your warm up heart rate you're really going to get best results maximum heart rate. And obviously if you're then start slower. You don't have to do all and then you might raise it to 150. And then right use some common sense and all the whole pushing your body just a little bit more each have the time. They don't have the equipment. They equipment. Well you can use something as simple and then you go a little bit faster. A Then you go really really fast for 20 seconds Or you do a little bit of warm up and then you like and you just do one single set up to a really pushing your body. And you could also do this with getting your heart rate up and using a large so you could increase the intensity and three times with maybe a 30 second rest. That's it's going to stress a large muscle group. So this muscle group this large muscle I have to If you like jumping rope then after the warm-up 20 seconds as fast as you can 20 seconds off. set go really fast for as long as you can. If running up the stairs then you could start running course that's not going to last very long because be a few seconds but if you do that several times down for the rest then that's gonna get your heart is to do sprints and especially sprints uphill less risk of injury and now you could do 20 Or you find a nice big hill once you're warmed do a single sprint up for as long as you can keep super high. Another thing you can do that works bands this is pretty safe you don't need a spotter And now you're repeating a movement until exhaustion and this doesn't drive your heart rate large muscle group work to failure you're hormone. If you enjoyed this workout you're going health by understanding how the body really and turn on all the notifications, so