Tom: Hey, everybody. Welcome to Impact Theory. You're here my friends because you believe you know that having potential is not the our goal with this show and company is to are going to help you actually execute on All right. Today's guests is a globally recognized and accelerated learning, but no one would childhood accident left him with a traumatic Instead of simply accepting defeat, he set an obscene amount of hard work. He began sneaking comic books after bed time collision of the words, images and the superhero he began to make progress. Despite this, he continued to struggle having else to achieve lesser results. After exhaustion caused him to fall down a injury, he realized something had to change. If he was going to truly overcome his learning improve his efficiency at learning itself. This began an obsession with the brain and An obsession he would ultimately turn into learning system that now has a bevy of celebrity His hyper effective techniques have been sought Space X, Harvard and Singularity University. He has directly trained or shared the stage Musk, Sir Richard Branson and the Dalai Lama. His teachings have been featured in prestigious Best Seller, Use Your Brain to Change Your Please help me in welcoming the man, bestselling superpower is learning itself, the host of Jim: What's up, man? How are you doing? Tom: Welcome, man. Jim: Good to be here. Tom: It's good to have you here. This is our second time doing this bad boy all the people that I've interviewed, you're with off camera so it's a lot of fun to People should go sign up for your courses, You got so much amazing content out there I want to start somewhere a little bit different. Jim: Do it. Tom: Talk to me about being the son of immigrant Jim: My parents immigrated here to United We grow up like a lot of individuals that I grew up in the back up of a Laundromat and I think one of the things that's important able to put in like you do the incredible do whatever it takes because I don't believe I think there's a process. Doing the work is very important. I don't want people to believe that there's a great memory or you have this great success always ask what's the one thing I could to do most of it and then be smart about it lot of times people see on social media. They see all of the success but what they about. As they say, what you practice in private but you have to do the work. I think that's where I got my work ethic. The challenges growing up with a brain injury had to work so much harder as everybody else those results. I got my discipline from my parents and I I really say that they are my superheroes. Anything good that's come out of me is really Tom: What were they telling you as you were I mean, your story really is one of grit and I think your story would be a lot easier to You get the injury and then you have the magic there but you actually end up working your fall again. What are they telling you through that? How are they encouraging you? How did they become your superhero and stuff? Jim: It would be really clean. Sometimes life is messy and success is not It goes all over the place. I would have loved that my story was, "Oh, this accident and I was bitten by a radioactive like that," but it wasn't quite that. I suffered and struggled. I had the brain injury when I was five years school, all through middle school, all through A lot of it was this thing where even as a was fine and I would be struggling. It's like that metaphor of a duck on a pond but underneath, it's just hustling really, what's below the iceberg but for me I struggled with these challenges and I didn't have feel like that you're broken, you don't On top of everything, I was also painfully I was introverted but I was also shy and very I would always sit in the corner. I honestly, I never talk about this publicly is and I feel like that my superpower growing broken and taught that by adults that my superpowers I didn't want to be seen. I mean I ultimately did want to be seen and and acknowledged but I didn't want to spotlight. My parents instilled this work ethic about I would do a book report and even though it I would be like, "Okay. I have it and I was done," but if a teacher of a class, I would actually lie and say I I would take a zero because I was so terrified I would throw it out on the way out of class held that there was more, that there was purpose. There's a reason that I was going through I mean, my mother actually became a special because that nobody knew- Jim: Because of what I went through. Tom: Wow. Jim: They were very caring like that but the know. They did the best they could to be able to that there was a reason that they were going through this country, all of us go through whatever it is but through struggles come People didn't talk about this as much and it going through a brain injury after brain There's also post-traumatic growth which about but there's some people that go through challenge but they come out of it actually that because of going through this, I found found a new meaning in my life, I found a a mission if you will and a lot of them attest how painful it was at the time for anything. I find that growing up with reading challenges. I couldn't read for an extra three years. I pretended how to read. It's like the impostor syndrome. They have this image of how they want to be this image of what they fear they are and a lot of people are suffering, and overloaded, they're trying to hold these images in place context. That's why I love you because you are the There's a congruency, there's an authenticity I feel like a lot of people expend unnecessary of their ideal self to the world and they to be revealed to somebody else. Growing up as a kid who couldn't read, I Teachers would explain things and I didn't and I would pretend but in private I was really It's one of those things where you wonder My two biggest challenges growing up were universe has a weird sense of humor because Tom: Right, exactly. Jim: It's interesting how things were- Because as somebody who's seen you speak You have so much energy and enthusiasm, and overcoming something. How do you go through the dark time of feeling the broken brain really struggling? Truly, how do you get yourself talk going Everything would be pushing back against you. Jim: I even get nervous with doing things Tom: Right. Jim: Even being on camera or having my picture I always get butterflies, incredible amounts single time. How I get through it, I mean we talked previously a growth mindset. I always talk about the second G for me is Tom: These are the three G's of a superhero Jim: Yeah. I think having a powerful mindset being unstoppable whatever success is for you, you have to be you're backsliding but you also need a level is a muscle. It's something that you need to sharpen you get all the change that comes from it. I would say that if I'm effective having of our life whether it's on a physical stage my grit and my ability to persist. I feel like that most successful people on that they want to, have to go through challenges. It's just like the heroes journey that we've through it, I monitor my self-talk because I feel like with a name like Kwik, you have back in school and to be careful getting speeding I remember I was reading a book years ago chapters, again, was the psychology of it memory expert. It said, "Your brain is like a supercomputer run." If you tell yourself you're not good at name of the next person you meet because you Now, I don't think the brain is like a supercomputer. I think it's a weak metaphor for what it do so much more and has different capabilities and it is the program that will run. I always tell people to keep it positive, eavesdropping on your self-talk. You have to be careful what you say to yourself I'll be very careful. When I get nervous or I feel like I'm ... I at the edge of their limits and they play Whenever I feel in my nervous system, I feel must do it because I feel like how we do anything Tom: When did you have that realization that what your motives were? and I really do feel ... Congratulations. With Mel and Simon, those videos are like I was having this conversation, I did a talk comes up to me and I ask him what superpower ability to read faster." I was like, "Oh, I could totally help with I believe in reading and I know you're an leaders are readers, but we're talking about approach from adult learning theory and brain technology and scale. Somebody who was listening asked the question What's missing apps and theory, and technology?" We were talking about it and we came to the Motive matters and what drives us. I always tell people that there's success that it goes from your head, to your heart, development space or what they teach you about You could affirm things in your head or think your head, but if you're not acting with There's an incongruence there. What I tell people is check in with the second of emotion, the energy of motion and so I car that gets you to take action for something. I do believe what got me through it is figuring I don't want people to suffer the way I For me, it's like no brain left behind because My message to people whether it's on stage than what we're demonstrating that we've through school. When I do these demos and on stage memorize and backwards, it appears effortlessly. I always tell people "I don't do this what's really possible because the truth Apply it towards creativity and focus and really overcoming the biggest challenges of The challenge is we were taught a lie. We were taught a lie that somehow our intelligence, is fixed, our creativity is fixed, our thinking What we've discovered as you know more about discovered more than the previous 2000 years our own capacity to be able to grow, to be and our influence and our impact. I want to pull the veil behind and just say, This is about ending the trans that you're smart enough, that we're not this genius The truth is people could ... We're faster Not just to be able to memorize things but and maybe that these challenges that we're learn the most and then some people who learn share that voice with other people so it's We just couldn't set things ablaze. Tom: What are some of the key problems that we face as a society. What are those major movements for you? Jim: A lot of these conversations, you and over at XPRIZE. I was at the very early stages of their education, I think for me, my platform is education and watching this feels like they're overloaded, tell people that I don't think it's completely It's just we all grew up with the 20th century world which at the turn of the century was line and our education system was married It was assembly line one size fits all cookie us things about what to learn, math, history, All the things we could find online nowadays, What do you need to be able to regurgitate It was about what to learn but not how to solve problems, how to be creative. All the things that you can't outsource outsource to Asia. Our value in this world is really our creativity outsourced, our ability to create value, be reality, take the invisible and make it visible be able to live your best version of yourself. That's why I love this and the conversations bringing out to the world because nowadays I get to work, you mentioned with Space X Think about that. We're living in a world of autonomous electric but our vehicle choice when it comes to learning, That's our choice and that we wonder why, This is taking so long. This is so hard. This is so difficult but it's not our fault. We just weren't prepared for this world They say that if Rip Van Winkle, the gentleman up today, the only thing he would recognize That's not a slight against teachers. My mother is a school teacher and my aunt I love those individuals because they're I know and I get to train a lot of them but it doesn't grow and it hasn't evolve as this because right now classrooms, they don't I mean how many people are watching this from you never know who's listening on the other That motivates, inspires the heck out of me this on their smart device and they're in become the next Malala or Elon Musk or what Education, I feel like a lot of people feel is done. In fact, the two big dips and cognitive performance the second one is when they retire from work. Often when people retire their mind, they either because of that connection. Tom: Have you thought about what a new education Jim: My approach is always been going directly to be. Now, I know in terms of curriculum what I so much on dates. I think it's good to be well read because but I would focus more on functional, usable day and age, the ability to create, the ability the ability to work and manage teams, collaboration I think all those would be very important. I mean any of the learning methodologies that The reason I focus on memory a lot even though people are like, "Why do I need to memorize That's a valid point. There's two reasons I would say. Number one, I feel like because people aren't to remember things because they're outsourcing I mean everything is kept here so they don't is I believe that the mind is more like a use it or lose it for a stronger way to use as they use to. Think about it, before technology, how would your lessons. You would pass it around like share it over love this kind of context. There would be a fire here and we would be I feel people are losing that ability so I to teach, interpersonal skills. We know that IQ is erroneous. This idea where you have a number and it's fixed and it can't move and it accurately I think that's flawed. I think that we have multiple intelligences. Generally in the United States, we reinforce It's verbal linguistic and mathematical. Growing up, that's was the SAT. It's was verbal and the math. If you're not good at either one of them, school and everything else like that but what That's got to be at least as important to individuals like what you have in spades. What about besides interpersonal skills, what Just self-awareness. As Gary Vee talks about, I think self-awareness Awareness of yourself, your own condition beliefs, identity, your values. Tom: You think that can be cultivated? Jim: I do believe in a culmination of nature I do believe people are born with certain It's cliche but it's also true that hard hard. I do believe you could refine and train this. I think when it comes to children, that it's them to do something or stop doing something growing up, they have their mirror neurons I feel like it's easier with modeling or for coaching or any kind of relationship with really instead of trying to manage certain different behaviors that your team has or better to really focus on communicating the Tom: You said that behavior is belief driven. Is that what you mean like focus on giving you? Jim: That beliefs and the values. I feel like in order for people to transcend, about earlier, that a lot of people are just I just did a podcast on habits, how to be get rid of break bad habits. A lot of people, always wanted ... It's They want to get themselves the workout. They want to get themselves to meditate. They want to get themselves to read more each They want to get themselves to X or they want They want to stop smoking. They want to stop eating food. They want to stop ... I always tell people of the day. Tom: I love that. Jim: That's sacred time for me because for mental performer, real life superhero, you We talked about this in the past because you're You're getting your dopamine or you're share, comments and everything else like that. Tom: You said, if I'm not mistaken, you your phone. I love that so much. Jim: You're reacting and firefighting to wants. You're not really setting, you're not You've heard this many times. You win the first hour of the day to win the Anything you want to stop. I say you want to stop checking your phone That's a behavior. There's so many other elements to be able When I'm thinking about when I want to transform I'm looking at all the other areas of our I'm looking at for example our environment. Are people setting up their environment to Change doesn't happen at this level of behavior For example, if you want to stop eating a have that food in your home so you change If you want to read more, it helps to help books readily available, where you're going approach habit change is this area of motivation You want to trigger it to help remind you You're setting up the environment in a way The B environment is like the when and the because a lot of people want to change their abilities. What I love about your work and your passion acquisition. New abilities for yourself and also that can aren't training those habits and those capabilities to address, let's say, someone is watching change and it's not sticking then maybe Maybe you check about your habits but maybe Some people will not get themselves to read every single day. Let's say the behavior they want to change I could teach them step by step on how to they meet yet they won't do it because they to them or they don't believe that they Just like we talked about earlier saying your is program that runs. If you tell yourself, you're not going to name of the next person you meet because you They don't have a belief that enables that. When I say all behavior is belief driven, it is, journal, whatever it is, then you need that's the program that allows it. Tom: How do you get that belief? You're going to feel like you're faking They think, "Okay, I get it. I hear what Jim is saying that if I'm able behavior but I don't believe it so now I'm How do you help people overcome that? Jim: Some people approach it like this quote Tom: Right. Jim: My thing with belief is when I do the way of changing a belief is getting them to do because it opens up another possibility. Tom: Like what? Jim: For example, in 1954, Roger Bannister, Throughout human history, nobody can run a If you look into it, how he was able to do the finish line looking at the clock and it inside our process that first it had to happen Dr. Wayne Dyer has a famous phrase where it's It's like, "I'll see it when I believe I always like modeling the outliers where I was like, "Whoa, what's going on there result?" With Roger Bannister, he saw it in here, be or inventor or writer or any creator but what's Nobody could do it from the beginning of humanity. All of a sudden one person does it. What happens after that? Tom: Everybody starts doing it. Jim: Yeah, everyone starts doing it. That's the thing. Now, what happened? Was there a big change that year and training No, it was a change of belief because the than four minutes, not only would you die, I'm a runner. That won't keep me from running, period. My thing is like that was a chance of a reference. That shook up a leaf. My goal with people when it comes to learning thought they could do and then it opens up It literally opens up their nervous system Now I'd also say that it all plays together change a belief overnight. Now, that could be a belief because it's but people, there's technology like inception I do believe that we have more power to influence There are a lot of tools and techniques out When I grew up, we had no money. I had no education because I was very learning I didn't know anybody. That's where they'll go though. When there's a stop gap between where they "Oh, I don't have the money, I don't I don't have the network or anything else What you know as for all the incredible success for the world is that it's not about resources have any resources that we were able to impact It's about our internal resources. What I'm saying is optimizing our environment, our beliefs and our values and our identity You can't just change your belief or your believe you're that kind of person and that's I want people to claim that identity. I call it the superhero you, that version Superman or Batman or Wonder Woman. It's like you are Wonder Woman, you are It's just we have to commit ourselves to Tom: Dude, I'm a huge believer in identity I have a hard time explaining to people though How have you done it in your own life? I think that's the best way to start. Jim: I mean my identity, I mean, obviously, I would start with ... They call it the two language but they're the two most powerful I am because whatever you put after that determines I think in your identity is who you believe about playing to the edge of our limits and where we're stretching, I do believe and Every time I see your instant story it's doing your work but that's who you are. You don't have to fight it because you can't the level that I think is the most important. I would think about going through an exercise I've had them sit or in groups we do these pair up with someone they don't know and to do an exercise I am and they're going They're literally going to fill in the blanks You have to go and you could do this right If you were to fill in an I am blank, like I am a teacher. I am a son. All this. Eventually, I'll get to a point where I what the real interesting answers come out knowing somebody else but it also shows us point [inaudible 00:32:39] right now where I think it's a nice exercise when we talk knowing who we think we are because if we or we're a great parent or we're a great able to reach our full potential because that against. Also when I'm talking to individuals and just talking to individuals like this, I would because I think that genius leaves clues and willing to put in the work and the learning Then I want to know really. I want to know their beliefs. I want to know what they value because if step by step hacks and everything else. It won't stick because it's missing a I want to model their behaviors, their values are that allows them to do those and accomplish Tom: What are some of the clues that genius Jim: It's interesting when I'm talking The identity level is the who. You know all the 5W's and the H you learn The identity is who somebody is. When we're talking about beliefs and values, Why they do what they do. When we're talking about capabilities, that's When we're talking about behavior, that's The what they're doing. Then when we're talking about environment, I'm always going back with I want to create of learning for somebody. I'm address those different levels and if then it's not going to stick because you it becomes second nature. Going back to this, I think of I'm modeling about where are they and when are they doing Certain people are early birds. Some people are night owls. I could teach people like I teach people how I really think leaders are readers that in and age, if somebody has decades of experience and read that in a few days, download decades for whoever is watching but that's a superpower. That's a huge advantage. Some people when I'm telling them to practice or five weeks where it's permanent, where better comprehension. Essentially we read something at 20 minutes, you have to practice. Some people will practice in opportune times so part of this is self-awareness knowing optimal time to do this? Depending on your body type, there's certain There are better times of the day to make There are better times of the day to be able I would think about geniuses find their element, and they're rituals throughout the day to most productive. If they're not having a lot of energy in as good as doing some other time. The when and the where in setting up your are there that allow them. I think geniuses set themselves up. For example, they have their laptop but they anchored. That's part of their environment. It's anchored to get them into flow states They don't use their laptop to watch binge They have an iPad that they use when they want to anchor for that and they don't use Set up your environment like your bedroom. We just did a whole episode on sleep hacks a big personal challenge for me, for many because of a breathing disorder. I stop breathing 200 times at night for at somebody coming in and choking and suffocating Tom: That's crazy. Jim: The reason why I'm so adamant about for the longest time, for literally five years about 90 minutes to two hours a night total. You know how you feel when you get one bad energy level and how I get these horrible It''s forced me to double down in my practices time. I have to focus on the things that really Anyway, going back to this. My bedroom is sacred space. I don't do work in there. I keep it because that's my trigger to be I set up my environment so I have my blackout optimized my restful sleep that I do get. Genius leaves clues. They set up genius environments for themselves. Then the behaviors most people know because These people are investing themselves. They're investing in self-care. I always tell people that self-love and self-care A lot of people, they're there for their and everybody else but they're not refilling I think that we have to be grow gives meaning other people so we have more impact with other The behaviors are reading each day and putting your not to-do list is so important. Having being sleep deprived for so many years, to it but I think one of the success rituals keeping the consistent not to-do list and one of the clues that they leave is their list. They don't check their phone in the morning, yes or it's hell no. That's their filter system. They say no to good so they say yes to great. The behaviors, then you have the habits and The beliefs and the values, you know because show because I'm just hearing all the time, and values from achievers in every area. I mean it's amazing. I mean you have [inaudible 00:38:30]. You have all these amazing individuals but there and there's an art but there's a it and how they express themselves. Then I also do believe that some of those I say geniuses. I'm not talking about IQ. I'm talking about an incredible artist. I'm talking about an athlete. I'm talking about an advocate in some area. They're clear about their identity, about I know what they do commit is they do the learning and I feel like that learning ... I that if knowledge is power and learning is I think it's a super power that we all have, Recently we had Quincy Jones in our audience I was just like I have to ask you we are the How did you overcome these challenges, these all this legacy. He looked at me. He's like, "Jim." He's like, "I don't have any problems." I'm like, "Well, what do you mean? You're 84. You have no problems?" he's like, "No, That little shift of vocabulary changed everything You could solve them. There's answers for it that and it was a That was the thing about growing up with superheroes, I was so impressionable is for me a superhero Do you know what I mean? Tom: Oh yes. Jim: That one person can make a difference of challenges. When you think about the most popular superheroes, Wonder Woman, Batman, Superman, Ironman, Spiderman, through these big challenges but through it, mission. I find that if someone is watching this and have a belief that their mission and that for them also. Most of us aren't sensitized to it because not open to it as much. My thing when it comes to success rituals is that we all have that sovereignty, we all there and give it out to somebody else like The metaphor I always talk about, it's like A thermometer, you think about the functionality is giving it. It just reflects the temperature and stuff It sets a standard. It sets a goal, it sets a vision and the environment I feel like our happiness or joy, our level on where we put the locust of control. I feel like we have more power than we realize have to fight media, we have to fight marketing. That's always telling us about all the things We live in an abundant universe. We talk about the Matrix which pill people Every single morning, you determine what color Tom: I have to say it is fascinating to watch into it, I wondered how your beliefs were A lot of times, the belief will kick in and the belief is intact and everything is right for years and years, and years. Like you were saying 400 things that you tried How did you stay focused, committed? How do you push the dark times? That's really my question. Your entire life is a story of grit and pushing Jim: I would say what keeps me going is I That's my self-talk. When it comes down to what my primary belief because otherwise if I didn't then I would I have too many examples of friends and family friends of my mind that have superseded much The other thing it's helped me to do is the habits, the abilities that really matter. The 80-20 rule because when I have a certain amount of things. I need to get more back and I'm still doing going on stage and traveling like the kinds on things that's going to get maximum return. I think we do teach the things that we need I think the best teachers are the best students I had surgery recently to correct this and two hours to about four hours which doesn't It's not perfect but it's a progress. That's my standard. I'm not really looking for perfection because just looking to make incremental progress. When I wake up in the morning, I have my daily think a lot of people suffer from decision This is a very strong research saying that decisions a day and after that is spent, you That's really been fine tuned in the medical where they're making their errors and stuff days and stuff like that. As entrepreneurs or as employees and executives of decision and that's why people like Mark t-shirts and sweatshirts all the time because thinking, "Oh, what am I going to wear today." My goal is to streamline my life, put the last hour of the day. I really micromanage to the point where it's I don't have even have to think about it. Those are the times of the day where I can on in the middle of the day, team members that but the first hour or the last hour I All this really helped develop grit and resilience persevere. I stand guard to my brain all the time what I don't watch a lot of the negative news I really focus. I watch and I listen to your show and maybe I read each day because I need to keep it I want hope and I'm looking for help. I'm looking for inspiration and also some Tom: Before I ask the last question, where Jim: The best place is actually our podcast That's really my last name. I didn't change it to do what I did. It's my father's name, my grandfather's This is a new venture for us. We published a couple episodes a week and 20 minutes. It's to be able to say that these are brain and achieve more. Everything from read a book a week to remembering foods, to how to eliminate or add new habits. That's the best place. Go to kwikbrain.com and they could join our for future episodes and also download free. We give them $100 worth of brain training You know I love our social media. Anything @JimKwik on Twitter, Instagram or Tom: Nice. What's the impact that you want to have Jim: What is the impact I want to have on We're small in people but we're really We don't measure in billions of dollars Billions of brains and minds coming online, really the mission is to change for people's in love with their brains again. I think that if people want creator at your intelligence, your level of influence, confidence your level of impact. We want billions of brains to come online generations could really thrive in. Tom: I like it. Brother, thank you so much for coming on the [inaudible 00:47:11]. Guys, this is somebody who has a degree of believe to know that he started out truly cause way back to normal, becomes one of the of cognitive improvement. It's literally one of the most amazing examples of knowing why he's doing what he's doing to help other people as a way to push through Man, like this poor guy, the number of times to his belief system and continue to push When he and I first met, he was really at with the sleep problem and knowing him socially that he was in, it was a really interesting Is this somebody that really is going to walk that it takes to actually see incremental that ultimately taps out and that belief ends Just by the unrelenting nature of the problem and years and really come out the other side throw the things that he believes through to push through even when I think the vast to why he's been successful in this arena It's absolutely incredible to spend time Thank you so much for coming on. Guys, check him out. You won't regret it. If you have already, be sure to subscribe Take care.