How do you clean baseboards? How often should you clean baseboards? What do you clean baseboards with? What do you clean baseboards with if you have Those are great questions, and we're going Hi there. I'm Angela Brown, and the is Ask a House Cleaner. This is a show where you get to ask a house cleaning and I get to help you find an answer. Now today's show is brought to us by Savvy and maids, and Airbnb owners who do all their how to clean. And today we're going to take a lesson right to show you how to clean baseboards. Now before we begin, I have to tell you that the hallmark of a good house cleaner are clean baseboards. And so at every cleaning, every time you vacuum I know what you're thinking, &quot;Oh my word. Every cleaning?&quot; Yes it's true. Every single time you vacuum the floor, and clean them. Every time you vacuum the floor, you should Here's the reason why. As you open the door to your house, dust blows And it's bee pollen, and it's all different And as it comes into your house it settles. Where does it settle? It settles on the floor and on the baseboards. And as you track stuff in through the house, and air gets blown around the house. And it doesn't settle on the flat walls, it it settles on the baseboards. I know. It's awesome, right? Because it's so easy to clean. Now, most baseboards, and here's a secret, They are designed to be cleaned frequently. And because the hallmark of a good house cleaner six different ways to clean baseboards. Now the secret is work smart not hard. So you're going to use the easiest, quickest, least amount of chemicals. Right? That's going to be the easiest way to do it. Okay, so first and foremost, if you go into go into a house and the people smoke inside tar on the sides of their baseboards, we need through that. Also, if people do a lot of frying in their fried potatoes, and French fries and stuff And as that grease settles, it's going to to get stuck on the baseboards. So, we're going to use something like Krud Kutter, which is designed for the environment and it is biodegradable. Here's a secret: It also goes on clear. So if you're going on the baseboard, which for cleaning chemicals, you can spray this and your baseboards are good to go. Now there's no dwell time, we don't need to 10 minutes, or any of that stuff. Spray it on, wipe it off and you should be So that's way number one, and that's only, baseboards. Okay? The preferred way is just by using a Swiffer Duster. Now the Swiffer Duster is designed to trap dust. So you do one sweep and all of a sudden it you vacuum, and now you're good to go. It's so easy. And if you have the Swiffer duster on the me so that while I'm vacuuming in every room in one move, grab the vacuum, and it's not It's kind of the same thing as I go. All right. Numbers three and four. These are the different ways you can clean One is with a brush, and this is a soft-bristled And so let's say that you have lots of dog What you want to do is you want to brush the This uses no chemicals whatsoever. It just grabs all the dust and the dog hair, the carpet. Then you vacuum the carpet up, and you're So sometimes it's really heavy-duty gunk, it's not icky gunk like grease, it's just good brush for that. All right, another method that's very similar, going to be the vacuum attachment hose that This is a really great opportunity to go along Again, it's cleaning the baseboard first, number two. So it's still a two-step process, but this the hose so it doesn't go onto the floor, anyway. So, it's kind of a choice if you want to use Either of those two ways. This is way number three and way number four. All right now way number five. And I give you permission to use way number clean if you need it. And that is your eraser sponge. You want to get your eraser sponge wet and that either your shoes or your vacuum hit So if you go in and you look around and you and you see that &quot;Oh, I got six scuff marks to wet your eraser sponge, have that with So at any time, you can wipe and erase those All right and way number six, if you have bend over, what I recommend is a duster, and if you don't this or any of the other things This is one of those that comes with those above the ceiling fans, and the lights and This is microfiber and it has all these little Now, this head slides right off and it is machine-washable, so once you use it, you can wash it and use it again, and again. But literally, you just drop your arm, and brush the baseboards as you go and it collects over at all. And if you're super tall, it does have the wand in, and it will let you extend the reach So, these are the six ways to clean your baseboards. Why do we want to clean them? Because it is the hallmark of a good house How often do we want to do it? At every vacuuming. Right? Now you know the secrets, now you know how All right, if you found this helpful, please If you have questions, you can leave those If you like it, give it thumbs up. And until we meet again, leave the world a