Hi everyone! My name is Patrick Akil and if you're interested in software We look into Hack Your Future, teaches refugees skills and knowledge Joining me today, are Stas and Utku, director, which is really cool and Utku is a senior software engineer So enjoy. beyond coding for today's topic, education as well as the future And since I was looking and I saw you had many years actually Hack Your Future at Uber, How was that switch and when did you yeah, it was pretty dramatic switch for me, yeah it is. So the switch is huge Once you get this luxurious office that you can only ask and also do it's, you probably know the company. It has a really difficult, like, And it's really it's It's there's always something I need like law in the country like, engineer and the change. How did I get it to basically like only for people in on the payroll. It's a really small organization and the education director, decided to leave, and that happens Hello. And I myself, I was volunteering in the future And, And they just start And they try to offer me to apply and I first I was really thinking Uber has this it's, it's, benefits This I just to go for it. This is how I got to this, this position. And this is also pretty smooth, because I was already volunteering. I know the people. I know how things work. Yeah, from the outside. then it's really helped me out. Yeah. That's nice. Okay. How did you get involved? Because I know you're more Yeah. Actually, I had in another intern, fellow intern, that he was already Okay. And, then I got the idea And, Yeah. And then I think not immediately, then I started also, mentoring in Hacker Future and, part of the community. That's nice. How many volunteers or how many mentors maybe this question should go to this I'll tell you that. How many volunteers? yeah, it's. We have a couple of dozens. it's hard to really measure because some of them are more active but we have a few dozen volunteers Like I said, that's. Yeah, that's our, obviously, for the volunteers they have their own day jobs They're busy with something like family. so they do a break. but they're still in the community. Nice. And in a nutshell, what does your future do Yeah. so I hope your future is, It's coding bootcamp for, people from We offer a seven months intense program full stack development for the trainees, And, for the trainees. We try to do the best, to, to the people from the refugee background is eventually to help them market and place them into the Dutch, And how many or how big are the classes? Or, like, year to year people usually, We call them cohorts. Okay. it's about five every year. And for every cohort So it's about like we try to graduate 50, Gotcha. Yeah. And as I mean, And right now, the market is not Have you also seen the impact of that? And because if the aim is to get them for people that are already in career, Yeah, definitely. It's something that's really, it was very easy a couple of years ago, we were able to find any internships Yeah. That was that's nice. That's good. But now it's slow down. so we do feel that it's slowed down. It's a little bit, harder to find, However, on the good side, percentage of people, trainees It's just the only difference. so I, we still, keep our goals, and, just How long is it, then? What? Now, well, now Yeah. some things can be faster Can be take a little bit longer. It will depends on on many factors, especially the main factor Yeah. because many of our trainees, to which city they get to live. So we have, you have some of those in the edge of the It's going to be a little bit harder Yeah. and we, of course, don't want them to travel two hours a day to Amsterdam, Yeah. That's interesting. Okay. From your side, what are how are you involved in you mentioned volunteer. And then growing into a mentor role. Yeah. so basically in future we have several so each module is a basically different related to programing like HTML, CSS and click git and JavaScript, Node.js, so I'm a frontend engineer, okay, maybe I can develop myself Okay. And I also enjoy it. so I thought, okay, let's try mentoring Node.js. and I requested it Then I started preparing for that. And curriculum is already open source I went through the curriculum and I think it was, two years ago and it went well, actually, Yeah. Then I thought, And I think since then I've been, 8 to 10 cohorts. So classes, we call it cohorts. Yeah. and other than that, what I feel myself comfortable with Okay, helpful for them, but are you comfortable Because you said, like this is more of, also learning for you In the beginning it was but I think, yeah, nowadays So it also benefited me, actually, it's been been You share your experience and I would like to mention it's you also share, share, what kind of struggles they can have when they started, like, come up with questions like this, of the session, in the end, how it will be working in a team, what what kind of struggles, so also you have a chance to, to reflect on those and also, you know, we have this popular, imposter syndrome, for any basically beginners in it. And, it's so easy to, crack sometimes. And, I feel like they really need some, opinions and insights on that. so basically you are trying Like you will start in maybe vulnerable and, you might need but it will get better. It will get always better by the time. So those kind of, insights, And, it's not only the technical Yeah. it's just one part of it. And, yeah, I really enjoy it in general, to teaching other modules as well. Community. Community. And and the in yeah. And also we are trying to get feedback So it's not like, okay, I will teach this But what students say about that. So that's really important. And for me, if I think about it has a few aspects, right? And it starts with knowledge and knowledge education systems skills there as well, with hands on experience at a job So I mean, I would say advanced topics, So how how many resources do to get stuff done, basically within a team What is your reputation Because if you have a network of your area of expertise, But how do these categories kind of fit into the education system Yeah, it's it's a great question. I think you we really think rather than a bootcamp. we have, that we have the volunteers that, senior developers anything from, big base or a booking and again, that really nice, companies. And they actually have the, the expertise. And in fact, they, who, they are actually helping because I'm only one education director. I cannot do everything myself. I wish I had time to do it, but I really And that reflects but also in the day to day, training they, trainees can always ask the mentors some questions, so they still, while they're looking for Maybe they're working on the side project. Yeah, so they can reach out to me a slack that we are in, And usually people answer quite fast. and so we have this kind of community We have not only tech experts, we also To help with this, interview training recruiters, product managers, So we have a little bit of everything. And English teacher teachers as well, because English is, one very important job, especially in the Netherlands, and especially that we kind of try that's the best job for us. So we have, this kind of nice pool Yeah. How much do you balance than, let's say the soft skills side and more the actual hard skills, I think it's 5050. I would say, yes, we do have, a program and very technical, But we also along the program, For example, how do you write a resume? How do you present yourself, How do you write a good cover letter? We teach days, we do some workshops for CV They get feedback from us and then yeah. And also along the program, we also encourage them to, to communicate with us. a lot of things that sounds maybe trivial for you, for people But I think that So you should maybe say that I'm sorry I'm and we really, try to get them familiar of a working culture. Yeah, the work ethics, actually. I mean, can still learn from, well, I just, What I usually say on I can imagine a lot of things But when it comes I have no idea what they've gone through. So this, project or this organization and the fact that you're involved in But how does it differ, for example, from a traditional bootcamp Because, for example, and they very much looked towards But you have a very distinct, group of people that you work with, How do you think it's different or what are some of the challenges Yeah, actually, these people, might have really interesting things happened in, in their history. so it's it's really hard And that really reflects differently Yeah. And yeah, most of them are, they might have their first house. House? from the government. maybe they are just, living there they are trying to find a job because then some pressure on that, to find a job so they are going through And, this community is the. I think the first thing everybody is kind of They have their peers and the aim is kind getting getting the knowledge required and going through the curriculum the period, for graduation And the community And the community already I don't know about at least 4 or 5 years And, and there are a lot of success refugees that, They are now principal engineers So this gives a lot of confidence and and the current students. and also, yeah, when they started, or junior position, It's always there. And they still keep communicating. because it's just another start, stepping into a new career some of them already had a degree to related, programs, but some of them Yeah. So they still need support. So we basically we are trying to give that internship or junior position and eventually we are also, having some of them, really trying to give back to the community So can I do the same thing because And also, students also find that kind of mentorship just went through the same struggles and ended up in a really nice position So that's really, really, feeds the soul of this, of this movement, Yeah, this is very powerful. Yeah. I can imagine that someone and then is educating Yeah. And then you can actually empathize Yeah. Than for example, I would because I haven't gone through Yeah. That's very interesting. And the highest founder of Hacker that he the goal of hacker future. What the vision is that then it's a big win. If we have more people from that And this whole organization is really, Yeah. That makes sense. Yeah. How does it differ in, let's say, the education system from more traditional education because I've been in university, with newer technologies I feel like, from the traditional education system. We try to focus. Well, first of all, we we always tell So and we always tell them that is like, look at take Yeah. We ask for them to commit for 40 hours because it's quite intense, It's really, really compact as in they have to go to a class or. Yeah, it happens sometimes. It's like it's hybrid now. Yeah. before before Covid, it was completely But it's also mostly self-study. Gotcha. Yeah. And it's quite it's quite different from traditional bootcamps quite different. And it's a free program That means that anyone who is interested And, the people like you mentioned, And usually in traditional education people in their 20s, and they'll graduate in Yeah. and here you have people all kinds of backgrounds, previous educations, everything up until, like, being, computer science We had those kinds. And, then every person is unique. So when they graduate, it's they go to. and also for the education part, more project, less of homework It's very we try to make it as interactive of making the graduates, job then everything we planned, during in the end of the program, there's, in this final project, they actually work It's a usually it's four people and they work together, as a junior developers, they build something in the, Right. It's it's They have their own really creative ideas, which looks nice and works well, with all the conflicts and all the, yeah. With all the issues that can come up. Yeah. In the end, they always give me Yeah, that's really nice, actually. You triggered me there might be new person And some of the feedback that that was there was a red flag with someone in your team, what do you do? And her answer was, well, And I was like, damn, that's a statement. Like, it could be in a funny way. Maybe it's a funny way, but I it was just written on paper And then also she mentioned work They usually wrong And I completely disagree. It's that yeah, for me junior developers, And especially when they have they know a little bit about conflict a little bit about butting heads, decisions doesn't need to be made or wrong. We need to make a decision and then iterate But in that way, they already get of working along the way, Absolutely. I saw it, and it was my first company in this It, it was the Dutch culture was really, has a has a strong, affect And what I see that where it is coming from. Doesn't matter It's just the opinion that people look at Actually, Is it the opinion? What? What is important in. Yeah. And that that requires and if you are coming that might be a little bit different It was different for me as well. but eventually, I see how much of my, Yeah. For me, it's strange, right? Because it's the culture I grew up in. Like, but I was born and raised here, so then I kind of see myself as Dutch, They were like, As the simplest terms. So that for me is normal. And then when it's not normal for people, it would not be normal, that a and that we talk it out, And it's not just my way So when someone says that, me and I'm like, oh, that's interesting Yeah, yeah. From the education standpoint, I think a lot of people have and for me, it's interesting, where people at the end of the road That's the aim. How do you then when it comes to technical skills? Because, for example, a new cloud technology, but it's not established yet. So that might not be wise. How have you chosen, like what to educating? Yeah, this is exactly my position is that I get to decide And, yeah, you're correct. Like every day I think, and there's millions of things But we, you know, We have to graduate and find a job. yeah. It's the the the faster, what we do like we tried now Yeah, this is like the highest chance the most demanding roles in the if you know how to write a and nice react and there's a high chance there are like quite, quite and regarding what exactly we teach, well, first I get a lot of advice who actually work in the companies, And they can advise, Is it what what direction is it going? And we do, using our mentors, It's open source. I do manage the whole process of it, is coming from them. Mentors, we actually added the new week So we had the same authentication, module And now it's, it's live. And it's a lot of feedback from mentors who curriculum, and also from graduates going to companies and they, they, this technology You know, So it's hard. It's challenging to make decisions. I need to basically collect which can be really kind of like contrary I meant I would like this framework And then we need to see like okay, the best thing to put into the program the and increase the chances Yeah. I'm happy to hear Because it it can very much be static. But I'm happy because technology is evolving, That's just goes hand in hand. Yeah. And, what I would like to mention the is something, they are finding some issues out of date technology feature, Hey, this is this. So yeah, what I do, I just encourage them Yeah, first PR to their own curriculum. So just before joining a company it doesn't matter. You your You don't have to be a mentor. Yeah. Just create a PR someone will review it then the the curriculum And the curriculum is also Node.js but I realized that the API testing part And I need, I need to put some extra And we just extended it to, to the and also the authentication part They are getting some experience with authentication, And so they already have some idea and Yeah. Whenever I meet people that do either like that, you educate It really inspires me. And I'm really curious because you started this program, made you a better software engineer Because I'm assuming it has. Absolutely. I absolutely like I do it voluntarily, like contributing a lot Like especially the mentorship. because yeah, helping out people, that also means, skills that you are, that you are using So helping out other engineers basically. also emotionally, empathy, And, yeah, especially if you are doing it There's there's this extra soul Yeah, yeah. Do you see yourself moving to more, and more people aspects because you're still very much hands off Yeah. I think a lot about this. actually, my previous engineering manager encourages me a lot, Yeah. but I think eventually I just decided, so, I can still program, but, just the latest, leadership position. and one of the questions that I do is people that really look towards the skills from your side. Since you've been involved what do you think let's say early in career? I think what I also suggest is, trainees is that they are asking me in the interviews, what I say to them into technical skills, will be aware already so your technical, skills But the soft skills is something that only So that doesn't matter So if you can empathy, if you can do towards your colleague, that are already in your character, but just emphasize on those skills, and after the interview in your junior position. Just emphasize those soft skills. Just focus in on them but you are a brilliant person So I think that's a really good strategy because technical skills And at some point even, but soft skills are not like that. Like, there are really nice Like they are they are leading them. Those are really valuable things. I think the technical part is just, just staying falling behind little, Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. For me, it's very interesting, though, usually what gets really drilled down Right? And especially at bigger companies, I get a hackerrank kind of leetcode test So especially in bigger organizations, But then this focus on education as well as then the soft skills, how do people when it comes to entering a company? Because they really drill down on the technical level, Yeah. So from what I hear, well, for That's obviously different people. yeah. How do they do it? Some of them already got a good mentorship from us, So that helps from time to time. I forgot to mention, but also during the program So they build a project just ask them around, show me how to do. And also, this technical interview also The explanation skills, are they if they don't know the question And they sometimes So I tell them, don't do that. For example, it's obvious, for some others And we try to make it the light. yeah. I mean, I think you feature as a pretty our graduates are high quality I think if they're motivated to learn to get familiar with the new environment, they can do everything they want to and they overcome the challenges For example. yeah. We the during during the internship, So we talk to the companies that hire So we get the feedback as well And if the companies choose, for example, which not happens too often, How can the trainee can improve? So we continue working with them which job interviews We also get the feedback from them. Okay, You did that. Maybe focus on this technical or maybe you're good technically, So yeah. Dynamic. Yeah. And it's a whole lot or that you need And then from software engineering, like you can focus more on cloud technologies or indeed more DevOps and the technologies and observability, or you can go more towards or more team related, working on more and then starting out, you need to have to start off from, because then it's And I'm wondering of, let's say, easier tasks from what as well as other gen AI tools, So then I feel like the role of a junior but I'm not sure what that will look like and even with the automation what do you think More so towards the future? Well, I think a lot of people are already but in my opinion, we shouldn't It will change. if it will change something, I agree with only junior engineers. Yeah. So what I think personally, even may disappear, but, should be reviewed by someone, It should definitely be reviewed. Sometimes I just give copilot, or git gpt to write some, function. It is being so complex into several functions, let's say. Yeah, it will improve. It's just matter of time. And it's not a matter of, It's going so fast. But we need someone. We need people to review this code. Autogenerated code. And also, I think we should focus of the engineers being the problem It's not. Maybe it's not even programing. They are just aspects of it. But the actual thing is problem solving. And if someone is a problem solver, he is solver at the moment. I think they will still stay solver, So but the actions can change. Definitely. Yeah, I mean I can play devil's advocate that we are problem solvers, And there is a knowledge gap that when the role changes then how do you get the knowledge Because you need to look at But then is it maintainable Those become the new bottlenecks for that yet. When it comes to people Yeah, absolutely. yeah. Maybe, I would like to ask this question. what is your takes those you. No. Well, first I really agree well, I see it also generally AIS tools Right? 30 years ago, with, I wasn't there, as a developer, You didn't have to Google to, answer these books. And, I guess I assume that the internet changed Yeah. and I think this is happening I think it's just another tool A very powerful tool which we obviously and yeah. Like for, for reviewing code and yeah, it's You need to to review code. You need to be really good in software But if you use AI as your junior position You're not good. Yeah. In an engineer. Then I guess you still like let him do the work for you. I think is just like kind of a helper This is how I look at it now. Of course then it's just another that they will still have to review They'll see only to give like opinions I think this is part of So junior junior developers and to solve solutions to give like higher level solutions. So I think I don't think it's just gonna go away and they'll be like I think they're still going to be there. But that's of course my opinion. Yeah, I gotcha you know, I, So I would just say yeah, sorry. actually in a, in an IT engineer's, life. I think when you first start programing, but then you kind of transition from, that phase to, Maybe it's a little bit more complex You don't have, But it's the facts, basically what you are searching for. so maybe there, there, for that kind of a transition for, So maybe you first you will start by just querying the ChatGPT, Okay, I need to transition maybe querying the ChatGPT but give you the, the references or the I think that's a good use. So it's also the Yeah. Yeah I agree. So you can use it to solve problems Yeah exactly. I, I mean for me it's a lot of fun right. Because I can use my experience And it's very hard for me to put myself have them, because then it's like, Or which one is the right way? But then if you shift that and you I think that can be the most powerful And I think it's really good, especially for example. I think it's a really good tool for that. there might be a code piece that you don't really understand You can just select it and ask copilot, hey, could you explain me Yeah. And I think it's doing it great. Yeah I agree. Yeah. Have you used any change gen AI in the education space? Because at some point you probably want to if it really becomes Yeah, it's a big topic. well first, my current position about it, for almost any part of the program. Like if they want to build a project, They can use, all the generators. But there is an interview, technical interview, and If you don't know how to answer how things So I expect all the tools you want, You copy something from ChatGPT, So this is my perspective for it. whether to include or not include, in the, in the, for the bootcamp, I encourage them to try it out. And also I encourage them, read the to explain the code more than write So you have something complicated. You see something that you never seen You can ask like, can you? What's going on here? Or just ask general questions. What's the difference between technology? A technology would be, for example, Yeah. for writing code, it can solve some problems, but So they cannot write And whether to include it into a program, I don't see that we need to teach I I don't consider AI at the moment because in my opinion we'll see in the future But it also depends on the on the job Yeah. We have some consideration of, opening engineering, but, yeah, to go, and that involves a little bit but still, like, thinking about, Yeah. Well, what are we going to do Yeah, because I think the more and more data its footing and becoming very important If your decision isn't based on data then what is your decision and you might be wrong So then the data side as well as the data very important and might be become But then my thought was also software the branches of technology, right? And it evolved into okay, starting engineer, data engineer, they're all adjacent At the end of the day. But even within software engineering and software engineers, I started off very much blank because I came from operations okay, what do you want to focus And I got the option and I was like, well, in university So I focused on the backend and later on and now more focused on backend or not even because now I do product management but for people that start off, or even a preference for them because some people even said full stack, Maybe I can, give my own example that, that I was thinking beyond being a backend prejudices about frontend being so simple Then I started in a internship in KLM, and after seeing the the complexity they are using the the architecture Like I said, okay, this is something And it was the frontend And I was just thinking, okay, I can I already found the internship but I just didn't do it I think the maybe it depends. What are you looking for? And it's a preference I think we don't really encourage them, And they are just, their own preference then they look at the Node.js module, So for example, Yeah, exactly. That's exactly what's happening here we see this kind of preference. Some people really like design and UI. So they, they want to be front end. They want to make things that looks nice. And we also have the other way around They really liked Node.js module, And and they just want to do backend. That's really shows in the final project And I think there's a junior position, I actually gets, talk to some companies those people that are really interested in we actually are looking Yeah. Virginia backend. I think, speaking specifically I think they need to do the feature program is a little bit So to be a backend, maybe Java or Python This is more because we see the requirements But if you're looking for a job that you like, opinion because you also said your education is more tailored Specifically, is it because and more easily compared to a more backend Yeah, I think the transition to frontend Also probably the barrier to get into to the frontend positions while the backend it can be really like a small API, like banking system and of course, those tend to take someone from the university who's done That's I think a there's a little bit for frontend, but there are, And also there's a lot of small companies that kind of do everything. Yeah. So yeah, yeah. At the end of the day, I think the smaller a junior position on that front They also need people because they don't have many, I think people I think, actually, actually, we have a lot of small companies Oh, that's nice, a functioning team of five and they have the backend guy, And, and they now ready to Maybe they want to have the diversity, in the team So that happens a lot. Actually a lot of companies that we place in the Netherlands, And usually what happens those companies looking for university graduates It's with how to get in, those companies actually there's small medium companies for, for analytics And they can, get exposed to many, lots of more What his preference. Maybe he comes to company for falls in Does that internship experience later on where they actually Or how have you seen that transition? This is the goal. we place them as an intense, you know, and the vast majority Unless something is happening. Yeah. And that's or maybe it's not a good fit, That's great. Yeah. I want to thank you guys This has been a blast. Before we ground us in kind of is there anything you still want to share? I just would like to thank for, I'm the long time follower of your code. I know, and, yeah, I really appreciate it. for, for the invite. Thank you, I appreciate you. Has this kind of been what you expected Actually, coming on for. I was just not expecting sitting, It was nice. The person. I'm Yeah. I appreciate that, man. Oh, they used us. Any thoughts? it was a great experience. Thank you so much for having us. I also want to thank the hacker All the volunteers. because without them, We're only four people in the payroll Was doing amazing job. Yeah. And also shout out for our trainees also amazing of passing this so yeah, thank you so much for having us. Thanks for coming on, both of you. I'm going to rounded off here in the description below, Check it out. Let us know what you think There's no comments on Spotify actually, and we'll see you in the next one. This all in coding?