It's the middle of the night. You're sound asleep when suddenly - your You're not sure why - you didn't hear Is it in the air? Your room does feel colder than usual. You look around your room. Nothing. Relief washes over you and you start to close A shadow in the corner. Something that wasn't there before. You can't quite make it out, but it looks It's so dark you can't tell. You pull the blankets up just below your eyes. It must just be a weird shadow, right? Or your brain playing tricks on you? You close your eyes and count to three, you One, two, three. Phew, it's gone. NO! It's in the other corner now and it's It's eyes open, glowing red in the dark You're so scared you can't scream. You can barely move. It's getting closer and closer you reach your lamp and see... Your coat rack. You laugh to yourself. It does look a little like a person in the And maybe the eyes you saw were just lights You do a quiet search, just to make sure there's the feeling that a few minutes ago, you weren't It's not going to be easy to fall asleep The strange shadow person at the corner of But you can't help but feel like that it's It's a week later when you're on the bus It's been a long day, and you're very off when then, out of the corner of your eye, On the side of the road you see the same shadowy looking right into yours. The bus is moving fast, and you only have but your heart is pounding. You try to put it out of your mind but there Is it following you? Or is there more than one of these shadowy You don't want to keep looking, afraid of and wait for your stop. As you get off, you don't see anything around you run to your home. Who are these shadow people? Or more accurately, what are they? Are you just hallucinating and seeing them sinister going on? You're definitely not going to sleep any get on the internet to research. You google "Shadow People" and start clicking You're not sure what you're hoping to not alone, lots of people report seeing these not losing your mind. And the reports aren't new either. You feel your chest get tight as you see that for hundreds of years, with these mysterious legends, and belief systems. There's lots of different theories, but of them for a very long time. You're starting to feel a little better in having seen them, when you click on a website There staring back at you, is a picture of So what are the Shadow People? Not many mainstream media outlets have talked real, usually dismissing them as urban legends, alternative radio devoted to cryptozoology The Shadow People first broke into the sort radio show Coast to Coast AM, when Art Bell elder Harley "SwiftDeer" Reagan. Bell decided to spice up the show by inviting stories - and was stunned when hundreds of shadow beings they had supposedly encountered. Drawings eerily similar to the being you yourself The Shadow People gained a new investigator Heidi Hollis published her first book on Shadow Hollis went further than Bell and Reagan, neutral entities. Hollis argued that they were hostile alien they could flicker in and out of peripheral chests and choke them.. Many people say they feel a strong hostile to be angry spirits from beyond the grave, might be the psychic remnants of inhabitants either trying to make first contact with us, A theory advanced by the late paranormal writer they're something else entirely - a supernatural These creatures frequently appear in Middle as genies - yes, the kind that grants wishes. But Djinns aren't bound to a lamp or a bottle These shape-shifting beings can take any form are remnants of Djinns from ancient times. Whether they're a genie spirit or from another of evidence from shadow people is quite disturbing. The internet is full of stories of people Paranormal investigator Chad Stambaugh even people, but the footage is blurry and inconclusive. A still photograph of a basement in the supposedly a creeping black mass in an otherwise brightly [ANIMATION NOTE: USE IMAGE: ] The most disturbing story of the shadow people supposedly conducted in 1971 at Camden College. A brief clip claiming to be from the study haunted by shadow people in their dreams. The experiment aimed to track their brain went horribly wrong, and the shadow people But no records of this study exist beyond The more you look into the Shadow People, no answers. One of the strangest elements of shadow people that of others. They're almost all the same - a shadowy, enough away from the person that it can't Many people report glowing red or yellow eyes Some of the shadows look more like an amorphous at the Gaslight Inn, which resembled a creeping But many others report a clearer, more disturbing Man. This is a distinctly humanoid figure, dressed hat. His eyes glow red, and he holds a pocket watch waiting for something... or someone. He's very tall, at least six feet, but he's tall. Many people believe the Hat Man could be linked abnormally tall, sharp-dressed monster with Most people thankfully only encounter the out of the corner of their eye or in the dark when the light falls on them. But some people have had longer and far more may be some truth to these encounters. Author Daniel Pinchbeck, a paranormal expert beings that resembled the shadow people. Pinchbeck believes that he was able to see creatures came back with him - haunting him to return to his normal life. But not everyone believes that the shadow Scientists who have analyzed the sightings - that these shadow beings are a product of The most common times for people to see shadow isolated, or very tired. The mind is experiencing heightened stress rack or a shadow, become a potential threat. Sleep paralysis, which is where the body's the mind, also causes hallucinations that and may be the origin of the mysterious figures. Two more factors that might be influencing and addiction. Dr. Jack Potts has studied those addicted state of awareness and keep them from falling and conspiratorial. They kept reporting hallucinations of people beings that posed a danger to them. While descriptions of these beings varied, we see over and over for shadow people. Potts believes the shadow people are our body's one, rather than a true supernatural phenomenon. But if that was the case, why have so many issues or bouts of sleep paralysis, seemingly One thing's for sure, the Shadow People loves ghost stories and paranormal phenomena. These mysterious creatures have shown up in the most famous appearance being in an episode In the episode, titled "The Shadow Man", teenage boy and was a danger to everyone besides The 2013 film Shadow People spun out of the with terrifying results. And plenty of popular video games have you gamers a brief taste of these terrifying beings Sightings go back decades, and hundreds of encounters just like the ones you experienced. But as you give up on your internet investigation answered for you is whether this is something Was your mind playing tricks on you, or are you? It's late, and you have an early start tomorrow Your eyes are heavy and you can feel yourself on the corner of the room again. Is that your coat rack, or something else? "No" you tell yourself "it's just Is it a shadow person, or just your mind playing You pull the covers over your head and decide "Well" you think, "maybe just a peak." You slowly lower the covers and open your You will yourself to roll over and look at As you turn your head you see it. Two glowing red eyes, inches away from your Looking for more videos on unexplained phenomena? Check out "New Video Evidence that Proves Or check out "Horrifying Unsolved Internet of the web. Thanks for watching, and we'll see you next