Here we are... We have crossed the state border with russia Ivannikov, d*mn it Well, what did Ivannikov leave behind? But look, how "smart" this person was, that he even drew arrows showing where the zipper fastens Ah, he was wounded I see he had a tourniquet Yes, yes Well, Vasilyok, I wish you "negative health" This is what a russian outpost looks like, where the local authorities, the police, were conducting or trying to conduct defence You now live in Ukraine, do you know that? Well, you won't hurt us, right? We won't harm you. Why would we? Of course. I don't think you will hurt us Sending big greetings to the Dobrik community Here we are. We have crossed the state border with russia Well, congratulate me. We're abroad now Pretty cool... I didn't expect that it would be so easy... A visa-free crossing Yeah This way Something's smoking on the horizon That's our guys kicking russians out of the village And we're just stalking around here D*mn... Sanya, what's there? Just a russian "Vanka" Just their uniform with a white ribbon, d*mn. What's there? jeans That's the most interesting part. I see. A winter glove Look. There were winter clothes here The last time I was here, there were winter clothes A winter glove! Why the h*ll do they need a winter glove in the summer? Yeah. Maybe they were sent here for a long time? Well, I think they've lived here for over a year... stationed here There are more further ahead So, we'll keep walking, right? Another... pile of russian rags New boots, bags "Army of russia" What do we have here in the russian army? Nothing at all. Ivannikov, d*mn it... Ivannikov... Well, what did Ivannikov leave behind? But look, how "smart" this person was, that he even drew arrows showing where the zipper fastens LAUGHTER So, Ivannikov. Unpacking a russian bag A d*mn winter uniform. A winter uniform Wow... It's never been worn They were here. See - pants, everything, d*mn A winter uniform, d*mn... When they sent them here, they probably planned for them to stay here for the winter too Or maybe it is from last winter Well, they ran away And left it behind "Basics of Military Psychology and Pedagogy" Some smart occupier Yeah. He was underlining some theses Nice Well, shall we take it? Let's see what's inside?! Hm... Yeah, d*mn, no kidding! Dobryk, d*mn, this is bad... They're already eating him up That's the whole "russian world" D*mn... And there's a grenade and a first-aid kit Yeah, he got blown apart so badly... Ahh, he was wounded I see he had a tourniquet Yeah, yeah Well, Vasylyok... wishing you "negative health" B*stards, d*mn... Earless helmets, d*mn Sc*mbags, d*mn In "multicam" uniforms, f*ck Yeah, he had serious gear Are you tankers, Yeah Is that a T-72? Or a 64? Our tank, friends In the forest belt TMG (tank machine gun) on top, damped armour, protection from FPV drones This is what a russian outpost looks like, where the local authorities, the police, were conducting or trying to conduct defence There were quite a lot of strikes here Everything is destroyed... But... There are pillboxes, there are cameras, there is a net against FPV drones Everything is impeccably done everywhere They had active surveillance from there Because this is a frontline village in the Kursk People's Republic The village is located near the border Oooo, interesting That was a precise strike Probably, a 120-mm shell or something heavy Here's the sand This is where "russians" spent their leisure time, A gazebo, and here it says: Professionally done Professionally Yes. Here's the "Tsar" The russian "Tsar" - Here's the outpost It's gone now, no more outpost That's it We've occupied all of this This is how russians lived in the Kursk People's Republic When they fled, Everything is scattered Of course, our guys probably But this was their so-called "cool room" Here... The pigs ran away "Bum shelter" for f***s sake Like hobos "Second-hand" Look at that. Vanka's pants -- Disgusting! This is their duty office A fridge I guess this was the commanders' room Look at that. Two locked cabinets, and two beds This is where the "workers" did their job Ah... icons... "Fire point No. 7" - room 6 "Room 6 "1. Conduct surveillance 2. Prevent unauthorized persons from entering the territory of PTD (point of temporary deployment) 3. Report any changes to the situation to the officer on duty 4. Take measures to repel attacks All right. So... Friends, this is the so-called firing slit, from where the battle was supposed to take place Firing point -- I don't know... Here... From the outside, you can't tell it's a firing slit It's pretty interesting how they set it up Here are some bricks Yeah. But I think they didn't need it Because they didn't put up a fight here-- Here's a rag lying on the table "russian world" A sberbank card Who do we have here? Poruchnik Volodymyr Mykhailovych A serious guy "Issued to police lieutenant" Well, as the locals say, the local authorities were the first to flee This, friends, is the main entrance to the police station, the so-called central... central building of the village, where most likely the enemy's command post was This is the camouflage net And under it is a metal window, reinforced with concrete, from which the russians were supposed to fight But nothing worked out That's the kind of building they had Professionally built This must be their warehouse The warehouse where they were hiding, I think... Here are stoves An interesting building... Someone lived here as well There was a TV, a table And a grenade, friends Wow... You should walk carefully here, To h*ll with it... "German shepherd" "Dimerdzhi" Yeah... Interesting... Oh! Wow! Friends, this is a real metal bunker With slits for firing Amazing! Quite the exhibit And I understand that this is the highest observation point on this site Interesting... A tour of the russian bunker: Whoa! There's a firing slit on each side Probably bulletproof glass Does this close somehow?! Aha! There it is This is how the slits close And, friends, this is a firing point No. 1 While the other was No. 9, seen from the window The tasks are pretty much the same as what we've read Interesting... A heater so the f*cker wouldn't be cold, and a phone number There's more I think we can say: We've already had one f*cker in the house In the attic F*cking nothing? Someone's talking s**t... Here...gathered in one house... In one house... And now what to do... What shall we do, guys? Are there any soldiers with you or not? There's no one here. There's no one here - you can check Are you hiding, right? Is this all of you? Guys... Why didn't you go to russia? Well, there was no way. Didn't manage to... Nobody took us. Sc*m... Is everyone from the village here? Yes, everyone from the village. Only all in one... Sorry? Our boys gave us some. Thank you, thank you, guys - they gave us some water And who is lying there? A blind man Well, you can stay and see if you don't believe Can you lift this... Ah, it's an old man, I understand We can bring you some dry rations Thank you, guys Your guys brought some. We would be dead who knows... I'll shout and see what happens... They came and brought us something to drink Five days we sat there alone - in the houses, wherever... We were hiding in basements we gathered in one place to... Those who had cars left The soldiers ran away from here? They ran... And why didn't they take you with them? Ah, forget it... Who would take us... That's how we were peeking out But he's saying your own soldiers No, no - our own people from the village Ah, our people left with cars, And what are you going to do now? Who knows... We're already dirty as hell... And like these... Oh dear... At least to go home And do you know, we had a similar situation Irpin, Bucha... At the beginning of the full-scale war - in 2022 We were hiding in basements just like that And hiding. And now you're experiencing it yourself. Understand? We are for peace Well, that's for now - while we haven't occupied you yet Right? And before that, did you support "russian peace"? Putin? We were just living here, guys And where... And who considered us? Well, how "considered"? Well, who considered us? They gave us pensions and that's it we wouldn't be sitting, hiding here... Well, Putin... Well, now you will live in Ukraine We have already... occupied... this... This is now the Kursk People's Republic We're congratulating you Well... what to do... You now live in Ukraine. Do you know that? Well, you won't hurt us, right? We won't harm you. Why would we? Of course, I don't think you will hurt us Well, when can we go outside? We're afraid I don't know... Well, okay... You can go outside, I don't know And how will we stay in the winter? Well, that's already... Well, Putin - your tsar He didn't think about you - so you'll manage somehow Maybe our people will come to you, No, well, at least we need to get dressed... It will be cold... At least go home... Well, you can go home, We're afraid to go alone And if we go and they start shooting at us? Who would shoot at you? No, no one will touch you No? How... I mean... A person, first of all A person? Do you respect him? Well, in every country, you respect So he is your tsar? Well... Well... he is not a tsar to us. We are mortal people They gave us pensions... Ah, so pensions are the main thing for you? What pension... I understand. So, it doesn't matter to you If your military is killing Ukrainians - does it not matter who the president is? No, we also want people to live peacefully around the world Understood... Understood, you are just as russian as they are Everywhere. You're all the same Just like you - Ukrainians Do you say "thank you" for being "liberated"? Or what are you thanking us for? For everything. And for the water Thank you for not killing us Yes We are not russians. Well... Not like Russia You have a tsar have the president of a European country - Uh-huh We don't care who we're ruled by I understand. That's all We just have to survive here... for a bit longer... What difference does it make? Or a year here... What does one year mean to me... I'm 60 years old, So, they told you: either a year in prison, right? Or go to war And you went to war? Well, yes... Did you know that you might be killed here? Of course, I knew. I've already been in one war Where was that? I was... a servile man I was demobilized and sent there And how did our fighters capture you in the end? Were you hiding? Well, the first time I came... they came... Where did they come? Well, they entered the house. I just... went inside there... I sat on the couch and fell asleep Were you in civilian clothes? Yes, I gave him my passport You were in military uniform. Yes Yes Well, he said, "Better tell the f***ing truth, dude" He said, "I would have seen through you right away" No, my legs were all bruised Did you know Ukraine was going to advance? How would I know? I... They brought us here, like... How many of you were here? Wait a second... A platoon? A company? There were three companies So how did everyone leave, and you stayed behind? I couldn't catch up with them Ah, your legs hurt, right? Yes. And then... The weight... Oh, excuse my language If your family sees this, what would you like to say? Greetings to them Greetings? To your wife? Only to the second wife, not the first one LAUGHTER I've got issues with the first one How are they treating you? Don't they beat you, do they? No, it's good Are you eating? Is everything fine? Sure They say they beat you, don't feed you The guys here are fine What did they tell you about Ukrainians in russia? Different things... trivial stuff... But overall, what did they say? That you are Banderites, that you kill... That you fire on cities. But it turns out, d*mn, that it's completely different... And what do you personally think? I don't believe anything anymore I haven't believed in anything for a long time All this nonsense keeps spinning in my head constantly, all this cr*p You turn on the TV, and it's all about Ukraine Honestly, it's already driving me crazy Do you know that your "tsar" is a dictator? Well, he is a dictator Oh! Well... Or do you know it? There was Brezhnev... well, first Stalin was the dictator, Then Brezhnev, and now this one for 20 years And Brezhnev was 17 years Do you want a change of power? What's the point? What do you do here? You see, I help the guys dig. In my free time Do they guard you? So you don't escape Of course, they guard me Do you want to escape? Where to? Seriously, to hide In one village over there They gave us away - the soldiers came and shot, d*mn What desires do you have now? Just want to sleep... Maybe you have a dream? A dream? I just want to go home sooner Do you understand Ukrainian? When you said "rozumiyu" (understand) - I understood something You said: "rozumiyu" And some words, like... How do you say... "pomazalka", d*mn it, Palianytsia? Palianytsia (laughs) Well, "polenytsia" means woodpile Polenytsia - firewood, d*mn it Polenytsia, right? It's a pie Well, they sound similar And what was your mission here at the border? Objective? How should I know? Well, did they bring you here and tell you what to do? Just sit? Wait? Or assault? Or be on defence? They brought us here late at night They brought us to some barn, d*mn it To a barn It was bedtime, d*mn it. It was 12, so around 11 p.m Then at midnight, we had to get up And where were you sent? The officers went somewhere, d*mn it... All of them Two companies, d*mn it... What was your task here? How should I know? Am I a d*mn... ...supreme commander or something? Then some "Ural" truck came, d*mn it There were fourteen of us - they loaded us, d*mn it, Well, probably that was your...saboteur Ours? Of course. Because he took us somewhere, d*mn it, drove over the weapons, d*mn it, and quickly left Into pulp, d*mn it... And what were you told? You would be somewhere on the border, They brought us here and that's it... unloaded us But you were told you were going to war, right? Well, yes, they gave us ammunition So you consciously came to war to kill Why to kill right away? Why did they give you weapons? Weapons are made to kill other people Why to kill? Well, what were you going to do here? Maybe shoot in the air Well... But they might have told you to be on defence or assault? Nothing at all A tank drove out, and it shot with direct fire... Well, you didn't come here just like that, Sending big greetings to the Dobrik community