In 1981, Prince Charles and Lady Diana announced prior. Even at that time, the red flags were becoming Still, Charles and Diana went through with was. Two children and 15 years later, the royal officially divorced in 1996. Just one year after they split, Princess Diana The secrets about her marriage to Charles, Here's a look at what the world never knew You've likely seen countless photos of Charles and Diana together, but you may have missed In 2017, sociologist Philip Cohen pointed posed to look much taller than his wife in of the couple show Diana was, in fact, the So, what's going on? The royal family has never commented on this sensitive about his height. Or maybe it goes even deeper than that. We may never know for sure, but it is definitely and paints a new, if unflattering, picture The first kiss as husband and wife is always a big deal. Some wedding planners even suggest couples awkward moment. But even an awkward kiss would surely be better According to History.com, Prince Charles forgot vows at the altar. As a way to rectify the situation, Charles Palace to lock lips in front of cheering crowds. Consequently, this is how the now-iconic balcony when marrying Kate Middleton was born. If you were to just look at Charles and Diana's lived a fairy tale romance. This couldn't be further from the truth. In their first joint interview after becoming if they were in love. &quot;And Charles turned around and said, 'Whatever This moment is one that haunted Diana for In a taped conversation with her speech tutor, reply stunned her even more than the question. &quot;And that threw me completely. I thought what a strange question. I mean answer. God. Absolutely traumatized me." During her conversation with Peter Settelen, Diana also shared intimate details of her By this time, the couple had been married from divorcing. When Settelen suggested there was no physical &quot;It was there, and then it fizzled out about Instinct told me. It was just so odd. I just - I don't know.&quot; Although Diana didn't go into too much more already said more than enough to make it painfully was by no means thriving. The day before their wedding, Diana overheard Charles on the phone with his former girlfriend always love her, despite his marriage to Diana. Then, a few years later, Charles started openly &quot;Well there were three of us in this marriage. So it was a bit crowded.&quot; While Diana felt jealousy and rage in response love. Specifically, to her bodyguard. &quot;When I was 24, 25, I fell deeply in love And he was the greatest friend I've ever had.&quot; Diana said the relationship was never sexual, it was clear Charles had all but abandoned In the thick of Charles' affair with Camilla Parker-Bowles, Diana petitioned the Queen &quot;And I'm sobbing and I said, 'What do I do? I'm coming to you. What do I do?' And she said, 'I don't know what you should Charles is hopeless.' And that was it.&quot; In her equally hopeless situation, Diana developed &quot;And they all blamed the failure of the marriage But according to Diana, it was the rejection that led to the development of the eating &quot;I decided to do the more discreet thing, But, um, I chose to hurt myself instead of In a relationship so riddled with strife and extramarital affairs, trust was in short supply. A year before the couple divorced, Diana expressed King of England. Charles began to think that Diana was colluding and the then wife of Charles' brother, Prince His fear, according to royal biographer Tom abdication, Andrew would become regent until would become king, passing over Charles entirely. Not only did he distrust his wife, but Charles in on the supposed &quot;plan.&quot; Given all we now know, it's not surprising that Prince Charles and Princess Diana ended What is surprising, however, is who got the Initially, the couple opted for a long-term for nearly four years. Diana's former butler said that all changed that essentially ordered a formal divorce. On August 28, 1996, the tumultuous royal marriage days before Diana's tragic and untimely death.