Scott, an amazing talk, honestly. I want to ask you a bit about just because I think it's remarkable. I'm going to start here. This thing's been seen by five-plus and growing. It's the biggest single hit I'm curious what feedback I mean, you laid out of a lot of people there. Have some of them come back hard at you? Have you mainly been Give us a sense SG: First off, thanks and thanks for creating to let people like me 97, 98-plus percent has been Not yesterday, but the day I was on a Zoom call where I spoke after Speaker Pelosi and before Senators and talking specifically about I don't know if I'll be invited back But it's been, you know, let me talk It's been everything from ... Billionaires reaching out and saying, and I'd like your help allocating to someone sent me a screenshot of an account with 10 million &quot;It's yours if you run To which I responded, but I'd really enjoy spending It's been really positive. So the points of pushback that I think I get it wrong all the time. You know, I'd like to think that some or even most of this But what I know for certain I got pushback around Social Security that this is the most successful and that I shouldn't be for taking out something I've got pushback for fat shaming. So I've gotten, you know, But I think that's important. I think that if you're going you need to be subject to pushback. And I would say that my goal It's to catalyze a conversation And the thing that's been really is that when people send me including from Congress and the Senate and people who run companies the dialogue's been very civil. And I would say that the thing I recognize about the TED community, is I'm in a variety whether it's TikTok or whether where I say these things. And the dialogue this has inspired It's been more, you know, &quot;I liked this, I didn't like this,&quot; but I really appreciate You know, people are more civil And I have found so far people than other platforms. CA: Well, that's nice to hear. We definitely, though, And I know that in the comments there are some people who've pushed back But which of the various that we could actually do you think have most chance Because it's so wide ranging. You know, it's like, it's very hard hard to get a house all the way up to Social Where do you think Something that might actually shift. SG: I think there's already to expand freshman class to invest more in vocational programs, to reverse this vibe or gestalt and return it to being a public servant. I think that movement and it feels like there's and some of the stats have really There's 10 to one MIT employees So I've heard from and the presidents of Purdue and they've been circulating my talk and raising money around the fact that they have not embraced this strategy. I think we're seeing -- I've heard from quite a few and Congresspeople talking about things or just having one income tax, instead of favoring the income or wealthier people versus current income. I have heard a decent amount generally speaking, tax reform. How do we put more money And then from what I'll call whether it's Morning Joe or The View, it's we need to change the narrative and saying that their depression, their anxiety, their obesity as a function of their entitlement and not a function of public policy that people of my age have implemented. That, OK, maybe there is some truth CA: So let me, before we go let me pick up that specific point, because there is, I'm sure probably older people, would say, are you sure it's really as opposed to a consequence So there's this quote that you all know hard times create strong men, strong men create good times, good times create weak men, weak men create hard times. That there's an argument that we've been through that, you know, baby boomers, a generation of kids and that that is where part You are halfly arguing a different case. Is there any truth to that argument? SG: I think in almost I'll call it Gen X and baby boomers, there was a concerted effort to elect and make forward-leaning investments. If you think about Apple, Google, that have added trillions it's really, they build on top of investments by the most successful and that's the US government with its limited partners, its investors, the middle class. And that there's a lack Basically, the only thing that passes is reckless spending. Republicans want more military Democrats want more social spending And they agree on lower taxes So I just feel like we are being The way I loosely describe it is seven trillion dollars which juices the economy, I'm in the club partying and the closest the young is they can throw their credit card and I'll rack up more debt on their backs Even the markets right now, The markets are being supported right now by an additional two trillion dollars in the form of government spending that's beyond our revenues. In past generations, never would have engaged or supported So I do think there's I think the financialization as they said in &quot;Jerry Maguire,&quot; more money used to be now it's a better life. And the fact that we haven't faced really to create more comity there just seems to be or investment mindset CA: One of the most powerful and there were so many powerful aspects, was your juxtaposition of different stats. So Harvard, this explosive growth no more students being admitted. I mean, you immediately know, when you just put those numbers together that there's something very, So powerful. I thought your line minimum wage has just with the way at which capital is growing. And I wonder whether one, you know, there's almost like some political ideas that said things like that. A society is not operating its minimum wage rate, is growing slower than the rate at which It shouldn't be linked It should be linked to the rate you know, in that society. Otherwise, inequality is absolutely And I'm curious which others like with Social Security, for example. I understand why people have pushed back. Do you see any workable, where you could say, look, we're not going to take But we have to make it more just, we can't have it sucking more and more Like, what is the right metric to think about how much to be fair to the generation Feels like one of the biggest numbers. SG: So I've had a bunch different people in Congress So means-testing and moving I mean, the majority of people, didn't participate in Social Security Now they're living 20 People will say, &quot;Well, I'd say first it's called a tax, meaning that it might be Two, people who will live to be 85 take out two to three times I'm not saying we should do away with it. I'm just saying it should be means-tested, the age should be pushed back to reflect Also just basics. The person who put together the slides, Mia, makes 160,000 dollars a year, I'm allowed to say that She's 26, very talented young woman. She pays 9,000 dollars a year, This year, I'll make 100 times that, 9,000 dollars in Social It's capped for anyone So if this generation is the wealthiest why have we decided to cap So I don't have a problem with stimulus. I don't have a problem But Social Security of we are really taxing -- six percent is a real number but it's been de minimis for me So it's another example of how this transfer that wealthy people are in there saying, &quot;We'll position this tax as onerous, but we're going to cap it Why is Jeff Bezos not paying into Social Security? It's an off-balance-sheet item, it doesn't impact the deficit, it's funded every year. But right now, 40 percent of all government spending is allocated for programs It's about to be 50 percent which means that crowds out investments such as education and technology. And we also just need to acknowledge old people are less productive And so unless we figure out that they spend being expensive and unproductive, our economy is basically to kind of support the most expensive This is happening in Japan, and it takes an economy into decline, because you can't make that encourage wealth or inspire and they don't have kids. In terms of minimum wage, I've been positioned as anti-union. I'm not, there should be one union. It should be in DC, and it should be federally-mandated except in certain areas where there's an exceptionally And the incumbents and corporations of it'll kill the economy. No, it won't. In Washington state and California, the economy actually grew about low- and middle-income people meaning the multiplier effect is greater. If it had just kept pace it'd be 23 bucks. That's an easy one. Mandatory, federally-mandated, Would McDonald's and Walmart Would a bunch of small businesses And it'd be worth it. CA: So, as you say, you don't hold back. And there were definitely a few things So Kyra Gaunt, I see in the chat, found your comment She says there are It's complicated for members And you say you've heard Do you want to clarify SG: It's a fair feedback. As someone who was born so easy for you to say, Scott. What I have said in the past and you know, if I sound is I believe that we need in the pockets of lower-income people I think we need to tax relative to its externalities. Obesity, morbid obesity in the last 30 years. Obesity has gone from, The only thing that Americans really share is it's 70 percent of us And if you look at McDonald's, Kraft, General Foods, PepsiCo, Coca-Cola, they're not companies as much And their stocks have gone up 10 to 12x as obesity has gone up. And if you give those two, their stocks they will tell you they So as a result, because there's money we have Unilever celebrating obese women. We have people saying And this is from the same company which basically encourages young So the notion that they are trying to liberate people or all of these apparel companies saying I want to go back to the '60s, where Kennedy said it was American I used to train every year and that was seen as fat shaming, I don't think there's anything wrong but also at the same time recognizing some people are dealt and providing them so they can get out of food deserts. I also believe GLP-1 drugs of the last year, not AI, and we should be pushing them I think they're an absolute Here's a crazy stat: the region of America that has the greatest is also the thinnest. It's the Upper East Side. Because right now, GLP-1 drugs are being used for ladies of lunch I hope that more and more of it where it's 100 bucks a month and it gets to the people which is low-income people Because the industrial food complex so they can hand you over of hip replacements, kidney dialysis, That's an enormous industry. I want to put Coca-Cola, Kraft, McDonald's and some absolutely out of business. There's too much incentive to convince you that being obese is some sort It's not. CA: So this is so interesting. Like, somehow, and I feel this we have to figure out how to have that are respectful of people. And, you know, everyone, as you say, has been dealt a different hand, but that don't ignore the basic facts And that is what is so hard to do We've all got frightened, I think, of saying the kind of thing And there probably are still, I don't know Kyra, how you felt but I feel like we need we need to be provocative And I heard that in you. So I think that's cool. And then again, actually but I noticed that she pushed back on your point about social media, that, you know, one of the fixes is to get Points out, and I've felt this reading that those communities sometimes are incredibly beneficial. So you think of the kid who's queer and doesn't find anyone in their community finds a community online. I mean, there's presumably Is there any way of making recommendations where there aren't swings and roundabouts? There aren't, you know, SG: Look, one in five LGBTQ high schoolers So I'm involved with the Jed Foundation to try and identify or distinguish between kind of what is normal and suicidal ideation. Because we really have an epidemic and there's just no getting around it. Some trans and gay kids and other kids find other people like them I guess the question would be if banning social media or age-gating it on the whole were demonstrated to be because I think a lot of those of incredible bullying and shaming online, and are more prone to go down and end up in self-harm -- are there other programs that incredible community But look, when you make huge there is no decision where I mean, the special-interest-group kid when social media is age-gated, yeah, that person suffers. I guess the argument I would make is that if you were to look at any study about the general impact it's having the benefits dramatically outweigh So the question is, could we do it? But at the same time recognize we still have an enormous especially in the LGBTQ community, and move in with other programs of helping them find other people. But I want to acknowledge, that doesn't have a downside. CA: Some people are asking So Adrian Neubauer said, what's your advice for helping I don't want my students to grow up and being successful. I definitely don't want to be TikTok influencers. How do I help them?&quot; SG: Well, the first thing is, I don't think there's any reason to be on social media. I think we need a massive investment. I think we need to tax and use that capital to invest and third places. I went to public schools I went back to my high school, and 93 percent are kids of color. It's got the unfortunate designation of having the greatest proportion of kids and they just cut their drill team. They just cut their band, their drumline, because they don't have money. I just think so much of this, it's like households It sounds very crass, a lot of problems are solved with money. Show me divorce and I'm usually going to show you or poor alignment around economics. And when you can add in five minutes post and at the same time, you see since 1939 and the top 25 wealthiest Americans and five companies have added the value of the entire global auto industry We have the resources. So I think a lot of this giving kids more third places such And also demanding that parents and demanding that entire and that there's no social media. And on a more tactical level, I absolutely think we need I think it makes absolutely no sense military and nonprofit leaders and it's all wrapped in cute dances. I just think it's insane One of the wonderful things But one of the downsides of that than convince we've being fooled. I think every day I think this is the most unbelievable Unfortunately, it's not ours. CA: You mentioned Nvidia there, which has exploded in value last year really. Isn't that to some extent about you had this unique opportunity to buy these cheap stocks like Netflix I mean, there are always ... Is the market fundamentally changed, there aren't that kind of opportunity and get the same kind of wealth? Was it just a timing thing? SG: No, what we've decided is We want low taxes, and the pioneer, the individual who earned the money because he or she And then on the way down or some exogenous event, whether it's war, famine, the CEO of Delta says, and wants a massive bailout, despite the fact that 80 percent the 10 years before were either used or CEO compensation So look, capitalism on the way up And we've gone full cronyist And I understand the rationale because they said we needed but then no one suggested a special and cocaine disco party Markets are touching And the myth that my generation the young people take hook, There are two phases of everyone's life. There's investing, and then Investing is when you do your best and save some money, that grows in your sleep, such that you can have some as you get older, I'm entering the harvesting where I'm no longer making During the investment part of your life, in you're younger years, You want real estate that's inexpensive. You want to dollar-cost-averaging The reason I get and I get to go to the south is because we let and I got to buy Netflix at 12 bucks, What we've decided now purposefully, is that we aren't going to let the markets have a natural cycle of disruption, that anytime the markets are threatened, we're going to weigh in of our daughters and our sons, and we're going to artificially inflate That is nothing but a transfer of wealth. You need disruption. You need churn. These are purposeful on the credit card of the young. I don't have a problem with stimulus, those of us who have benefited CA: So there's a great question &quot;During this talk, there are that are all delivered That's true, by the way. I don't know of a talk where there's been such density that connect, really remarkable. Anyway, he says, &quot;It leaves me to join, 'the movement' and make change. It's almost like a full semester-worth but there isn't an explicit community Scott, where would you suggest for someone who becomes SG: It's hard to do this but try and find Congresspeople or get involved in campaigns of people who are, one, talking about the deficit, talking about the war on young people, I mean, there's some very basics. And the speaker before me, Andrew Yang, People who are going to be moderates, who are going to think I think we need absolutely more So I would say political action, And then on a ground level, getting involved in charities and efforts to help young people find third places, find places I think all of this is somewhat in an epidemic of loneliness. So anything you can do to create for young people to get out of the house. I think it's up to parents I mean, I think it's not what to do, In terms of a political movement, I'm still waiting for a leader &quot;I'm going to piss off everybody. Old people, you're going to hate me. Unions, you're going to hate me. Rich people, you're going to hate me.&quot; You know what we need? We need the biggest Someone who shows up and says, "Are we going to decrease or are we going to raise taxes?&quot; And the answer is yes. It's time to start acting like adults and paying it back to some who have made sacrifices I haven't seen that person yet. CA: Politicians assume And maybe they're underestimating SG: I think people are ready. Do you know one of the top three issues People think it's Middle East, it's not. That's like number 17 because of the zombie apocalypse that has been highlighted to give you the sense 2,300 arrests, 40 weren't students. I'm at NYU, 99.9 percent of the kids The new undergraduate president You know, we need ... top issues for young people, The deficit. So I just think we need &quot;I am not going to ever insult anyone to get on TikTok and raise money. I'm going to talk Tax policy, the deficit, teen depression, obesity. And I'm going to make And guess what? All of you are going Because there's just no getting around it. We need to make that a lot of Americans made 80 years ago. I don't know about you, I was very moved by the D-Day But every generation up until this one for forward generations, except this one. So we need to catch up. I think people are ready for that. CA: Scott, you've spent a lot of time Do you think that the problem has been or that a disproportionate share by fixing the problems that young men SG: Well, all of these things So with young men -- and this is really the thing, four times as likely to kill themselves, three times as likely to be addicted, 12 times as likely to be incarcerated. There has been no group globally More women globally are pursuing which is remarkable many nations don't allow women and twice as many women over the last 30 years around the world. Now domestically in the US, there has never been a cohort than young men. More women, single women own homes now than single men, which is fantastic. In urban areas, women are out-earning men. These things are wonderful. We don't have a homeless crisis. We have a male homeless crisis. We don't have an opioid addiction crisis. We have a male opioid addiction crisis. And unfortunately, something that gets is that because of the benefit, privilege and advantage we hold these young men accountable. We use words like accountability or pull yourself up by your bootstraps. If any special interest group at four times the rate we'd move in with programs. And I think there just generally needs and the dialogue. And we need to recognize Gay marriage didn't hurt civil rights didn't hurt white people. And recognizing the problems one in three men under the age of 30 Three million working-age men Fifty percent of millennial men And so you have this cohort and if we don't have full of successful, economically the nation is going to collapse. Because here's the thing about women, we don't want to have an open And this is the following. Women mate, socioeconomically, men, horizontally and down. And when the pool of men available we're going to have a lack Sixty percent of people aged 30 to 34, 40 years ago, had at least one child. Now it's 27 percent. The whole shooting match, why we engage in all this shit, is so we can find someone we love and raise kids together. That is the most rewarding thing. Everything else is a means. That's the ends. And when a nation is failing to do that and just creating a generation of anxious, obese and depressed kids much less have the opportunity and get together and start having sex and have economic prosperity, then what the fuck is any of this for? So I think this is a call If young people, and especially then we are not going to have or economy, full stop. And it's time to put and say, &quot;Well, you're being sexist.&quot; Yeah, I'm sexist. I believe the genders are different. If you don't believe me, put a three-year-old girl in a room with cars and dolls That doesn't mean we reduce but we can't even have an honest because someone sees and get a Guardians of Gotcha pin rather than actually addressing That was a rant. CA: Well, I will say that you rant I mean, I really, just as someone I was stunned by how this one went. Like many, many speaker coaches Oh, he's very monotone. It's very, you know, where's the -- it just unwraps in a very, But every word is so carefully chosen and follows so consequentially that you tap into a different part People go, yes, you know, And then it builds, and then your anger and frustration It's absolutely remarkable rhetoric. I don't know how you learned it but it's really unique And I think it's a super powerful weapon. And I mean, I don't know This is really unusual ... It's not like everyone will agree that you said, but it's a really unusual about something that really matters. And for that, I feel, I think and wish you well I mean, there just isn't So bravo to you. Thank you. SG: Chris, I appreciate And what I told my wife is that after I'm an overnight success So thank you. CA: You had visibility It's amazing how much If people don't know it, Well, just talk about you'd most like people to do, because I think that's SG: Yeah, to resist is futile, I'm like AOL in the '90s. If you stick your hand in a cereal box, you're going to find something I have "Pivot," I have "Prof G," I have my newsletter, and a slew of books. So to resist is futile. [Want to support TED?] [Become a TED Member!] [Learn more at ted.com/membership]