- Qantas nonstop research here I come. And we will see double sunrise today. - We will see double sunrise today. Hi five. - In 1919, 100 years ago, from U.K. to Australia. Beautiful, this is the - Trying to stretch to the locker. - Sitting can be exercise, as well. Can you show me the sitting exercise? You could even take up more passenger. Everything on this plane I think I'm gonna lose We need to adjust our body So this is supper right now. - I'd like to share with you something very close to my heart. - The A350 or the 777X, what is your favourite aircraft, Alan? These are the typical This is such a history making flight. (crowd cheering) (upbeat music) - Welcome aboard our nonstop flight through to Sydney today. We'll be boarding from gate And that one's there for yourself today. So when you're ready, you - Thank you. - Take care. - Project Sunrise, here we come. (upbeat music) - Welcome aboard our special advising act on this morning's nonstop flight from London Heathrow to Sydney, Australia. - [Group] Sydney! - Thank you very much, guys. Good luck. Thank you. Bye now. - Good on you, thanks. See you next time. - Enjoy your flight. - Thank you. Hey, good morning! Overcoming the final frontier of aviation, Qantas nonstop research here I come. - See ya soon, bye! - Hello, welcome aboard. - [Sam] Hello, hello. Good morning, good morning. - Good morning, welcome aboard. - [Sam] We're making history today. - Absolutely, aviation history. - [Sam] Nonstop to Australia, let's go! - Double sunrise, bring it on. - Departing London today, Darkness when we depart, bright sunshine in Sydney when we land. - [Sam] And we will see - We will see double sunrise today. - [Sam] Just a history - Hi five. (upbeat music) - Now, it's 5:40 a.m. I'm sitting in seat 8A, and look at the pillow here. It says Qantas Research Flights. - [Attendant] Thanks very much, London. We'll see you when we come back next time. Thank you. - Bye! - We have to do the final - Let's go. - [Announcer] If your seat is fitted with a sash belt, ensure. From the pouch by pulling the tab. - Mind if I just pull this over for you? - Oh, yes, I forgot the shoulder strap. - Yeah, it's a safety - Oh, like a car seats, yes. Thank you very much. - There you go. It'll stop you from. - [Attendant] Not that - Thank you. So the time now is 6:00 a.m. So we pushed back a few minutes early. We're heading towards for departure, and as you can see, it's still pitch dark (engines whirring) There we have just a takeoff. 19 hours, 17 minutes to Australia nonstop. In 1919, 100 years ago, from U.K. to Australia. So today, that's 19 hours we'll get there. And today's flights, we'll be over flying the following countries Germany, Poland, Belarus, China, Philippines, Indonesia - Hi there, sir. - I've just got the menu for you, and there's also a in here about the flight, as well. - [Sam] Thank you very much. - This historic event. There you go. - [Sam] Thank you. - Sam, on this flight, we've in the forward two sections because we had a trial on this flight for the Charles Perkins onto the time zone in Sydney. So if you've like to look out the window at the first sunrise, from the cabins further back. - [Captain] This is the Captain. My name is Helen Trenerry. Also on the flight deck, Second Officer Chris Agnew, So in honour of your place we acknowledge the personnel who took part in the top secret Double Sunrise Flights that Qantas conducted during World War II. These flights were under from the Japanese and would The crew and their passengers on their flights, giving them the title of the Double Sunrise Flights. Today as we've departed London in the wee, small hours of darkness, the first of our two sunrises on the horizon to our east now. - Beautiful, this is the the first sunrise we saw on this flight, just about 40 minutes after it took off and as we're flying towards the east. Most passenger in the they will acclimatise to Sydney time zone, which is actually now in the (door snapping) I'm all changed into a very comfy, very recognisable pyjama, But this is not just a something special. Let me show you why. It's a Qantas research special pyjama. Here, let's do a refill. I was drinking a lot of - Stay hydrated. (gentle music) - This is great. Every airline should do this. This is a great idea, saving the planet. If you are a traveller, instead of using that plastic bottle. - We'd like to do a bit of So it's really going to in terms of oxygen in the body, and it's going, as well, to to come back. So the first one is going So just natural walking. (gentle music) just stretch the side of the body. So try not to go too much on the side. Trying to stretch to the locker, and you can be on your toes. So you are here on your toes. Just gentle, okay? It's not a competition. Five times. Now what we're going to do is stretching the ischial muscle here and the calves, which are the other one that are compressed when we So you can lift this one leg. (gentle music) One, two, three. Six, seven, eight, nine, 10. (group cheering) - [Sam] How do you feel after exercising? - Oh, invigorated. I don't know if I could - [Sam] Were you able to Sydney, 19 hours. - So what we recommend at the moment is two different types of exercise. One is the sitting exercise. So there's a number of while sitting in the seat. - Sitting can be exercise, as well. - Absolutely, we can just - Can you show me the sitting exercise? So you're raising yours heels. - Yeah, and contracting the calf muscle. And this one, there's the other one where you raise the toes. - Raising toes on the front. - And you can do upper So you can do squeezing, You can do stretching one side. You can do the other side. Turn. - You can lift yourself. - [Sam] Left yourself, oh, yes. - So there's a lot of things, and once people feel empowered to do it, then they will find - What we're wearing on our nondominant hands, and we'll be wearing It's got the light metre in it, as well, but it's gonna also looking It gets downloaded to computers, and then they'll be able and our times of movement. Here is also another light metre because they need to assess the light that goes into our eyes. So we need to wear this and our chest, and it's of the light going into our eyes because that affects the Now, Helen, can you tell from London to do this nonstop to Sydney? - In the flight plan, we needed The takeoff weight for the So that's 235,000 kilogrammes. When we get to Sydney, we'll be landing at about 137,000 kilogrammes. So we'll burn a fair bit but we're running a very and we've got a lot of computers and performance engineers - You could even take up more passenger. - We could've taken more today, yeah. We had about 20,000 kilos below So we had a bit more but we couldn't get anybody - All right, I guess it's too late now for everyone to hop on. We already took off. Well, thank you very much, Helen. - You're welcome, Sam. - You can see the entire economy and also the premium economy's also empty. All the guests and passenger are sitting in the front of the plane. Now, that creates lots of room for people to walk down stretching when they needed to. And also, Qantas is telling me if the Project Sunrise will be launched and the new aeroplane will get chosen, the economy class will be on the extra long haul flights like this. Everything on this flight and researched, even the food made for this flight to - So here we've got the with shiitake mushrooms, This is a high protein meal with the high GI carbohydrate and that's gonna help to Comfort food encouraging the production of serotonin and melatonin. - Very healthy flight. There's no Coke, no - No caffeine. - Only the coconut water or And no spirits onboard, as well. So it's entirely a very healthy flight. I think I'm gonna lose Nice, white bread. - [Attendant] Yeah, it's special GI bread, which aids in sleep. - How's that for a nice, - [Sam] Wow, a soup for - Supper. - [Attendant] It's actually supper. - [Sam] This is a supper - [Attendant] In Sydney, it's supper time. - We need to adjust our So this is supper right now. - So this is the main with some roasted tomatoes, and this is to help for our passengers. - Steak sandwich, sir. - Thank you very much. - There you go. And one for you, as well, sir. - Thank you very much. - Enjoy. - This is the vanilla rose cream with strawberries and pistachio And this is a milk based dessert. So something that people when they put them off to and this is our version It's not warm, but it's a lovely, delicious, lightly sweetened. - [Adrienne] So it's - [Sam] Oh, this is a mattress. Oh, very nice, very soft, very plush. - [Adrienne] It's thick. So it's best to have the seat up front before you put them on. - [Sam] Oh, it's a cover. - [Adrienne] So it covers right over, and if you need to put it's got the. - [Sam] Oh, I see. - Special spot there but you don't need that on during flight. So it means you can have this on for takeoff and landing, as well, which is good for customers With our. - [Sam] Thank you. - Now you're set for bed. Night night, sleeping time. Time for us to turn the lights out. (gentle music) - I just woke up. We're now halfway between about 9-1/2 hour to go. Just coming to the galley, - Now, on a traditional flight, we'd have a large selection of snacks and items to choose from, total weight of 1.5 with food and equipment, but on this flight today, because of the length we're limited to 900 kilos. - Weighs our watches, which However, they're actually and they're quite advanced. So they measure the amount of light that's coming into them. We also have alertness testing. So during the flight at we check how alert we on the iPad to test how quickly we respond to a set of data. Outside of that, we which shows how well we sleep. - Six hours to land in Sydney. Now the cabin light has It is breakfast time in Sydney, and we've just been served a piccolo latte to wake up and stimulate I had a pretty good and then I did some aboriginal movie called &quot;Jedda&quot;. It was 1955 movie, and (dinging) and about this flight. And so all the details (dinging) and on my blog. So there are actually quite a doing the reaction test and here I met David. - [David] It's a reaction time machine. Soon as the numbers start timing down, you've gotta push the button. And at the end, it gives you a total score of how well you did. - [Sam] Oh, so it's testing your reaction. As soon as number hit a screen, you tap. - [David] Yep, and it goes for 10 minutes, and it changes duration, after 10 minutes. - [Sam] So sometimes fast, sometimes slow. - [David] Yeah, try it. - [Sam] I think, David, - Oh, yeah, I'm getting very good. Practise makes perfect. - So this is the healthy breakfast bowl, and it's full of roasted cauliflower with a spicy harissa and some watercress, and the idea of this is to go along with the wake up cycle. That's what we use the - Mr. Jones, a breakfast for you. - Good morning. - [Attendant] Sorry to - [David] No, it's okay. - [Attendant] You eat them all. - I could eat all this. (attendant chuckling) - Now that magic moment Shortly we're gonna the second sunrise on this flight. We're over Ambon, Indonesia about five hours to Sydney from now on. - [Captain] At this point of the aircraft, you'll And now we are all members of the rare and special Secret and trailblazers for Project Sunrise. A century ago, the Australian government challenged the world's leading aviators to fly from Great Britain to Australia in less than 30 days. Brothers Captain Ross Smith, and their mechanics, and Jim Bennett took off in their modified Vickers Vimy bomber from snow covered Hounslow on the morning of November 12th, 1919. Some 135 hours of actual on the 10th of December, at Fannie Bay in the Northern near Darwin and shared a Their flight is considered one of the world's great and today we replicate that challenge in a flying machine they and just on 19 hours of flying time. - Hey, Sam, my name's Chris Agnew, one of the second officers on board QF7879 from London to Sydney, and I'd like to share with to my heart. It's a picture of my grandfather that, he used to fly during the Second World War as a air-sea rescue pilot I carry it with me in my jacket pocket 'cause I know how proud and unfortunately he of months ago, so he just missed out on hearing about the news that I was conducting this flight. - Wow, Chris, that was so inspiring. I'm sure your grandfather's - Thanks. what's this thing you're holding with you? - So this here is a brainwave monitor. We are required to wear it at all times when we're So it actually just sits on our foreheads just behind our ears on both side. Designed so that our headset and the microphone boom without any hindrance. It measures our brainwave activities. - Alan, I want to ask you which aircraft you think is more likely, the A350 or the 777X? - So it's gonna be pretty close. We've got both aircraft We're talking to both manufacturers. Both have pros and cons. So this will come down to the line. It's gonna be to the very last minute before we'll make a call. - Okay, do you think - So our intent is by the which is only a few weeks away, that way we will be making a decision on whether we do Sunrise or not. - Oh, so there's a chance - There is. I mean we've still got a The reason why we're is to get our regulator to allow us, to make sure we're comfortable, we're having a tour of duty that can do a 21 hour flight, We're also talking to our unions about changing the employment contract to allow them to do it, and we're also looking at and the final economic case. And then it has to pass that we've set for it. And if it does pass that, then you'll probably see - The last question, as an av geek, we always wanna know what is - My favourite aircraft is the Boeing 747, and that's because. You agree with me? - I agree. My favourite plane is the 747. Please tell me more. - That's 'cause Qantas has a big history, as you're probably aware. Next year, we'll have flown for 49 years, the 747-100, 200, the 300s, the SPs, the 400s, the 400ERs, So it's a piece of history. But unfortunately we are So it's going to be a 'cause we're replacing them with super efficient aircraft like this, but they are still in some ways, I think, the queen of the sky. - I wanna share with When I was 13 year old, from Sydney to Melbourne, the first leg before you're and I was a kid at the back. And the flight attendant saw me. Within a few minute, they call me and they took me upstairs to the cockpit, and I had the fortune to observe my very first jump Something not to tell the regulator is my hand was underneath and we were pushing the on the engine during the takeoff. So it was remarkable. I think this aeroplane for many people, including myself. - That's a great story. - Guys, I have Richard Quest here on this history making How's the flight so far? - I'm impressed at how well I'm feeling, and I think partly it's people like yourself on board. Everybody's walking around. Everybody's gossiping. Everybody's chitchatting about aviation. But also, there aren't So there isn't the same humanity. There isn't the same movement around, carts going up and down, And there isn't just that same feeling of pressure and crowding us. I'm feeling pretty good. We are now, by the way, we have just crossed Northern Australia, there at the top. - [Sam] Oh, we're already in Australia? - Yep, we're over there now. We haven't actually crossed the main, but this looks like it There is the Australia coast out there. - [Sam] Wow, excellent. Thank you so much, Richard. - [Captain] We are passing Longreach out of the left-hand side of the aircraft. It's approximately 131 That's 150 statute miles. The town is the middle of centre of Central Queensland out there. Have a good look. It's in the distance. It'll be very hard to see. It's quite a small town. This particular aircraft in a nod to this Queensland town that was integral to our beginnings. Just for your information now, we have less than two hours to run. It's look like a touchdown and we are currently 1,800 kilos of fuel ahead of where we should be. So that's a saving of 1,800 kilos due to all the fuel we've utilising in the aircraft. Hope you've had a great night with us. We'll be getting busy shortly as we plan and commence our descent into Sydney. It's gonna be a spectacular arrival. It's a gorgeous day We've turned it on for you. It'll be very pleasant. - Hello, Sam, welcome to the - Oh, thank you. you have no joined. Thank you very much. Look at this. - [Attendant] So this of the certificate they used to issue back when the Flight - [Sam] Oh, the original - [Attendant] Then on the other side, you've got the new one. - [Attendant] This is - Well, we are just about an until we arrive in Sydney. I think you can recognise these are the typical Australian The meal I had at lunch was phenomenal. It was a great dish, a - [Captain] Our draught from the west. We're going to do a right turn just before we reach Sydney city itself, take it down towards the south for a series of left on runway 34, then towards the north. Touchdown time at this We'd like to take this for accompanying us today It's been an epic adventure for all of us. We look forward to catching and enjoying all the revelry Thank you, and good afternoon. - [Controller] 78, 79, the threshold. Wind is three two zero That's runway at 834 left clear to land. (wind rumbling) (engine whirring) - [Controller] (muffled speaking) 879, congratulations on their flight. - What a great arrival into Sydney. This is such a history making flight. In fact, I think this research flight will shape up the future of aviation. I'm extremely privileged and I'm actually feeling great even flying after 19 hours. With the arrival, that's not the end yet. This is just the start, a beginning of Qantas centenary celebration. Stay tuned for more. (uplifting music) - We're waiting for you. Have you got some tissues? - [Sam] Oh, this is very emotional. Like this is amazing. Thank you. - Thank you, Adrienne, thank you. - [Woman] Woo! - Well, I've been flying 19 hours inside this great Qantas What a great livery. I just got out of the what a great livery this aeroplane has. (uplifting music) (group cheering) Cheers to Qantas 100, yay! (crowd cheering) (uplifting music)