HIGH CALIBER MAYHEM For many years, this gun was the longest-range artillery piece in the world. With the range of a conventional full missile at 27 kilometers and an active-jet at 40 kilometers. And today it's a new format, new caliber at our show, Please meet M46 130-mm gun By the way this gun was an experimental predecessor of M65 So &quot;World of Tanks&quot; fans gonna recall object 227 and 770. Are there any fans? Leave a comment! And the first thing that catches your eye is the 7-meter barrel. You must want the technical specs? OR let me think, YouTube is always full of fails like let's skip it and etc. Then I offer to start over. See that pile of tires up over there? We gonna take a target practice shot. Let's go! The fuse we'll be using today is a B-429. A Russian fuse that has three types of action. This &quot;F&quot; position &quot;F&quot; means frag, &quot;D&quot; means delayed I mean, this is the way it's going to have a high-explosive effect because the cap is screwed on. If we twist the cap, we get a frag action. And if we move this valve into &quot;D&quot; position we gonna get a delayed action. Delayed mode is used for 2 types of attack For example, if we need some kind of explosion above the trench we shoot under the trench with deceleration, and the shell explodes being in air Or another example, when we need to pierce something through. For example a bunker or smth similar, it pierces the obstacle, and explodes inside having high-explosive action. We screw it in and carry this projectile to where it needs to be. Inside of M-46 gun And before we get started, I wanted to say this. An opportunity to keep stable pricing is a critical aspect in selecting a subcontractor, and accounting is not an exception. And yeah, For 10 years &quot;MAKO Expert&quot; has been successfully assisting entrepreneurs in this. Stability in pricing terms is one of the main advantages of MAKO, the first outsource conveyor. Alexander Lykov, the founder of the company knows firsthand about all the difficulties associated with the cost of maintaining an accounting staff and how hard it is for executives to keep wages down during a general crisis and etc. MAKO has not raised the cost of services since its inception, and 2024 is no exception. Lykov guarantees that they will stand to the end and keep prices at pre-crisis levels. Full material responsibility, year-round accounting and tax audit. MAKO is actually a human-independent machine that performs all accounting and near-accounting tasks without failures and downtime. Even complex and unusual tasks like unlocking bank accounts and legitimate tax deferral. The first in Russia conveyor of accounting services, will not only help to reduce the cost of accounting services up to 80%, but will also put it on an independent rails fulfilling the obligations under the contract, strictly focused on the customer. Full range of accounting services starts from 2K RUR per month with absolute guarantees. You gonna have few specialty depts working for you, rather than A one man army accountant. The company has fully automated accounting processes, and each MAKO Expert employee performs exactly one small operation. He knows her thoroughly, and hence it follows that errors are compounded to zero. Low price guarantee, innovative technology and full liability coverage, plus the first month of service is always free. The link to MAKO Expert is in the description. You're welcomed to follow. OK, we gonna shoot some tires Let's see if the frag range is really as bad as they say. Excellent! Loading the shell Pushing through as well And locking up Last thing to do is to pull a rope. 3, 2, 1 300 30 3! Holy fuck! Unloading the shell Good evening! While you're unloading the shell, it's important It's fine by the way Hold on, I got some serious business here Two mechanisms are used for guidance here. PG-1 artillery panorama and OP-4 for direct aiming. For advancement, the gun is towed by a two-wheeled limber mounted on the end of closed beds. The guys here in the military said there's a military science. If you decide to go for a ride at 120 kilometers per hour, most likely your M-46 gun will be on fire you know why? Because these wheels overheat very quickly. Therefore, the speed should be no more than 30, 50 km max. It takes about 4 minutes to set up the gun into combat mode I think it's not quite truth. The actual crew consists of 9 elements, The charges are in metal shells and are loaded separately from the projectile. The gun's arsenal includes a variety of projectiles such as fragmentation, armor-piercing flares, smoke, and targeting projectiles. The rumors point out to poor frag lesion. A fragmentation projectile weighs 34 kg. It contains 3,6 kg of explosive content. Interesting fact is 130-mm projectiles are produced not only by us but Chinese People's Republic, Iran and Israel too. Each of these countries designed and manufactured their own projectiles. Chinese and Iranians, as it's said, were able to design a charge able to cover more than 40 km distance. 333! That's a real deal now, god damn it! Excellent! We hit the tires after 2-d attempt! Let's check them out! I've reached the range with my Outlander today Even though it's forward drive, I still made it over here, How much it could be at autodrom? There is 2,4 at drom, same that I posses. There are also 3 V GT 4W option, perfect for rough roads But most importantly, the deal on the drom is safe. Here you can find offers directly from the owner. Thanks to complete reports, you can easily verify necessary info via gov, commercial and other databases Such as real mileage, number of owners, being pawned or wanted registration limits, car accident history, fines, and much more. However, if you're still in doubt to buy such a beast There is a feedback from real owners, that excludes any confusions. Shortly speaking, guys, access drom to get a car! What about poor frag range myth? The first hit took place 3 meters away from... Watch that crazy bird over there, and there were two grouses over here Hey birdie, are you out of your mind? That's the fact! What the hell? What? That's sick! Check these stone deposits here! Everything around here Everything around here is That's a noise around here, keep calm, that's cool Or what was that song? And by the way, I don't observe any frags here It doesn't seem to be a frag The first hit was over here, literally few meters away I mean 1-2 meters away from the target which is pile of tires and got exploded. They kept standing still, no idea what was then. The last thing I wanted is to approach here before second shot, but here is a frag. It seems it's a part of a front detonator Right? Yeah It's a part of a detonator, I'll keep it. We have so many explosion episodes, and so less views It sucks we have no monetization any longer. But we're pumping real cringe at our Boosty Channel. So follow the link to check out what we got over there for ya. And the second shot got right into target. And here I can see a huge frag piece Look, they're pretty ripped like. Bitch! Shit! I do same thing always. I think i have the most burnt hands Is there any award for burnt hands, or not really? I think there is no. Watch! Ouch-ouch! Fuck, hot empanadas! Hot empanadas, hot empanadas! We'll take these frags with us.Eti oskolochki my zaberiom. Let me tell you, the frags are very huge! I think if they cause damage, that's lethal for sure. The tires flew apart. And a hit rate is pretty serious. Here is another huge frag, you see? Really good one, similar to 152-mm So, they flew in different directions, and most of them flew off to the left. Because it was on an incline. It's obvious they're pierced. Both the middle ones and front ones. That's something previously made. One tire took no hit! As a matter of fact, probably not then only one Hey, look, one tire seem to be ripped to pieces! What a result, damn! If you take a cover behind tires, your chances are minimal But to be fair, there is always a chance This tire is very heavy, but you see it has really huge apertures. Same as this one They've both landed close to each other Probably were in the air together Same story happened to this tire Multiple frag hits You see the path of the frags? Pierced through the whole tire I can tell you it's not that easy On top of that, if you have a look inside, you see there are even more frags And this sort of wires, there is plenty of them In April 1946, the Artillery Committee submitted for consideration tactical and technical requirements for a unique hull duplex design combined 152 mm and 130 mm. Yeah, the guns over this carriage. This was needed to replace the already obsolete 122 mm A-19 guns and 152 mm ML-20 howitzers. This guy is good for painful strikes Too long, but that's fine Work on the project was officially approved by several decrees of the Council of Ministers of the USSR, the first of which was June 10, 1947. The developed models were assigned the following titles - M-46 and M-47. The technical design was approved on May 28, 1947, and in June 1948, prototypes of the twin-caliber for hull tests were produced at Plant No. 172. And the guns fired from a single carriage, totaling more than 2,600 rounds. Ah yes, after correcting the defects in 1949, the M-46 was retested and it fired 1249 rounds. In 1950, both guns successfully passed military tests and were recommended for adoption into service which occurred in 1951. That's too boring, you wanna say? So let's fire it finally! Remember that Javelin episode? Javelin To remind, I'm the first YouTuber, and probably the only Russian guy an ordinary guy from Tumen region village who made a launch out of Javelin So I tried to pierce through this BMW with a first launch It experienced some architecture changes afterwards but it seems the left board is still can handle some fate strikes OK guys, you're free to watch a Javelin episode, the link is available over here You may watch it now or later, and now let's get back to M-46 gun. Now I'll turn the gun barrel a little to the right and hit that BMP over there which has been through a lot of turmoil in its existence. Aiming check 400 meters Ready to go! Gotta re-aim slightly Sight adjustment I set it a bit lower Yeah, the projectile overflew a bit The M-46 was, in fact, based on the B-13 130mm ship's gun 1935 model. And the B-13 itself was developed on the basis of a 130-mm gun created in 1911 and 1913 by the design bureau of the Obukhov factory. The 130-mm cannons were intended for installation on light cruisers of the &quot;Svetlana&quot; type and Black Sea battleships of the &quot;Imperatritsa Maria&quot; type. Cruisers &quot;Diana&quot;, &quot;Kagul&quot;, &quot;Oleg&quot; and other ships of Russian fleet were rearmed with this type. Were there any &quot;Aleksei&quot; battleships ever? During the Civil War this gun was widely used both in steamships and gunboats, and in floating batteries. Both The Red Fleet and The White one, by the way. 300! 30! 3! Here is one more thing! This thing needs to be pressed, that one lowered down, and only then You can drop off the shell The shell is recommended to move aside, as what may happen is while loading a new projectile you may simply slip over it. That stinks badly! The B-13s were very serviceable guns; they were superior to many foreign squadron destroyer systems, such as those of the French. Both with mass and range of firing. 25 km vs 17 km I know you're not happy about me being here, but I'm here This is a patch we gonna raffle And the one who will leave a comment what's the origin of 130 mm caliber at our forces will get this patch I mean how it was invented, its' origin and etc. M-46 is real badass gun! It's unable to fire over 45 degrees angle It has a really long barrel Its' barrel is 7 meters Comparing to D-30, which barrel is 4,3 meters only. It also has a separate shell load It has horizontal bolt, and it's opened to the right There is no semi-auto mode, the lock opens and closes manually. The barrel consists of a tube, a casing on top, a breech block and a muzzle brake called a peppermill. Anti-kickback devices are a knurler, that at the top, and a recoil brake at the bottom. Recoil brake is of hydraulic type. The roll-brake cylinder is fixed in the cradle cages and is stationary during rollback. The knurler is hydropneumatic. Such a long barrel allows the use of substantial charges, providing more length to achieve full burn and therefore projectile acceleration, allowing the projectile to achieve an initial velocity of 930 meters per second. That's how you shouldn't do ever. Again the same MST-B, for example, with a barrel length of 8 meters initial velocity is 810 meters only. This fact, as well as a much lighter projectile, provides the cannon with such a magnificent range of 27 kilometers. The shield protects the sight, and probably protects against barrel explosion. Or may protect you against shots, if you're being hunted within 500 m range around you. Here is what we're gonna do with 130-mm projectile now The fuse is set to regular high-explosive mode Here is what we're gonna do now We'll adjust it to frag action i.e. we'll screw out the cap, and fire the charge without a cap. There is a baffle that will immediately take an action once contacts the object, and a frag action occurs. The previous one was HE action, the current one is gonna be frag action. Let's rock! We'll try to roll that BMW even farther! In fact it's turned pretty well already! Something got ignited over there, like an oil, or remains of masut... Bam! Ready! Adjusting the aiming slightly It's on fire, imagine? That's the fun! Its only at HIGH CALIBER MAYHEM, whatever is burnt, can get on fire again! Let's go! 300 30 3! Excellent! The BMW got turned once again, so let's check it out! What a hell! Each time this BMW is surprised with new calibers at HIGH CALIBER MAYHEM! Look, the first time I shot without delay. With no delay, it just flew through it, and got banged somewhere behind it. So it set on fire slightly, so I've decided to turn it over. But you know there were 2 more rounds One of them was delay action And check it out now! It got pierced through, but on top of that, the bottom got pierced with frags! And that's really cool! Let's have a look over here! Here are the frags, as hot as always! But I collect them, then do knives of it and aid people. You're welcomed to buy such knives too! Check this hollow part! What a frag If you're hit with this kind, you know you gonna have few chances to make it. I see partial rolls BMW is moved It was standing here, but was moved about 1 meter away The action was pretty serious! With a cap, without a cap That's the puzzle of the day The first round was with a cap, i.e. HE action and the projectile exploded behind, we'll check it out soon. BMW is on fire! The pieces of rolls are over here This one too. And this one looks like a dome part, or stuff like that Take a look! It's not made of regular tin, this unit has armored bottom. And this is the first frag impact When the charge got in contact, the frags got exploded inside. And watch what happened here! The other side It looks like an opened can now Watch this! Beautiful, isn't it? There's even, I think, a transmission compartment separated from the transmission! Or what's that, who the hell knows? But it got deconstructed like V-letter shaped as if trying to tell us something! If you know what I mean! And if you know what I mean, leave a comment, what kind of V letter it is! I hurt my leg well while getting up the barrel One more warning, never get on top of M46 barrel This caliber is too high to get on top of it 7 meters, to be accurate Never mind What? Did you hear some frog doing something around here? It's been a while since my last time here! You seem to have got too bored over here, huh? I'm talking to the frogs, just in case! Look, you see, the bottom part of something fell off. Leave a comment if you know what part is that one So weird. It looks like a projectile landed over there where the grass is on fire, see? There is one more roller over there You see the flowers are already blossoming at the area we're filming same as rollers If you watch over there, a little left, you'll find a tank that was hit dozens of times! So he struggled, and struggled and struggled, and was like all the ammo you got. And I'm like No idea what manufacture But I think you've guessed which production it is by now They're special, as you could notice Will the tank armor be pierced? That's the question of the day for the next experiment With no time to waste, we'll shoot right now! Lowering the barrel And you know where am I aiming to? I'm aiming to the bottom of the tank! I mean it's front side So now, friends, we'll leave the cap and set if for delay mode I mean we'll twist this socket into Z position And let's see how it affects the hit rate Will it improve it or not, I have no idea Switching to Z position Bam! Do you see an arrow? And let's go to do some job! This is dedicated to HIGH CALIBER MAYHEM Subscribers! It hit right into hatch, which means we gotta readjust a little to the left in vector way. That's what I'm gonna do now. The M-46 was first publicly displayed in 1954 in Moscow. It initially replaced the 100-mm BS-3 field and anti-tank gun. To fight against heavy tanks with its armor-piercing projectiles, it firmly pierced 250 mm of armor. However, due to its longer range, it was well suited for counter-battery warfare. It is and has been in service with at least 25 countries and was produced under license in China under the designation Type 59. It was replaced in the Soviet-Russian arsenal by the 2A-36 Hyacinth-B and the self-propelled 2S5 Hyacinth-S. During the China-Vietnamese conflict in 1979, the Type 59 long-range gun played a key role in the battle and performed very well. The M-46, on the other hand, was actively used by the People's Armed Forces of the Liberation of Angola during the Angolan Civil War and the Border War in South Africa. In the mid and late 1970s, Angolan M-46s were used with some success as counter-battery artillery against South African artillery units with relatively small caliber BL-5 medium guns. South Africa later purchased 6 M-46s from Israel for evaluation, which probably influenced the development of the G-5 howitzer, which was adopted to counter the range and effectiveness of the Angolan field guns. The Tanzanian People's Defense Force had several M-46 guns in service during the 1978-1979 war between Uganda and Tanzania. The Chinese version of this gun is possible, as Type 59A1s were allegedly used by North Korea to shell the South Korean island of Yophyong-do in the Yellow Sea on November 23, 2010. The main disadvantage of this gun is its weight and size, which makes it not too convenient to use. In the modern manoeuvrable war. And it's especially notable during counter-battery battles. When the crew experiences limited mobility. And they can't relocate the gun fast Nevertheless, there is info stating that At Middle East this gun was mounted on chassis of heavy trucks such as Mercedes. That was transforming it into mobile firepower. Enough talking, it's time for shooting. That was a delayed one. You've seen it yourself, from the a drone perspective. Now I'm going to shoot a regular HE type. And besides I have a frag one. Yeah. All the dirty job is always to be done on my own. Yeah, bo! Let's do the job brothers! Well, gents, the biggest target of the day! Sorry for my limited hare like movements. Think about hit power, the tank got flipped once again. My first hit was at this huge hatch I'm your father, Luke! And then the bottom was completely finished Speaking about front side hit, we can see this Fuck, why I'm always touching what I'm not supposed to touch You see this glowing? It seems like a huge cumulative hit took place over here it was a HE frag action type. And you can see the frag pieces down there. Some of them stuck inside, some penetrated the metal Ash, why it's so hot? Why so hot, friends? I think the present episode was hot enough to hit like button, leave a comment, and ring a bell To see each other more often Cause you know, we don't receive that many notifications from our MAYHEM lately Due to no more monetization And if you're true subscriber Sign up for our Boosty Channel We have a dream like when we reach 5K of subscribers at Boosty I'll chug 3 x 50 ml tequila shots, at least And you know when I'm wasted, even though I never drink Then I'm breaking bad, you better stay away then To sum up, I would say you were at HIGH CALIBER MAYHEM Channel And it seems to be interesting enough See you! HIGH CALIBER MAYHEM subs by Endless7