Having proven themselves faithful during by the Valar with a new land to dwell in, far Ulmo raised an island halfway between henceforth as Numenor. The Numenoreans and, at the height of their glory, would of Middle-Earth. Upon seeing the masts of shadow enemies would tremble and flee. Their dark lord Sauron to his knees. The Numenorean and arrogance became their downfall. Welcome to where we will discuss how the men of Lost The founding of Numenor Star of Earendil but were forbidden from sailing foot upon the Undying Lands. Because Numenor was dwelt on the island were given a longer span Numenoreans understood the Gift of Iluvatar the same fear of death that lesser men held. with Elros, son of Earendil, becoming the first Over the next 50 years, the majority of the Edain Numenorean Technology most knowledgeable in arts and crafts amongst the Elves. Moreover, many Elves, such as those of bringing them gifts and sharing their knowledge. skilled in arts and crafts, forging armour and the Valar. They developed advanced ironsmithing and strong enough to penetrate troll hides. Soon, of great knowledge and skill, many of whom learned axes, bows, knives and other weaponry. In addition the mining, smelting and forging of lead, copper, swords such as the Blades of the Barrow Down masonry, as seen in works like Orthanc or the also inherited legendary crafts such as the Ring swords Aranruth and Narsil. Alongside a longer lifespan, the Numenorean would no sickness until the shadow fell upon them. roughly 150 ships, brought 5,000 to 10,000 Edain perhaps 200,000-350,000 Edain migrated to on in the thousand-year history of the nation, the 15 million. While Tolkien did not give precise one can make educated guesses. We do know a title held by 25 rulers, three of whom were of Ar-Pharazon, the Kings of the Isle held the Underneath the King were noble families, many the military hierarchy. The second largest noble who ruled over the shoreland region of Andustar the power of decision over the affairs of the the Council of the Sceptre or "King's Council," the six regions of Numenor: Forostar, Andustar, The Lords of Andunie were the most prominent counsellors could have held positions equivalent and Admirals, and been charged with overseeing know of Admiral Ciryatur, who was the commander of Gil-Galad during the War of the Elves and Aldarion, who founded the Uinendili or "Guild of Lesser nobles and common Numenoreans who rose responsible for leading units at various levels. infantry-marine, as Numenor was a maritime along Middle-Earth's coast. There were also an auxiliary cavalry force. The Numenorean means shadow fell upon Numenor, the Eldar bestowed stones that could communicate with one another the Tower of Avallone, while Elendil would after the downfall of Numenor, allowing the later communication against their enemy Sauron . Since all of Numenor's battles would be amphibious and infantry when they marched upon Mordor. The the superhuman Gurkha soldier of our world. heavy armour, weapons, supplies and provisions. small phial of cordial and wafers of waybread that were heavily influenced by the lembas bread of the leagues per day with ease, taking short breaks midday. If necessary they could push to 12 leagues Numenorian infantry marines wore a helmet called covered with a crest of embossed and dyed have no details about Numenorean but given the Atlantean themes of Tolkien's perhaps with a Mediterranean flair. The Artist to late second age Numenorean armour utilizing the cleverly wrought and magnificently decorated In terms of weaponry, the infantry marines bows. Their weaponry was light, strong and seemed in the sun. The infantry marines' main weapons as a result of their incredible height. It is and their swords and spears far outreached the combat, they girded themselves with a short described as a &quot;stabbing sword with a broad and a half feet long .&quot; This type of sword could The infantry marines fought in phalanxes and, the thangail, forming two closely-pressed ranks designed to be flexible so that it could bend maneuvers and even curl around to meet itself formation is similar to the Scottish sheltron, The Numenorian marines also used an offensive wedge formation launched over a short distance It was designed for rapid attacks to disorganize size and strength. While the Numenoreans and strength in close quarters, it was actually The King's Archers ranged unit known as the King's Archers, whose that fired four-foot-long black-feathered arrows. for it was said that 'The Men of the Sea send serpents, or a black hail tipped with steel' were capable of shooting with speed and accuracy, to great distance some 600 yards, and at lesser chief sport was horseback archery, which they rarely performed as cavalry themselves, they Men of the continent for the task, who they The Auxiliary Cavalry fighting, Numenor did possess horses. Indeed, honouring them and housing them nobly. They from great distances, and it was believed some Numenoreans made long bows and smaller bows crossbows, which at first were used mainly of Numenor were never used for war, as Numenorean horses by boat was logistically challenging. The them to be fully equipped on a foot march. Only where they acquired and bred horses on the light-armed archers, often not of the Numenorean auxiliary force consisting mostly of lesser men. By far the most defining feature of Numenor was coast of Middle-Earth. Numenorean ships were known that could carry anywhere between 500 to 1000 and oars, and some would be rowed by slaves after Tolkien stated of the Numenorean Navy and many are made of metal that sheareth hidden but they are no longer fair to look upon.&quot; While perhaps they ironclad their sailships. throughout Numenor's history, such as the great to make the sea voyage back to Middle-earth Almarian was taken in marriage by the King's Numenor. Her son, Aldarion, became known as the Uinendili. Aldarion voyaged east across the visiting Gil-Galad in Lindon. Along the coast, whom they taught crafts, traded and established Aldarion founded the harbour of Vinyalonde at settlement in Middle-Earth. Here, the Uinendili a few centuries of the deforestation of Enedwaith native population, leading to conflict. The dark woods of the great Cape of Eryn Vorn. To that remained of Enedwaith and Minhiriath. This and build permanent havens elsewhere along the In S.A 1695, Ciryatur, the commander of the of Minastir to aid Gil-galad during the War of time to prevent the fall of Lindon, with the to Sarn Ford. A great slaughter of Sauron's withdraw further to Gwathlo, where they linked a Numenorean army had landed at Sauron's rear Sauron was routed utterly and assailed all the his bodyguard remaining, Sauron fled for Mordor . became proud, discontented, and irritated by of the Gift of Iluvatar. A civil war loomed such as the Lords of Andunie. The faithful sought heavily fortified in S.A 2350. A noble family of building a stronghold on the promontory. The of Middle-Earth, demanding tribute from the with. A massive maritime empire emerged. and colonists increased as the Numenoreans began retreated from the lands of Harad in terror. descendants in the realms of exile were some Middle-Earth. Initially, the Numenoreans built but this gradually turned to suppressing local of Sauron. Orthanc would even withstand not get a grip on it nor a crack in it, bruising was unconquerable by steel or fire, unbreakable Minas Ithil, Fornost, and Annuminas all withstood proving Numenor's engineering might. Much like the value of fortification not only as After returning to power, Sauron began attacking "King of Men" and "Lord of the Earth." King tidings and that Sauron wished to destroy Numenor. "King of Men" and force Sauron to be his servant. and, in S.A 3261, landed the Numenorean fleet at Morder, forcing Sauron to humble himself before of Numenor. While Numenor would be the uncontested not come at the hands of an enemy's military but advisor to Ar-Pharazon, managing to deceive the ban of the Valar and sail for Valinor. Armament over the course of nine years, with the Sea." The Numenorean fleet was so numerous it surrounding Tol Eressea on its way to Aman. King making their camp at Tuna. Manwe then called the sea between Numenor and Aman, swallowing along with his host were buried under falling Forgotten until the Last Battle. For all of their splendour and might, the Sauron and delivered to calamity at the hands of sea, with a large portion of her grand navy and Dunedain would survive. Their ancestors fled exile that would usher in the defeat of Sauron, of Middle Earth are on the way, so make sure you to see it. Please consider liking, commenting, and impossible without our kind patrons and youtube links in the description to know our schedule, get and much more. This is the Wizards and Warriors