Vsauce! Kevin here, with a really simple question. Do you want this box of 1000 candies and a or a million candies? Or... do you want just the mystery box? Obviously you'll take both boxes because Might as well grab some guaranteed candy too, Right. Wrong. Maybe. Honestly, I don't know. The thing is... When it comes taking both boxes or just the video will be absolutely sure that they know This is barely a problem, let alone one you'll But here's what's interesting... Half of you will be certain that the obvious half of you will be just as sure the obvious How is that possible? And why is there suddenly a Grandayy genie Let's dissect this problem. Box A has clear value. It's literally clear -- you can see that The issue is Mystery Box B. The contents of Box B are determined in advance who predicts what you'll choose with near-perfect If he predicts you'll choose both boxes, If he predicts that you'll only choose mystery You can't see inside Box B, you can't has predicted before you actually choose. Here's a question. Who even came up with this? Did I just make this whole thing up? No. Theoretical physicist William Newcomb devised And a decade later, philosopher Robert Nozick makes the two equally-obvious choices both It's a contradiction. It's an antinomic paradox. Here's why. If you decide to take both boxes, the genie in mystery Box B -- maybe genies don't like So if you choose both Box A and box B, you'll If you decide to take only mystery Box B, that, too, and put a million candies inside... Either way, it's now obviously better for is a much better prize than 1000. That's one way to look at this problem, of over 30,000 survey respondents chose to other 46.5% thought: The genie has already either put a million He could've setup the boxes a day, a week, The candy isn't going to suddenly appear If he's filled Box B with candy and you 1000 more from Box A, which you can eat right If he didn't fill Box B... he just didn't. You take both boxes and win your small prize You can't really lose. Worst case scenario, the mystery box is empty is 1000 more than zero. So should you take both boxes or just Box What is actually going on here? Why exactly has Newcomb's Paradox confounded Because it's pitting two equally valid methods Utility and Strategic Dominance. Let's recap the two options with a little You may not have a sweet tooth, so let's contains $1,000, and Box B either has $1 million First, we can see our possible outcomes with Basically, we'll just write out the four Excuse me, Grandayy. If the genie predicts you'll take Box B If he predicts you'll take Box B but you -- the million in Box B and the $1,000 in If he predicts you're greedy and will take you get zero dollars. And if the Genie's prediction is both boxes, the $1,000 from box A. To put it another way, these are the outcomes the outcomes when his prediction is wrong. Okay. We mapped out the potential outcomes, now How do we figure out which choice is right? Well, we can actually calculate how valuable It's like the math of making a decision. You simply take the result of a choice and That'll give you a numerical value to help So, let's say the genie has a 90% chance We'd calculate the expected utility of choosing A 90% chance he's right means there's So if we choose both boxes, there's a 10% 90% chance that we're left with just the We multiply the .1 probability that he's boxes and add that to the 90% chance he's that's .9 multiplied by just the $1,000 This equals $101,000. If we assume that the genie is right 9 times we'd theoretically gain $101,000. Now let's find the Expected Utility of choosing values and determine the best choice. We get a million dollars if we choose Box If we stick with his 90% accuracy rate, we add .1 times the $0 from the empty box when per game. By using Expected Utility the best choice is to take only mystery Box B, because an average payoff of $900,000 is Obviously! That's the right way to solve this problem. Until it isn't. The Dominance Principle waltzes in and shouts, Because, look, the genie has put the money comes down to taking whatever is in that box, A. The mystery box has a value of n, and the n is either $0 or $1 million dollars, so your So no matter what's inside Box B, your decision want something plus $1,000 bucks? You're gonna get the something either way, That's the right way to solve this problem. Until the Expected Utility people come back Newcomb's Paradox presents a problem with, as, two flawless arguments that are contradictory. Choosing just Box B makes perfect sense. Choosing both boxes makes perfect sense. So... are you still certain one is the obvious Are we only left with our own personal perception I don't know. Piet Hein, a puzzlemaker, mathematician, and "A bit beyond perception's reach That Life is two locked boxes, each My question is: are you team Both or team Thank you for subscribing to me. Sorry for rhyming? And as always -- thanks for watching.