(cows moo) - The cattle wandered onto res land, John. - Yeah, well, cattle don't know the difference between your land and ours. - Neither did we til the Heh. Now I guess we're showing you. I argued against it, but the new chief, hungry for a fight, this one. - Goddamit. I just don't see how anyone - I don't either, but he don't think like me. Grew up in Denver, went to some big university. Now he thinks like you. - You're not joining him? - He didn't ask me here to hunt. I'm here to talk cattle. - They don't belong to you. - They don't belong to you either. They belong to the people now. - Every one of 'em wears a brand. Anybody tries to move them off the res- - They'll never leave the res. We'll use 'em to raise calves to wear our brand. - I understand your position, Thomas, and what you think you need to do, but I won't allow you to make victims of the people who elected me just to appease the - Your people don't know - Let's keep this about cattle. If you act like a thief, Thomas, I will treat you like one. - How can you stand there on a ranch the size of Rhode Island, and accuse me of theft? Is this your idea of respect? Letting some crippled old up toward your half tame buffalo so he can pretend to be something we haven't been in a century. (gun fires) (men whoop) Look what you've reduced us to. - Dispute over cattle between tribal police, BLM officers, and members of Montana's turned deadly last night, leaving three men dead. - The FBI and Bureau of- - What did Kayce tell you? - The usual. Nothing. - I should have seen this coming. - How could you know he - He didn't want cattle. He wanted this. - The FBI and are investigating two of And though jurisdictional issues will certainly complicate the US Attorney's Office is pledging every available resource. - I'll have a senate You have the full weight - Thank you, senator. We're gonna need it. (door buzzes) - Hey, let's go. - Thank you, for such a visceral reminder of what it's like to be oppressed. - Oh, cut the shit, Tom. You're a Harvard MBA who interned for the PR firm that represented the You never missed a meal in your fat life. But you're gonna miss one tonight, and breakfast in the morning. - You're such a small man, John, with such little ideas. - Yeah, simple's the word You wanna steal cattle? Now you get the bull til you give 'em back. - This was never about cattle, John. - Yeah, I know. It was about you. - It's about you, and everyone like you. You know, after I interned at Emerson, I worked for Meryl Lynch in I figured it'll take about - All of what? - The valley. I'm gonna buy your ranch first. Right after you die, and your children can't and I'm gonna pull down every fence, and any evidence that will be removed from the property. It'll look like it used to, when it was ours. I will erase you from the future. And then I'll do it to the next ranch, and the next, and there's nothing that See, I'm the opposite of progress, John. I am the past catching up with you. - No. You're a thief, and you're going to prison where the past catches up to everyone. (soft acoustic music) At this point, I say we all have played fairly dirty. But no one's attacked my family and no one's attacked yours on behalf of mine. - Nothing any of us say here is gonna change our goals. Our paths will always collide. We fight. One of us will win. But you've been a good enemy, John. A fair enemy. - I don't know if I agree with fair. You've kept your fight with me. I respect that. - Well, now we face a new enemy, and they don't play fair. They'll find the thing you care about most and they'll kill it. - So what do you recommend we do? - I'm open to suggestions. - If you're gonna be honest, be honest, John. - What do you want me to say? - I want you to say - Is that what you want? Or just want you want me to say. - You didn't tell me what This is for my protection. All right? I'll say it. We should kill 'em. We should kill 'em. (dark music) - Hand it to me. This is like a blood oath, except we make the cut later. But I will say this. When things get lost on the reservation, they don't get found. Because most of the time And I give you my word, there will be no one to look. Your turn. - You didn't say it, John. - I don't have to say it. I'm the one that's doing it. (soft acoustic music) (phone rings) - Yes? - [Receptionist] John (Tom sighs) - Things aren't going well, I hear. - No. - I heard from Monica's grandfather. It's always the innocent for the things we men do. - I recommend staying on the reservation until this is done. He got Dan, he's gonna try to get you too. You more than anyone. - I'm ready for that. I'm sending you someone. If you're doing what I think you're doing, you'll need him. And that lets you know where I stand. On this, I stand with you. - Thank you. - I hope you find him, John. And I hope he's safe. - Yeah, so do I. - The FAA has approved as the airport location, as I'm sure you're aware. The state will make an offer, and after you refuse- - The attorney general for the state. I'm not concerned with - It's the governor's decision. - I'm not worried about - It's 4,000 jobs, John, in a state where that makes a difference. Not supporting this will cost her the office. - Well, I'm surprised Airport right down the I'm no hotel manager, but that sounds like a good thing to me. - We want the same thing, for very different reasons, and we can have our fight later, but we'll have nothing to fight over if they build a city here. - Well, I agree with you on that. - You know my business background. It's never one fight that determines if a project moves forward. It's an accumulation of fights. Corporations hate complicated and they need to see a return. They have the money, they have the influence and the reach, but the one thing corporations never have is time. It's their only enemy, and that's how we beat them. We give them a dozen Now, I have someone with a reputation of finding those things and she is merciless - Well, I have one of those too. - I'm aware. That's why I'm here. I think they should meet, put their heads together. And who knows what mischief - I'm just warning you, this genie does not go back in the bottle. - Neither does mine. - Now, what this provides the state is the added tax revenue from the airport from ticket sales, car rentals, hotel taxes, fuel sales, and all with zero investment. It's a perpetually renewable resource that doesn't cost the state one dime. - Could I see the - The Forest Service - Not the Forest Service report. The US Fish and Wildlife report on the impact of an airport beside the river that feeds the one flowing beside - That will be the basis of our lawsuit, in case anyone was curious. It will be a class action suit because it impacts native We'll meet with attorneys from the Greater Yellowstone Coalition, Sierra Club, you know, all the gang will be there. - Best of luck. - We stopped wolf hunting What do you think we're We don't need luck. See you in court. - That's your angle too, John. How does this impact your land? Join our suit. It won't cost you a cent. You won't have to hire an attorney. We'll do it for you. - A little curve ball (soft orchestral music) Strange place for a meeting. - It's necessary. You'll understand why when I tell you. - Tell me what? - Who ordered the attack on you, and your family. - You know? - We know. - How do you know? - I could show you, or you could trust me. But if I show you, then it's your trash to take out. We still have chess to play, you and me, and I refuse to surrender my queen. - Yeah. Who's this? - The man who wanted you dead. - I don't know this man. - He knows you. - Where is this man right now? - State prison, in Deer Lodge. (John chuckles) - You know, I'm not in a I think you need to show me. - Then it becomes your trash and you have to take it out. - Just fucking show me. - I'm truly sorry for what I hope this helps you (man groans) - This him? - This is who he used to put it together. (man pants) - Is this a good thing, or a bad thing? - He'll kill the hotel, and kill the airport. It's a good thing for the land, but I don't see how it's good for us. Not yet, anyway. (soft orchestral music) John. - Not sure of the protocol. - There's no protocol now. The ceremony's over. - Wish I'd known. - Well, grief isn't meant to be shared. But comfort is. And they could use some now. John. This isn't the place, but we do need to talk. - About what? - About the 300 jobs you eliminated, when you canceled the airport project. There's a lot of very unhappy - Can you meet me at the capital tomorrow? - I think you should meet Show the people you care enough to visit. - I can do that. (soft orchestral music) - Well, this is getting interesting. - I must admit, I'm surprised at the support. - Yeah. - Assuming you're here to give it. - Well, this is how bad I don't I can only... I can only imagine you feel the same. - You imagine right. (John sighs) - All right so, who starts this deal? - You're the governor. I'll leave that to you. - Well, it's your land they're Why don't I introduce you? - All right. - Governor. - Progress, it seems that's all I ever talk about. But running a pipeline of an already strained may be progress for the or owners of whatever or for those receiving it, but it could lead to disastrous effects to the land and the people this pipeline runs beneath, which is not progress at all. And for that reason, I cannot support that endeavor and will use the full weight of my office to prevent it from happening. (crowd applauds) - Me neither.