It is one of the greatest and longest-lasting Rising from the ashes of Numenor, it would 3000 years before finally seeing the Return Today, on Nerd of the Rings, we cover the After the Downfall of Numenor, the five ships southern lands of Middle-earth, while their north. In 3320 SA, the brothers continue their voyage of the new realm they would build - Gondor. While known as a great kingdom in later days, northern kingdom of Arnor. Isildur and Anarion rule as Kings of Gondor, High King. Isildur settles in and rules over the lands He builds the tower of Minas Ithil on the to Sauron. Minas Ithil, meaning "Tower of the Moon", White Tree of Nimloth which he saved from Meanwhile, Anarion builds the city of Minas to the West across the river. Between their two cities, the brothers establish The capital city is known for its beauty and Anduin. Aside from the great craftsmanship shown in early Gondorians were also responsible for in all Middle-earth. The Second Age Gondorians constructed the stone. Another great black stone is one Isildur brings the King of the Mountains swears an oath that Gondor also builds a fortress within its realm the Glittering Caves, with other wonders to Among these great cities and fortresses are from the Fall of Numenor. Isildur and Anarion placenone in each in their place one in the capital of Osgiliath, and the northern border of their realm. Among the citizens of this newly formed kingdom These people, many of whom were among the descent, lived in long-held Numenorean colonies The nobles of Belfalas were given a hereditary get Imrahil, the Prince of Dol Amroth. Despite its role as the lesser kingdom, Gondor and populous than the northern Arnor. Though soon enough, Gondor would have to look Shortly after the cities of Minas Anor, Osgiliath, Orodruin awaken, signaling the return of Sauron. Being survivors of Numenor, the Gondorians island kingdom, though this was their first From this moment onward, the Men of Gondor Doom. In 3429, Sauron begins his quest for vengeance He launches an attack upon Minas Ithil, forcing a seedling of the White Tree of Gondor. He sails down the Anduin and out to sea before Meanwhile, Anarion is left to hold out against for the next five years. He would in fact succeed in driving Sauron's enemy gathers reinforcements, they know they Finally, in 3434 SA, Isildur would return the High King of the Noldor, Gil-galad in Anarion would meet this host at the northwest forces in the Battle of Dagorlad. While the death toll is great, especially and presses on to Sauron's own fortress. For the next seven years, the Alliance lays In the 6th year of the siege (3440 SA), Anarion and killed. Finally, in 3441 SA, Sauron himself comes So great was his attack that he pushes the But there, Sauron comes face to face with and Elendil. The three fight in legendary combat until In this moment, Isildur takes the hilt shard from Sauron's hand. No longer able to hold his physical form, is victorious. Isildur returns to Gondor after the leveling forces. With his father and brother both slain in High King. At the border of Anorien and Calenardhon, upon Amon Anwar. He would also plant the seedling of the White And after two years of preparing his nephew hands of its third King. Isildur departs Gondor in the second year High Kingship of both Gondor and Arnor in Instead, he would die after an ambush by orcs, Despite the loss of Isildur, both Gondor and next 800 years. Gondor's growth being only briefly interrupted However, while Arnor would begin it's steady to prosperity. From 830-1149 TA, Gondor experiences it's rulers collectively known as the Ship-kings. These kings, Tarannon Falastur, Earnil I, seek to expand Gondor's might in both military Tarannon, the first of these kings, extends Mouths of the Anduin. Tarranon is also known as the husband of Queen nefarious, solitary, and loveless, and of covered in my Black Numenoreans video. Tarannon is the first King of Gondor to die And having years earlier cast his wife out to his nephew Earnil I. Earnil continues the navy and repairing the old Numenorean port Despite the greatness Gondor had achieved, of Middle-earth - for there was still the port, but under the control of Black Numenoreans In 933 TA, twenty years into his kingship, control of the harbor and as a result, the Still, the sea itself was not tamed, for just never seen again. His son Ciryandil rises to the kingship. The third ship king continues the practice die 79 years later in Umbar when the Haradrim, siege to the city. Ciryaher then becomes the fourth and final He seeks vengeance for his father's death Harad by both land and sea in a decisive victory He forces the defeated kings of Harad to acknowledge Hyarmendacil, meaning "South-victor". At this moment, Gondor is at the very height of lands occupied. Their lands stretched from Celebrant in the From the Greyflood in the west to the Sea The realm was now spread far and wide, but and civil war were on the horizon. - son Atanatar takes the throne as sixteenth During his seventy-seven year reign, the strength The 19th king was Romendacil II, would take And while there had been two kings between ruler during nearly the entire reigns of his great renown in battle. During the rule of his uncle, the Easterlings his battles, Romdendacil discovers not all Seeking to secure the region, he leads a great army occupying the lands between Rhovanion His attack is a success, completely defeating It is then that he begins going by the name In that very year, Romendacil fortifies the the lands of Calenardhon. It is at his behest that the Argonath, the are constructed north of Amon Hen. It's possible that the Seat of Seeing and this time given their proximity and Romendacil's He also took a special interest in the Northmen, Romendacil even goes so far as to send his seemingly small act would bring civil war Prince Valacar would marry a woman of the Valacar would rule for 66 years after his Eldacar takes the throne to the anger of many. For many Gondorians of Numenorean blood disapproved a half-breed had no right to rule. Chief among these was his second cousin Castamir. Castamir was Gondor's Captain of Ships, among other coastal regions of the realm. In 1437, five years into his cousin's rule, city of Osgiliath. During this attack, Osgiliath is covered in in the capital, is destroyed and its palantir In his sack of Osgiliath, Castamir first shows son Ornendil. Thus begins the kin-strife in Gondor - a topic the future, but for now, we'll touch on Eldacar goes into exile, fleeing to his mother's In turn, many of the Northmen previously loyal provinces rally behind the rightful king. Castamir would rule Gondor for 10 years, continuing steadily losing favor and becoming seen as Finally, in 1447, Eldacar returns with a great forces at the Crossings of Erui. Many are killed in this deadly conflict before killing him in single combat. Castamir's sons retreat to the haven of year before sailing with all their forces Eldacar, who had no ships of his own, is unable lose control of Umbar for the next 400 years Gondor, bringing about the Corsairs of Umbar. The Corsairs would ally with the Haradrim Eldacar's son Aldamir, was killed. Eleven years later, in 1551 TA, Aldamir's avenging his father and taking the name Hyarmendacil The Corsairs would plague the coast of Gondor a much greater concern for Gondor in 1636 This plague affects a huge area of Middle-earth, The plague coincides with the emergence of would not only devastate Gondor, but their We are told Osgiliath is especially hard hit Anor to become the new capital of the kingdom. Meanwhile, Calenardhon is so hard hit by the Among the casualties of the plague are not all his children, and even the White Tree After the kin-strife and now this Great Plague, In 1856 TA, enemies would once again come The spirit of Sauron once again moves the This group of easterlings, known as the Wainriders, and had invaded Rhovanion. King Narmacil II leads Gondor and the men of Mirkwood. The battle is a disaster. Narmacil II is killed and the Easterlings Some of the northmen would escape and flee becoming known as the Eotheod. The First Lord of the Eotheod, warns the new his father, that the Wainriders are preparing northmen were also nearing a revolt. With time being precious, Calimehtar leads to meet them at Dagorlad. As the battle seems in doubt, Calimehtar's up with the Eotheod riders and arriving at Between the battle and the revolt in Rhovanion, In 1940 TA, after many centuries of operating of Gondor meets with King Araphant of Arthedain They realize that the wars and plague and coincidence. There is a single force bent upon the destruction The Kingdoms ally once more in hopes of saving Ondoher's daughter Firiel, further cementing However, whatever alliance there was would contest for the throne. Just four years after their alliance, Gondor's The Haradrim invade from the south and just East. Ondoher's distant cousin Earnil II leads north to meet the wainriders. The chariots and horsemen of the easterlings and both his sons are killed in the Disaster After destroying the Haradrim in the south, the Easterlings by surprise in their celebration back to the East. With the death of Ondoher and his heirs, both Arvedui's claim comes from, and would hinge law of accession, which would see the eldest in which case his wife Firiel would become He also attempted to captialize on the fact their children would symbolize this reunification While the Steward Pelendur and Council of of Isildur title commands, they decree the and the kingship passes to Earnil II. Earnil, who is described as both wise and &quot;I do not forget the loyalty of Arnor, nor of Elendil should be estranged. I will send you aid when you have need, so This oath would be fulfilled as Arthedain enemy - the Witch-king of Angmar. In the fall of 1973, Gondor receives word the Angmar War surpasses 400 years. Earnil II sends his son Earnur north with However, by the time they arrive, Arthedain sea. Earnur joins with Cirdan, and the combined Angmar. Earnur seeks to fight the Witch-king, but against its rider's wishes. The Witch-king mocks Earnur, but would himself of Rivendell. It was in this moment that Glorfindel pronounced shall he fall." Being driven from the north, the Witch-king He returns to Modor in 1980 TA and rallies Twenty years later, they lay siege to Minas take control of its palantir, and remake the This once great city of Isildur is occupied Minas Morgul, "Tower of Dark Sorcery". This leads many Gondorians living in Ithilien river. After his father's death, Earnur ascends After Earnur's coronation, the Witch-king reminding him of his disgrace of seeming to Fortunately, the Steward, Mardil Voronwe convinces However, seven years later, in 2050, the Witch-king would accept. He sets his crown on his father's lap in of knights, he rides across the river and None of the company would ever be seen again. After the childless King Earnur is killed the line of Anarion had failed. No one with any tangential claim to the throne another kin-strife. At this time, Gondor is far from its previous have destroyed the realm entirely. Thus, the rule of Gondor passes to the line Mardil Voronwe, the steward who attempted Witch-king, becomes the first of these Ruling As explained in last week's video, the Stewards for they had no proof that Earnur was indeed Out of respect for the King's position, of Gondor, but in their chair of black stone They would also never wear a crown, but simply Upon being sworn in, they pledged "to hold he shall return." While certainly respected, it is not believed come to fruition. There were none in Gondor descended from Isildur's realm of Arnor was wiped out - the sole remnant Rangers. The Rule of the Stewards would actually begin Mardil is said to have ruled with a steady meaning "the Steadfast". And fortunately for his descendants, their known as the Watchful Peace. During Mardil's rule, in 2063 TA, the wizard the shadow growing there. Not ready to reveal himself, this Necromancer much of Middle-earth would have peace. While Sauron goes to the East where he would Nazgul look inward. Rather than plan attacks, they would instead a respite from war. However, Gondor would use this opportunity Minas Morgul. Hador, the seventh Ruling Steward, is recorded of a Dunedain, living to 150 years. At this point, the blood of Numenor waned, closer to that of normal men. The Watchful Peace comes to an end in 2460 be confused with Denethor II, who we meet 15 years after Sauron returns to Dol Guldur - the Uruk-hai. Unbeknownst to their enemies, the lords of Faster, larger, stronger, and smarter than daylight without being weakened. They are unleashed from Mordor and conquer Osgiliath. Denethor's son, Boromir, leads the Gondorian reclaiming the once great capital. However, this would be the final blow to the Already damaged and depopulated starting with abandoned after the attack by the Uruk-hai. Boromir would succeed his father as Steward back Osgiliath, the Steward would have to of Ithilien from the orcs. While he would eventually win back the lands and during the war he receives a Morgul-wound. Despite his strength, which was great, Boromir 12 years into his rule. The rule of Gondor passes to Boromir's son most famous Stewards. He takes leadership of a kingdom where the once more, Ithilien - the land bordering it's province of Calenardhon is almost completely Between Calenardhon and the forts along the primary concern is invasion from the North. He sends out spies so that he may be informed dire news - a new group of Easterlings has Likely descended from the Wainriders, the and using a large number of wagons, they were In the spring of 2509 TA, Cirion receives along the southern border of Mirkwood, preparing Desperate for aid, Cirion sends out six volunteer in the far north. Of the six riders, only one would survive Borondir delivers the Red Arrow, a symbol to King Eorl the Young. Knowing the chances of word reaching the Eotheod would respond, Cirion musters as great a force He personally leads the army north to meet However, the Balchoth crossed the river Anduin north over the Limlight river. A bad situation gets worse as Orcs descend against the Anduin. In this moment, when hope was lost, there The riders of Eorl had come. The Eotheod turn the tide of battle, driving across the fields of Calenardhon. Three months later, Eorl comes to the Mering Since the Battle of the Field of Celebrant, Cirion offers Eorl all the lands of Calenardhon alliance with one another. Eorl accepts, and their two parties ascend of Elendil. With his own son Hallas, two councilors of Cirion pledges this bond with Eorl and his In response Eorl pledges an oath of his own: Hear now all peoples who bow not to the Shadow Mundburg we will come to dwell in the land vow in my own name and on behalf of the Eotheod People of the West there shall be friendship their need shall be our need, and whatsoever them we will aid them to the utmost end of This vow shall descend to my heirs, all such let them keep it in faith unbroken, lest the Cirion then made answer. Standing to his full height he laid his hand the white wand of the Stewards, and spoke awe. For as he stood up the sun went down in flame on fire; and after he had vowed that Gondor and aid in all need, he lifted up his voice This oath shall stand in memory of the glory of Elendil the Faithful, in the keeping of and of the One who is above all thrones for Invoking the name of Iluvatar himself, such since Elendil himself swore an allegiance Elves and Men. Thus Eorl becomes the first ruler of a new in alliance with the men of Gondor. The names Rohan and Rohirrim, being devised With Amon Anwar no longer marking the midpoint and has it placed in the Hallows of Rath Dinen The following 200 years would largely be peaceful Between 2628-2655 TA, during the rule of Belecthor again become a threat to Gondor, though no During the rule of Ecthelion I, the Steward Standing 300 feet tall, the great tower shone It would ever after be known as the White The Oath between Gondor and Rohan would be centuries - though it would not always be In 2710 TA, King Deor of Rohan would request control of the Ring of Isengard. However, this came in a period of renewed answer the call. Egalmoth's son Beren would spend much of During the Long Winter of 2758-2759 TA, Gondor and Harad along their coast as far north as The northernmost of these forces joins with Rohan. Both under attack, neither Gondor nor Rohan However, with Spring on the horizon, Beren's and Haradrim. Thus, Gondor is finally able to send aid to Both Gondor and Rohan would survive these was under enemy control for much of the winter. In the aftermath, Gondor is visited by one The wizard Saruman comes to Beren and requests Beren gladly agrees to having a wizard ally him the key of Orthanc. Saruman by this time had already been seeking the rings of power, and deducing that one During the rule of Beren's son, Beregond, However, these orcs were not from Mordor. Instead, they were orcs fleeing the Battle War of the Dwarves and Orcs. They take up residence in the White Mountains and orcs before the latter are destroyed. Still, Beregond's rule is largely a positive strength. With the blood of Numenor still dwindling son Belecthor II is the last to live to 100 Upon his death, the White Tree of Gondor also However, the people of Gondor would leave In 2882 TA, Turin II becomes the 23rd Ruling the future of his realm. Ithilien was further deserted by his people not forsake these lands. He builds secret refuges for his soldiers threat. The longest guarded and manned of these outposts would take Frodo and Sam over 130 years later. But the greatest threat during Turin II's Ever since the kin-strife, the lands of Harondor, land between the Corsairs of Umbar and the By the time of Turin II, the Haradrim occupied would launch an invasion of Ithilien with Fortunately, King Folcwine of Rohan would to Gondor. Thanks to the assistance of Theoden's great the Haradrim. Still, with this invasion, Gondor completely ones remaining in the realm are the Rangers of their enemies as they could. Around 2900, Turin II would also refortify Gondor from the north. The rule of Turin II's son Turgon would - in 2951 TA, ten years after being driven declares himself openly in Mordor and begins Just two years later, Turgon's son Echthelion Echthelion II is known for his wisdom and the face of a resurgent Sauron. He would strengthen both the haven of Pelargir He would encourage worthy men from both within in exchange for ranks and reward. One stranger who comes into the steward's previously served King Thengel of Rohan. Echthelion grew to love Thorongil above all II. Denethor grows bitter toward Thorongil, and Thorongil advised Echthelion to not trust Gandalf the Grey. Thorongil advises the steward that the Corsairs - would prove a great threat to the Southern Ecthelion permits Thorongil to launch a surprise damages the Corsair fleet. Thorongil could have returned to Minas Tirith message to Ecthelion, for other tasks now For Thorongil would indeed return to Minas of both Isildur and Anarion would return under For the final stage of Gondor's history, by the rules of Denethor and Aragorn, the Age. One who is not sorry to see this Thorongil as 26th Ruling Steward just four years later Denethor and his wife Finduilas, the sister - Boromir and Faramir. Boromir is doted upon by his father and is Faramir, meanwhile, displeased his father Gandalf the Grey. While not as highly regarded by his people be a more than capable ruler. He is quiet, listens to counsel, and is wise However, just four years after rising to the one of many to fall under the Shadow of Mordor Overcome with grief, Denethor becomes even Also weighing on the Steward is the continuing Denethor anticipates that it will be during upon Middle-earth. Despite its dwindling power over long centuries, all the remaining realms that oppose Sauron. This makes the conquest of Gondor Sauron's The weight of these events, combined with Denethor to gaze into the long-forbidden Minas Indeed, Denethor would be successful in gaining we are told his people wondered at him. However, Sauron who would use his captured one of the palantiri. Sauron attempts to bring the Anor-stone under the Orthanc-stone. However, he is unsuccessful. Denethor's strength of will, integrity, Sauron himself - though it comes at a cost. Denethor's already weakening body is given using the stone and Sauron's apparent invincibility This causes the steward to age prematurely. Sauron would finally launch the first attack While in outward appearance, this attack on it also had the secret task of allowing the To Sauron's dismay, Gondor is stronger than Boromir and Faramir defended, then destroyed forces access to the western side of the river. The night before the attack, the brothers a blade that was broken, and the land of Imladris. Denethor recognizes Imladris to be Rivendell - an errand from which he will never return. As Boromir heads north and joins the Fellowship lead the Rangers of Ithilien. These lands that were so long a part of Gondor, Operating out of places like Henneth Annun, like the Haradrim often as they could. On the day Boromir was killed at Amon Hen, Gondor in the distance. Three nights later, Faramir is sitting by he either sees or envisions a boat carrying Several days after Boromir's death, the and taken to Denethor, who knew his son was Thirteen days after Boromir's death, on Minas Tirith. On their way, they had seen another great The beacons had been in place since the late lands of danger in Calenardhon. With Calenardhon now Rohan, they are typically That very day, the Red Arrow is delivered And on March 10, Sauron sends fumes from Mordor, Rohan in the Dawnless Day. That very day, the dark lord sends his host old nemesis, the Witch-king of Angmar. Also on March 10, Faramir retreats across Nazgul by Gandalf the White. In preparation for an assault on Minas Tirith, and west. Those remaining behind are soldiers, healers, In order to reinforce the capital, 3,000 men and Dol Amroth come to Minas Tirith. We are told these 3000 soldiers are less than Witch-king marches closer to Minas Tirith, the Black Fleet of Umbar. Denethor sends Faramir to Osgilith to intercept The following morning, Sauron's host uses the Gondorians, causing Faramir to retreat Learning the Witch-king was on the field of where Faramir had retreated to. Thanks to a charge by his uncle Prince Imrahil, Breath of the nazgul, is saved and brought As the Pelennor is overrun by Sauron's forces, state. He loses his will to fight and gives no more Gandalf and Imrahil must take up command of Throughout the day of March 14, the hosts on the Pelennor. The nazgul continue flying over the city, the battle. The orcs launch stones into the city which the severed heads of slain Gondorians over And with the morale of the Gondorians at its around midnight. The might of the wall of Gondor, and the steadfastness against the invaders. However, the great gate of Minas Tirith is In rides the Lord of the Nazgul, and there - Gandalf the White upon Shadowfax. And unlike Earnur's steed so long ago, Shadowfax Just as the Witch-king draws his blade which the distance - Rohan had come. Thus, the morning of March 15 brings the climax largest and greatest of the War of the Ring. Theoden's Rohirrim strike a mighty blow He personally kills the chieftain of the Haradrim himself. The witch-king in turn is killed by Merry While this loss is hugely demoralizing for Morgul assumes command and the Southrons charge Eomer, having discovered his sister seemingly fully prepared to die as Rohan's final leader. Another prepared to die as the final ruler different circumstances. Denethor prepares a funeral pyre for him and While Gandalf and Pippin would save Faramir, One reason for Denethor's despair was a Denethor had seen a fleet of enemy ships with to enter the fight. Eomer beholds this development and believes and Gondorians will soon be destroyed. However, it was not their enemy in these ships Elrond, and the Grey Company had walked the the Haradrim and Corsairs from the Gondorian Aragorn then commandeered the black ships, fiefdoms who had flocked to the banner of Rather than Eomer being caught against overwhelming hammer and anvil, and the Battle of the Pelennor the Oath of Eorl once again fulfilled. After the victory, Aragorn furls his banner He appoints Imrahil the temporary lord of Aragorn would later enter the city in secret, Merry, Eowyn, and Faramir - all of whom were Greater than any genealogy was this fulfillment the hands of a healer, and so shall the rightful Word spread throughout the city and Aragorn of Gondor. After taking council with Gandalf, Eomer, to lead a force in a distractionary attack chance to destroy the One Ring. This force of 7,000 leaves Minas Tirith on It is estimated that a defensive force of featuring Rohirrim, soldiers from the southern The Host of the West would meet an army of numbering over 60,000. The great eagles would of course also come Ring is indeed destroyed, causing the destruction Gate, and most of Sauron's forces. With the great enemy permanently disembodied to Minas Tirith where Faramir, now Steward King of Gondor and Arnor. Aragorn reinstates the role of Steward of of kings failed, making Faramir both Steward In time, Ithilien would indeed become populated One group who came to dwell there are some is said Ithilien once again became the fairest As for Aragorn, he would be taken up the slopes Gandalf and there would find a sapling of of the long dead tree, which is taken to the After her arrival with her father, grandmother, Minas Tirith on Midsummer's Day 3019. Now king of the reunited Kingdom of Gondor realm. He orders the restoration of Orthanc and has He declares the Druadan Forest a protected The Shire is likewise declared a free land men from entering it without the leave of He also expands the Shire to include the lands Together, Aragorn and Eomer renew the Oaths of Sauron's influence, we are told Eomer For there were many enemies to defeat before Together, Aragorn and Eomer would ride to and defeating the last remnants of those loyal We are told Aragorn makes peace with the Haradrim the Corsairs was finally subdued during his The Reign of King Aragorn II Elessar would He would rule for 122 years before his death At this time, his son Eldarion would take unburdened by the threat of Sauron or great He is left to lead Gondor further into the While we don't know much canonically of serves as the backdrop for Tolkien's abandoned To learn about that story, check out my video As always, I want to say a huge thank you make this channel possible: Rob Thomas, Charles Leasure, CCDCRedTeam, SlideBelts, Dane Ragnarsson, BertoBerg, Graham Woo, and Debbie. If you enjoyed the artwork in this video, purchase prints of their great work for yourself! Thanks so much for watching and subscribing, Rings.