Some games show up beautiful Four new games to talk about Video game graphic design, that is. That's what UI, UX, color choice, font choice, the presentation of information. welcome. Start with this episode, and Don't worry about spoilers today. We won't these games. Also, don't worry too much segment - these are all actually really use a little work for a couple. Maybe head And what a beautiful drawing board it can If you haven't tried Milanote yet, I don't Milanote is a tool that helps you organize Any project you have where you need Milanote can make sure that happens. We use it here for getting a handle can drop in image references, links and to-do lists, arrange them exactly how else working on the same thing. They can add and we all get to keep iterating on the ideas can execute. Milanote is built for this type of you do it way more easily than if you tried to They've got great templates too. You and your group can work making sure everyone's on the same page, If you're building a game, Milanote is a designs in an easy, collaborative, Add stuff, mark it up, take notes, connect and do it all with a super easy drag-and-drop it's a great tool for all Milanote is free. With no time limit. to sign up now to get started. Bring I love great art direction. Moreso when you not only its look. This entire Good Design, to Persona 5's UI and aesthetic. Its kinetic text were striking on release, and still hold both inside and outside fights, with each look at as it was to play. Making something Katsura Hashino was the director, and he's gone quote, 'Really annoying'. The font alone was get the right balance of making the ransom letters and the presentation style has survived, with some But at some point, there would be a successor, Now, you can't hype a successor to one of the most the ball in the art department. That wouldn't 'How the hell do we follow up on the art how about we throw it back a few hundred years? Metaphor isn't about stealing hearts, it's about society. So it does away with the thief motifs The UI's theming evokes the drawings, notes, ransom note style has been replaced with ink and sketch motifs. Background color blocks be physical brushstrokes. Thin, scratchy Most UI elements incorporate motion, but not distracting amounts of it. The the corners. The character portraits all to add to visual interest while being The game's fonts still have that wild mix of but they're definitely more reserved this time. The art direction repeatedly goes back discovery. You can't go 5 minutes The Archetypes - essentially character classes Vitruvian Man, itself a symbol of the merging Velvet Room replacement is called Akademia, astrolabes, and a ginormous statue that also they too...are the Vitruvian Man, if that Each new bond, the system that is sealed with a handshake, whose depiction shadows in the illustrations in Gray's Anatomy, Many monsters and bosses are homages to Renaissance painter, and one of the earliest The game isn't fully stuck in touches of the modern world sneak in. The intro street shops in the capital look a little more The game's visual direction fits with its work their way into this fantasy realm. Hashino the game felt much more like a and adding in contemporary elements help it This whole thing IS a metaphor, after all. The combined effect evokes a world on the brink fantasy elements the studio has always been but nothing quite exactly like you'd expect, discover fun new touches all the time. It's a cohesive, unmistakable art direction. Everyone loves a classic. Art, music, that stands the test of time. But classic in one context can be very out of place in the UI that works perfectly once - in one needs of another. It might be obvious that the but what happens when a UI element wears Zelda: Echoes of Wisdom is the first and the first one made in the modern 'Open Air' In this style, puzzle solutions are designed problems in their own way. It's also the first one around the titular Echoes - copies of objects Each echo does its own unique thing, and you'll and solve puzzles. Need to cross a gap? You could OR, summon a bunch of Strantulas and climb on Scribblenauts with how wide a range of options all while in combat and sending a bunch of offensive once you get the hang of it. There's just Back in Breath of the Wild, they introduced this on the D-pad to pause the action and bring up scroll to what you want, let go, and shields, bows, arrows, and your special and were quick enough to scroll Now jump ahead to Tears of the Kingdom. Lots but we've got a whole new category to fold and Ultrahand, you'll be selecting from a HUGE shoved into a single new carousel. You're now scrolling through dozens of things to get from one side of the menu items are useless fluff only good for cooking, Echoes of Wisdom made the be gathering a TON of echoes throughout and you'll NEED to swap between them frequently. and managing all your echoes becomes the most The single horizontal row menu is way too slow Roughly halfway through the game, you'll have enough echoes that it'll If you try to get creative, or use many echoes, you'll find it's way more of a pain than it even though there are multiple free buttons saving grace is the 'Last Used' and 'Last Learned' of the line, but it's just not enough. which fixes a few of these problems, but it's sorting options like the regular menu, so The gridded design in the default quick menu but as it is, it's just too slow. It worked you so many things per carousel, so you couldn't to the same UI design under completely different and not having to teach a whole new thing to a purpose, and that overwhelms any other benefit Whenever you're borrowing a solution check if the problem it's solving has changed. There's a lot of games whose puzzles feel tacked but once in a while there's some question or a slide puzzle to get to an exit, and you yourself in the world. The puzzles in these Chants of Sennaar feels like the opposite of that. Chants of Sennaar is 'Context Clues: The Game'. only way you're going to get to the top is through communities of people, all living in the same all speaking completely different languages that together what's actually going on in this society, Beyond your typical adventure game puzzle gameplay is its language deduction puzzles. dozen glyphs in each language. You'll see them carved into stone, on tapestries, you to figure out what they could all You can pencil in your translation guesses, you see in the world with it, so you can see sense. To get some assurance you're correct, the Obra Dinn. Every so often, once you've the game will pause and have you try to meaning. If you get all of the glyphs on true English definitions will lock in The game is a deduction puzzle. As you figure of what's around you. It lets you grasp more people reveal themselves to you. As you travel The glyphs aren't haphazard. They're inspired and different cultures across time. Each language The simple glyphs might look similar to the object first things you see, and it means 'Hello'. Easy details that might help you deduce meaning. that they're made up of sub-glyphs, not unlike languages. You might know that this glyph means like this box here, and it might change the words gets more complicated with grammar rules and the and it's a mystery whose answers give you the also the slow burning satisfaction of being able It's really a monumental task to make a world creative director at the developer Rundisc, had about how incredibly difficult it was designing puzzle design all simultaneously. Any additions the game, requiring new words or changing context, almost lock in everything at once. The immense The sheer attention to detail this game has and mechanics feel like one cohesive whole Chants of Sennaar is an immersive experience, in No game can be designed in a vacuum. set of expectations. Those can be genre a trigger will make a bullet fire in a first like which direction you read events on a timeline stuff that Lorelei and the Laser Eyes tossed Lorelei and the Laser Eyes is a very way through an eccentric movie director's locked doors, mysterious clues, and holes in the a little bit Twin Peaks, well, a lot Twin Peaks not the movie). Uncover the director's out what exactly is going on, so you can start It's a very intricate escape room-style clues from all sorts of sources and using them to unlock more rooms through conversations, film synopsis notes, and a hundred other little things to solve wreck the game if they didn't do it like and can reference all of this material in the house. With all of these pieces to put together menu diving. A LOT. And while you're in there, one Every face button, every bumper, and every You can press pause or select to get to the every button does the same thing, and that Are you not next to anything in particular? status screen. Next to a puzzle? Tapping will with information? It'll popup so you can read it. from your inventory to work? It'll open up This all sounds great! The game knows exactly what that. There's only one single thing you COULD'VE You'd never, say, want to open up the status menu that'd be silly. So you can't. Anything you since you've opened the puzzle, you right now. There's no WAY that you misclicked, try to submit an answer. You definitely Instead of having a universal action to quit every menu have their own unique way to exit. This corner. This screen you have to pick an option up to get to the shackle to submit an answer. Hope you can find it! Sometimes you've got to let zero chance the solution worked, and you didn't This is all an explicit design choice wanting to make sure the game experience Quote, "An intricate meal should not That's a great goal. But you can't remove before bad things start to happen. Simogo has given players a 'morphing, Maybe not if you fully trust the process, Most of the time the game is correct, players are going to make easy mistakes - I just completely disagree with to exit out of a menu is not an and adding it as an option wouldn't remove the Again, this game is really good, and but it's one that appears in literally might not be much, but you can still If you've got a segment you'd like Bad Design, leave a comment! Or head picked up Chants of Sennaar and how Great design is about paying attention to context, and thinking about how each part fits into every element of a game work together - into into telling a consistent story, into a *chill vibes from Echoes of Wisdom*