- I found a list of the 20 - I'll be the judge of that. - And at number 20 in the list - Did you see that dinosaur? I'm a sucker for a theme. It adds a lot to the water park, you know? - Oh wow. - Cool. - I think this would get - If that was the 20th best I can't wait to see number one. - My mind's gonna be blown. - Now we're coming in at I think we saw this in Oh my gosh. - This is like when the - Oh, I like this one. - Yo, I don't even see water. I don't see it, all right, now I do. - There you go. It looked like that person had to kinda feed themself into it, you know? - Yeah, that would knock - Oh, well, you know It's from Poland. You know what they have? Lots of poles. - Hey, he got me, he - Oh my gosh. - Whoa, apparently they have warp gates. - What the frick? - Yo, that looks like whiplash the ride. - I would be panicking. - This still looks like at a weird angle, you just fall off. - This guy's enjoying it though. - This one looks a lot more calmer. - Ooh, it's starting, eh. Okay, now you got me. - All right, now we're in Malaysia. One thing I've noticed is America has not been on the list yet. - They are not doing so hot right now. - America sucks. - Oh my God! - I would be terrified! Oh. - Who goes to a water park I don't know, I just, I couldn't do that. - People wanna wear jeans down slides, let 'em wear jeans down slides. Guys, comment if you've ever - Water slide. I would expect you to wear - Wet &amp; Wild in Sydney, Australia. - Hey, that's what they call me. - Because he drinks a lot of water. - I do drink a lot of water. Here's your daily reminder to drink water. - Yo, that's a fun slide. - Oh, and they all just... Okay, that's really cool. - That looks like, you know where he had that thing - Yeah, it's called an - The state, right? - No, that's Oregon. - Oh, you're talking - No, that's a trail. - There are a lot of things named Oregon. - Why is there a lot Ooh, that one kinda like It looks a little safer than the last one, but you could just fly off right there, it didn't have any It's called the tantrum, when he doesn't get his &quot;Dino Ranch&quot;. - As he should, the king - I've watched the one season of &quot;Dino Ranch&quot; that's - I thought you were talking about ranch that tastes like dinosaur. Now this is Area 47 in Australia. - Austria, not Australia. Come on, what are you doing? - Not to be confused with Area 51. That's a military base. Area 51 is not a water park. But area 47 is a water park. - Hey, see, you can tell where it's a cooler climate, 'Cause if this was in Florida, that ride would be 1,000 degrees. - All I can think of is this metal does look a little military, and maybe this is just a I'm not letting this go. I think we're onto something. Finally, America, it's on the list. - Not only America, but the most American thing - America, don't let us down. So this is in a Disney place in Florida. - Got a theme going, I like it. Disney is known for their themes. - Tidal wave, that's pretty cool. - I'm allergic to that. - Aesthetically, this looks cool, but the other ones looked more fun. He's not getting much speed. - This is the thing though. It's called The Rudder - Coconut Crusher, okay. Maybe Disney gets to dub for funny. - Yeah, the names is out of this world, the ride itself, eh. Whoa. - Dude, stuff like that would terrify me. What if the door opens, against the back wall, do you just fall? - Just smack at the bottom and then slowly slide Oh, see, there's no Oh my goodness. - I would try to touch the top. - I do every time, it's fun. - Fun fact about this guy right here, he runs a channel called TubeRides, and he has over a million subscribers, just filming himself Imagine going to college, working all your life and make less than this man that rides down water slides for a living. - God speed, waterpark guy. Oh, oh my God. He's going so fast, you can't - That was insane. Up next is a Swedish water park, let's see if we find PewDiePie. - There he is. Every Swedish person is just PewDiePie. - They all just look the same. - I mean, so far, I I'm not impressed yet. - Yeah, but we've seen stuff... Okay, this looks lit. Yeah, okay, there we go. - I don't know, I prefer the - Nah, this looks like somebody's colon. I like this a lot. Now this is one of the ones but it's not fun to write down. - It also looks like you'd smack your head on one of those rocks. - Now let's see what Turkey is capable of. Not the food. - Oh, I thought we were - No, no, it's a country. - Hey, it's a snake. - All right. Oh! - Yeah, this is cool. - Yo, okay, so far, Turkey - See, this is how you do themes right. Make it cool, make it a - Turkey's getting some dubs here. - Yeah. Oh, turkey's - All right, so far - Oh, and the ramp? That's a higher ramp than we've seen too. - Now we are in the top 10 I'm excited for number one. And what better way to crack Who would've thought New Jersey - Ooh, Pepto-Bismol pink, love it. - That's huge. Does that not look than the other ones? - The tube also looks insanely large. The best one, number one, - We need to pause. Everyone say your prayers to Shrek. - You see Shrek, and &quot;Oh yeah, that's number one.&quot; - Oh, and out of a dragon's mouth. - Oh, it's the dragon that donkey dated. - Launch! - Oh my gosh. - That one's fast, whoa! - Let's jump on over to Germany. Oh my God, and then it goes dark. - Oh, and then green. - Yeah, how much more to just change the colors of the slides a little bit like that? That made it 10 times cooler. - Yeah, 100%. Oh! - Yo, this definitely Oh my God. - Hurricane Loop. - I just... He's going so fast. That is insane. - Well, let's jump over to Dubai. Dubai is very, very lavish. There's just no world where this isn't the coolest water park. - Yeah, you're already getting speed. - We're off to a good - It's great right now. Oh, this is kind of This is cool. Okay, this water park a little higher. - All right, now we're which I don't think has - No, not yet. - I just feel like Brazil It's a good climate, Oh my gosh! - Yeah, it is big, it is very big! - We are officially in the top three. Florida, bring it home for us. - Come on, Florida! Okay. They made it, it's like That's funny because that I really think that these rides are only in the top of the 'cause that's funny, but the Okay, now, yeah, yeah, yeah. - It's getting better the more he goes. - Summit Plummet. - Do all the rides just rhyme? - All right, let's see the next one. If it doesn't rhyme, this - Trogen, Troj, Tobogan Racers. - It was hard, but you did it. - Tobogan Racers, it doesn't rhyme. - It doesn't. - Doodoo water park! - Okay, does Germany actually Let's find out. Ooh! than I thought it would. - This probably costs like - This is insane. Are these all real plants too? - Yo, can we go to Germany? - Yeah, let's go to Germany. - I'm sorry for Florida, - They just took a poopoo... - Oh yeah, lunch money. - Wait, Germany has This is number one on the list. And we waited this entire time for this. - This better be good. - Eh. - All right, let's judge the water slides. - Okay, I like the design. - Oh, you're supposed to race with people, look, there's three lanes. That one's like a race - Wait. It pushes you! Whoa! - That's cool, okay. - Yeah, all right. See, this is what I'm - Yeah, who else is doing this? Oh. - That's cool, I've in my entire life. - Okay, I'm starting to Because every other place is just dumb. - Yeah, it's all the same but they actually have like innovation. - All right, comment down below which one you think should be number one. Also, if you haven't already, because we're giving random you could get money in