Hello, and welcome to UnHerd here with David Fuller, founder our favourite YouTube channels, of its life, but you are of heterodox ideas. You have past week, because you came out Peterson. This is someone who intimately involved with the did some early interviews with from his kind of world in with him. Basically, you wrote you no longer think that he is a public debate. Tell us what your So as you say, I first 2017. I was hugely taken with that what he's saying about maps of meaning lectures are contributions, I really value started, we were talking a lot work, the religious depth of his side. And there are always There was the cultural warrior - through Bill C-16 - but there came for the controversy, found thought, and he was incredibly world's most famous public years. And I've described him as for the culture war. So an and significant story to were multiple Jordan Petersonses mostly at the kind of deeper his thoughts and what he was I still think, as I said, is audience was really tracking And what I felt has happened completely understandably in a unfair attacks on him. He was media in 2017-2018. And in a thinkers back then. A lot of the Rebel Wisdom, part of our the typical, young lost man as it. There were a lot of people So he was a filter for free the last five years, and again given his health issues, given of the unfair attacks, he's polarising figure. And I argue that he now resembles the media portrayals made him out to What is that, what is that would have defended him from and He now looks to me like the one side of the culture war, he was bringing before. He used Left and the value of the Right, I felt, he was trying to Jungian frame, which understands positive side, the negative nuanced arguments about how each time, what I've found is that tickling the funny bone of the synthesising figure. And that's because of the shared history the documentaries that I put out of a lot of the Facebook groups thought, tracking the Reddit shift in his audience. So that that there seems to have been a really still into him because of see him bashing the Left and the the deeper mythology, the thought, and many of them have more recent content that seems attempt to steer a path in the So you're disappointed by this? would have stayed above the this way? It's a charge that he He clearly picked a side and he to have picked a side. He situation is is bad enough that to pick a side, and I can way. A lot of other people see problem is in picking a side and advise people to go and have a released after his Twitter ban off-putting: the way he was Okay, so let's actually look at he tweeted something that has suspended, unless he deletes the So he says, 'Remember when pride had her breasts removed by a quote tweets, a New York Post is the new name of the actor who is now a man. What's your take Yeah, so this was the inciting from Twitter. I want to make the culmination of quite a lot of overweight swimwear model, and him suspended. After this, he his YouTube channel about this rant. Got a little excerpt of it here. I'm not taking down that tweet violated the Twitter rules. Up who cancels who. So here, the first thing that now got this quite background with a halo light mysterious button, that will tell us what it stands for. what you're noticing? He's quite I think the aesthetics are that in a moment, but I'm more discussion of Elliot/Ellen page. playing that clip, and he physicians statement by saying, they criminal, or not? That kind that's going to appeal to people the aisle. It's not going to already bought into his argument how someone who's a clinical - I don't know how you can have some empathy for people who are If you're only going to take a this, one of the most difficult culture right now, I just don't to do that without some nuance, you're only trying to appeal to It's a very delicate argument to it's an argument that is journalist as well, even the New couple of weeks ago, had an Bazelon, that was the first time Times, which previously had a position of trans women are say, they had this long article the making that finally conceded people have been raising for a and things are still thing to things shift in the culture, not side of the culture war. And I Peterson five years ago, would that sort of synthesis or that increasingly now I just see him nuanced argument at all, just side of the culture war, and I that. And I don't believe that's I do think - and this is what conversation is - the impact of capture and all of these make us into more extreme what we've seen with so many Jordan Peterson, over the last something I think, so many names, just - Let's name some! Russell Brand. Russell Brand, channel, it's very clickbait-y YouTube audience. It's much more calibrated for a YouTube capture, particularly on giving the audience what they thread that creates the echo bubbles, and I think it has a a know this myself, maybe you do YouTube channel, it starts to There are certain topics that I talking about or talking about self-censoring, and feeling what the audience wants. And the don't think people recognise, I films like 'The Social Dilemma', how it brings out the worst in tribalism, all of these issues, coming back if we we're involved and splits society. I don't impactful that is on creators, institutions are increasingly are getting their their news, information from individuals, characteristic of those flaws are those individuals, the say, what they don't say, all of so we're in a world where shifting sands and also where polarising effect of the more and more extreme versions that what I think has happened was holding out this more years ago, and has just steered the audience wanted, which just being a cultural warrior, not his own side. Would he not say, and I should and discuss this with us and say, it's not culture warrior or realising what his position is? searching role, he increasingly believes to be closest to the virtuous and necessary to fight that, if that's what he would Yeah and I imagine he would also are really much more urgent than that's why I'm responding to it. on in Canada now with the of these issues.&quot; And, of different views on this based in the UK, I've got a does being in Canada. But I just even if you believe that these the world - I don't know how you anyone with basically yelling at worked in an argument when you're not trying to at least from, argue in a way where you just don't see - even if you issue in the world - I don't delivery and intensely yelling And I think back in the day culture war dynamic - and again, admiration for Jordan Peterson 2017, and I understand, as I for the culture war, you can't through without that having some uncomfortable talking about him, only met him twice. I was in documentaries that I that I did. he was on Channel Four News years, and then rose to fame Newman, so there's a real shared uncomfortable talking about him, he's a person I've met. He's a for, because he's been so open story and that's part of what he's a real person - He's falling short, you feel It's not for me to judge whether say is my experience and what groups of people who've been say the universal response to the people that I respect, with over the trajectory of &quot;Thank you for saying this. No such a kingmaker, because he's the nature of the alternative hierarchy of status, where might get him on their podcast, The alternative media people corrupting factors in the many corrupting facts in the is one of the reasons that successful, Rebel Wisdom's been successful, is that the media parody of truth-seeking, but alternative as well. I want to come on to the whole media and whether that can be Jordan Peterson. We actually had was asking very similar I said, &quot;You used to be this web character,&quot; and now, I think he's very much a conservative, world, and he's fighting to win. basically, that he's given up on being fair arbiters for these whole new institutions need to point, and I think maybe Jordan place, where it becomes about contribution they can make is fighters on one side. I have to Maybe that is true. You might be liberal-minded character is no useful to the world as a I don't think that's true. I another good example. But Dave vanished from the conversation. him being particularly talking to a very small echo the aisle. Dave Rubin - where is conversation. Jordan Peterson that's where Jordan Peterson has that explicitly. For a long time framed as being a Right winger, winger. He's on record as saying winger, and I'm not, I'm things that are not part of the right, all that we can do now is I don't think that's how you have faith that there is still I don't see that happening. So I wonder whether this is call them, incentive structures, the new media ecosystem, social whether it's just a human like that. We are built to form Peterson would agree with that. thinking. And that's how we're need to be surrounded by people back what you think, and that with some kind of coherence. And of thinkers, or warriors, or how human beings have always liberal or the person who floats all sides, is actually quite an sustain for very long, because eventually it becomes too there's something more flowing team. Maybe it's not social But I would say the two things beings? is human beings. It is media, is that Silicon Valley sophisticated tools to mine our tribalism, to magnify our are effective in groups have ability. That's the the idea. existential threat, because it's perspectives, rather than That's why we have the different something in a way I took from those different temperaments, the Left to be more open, on the disciplined, more conscientious, groups of these mixed is increased polarisation, social media mining our innate into groups where I think we itself I think is breaking down, we're in a different position hope. I think there is a civil culture war, outside the sense fragmentation. In America, I America is in a very dark place. as adding to it, as fuelling it. to talk a lot about the danger danger of this unexamined a huge amount of disgust, a huge dehumanising language in a lot moment. And I don't see - he has you resolve those kinds of conflict. And I think he's conflict. I think that's that's what needs to happen, and Dave Rubin decided, what's war, or just to win the culture Isn't politics, agonistic or ultimately, one group needs to everything is always a thinking differently, has never what they're doing, they plan to persuade; they plan to win. I that a frightening thought, do Again, it's understandable and you're saying, looks like that's It's a decision I'm disappointed think a lot of the people who've tracking in these various was up to something different. culture warrior. And if that's embraced, then I do find that Let's talk about the alternative shutting down Rebel Wisdom. Is of disappointment at the state should we be doing, that we're It's not solely because of that. the narrative arc that I was was 'Rebel Wisdom is complete.' I've got quite a few things that the end of the project in narrative arc that I was existential risk, personal thought is complete. And also I itself became very warped, talked about the alternative the uncanny valley between the We've got a mainstream that is trying to dig gatekeeper the include enough voices. And then which will platform a lot of there's no incentive to during COVID, you had - because heated, very weaponized, because information around COVID now had mainstream not including enough from from some of the problems the alternative rarely had any people that they were bringing Robert Malone. I've never seen medical figure who is equipped Other people who became very because of the narratives that Who are you thinking about? Robert Malone, Peter McCullough, was a whole controversy over Joe those voices. And it ended up cancel Joe Rogan, and there was think was very cynical, but that these voices. He's not equipped is equipped to challenge them? to - I don't think it's enough not take any responsibility for putting out. So I think there the lack of institutions - there institutions where we are voices. At the moment, the &quot;We're not going to touch this.&quot; level of prominence, I think interrogate the truth of their that's trying to do that, not in mainstream. And I don't see - Not to blow UnHerd's trumpet been trying. There is an make on who you're going to definitely. And there were lots suggested we should have on some of those people have become make a judgement at the time. I audience trusts the host or the And they might be wrong; they else like Joe Rogan, or Bret to a different view, I'm happy wouldn't, I don't think, ban it. judge them too harshly for of view. I think that's the allowed different people's to whoever they think, truth. Yeah, I'm more concerned with example, if you're hosting argument. You mention Bret difficult experience because disagreed, mainly with the fact from the counter-point. He was Malone, he was asking questions strong statements about effective prophylactic against during the pandemic, he went on they made a lot of statements ivermectin that I think have people are saying, &quot;Well, maybe there, and there's an argument If he was here, which he was Would he still say it was 100% You would have to ask him. But he has not still to this day a medical voice who's equipped ivermectin or vaccines. For me, truth-seeking. And I know Joe does try to have people from And people will make their of the people who are making the media space, but what I'm incentive for anyone in the people from the other side. there's no reason to ask them they might not come back on. effects of the alternative I'm thinking through what you're you mean. And I understand the impartial figure or someone who side. I suppose in reality, I'm corruption or audience capture known for more one side than the perhaps they feel that their overall discussion space by view to the table. If, for BBC, CNBC, any channel in the US time and time again, and they're merit of bringing those people anyway and if they do, you're discussion with them that might realistic thing to ask, I alternative media space that BBC-like, or in some kind of of course is never possible realistic to say, and as I keep as long as people are kind of point, that's actually a more conversation where guests, come from somewhere because that from every BBC journalists, profile, what they really think a more honest way to have the impartiality. What do you say to Yeah, I think it's true that the Do you think - if we're really at impartiality. I think the has shown up, that the kind of of the mainstream, was always an really healthy. It's kind of people talk about the MSM, which oversimplification, but there's was a kind of narrowness of the alternative media has expanded perspectives you can find is picture - do you think it is a that we're all just getting of mutual incomprehension. And creators. The creators, I think, perspective and they then start to improve their understanding understanding of the people who we're just trapped in that's what the audience wants, civilizational decline in some reward. And I think, ultimately, Because if you don't have - now where we don't - not we don't even understand how people think. We're in mutual how a society survives with this level of mutual incomprehension. said, I think it's probably is that the conversation is so living on the downslope of fragmented there than it is fundamental problem, because how solve - we've got huge problems And if we can't come to any are, and we can't even have about what those problems are, I dangerous thing for the future whether that's democracy or think that deep fragmentation waves, we're on a receding one, said, mutual incomprehension, is there's stuff we've got to look do and to tackle. I've spent the last five years of the most interesting, people like Daniel and universally, they are problems, existential risk twelve different existential and we don't know how to deal everything that I've been post-liberal times and probably the very least. And I think part I think exponential tech is at Schmachtenberger, who I the generator functions. And the drivers, the generator the fact that there's a race to tech, that it's trying to kind they're all in a fight with each which means that they end up the worst aspects of our feel like we've exploited the we're kind of exploiting the And in a way, our own psychology by the tech platforms, and all - narcissism, tribalism - is by all of this. Jonathan Haidt conversation with Sam Harris - 'The Righteous Mind - said, of gravity. What would happen if You'd find planes falling out of change downstream from that, and different world. He says, we did with social media that of our social interactions. The the gravity, changed how salient changed how intense everything getting from our phones. So it conversation in the social more intense all the time. And downstream. The availability of that it's preying on our worst that's an existential danger. Let me try and make an might or might not manage to do. thinkers like Jonathan Haidt do together with social media and very new, very contemporary talking about, which I agree fragmentation of epistemology, people are moving into camps each other, they can't even discussion. So there is no think that is happening. But of affairs. If we were living in may not have joined the Trojan troop, or Agamemnon's troop or liberal set of principles that were different tribes and And that's basically been human ago with the Enlightenment. And sense of, &quot;Hey, we can all be principles and a single theory the anomaly. And that was the just not a sustainable set of return to a kind of maybe people feel more they all have to sign up to a single version of science, and what isn't true. Maybe their team, pick their religion, feel comfortable with, even if at odds with other groups. Do you think there may be a kind of this destruction? Maybe the much a new dystopia created by more normal human world that feel more human in? Not sure I understand your ago, we still had the were going to war, still do go one society that was all united There was very different values are you talking about the end of I'm talking about the invention colonised the rest of the world, philosophers gave this idea of a accessed through the scientific underpinnings of the modern secular world, and it does feel period, it was a phase that had second half of the 20th century, sense that's clearly breaking up philosophically, even within you talk about, people no longer I just wonder whether there's it's just a bleak disintegration Can you join me in trying to Yeah, I definitely agree we're senses we're at the end of a way of understanding the world, definitely think we're also in one of the reasons I was really that I felt he was articulating secular world, in a way that able to go toe to toe with the we're in post-secular times, religions, or the religious areas. We're seeing it in religions in so many different, return of the irrational, as the Q shaman in the Senate: that howling to the heathen gods in empire. So we're definitely in a think that's exciting. That who's always been interested in the Jungian, all of this sort of where we need to go through deep collective shadows, I think, are Partly because of the people, all of these things now feel like we're going to have to cultural processing of all of means that we'll split up into more comfortable, and maybe future, I think getting to that quite messy. But, there's a lot whether we're at the end of the people than me, so I won't guess a way because it does feel like worldview now, which I think - I rationalist, materialist, perspective, so deadening and tune with what it means to be a welcome the fact that it feels But I think we can't throw out need to keep science, we need to systems and the incredible created. So it's transcending losing all of that. So we've painted maybe a bleak, picture of major change, and interesting, civilizational anything we can do as the overall outcome or play our I feel like the answer has to be about the tech platforms and how psychology against us, that's world's getting more and more more confusing, more and more answer has to be to really mindfulness, with more practice. Peterson's department, a guy making a documentary with at the nature of self-deception, how we deceived by the culture, and the embodiment practice. And my - That means meditation and does practice mean if you Different self-development the Rebel Wisdom project has about the ideas and the psychologies, but also the breathwork, to meditation, to journaling, to all of these Prayer? Interesting one. We haven't prayer is a really valuable - It's the OG, it's the original Yeah, it's a psycho-technology, it. And what prayer does is, It's admitting we don't know and humility practice is really talked about post-secular, I reintegrate, what was religion what have we lost by losing those in, in a new way, so practices that religions had, to individually and help ourselves cutting edge, I think, is what religion. What were the developed to help us thrive as How do we reintegrate those and way that we're being manipulated our own capacities individually, David Fuller, thank you. Freddie, thank you. That was David Fuller, the is a YouTube channel that us, but is sadly entering its will of course, carry on here at supporter, a big supporter, of Peterson. Now, as you heard, for the good or not, but it discuss someone who's not in the discussion, and if you are delighted to have you on next the same things with you This was UnHerd Ideas.