I'm Arno I'm Brent, and we're going to eat in the best steak restaurant of whole Belgium. Carcasse by Dierendonck opened in 2015. In Koksijde. They got a first Michelin star only two years later. They're currently the fifth best steak restaurant in the world. Today they opened the second one here in Knokke. Head chef Timon Michiels was awarded best young chef. He's still only 26 years old. He learned from the greatest like Peter Goossens and Alain Ducasse He will be our private chef today. Teach us about meat, and serve us an eight course menu. Welcome to HONGER fine Dining, episode one. That's perfect. Timon! It's an honor to meet you. Nice to meet you. Welcome in Carcasse. We're here in our small butcher shop, it's a little selection of the meat that we have for you guys to try later. Every customer that walks in gets a little slice? Like I got when I was a child. With Hendrik in the butchery in Koksijde. I've been coming to the butchery. Since I was two years old when I was a little kid. I always got my little slice. A slice of cold cut. That's how you recognize a real butcher. From the small butcher shop Timon takes us to the heart of the restaurant. The holy grail. I never had an idea of how heaven would look like... It get's close right? We have some Belgian meat. We have some, European selection. We age everything between 4 to 8 weeks. The typical Flemish breed that you use is the West-Flanders red. Yeah. We have a West-Flanders red. So that's a cow that we breed ourself. in Koksijde. It's very lean. It's very meaty from flavor. But then we also have Oedslach. It's a bit of honor from Henrik to his father. We are going to select the best cows in Europe most of the times milk cows. And we're going to age them just a bit longer. So aged to eight, nine weeks, super creamy, very intense in flavor. How is working in Carcasse? It's, nice. I learn a lot from him. He's a great mentor. I didn't tell him to say that. Ok Timon it's time you show us your meat. That's what I always try to do. We're going to start with this one. Let's go. I think that will be mine. Arno? You also want something for lunch? And then we have a little bit of pork also. Did you have all the butcher skills before you start working here. No, nothing. Everything that I learned in Carcasse is from Hendrik. There you go, guys. The more you keep on the beef, the longer you can age it. So we're going to age the tomahawk. Even a bit more than, the normal "cote" because of the bones Yes because of the bones. ..The trimmings ... There's no way there's going any air in the meat. So this one, we really go like 12 to 14 weeks. The main course for today, a beautiful tomahawk. The Oedslach "cote a los" and something really special. And then for later in the tasting. Menapian pig So it's a pig that's, it's been extinct 2000 years ago. And we found, together with University of Ghent DNA back in Rome. So the menapi is an extinct boar. An extinct pig that you guys brought back to life. Yeah. Together with Hendrik, a farmer and University of Ghent. It's not Jurassic Park, but we've chosen the oldest breeds in Belgium. Most of the time we still pair with wild boars. So we're almost close. Like 90%, 95% to the pig that was living with us 2000 years ago. While Timon is putting on his chef's coat, we get ready to indulge in an eight Like a horse! High five! The start for the guys going to serve some sourdough bread. Pastrami of Holstein that's been aged. We're gonna cook it on the plancha. And some lard. In Belgium, we call it "smout with kaantjes". You see it nowhere in the restaurants anymore. It's super greasy. A quenelle of butter and then have a little surprise for them. Let's make it a bit romantic. You're trying to tell us something Timon? We always start with sourdough bread from "fourchette" a beer from Ghent. Lard. Very classic. Nobody serves it anymore. Is just super flavorful. Quenelle of butter smoked bonemarrow. A little bit of sea salt. If you wait long enough for the candle, just have a little dip. And some charcuterie. Pastrami of Holstein, aged for 12 weeks. Pickle it with some mustard seed. Just finish it on the plancha. Gives it a nice, creamy, smoky flavor. Enjoy, guys. So this was a classic before in Flemish restaurants. And, I don't know, maybe in the rest of the world too. Instead of butter on the bread they used pork fat, with "kaantjes", it's called in Flemish. It's like cracklings. And this is a Holstein charcuterie. This pork fat is super good. Charcuterie. Super delicious. The extra touch that it gives with the plancha. It lifts everything up. Out of the park. And this one was smoked bone marrow butter. Thank God for your memory. Why did you say? Wow. Exquisite. The way this butter melts in your mouth. Makes me melt in my chair. We go for the combination Holstein charcuterie smoked bone marrow butter, sourdough bread. Here's to you, the crowd started from the bottom. Now we're here. From the streets of Marrakesh to the Michelin star restaurant Carcasse. It's not bad... Not too bad. All right, next up, we're going to start, some charcuterie, on our bone. Nose to tail. we're not going to waste anything. I always like to serve the first dish on the bone. That's some nice dried entrecote of Oedslach aged for 12 weeks. A bit of a nutty flavour. I think it's "Samson or "Plop sausage". A cream of, smoked hay. It gives some smokiness to the meat. A little bit of olive oil. Some black pepper. Now we have some, pickled carrots. We pickled them a little bit. in thyme vinaigrette to have nice contrast with the meat. And of course we're at the sea, so we use a lot of sea herbs, "sea aspargus", for some saltyness. And some old Parmigiano. All right, guys, On our shoulder, we have our dried entrecote of Oedslach. Has been aged for 12 weeks. Made a cream of smoked hay. We pickled some carrots in some thyme vinaigrette. To have some contrast with the meat. And then, finished off with an old Parmigiano. Beautiful. The cream is really nice. What is the green? "Sea aspargus". This is what someone once told me. This cream is to die for. I can see something growing in Lukas' pants. It tastes a bit like salami with mayonaise. Next for the guys beef tongue. Bit of honor for my grandmother. As a kid, I always had to eat beef tongue in Madeira sauce. I didn't like it. We made a very fresh version. So carpaccio smoked, slowly cooked beef tongue and olive oil, thyme vinaigrette. Nice and juicy. Finish with some rock salt. Little bit of black pepper. This place has a really nice atmosphere. And also, because Timon only 26 years old, looks 24, but has the aura of a guy who is already almost 40. He's got everything together. He's young, he's super professional, he's playful, he's an amazing host. He makes us feel so welcome, we're under his wing. I can't wait to see where he will take us tonight. Hopefully to his apartment. Made a horseradish cream. I add some oyster leaves and some radish to ot.. It's very light. This is by far the best candle I've ever eaten. Then a cream of horseradish. Some fresh radishes on top just to get some crunchiness. And then we have some sea fennel again some saltiness just from here. in the dunes. You think the guys are going to like beef tongue? Let's see. An honor to my grandmother as a child I always had to eat the beef tongue in Madeira . I didn't like it. Was way too heavy. As I always want to recreate old dishes with Hendrik into a new style. I cook the beef tongue very slowly. Broth, juniper berries. There's some thyme in there. And then the cream of horseradish. We made a relish of radish, and we finish with some sea fennel. It gives some saltiness and goes super nice together with the really full flavor of the beef tongue. Superb. So it's beef tongue. Old school, but a new way. Let's dig in. Beef tongue carpaccio. Just as it fits our philosophy. Nose to tail, nose to cock. Delicious. It tastes really like a very nice carpaccio. You don't really taste a lot of tongue. It's, It's very subtle. The balance is nice. You have some freshness. Very fresh. It's a carpaccio but a nose to tail carpaccio. Yeah. Wow. Superb. I love it. That's some serious gourmet shit. Damn, Jimmy. I'm going to slightly salt and season it with small pepper we grind. We're going to cook it in beef fat pure beef fat. It goes way higher in temperature. Doesn't burn as quickly as, butter or olive oil. So you can give a nice crust to the meat. Then we going to just let it rest for 30 minutes. Good amount of beef fat. The plancha is super hot. Like 350 degrees. That is going to really give it a nice crust. Finish it with the beef fat. Very liquid. Nice beef fat that we put on top. Well, you can never have enough beef fat. They have a nice crust on top. That's what gives flavor to the meat. We have a very special announcement. This is our first fine dining show. And as you know, fans of the channel, we come from Street foods. We wander around the streets and eat the most accessible foods. We know that fine dining is not accessible for everyone. That's why we agreed that every restaurant that we collab with on fine dining must do a giveaway to one of our audience. The rules of the games are easy. You just comment on the video. The best caption wins the prize of comming to eat here at Carcasse for two people. Yes, two people. It's two people, okay Timon? And get a drink with me! Comment down below and the funniest comment wins a dinner for two or a lunch. Next, my signature dish. Gonna make bone marrow for the guys. Bone marrow that we, slowly cooked already. I'm gonna finish that off with some salt, some nice pepper, and we're going to make a tartare of "bavette" West-Flanderd red our own cow from here in Koksijde. Some nice caramelized onion oil. I have a little surprise for the guys. A bit of fresh Belgian Caviar. Oil that we make of the caramelized onions. Nice salt, some nice pepper. Keep it very pure. It's important to try to yourself. Cool tartare. We made a cream of sweet onion. And some of our nice caviar. These guys are not ready for this! Oh, I'm loving the look in your eyes. It's my signature dish. Bone marrow. Slowly cooked, finished on the grill to get a little bit smoky. Beef tartare of bavette and the cream of sweet onion. Finished with some Belgian caviar. Just go dig in, get a toast. This is fucking bomb! Wow. Beautiful. Grab a toast. Oh, this is one of my most anticipated dishes that I was really looking forward to. Because I know it's his signature dish. Timon Michiels, Michelin. Oh my God, EUR50 of caviar dropped off my spoon. Here's to you. And you. Wow. I'm not saying anything. The mellow warm bone marrow and then the caviar hits. A work of art. Beautiful. Smooth and very subtle. Caviar. Bone marrow. Bone marrow is like a universe by itself. Tartare on top, the caviar on top the cream on top. It's a trio of greatness. It's like MSN, BBC. The football BBC. Holy cow. I'm going to make shortrib for the guys. Finish fregola pasta. Short rib of menapi, I'm going to slowly cook that like 12 hours, 70 degrees. Finish on the grill with some smoked soy. Shortrib on top. Cream that we make of tarragon. A little bit of lime in there. Crunch of cashew. Mixed salad. It's a little bit spicy. Foam on top. Menapi short rib. Slowly cooked. Finished on the grill with some smoked soy. Underneath fregola pasta. A little bit risotto style. So there's some Parmigiano in there. Some herbs that makes it a little bit spicy. And finish with a buttery, creamy, thyme sauce. It looks amazing. How's the pig tasting? I don't know what to say about this. It's just so good. Very nice. Very aromatic. It's not too soft. It has a nice bite to it. Close to the bone always has a lot of flavor. Fine dining experiences make me speechless. Then it's the "moment supreme". The three cuts that Timon butchered in front of us. The flames of the mibrasa grill is giving the meat a final char and a touch of smoke. Dry aged royalty. This is what Carcasse is all about. I am going to finish that with a mixture l make of beef fat, hazelnut butter infused with some thyme, shallots. and garlic. Makes it very creamy. Some rock salt. So first of all. Tomahawk. Next Oedslach "cote a l'os". This tomapork menapi. A little bit of Blackwell. Like I explained, the cap of the tomahawk, I'm just going to cook it a bit more because it's very aged. I always cook it a bit further. So the flavor is more accessible to eat. If this doesn't looks like heaven, you know, I'm not sure anymore. So Oedslach house selection eight - nine weeks of aging. Tomahawk. Also of Oedslach but like 10 to 12 weeks of aging. The cap of the Tomahawk. So very strong in flavor. And then Tomapork menapi. Underneath, very classic.Blackwell sauce. And I work always with two local farms. So we're going to serve no fries, no sauce. Again, no fries, no sauce. I know we're in Belgium, but fuck those fries. Enough places that do fries. I want to do my own thing. So five side dishes. We have tomato salad, basil cream and then a fresh tomato broth. Young cucumbers on the grill, cream of goat cheese and a jus of buttermilk. Young carrots, a dishI learned in Marrakesh. Underneath is "Zaalouk". A mediterranean, grilled and a little bit fermented eggplant dip. Cumin crumble. Two of my classics, pickles Carcasse, a Belgian pickle. And the mousseline Carcasse. A dish that has been on my menu since day one, it never changes. It's mousseline of potato with sour cream and some smoked bone marrow. Can I already ask for some extra mayonnaise? No no not at all. Look at this. Beautiful. We're going for the trademark of the Butcher of Carcasse, Hendrik Dierendock. The Oedslach. Let's dig in. That flavor is intense. Unlike anything I've ever eaten before. It's so natural, so qualitative. This is so good. Also the fat is delicious. Yeah. It's exquisite. This is the tomahawk. Oh, the color already. Very different flavor. This one is juicier. Caveman feelings run through my veins, you know, don't let anyone ever tell you that the red meat is bad for your health. The best food in the world. Don't trust the government. Please government sponsor to show. The cap of the tomahawk. No cap. This is something completely different. It's a whole new concept. It's a lot more chewy but the flavor is another level next level of intensity. All right. Let's try the cote a l'os of pork. Bon appetito. I remember the dry pork chops from my mom when I was young. This pig has nothing to do with it. This is like the best porkchop you've ever eaten. I think surprise wise, in flavor. This is even my favorite. It's it's pork you never had before. Yeah. Exactly. This was a Moroccan inspired dish. Baby carrots with "Zaalook". Amazing flavor. Best carrot. Best flavor. Look at this cote a l'os. Remember guys you can experience this yourself. Write down a funny comment. What a feast. Now it's time to show our thanks to Timon. Please take a seat. We have a little something for you. Thank you so much. Can I open already? Super nice. So beautiful. Carbon steel, if I say it correctly. It's hand forged. Also, Also, the wood that has been used for it. Thank you so much, guys. Thanks a lot. Awesome. Maybe let's make a little dessert. I'm going to make a little dessert for you guys. Crepes suzette. It's one of the classics. French classics. It's almost never back in the restaurant. Nice caramel. Look at that. This is pork fat? And then some zest that we made of orange. Super shout out to BRAM MOLENSCHOT for this amazing knife. Crepe suzette and also dame blanche. I like to serve my desserts very classic. Freshly turned vanilla ice cream. Qalted crumble. Made a chocolate sauce that's a little infused with coffee. I'll let the chocolate sauce here with you guys. Let's dig in. Phenomenal. Incredible. This is so good. It's the best ice cream I've ever eaten. No cap. What? Give it back. So creamy, so soft. It's also not too cold, you know. Exactly. Guys thank you so much for being here. It's a pleasure having you guys. Of course we finish with a little bit of meat. So first of all, homemade madelein. Very classic, but I changed the butter. That's usually in the recipe, into lard. I have a friend of mine Julius Persoone from the chocolate line. And the guy makes the best chocolates in Belgium. We created a praline Belgium chocolate praline. And inside there's smoked bacon. And again, the crunch that you had in the lard. The lard is in the madeleine. And the crunch from the lard is a thing you have, as crunch in the praline. It's crunchy outside. creamyness inside. And I finish with a bit of orange. Crunchy from the outside smooth on the inside. The crunchiest madeleine I have ever eaten. Julius his father Dominique Persoone started the chocolate line in Bruges. and now Julius is even changing the way of making pralines. So he's fermenting a lot. It's a bit the same style as I do with Hendrick. I take classic dishes. And I want to serve them in a modern way. The crunch is insane. It keeps on crunching. That's really the pork fat that you have. It's nice that the crunch is on the bottom. You really taste it's on the bottom. So it's the first go through the, the mousse or the praline I don't know, I'm not sure. Yeah very nice. It's extremely crunchy. There's the milk chocolate. There's some almond praline inside. The saltyness that you have. Thank you so much guys. Thanks a lot. Hope you enjoyed lunch. Thanks Timon. We'll be back tomorrow. Subscribe. Rastafari.