So here we have a four-stroke engine and here we have a two-stroke engine. If we observe they seem very similar. They both have a crank case as well as a wrist pin and a piston they also both have a cylinder and they both operate by converting into the rotation of the crankshaft, which then turns the wheels of the vehicle. But beyond these core start to fundamentally diverge resulting in two And what I want to do today is give you the solid understanding of how a four-stroke and a the differences, benefits and drawbacks of each of why the four-stroke ultimately prevailed over larger, heavier, more expensive and more complex. Why is it called a four-stroke? It's because the one combustion cycle. Every time the piston moves One stroke of the piston equals 180 degrees of intake, compression, combustion and exhaust. During Which are also known as top dead center it creates an empty space or vacuum inside the a brief absence of air and because we have an In other words, we have low air pressure outside the cylinder. This air pressure difference to equalize pressure everywhere. And so air into the cylinder and fills it with a fresh air all the air and fuel that can hope to As it does that it forces the air fuel it's compressing the air fuel mixture which is Just before the piston reaches top dead center the which finds itself between the two electrodes of described as a bang or explosion that isn't what's which is a rapid uncontrolled process. In contrast slower, more even and controlled process. Combustion The small portion of air-fuel mixture initially ignited by the spark plug heats up and ignites the next layer of the air -fuel mixture. This layer then ignites the next layer and the process continues until all of the air spreads it rapidly raises the temperature Because the cylinder is sealed this pressure has nowhere down the cylinder with great strength. This is our the only one that actually generates power, by combustion into motion of the piston which then By the time the piston reaches bottom dead center and we now have exhaust gas or the remains of As the piston moves up once again the exhaust gases leave catalytic converters and mufflers out into the then you've probably noticed how my explanation of some very important questions. And these are: how do How do we keep air and fuel as well as combustion And how do we allow exhaust gases out? and it's valves! The intake valve opens during Both valves are closed during to prevent air and fuel, as well as combustion the exhaust valve opens during the exhaust stroke Now the valves are operated by the camshaft and As the lobe contacts the rocker arm the As the lobe releases the rocker arm the valve as soon as possible. The shape of the how long it remains open. The higher the lobe The broader the lobe the longer the valve But for the engine to run well we must ensure that the motion of the crankshaft and the piston. It connects the crankshaft with the camshaft to That both remain closed during compression and combustion. And that the correct valve opens during exhaust As you can see our chain is very doesn't have chain guides and tensioners which are As you can see the four-stroke engine needs of the cylinder. These parts are a source of weight actually have to steal some of the engine's power to overcome the resistance of the valve spring somewhere when the engine is running. So the by combustion to open themselves and allow the these mechanical parts are a source of potential and the timing of the engine isn't correct it can In extreme examples the timing can be so off that it results in An interference engine is one where the at different times. This can often enable a more leads to engine failure in the event that the two-stroke we can see that it replaces all of this, is the cylinder head together with the valve just a cylinder cover or cap. There are zero moving parts. No valves. No chains. No cams. No springs. And therefore less weight, less complexity, less cost So then how does the two-stroke get gases in and out of the you should take away from this video it's this: The for the combustion cycle. Whereas the two-stroke In other words, the intake charge or air and the piston in a two-stroke. Whereas the intake Now let's observe the combustion cycle in a and the piston at top dead center. So in the cylinder and pushing the piston down. While below the piston and I'll explain how it got there it opens up the exhaust port which allows some and at the same time the downward motion mixture below it and pushes it into the transfer As the Piston goes down some more it starts compressed air fuel mixture from below the piston the cylinder has already decreased substantially to escape through the exhaust port. This means transfer port is actually at a higher pressure which means that as the air fuel mix enters the remaining exhaust gases. But as you can see our the piston which means that the air fuel mixture The air fuel mixture itself is also free This brings us to the first drawback of the two-stroke. unburnt fuel gets dumped out the exhaust. This of are ways around it and we will cover them in this and we have an air-fuel mixture above the piston pushing up and compressing the air fuel mixture, more fresh air and fuel into the cylinder. As the below the piston. Just like in the four stroke continue to exist and so the air-fuel mixture port and occupies the area below the piston. When compressed air and fuel above the piston ready to ready to be pushed into the cylinder when the The two-stroke combustion cycle and design longer than the four-stroke piston. It must be long port blocked off as it travels and approaches top gases could enter the area below the piston but also escape out the exhaust port with the piston piston is at top dead center a combustion event The engine only needs two piston strokes to each 360 degrees or one full engine revolution results engine combustion occurs only every other time Combustion occurs only every 720 degrees of engine rotation. many combustion events or power pulses for the the two-stroke engine can make twice as much power for The other important thing to note is that in a four-stroke engine. Each completed stroke of of another stroke of the combustion cycle. But They overlap and occur simultaneously. enables it to squeeze more action into the same My explanation the two-stroke like for example what is this big gaping hole in of the piston doesn't just push the airflow Well, no worries we're going to answer these questions on the price that the two-stroke pays for its Let's start with how we prevent the air and fuel from going To do that many engines use this. And this is a A reed valve is essentially a one-way valve. It When the piston moves up and creates a pressure zone in inside the crankcase, while a high This pressure difference forces the reed valve means that there is very little pressure acting acting on the outer side of the petals forcing crankcase the pressure soon equalizes. As the air fuel mixture pressure actually becomes greater them shut, The design of the reed valve is such and so crankcase pressure closes the petals escaping back into the intake. Now the elephant If you have ever owned an engine in know that lubrication is key for engines. Without occurs and quickly leads to catastrophic failure. under the rings of the Piston is constantly usually circulated, filtered and pressurized by an metal surfaces is always strong enough to So the elephant in the room is the area If this area constantly sees air and fuel then how do quantity of oil here as in a four-stroke and keeping combustion chamber and probably prevent combustion solvent making things even more difficult for So then how do we prevent metal to metal contact in Instead of only getting air and fuel under the But we keep the quantity of oil low enough to prevent provide some lubrication to the moving parts of lubricating oil or two-stroke oil into the engine. fuel that goes into the fuel tank. The second more two-stroke oil and have an injection pump which carburetor where it mixes with the fuel and air to fuel inside the engine is usually somewhere to fuel is anywhere from 24:1 to 50:1. This of lubricating oil is inside the engine at any and fuel the oil also inevitably ends up inside This is where the smoke and the smell of two-stroke small amounts of oil all the time. This is also why known as a total loss lubrication system. The oil it's lost and topped up as necessary. This means two-stroke isn't nearly as consistent or reliable to a significantly shorter maximum potential or lubrication quality can overcome this inherent two-stroke engine on a motorcycle is somewhere than that but many won't make it even that far and rebuilt well before that. Racing two-stroke 15 to 20 hours of operation. In contrast to this can make it to 50 000 kilometers. Some even get on cars and trucks regularly make it passt three The flip side of this is that although their rebuilds are usually much less expensive the total loss lubrication system is that burning the key reason why many legislations around street legal two-stroke vehicles and only allow be made and sold. The difference in lubrication and evident in the piston rings. The four-stroke The third set of rings in a four-stroke are getting into the combustion chamber Oil control because the oil gets into the combustion chamber for the two-stroke here because less rings means But the piston rings don't just differ in in the four stroke, whereas in the two-stroke they Now these pegs are missing from this particular piston but or locating pins go. Their purpose is to prevent done to prevent the piston ring ends or gaps from which will lead to engine failure. Instead the travel over the area between the transfer ports by the ports. The free floating ring system of the the rings to rotate can help ensure more even The lack of consistent lubrication is also why roller bearings as the rod and crank bearings. Ball than plain bearings but they're far more resilient hand most four strokes can use plain bearings together with a good film of oil offer excellent But our example four stroke engine actually uses very compact and inexpensive engine which has a the kind of lubrication that oil pumps on larger two strokes are limited is the compression ratio. between the largest and the smallest volume volumes when the piston is at bottom and top dead the air fuel mixture leading to the air and fuel improves combustion speed and strength leading demonstration engines are actually single cylinder a 90s Honda Spacy scooter. It makes 10 horsepower 52.4 millimeters and a stroke of 57.8 millimeters. sports bike which is also from the 90s. It makes 16 newton meters of torque and has a bore of 56.4 why the four-stroke engine looks very underpowered restrictive intake and exhaust designs. The other economy and user-friendly power, whereas the power which it manages to build and hold over Although both engines have similar bore and The four-stroke engine has a compression manages only 5.9:1. Why is this the case? Well the four-stroke utilizes the entire volume of piston is at bottom dead center and ends when different in the two-stroke. Compression does begins when the piston closes off the exhaust port. isn't sealed and air and fuel can't be compressed. This is why in a two-stroke the compression smallest cylinder volume is the ratio between this than THIS and leads to a much lower compression performance in a two-stroke engine. The final more flexible thanks to its more complex, bulkier A camshaft is essentially the mechanical completely transform the character and performance the camshaft, you can simply shift its angle advancing or retarding the camshaft to impact while the engine is still running. Most modern systems which advance and retard camshafts as torque at low RPM and good power at high RPM. Many single camshaft and can switch between them during at low RPM and high valve lift at high RPM which throughout the rev range. In contrast to this the They are a fixed part of the engine's construction. the exhaust port. And this finally brings us to the house THIS. And this is a part of a system called Other manufacturers also developed their own systems have the same goal and despite what their instead the goal is to even out the power band of and more linear power band and power delivery. Our style power valve and it rotates to make the larger at high RPM. Now the power valve works together engines and that is the expansion chamber present the principle of wave resonance which is similar When the initial acoustic wave of your voice a delayed weaker acoustic wave. The exhaust pulse wave front and when it encounters the changing reflects another wavefront back to the cylinder. the fresh air fuel mixture that's trying to escape is moving slowly and this means that the reflected in time to push the fresh air fuel mixture back entirety of the exhaust port and can reduce its is that during combustion we keep the cylinder more of the combustion's energy which results in As RPM increases the piston moves faster and faster and wave from the expansion chamber to make it back So we increase the size of the exhaust port to do it's thing. We do sacrifice the increased duration so building power and torque really isn't an issue together with high emissions and poor efficiency glimmer of hope in the future of two strokes and Direct injection basically means that we're spraying instead of bringing it in from the also has benefits for four-stroke engines and many But the benefits of direct injection By spraying fuel directly into the chamber we exhaust port gets closed off by the piston and fuel from being dumped out the exhaust port which It also removes the solvent properties improve the lubrication of the rotating assembly. this technology and it's still in the development become a mass production reality. And there you different types of engines. Each with its own managed to explain in an understandable a lot for watching I'll be seeing you soon