This video is sponsored by Warby In February 2017, the world watched as the main suffered a catastrophic failure, prompting a nearly 200,000 people downstream and hundreds water infrastructure. I made a video about the after the independent forensic team released summarizing their 600-page report. There wasn't monumental project of rebuilding both the primary I got flooded with requests to cover the repairs, anyone else. So how do you rebuild one after a catastrophic failure knowing that the next The answer might surprise you. I'm In today's episode, we're talking about Oroville Dam in northern California is It was built in the 1960s, creating to smooth out the tremendous variability in dry summers and flood-prone winters. The dam the northwest is the main spillway, also known At the top are radial gates to control enormous concrete chute before it passes through crashes into the Feather River below. It's nearly which could fit eight American football fields Beyond is the emergency spillway, a concrete weir provide a backup path for water to leave If you want more detail about the failure, video after this. I do want to summarize the the magnitude of the reconstruction project ruined this event left the spillways of Oroville main spillway chute was wholly destroyed. The the hillside around and below the structure, chasm as deep as 100 feet or 30 meters in some had similarly scoured the hillside, creating threatening the safety and stability of the evacuation. In total, more than a million cubic much of which was deposited into the Feather totally incapable of safely discharging Even before the event was over, the California was planning for the next flood season, Having the tallest dam in the United States flows safely with the rainy season only six the extent of the situation was revealed, the course for recovery. Rather than try contracted with a wide range of consultants and partnered with federal agencies, namely the who both have significant knowledge and In March (less than a month after the incident DWR held an all-day workshop with the on alternatives for restoring the dam's They were facing some significant challenges. they had limited time for design, regulatory typically take months or years needed to be still in the midst of the spillway failure without making it difficult to propose solutions that Although they had a laundry list of nicknamed by the design team as "Use the "Use the hole" alternatives involved taking by the uncontrolled flows from the spillway. If erosion, these new landscape features could serve eliminating the need for a replacement to The engineering team built a scale model as a design tool for providing hydraulic with a modified scour hole to see how it would from the spillway. Sadly the model showed so this alternative was discarded as infeasible. "Bridge the hole" alternatives involved In other words, instead of placing the structure they could span the eroded valleys given the complexity of engineering such a unique out. The time it would take for structural design "Fill the hole" alternatives centered around and returning the main spillway to its original this approach. It had the least amount of risk and which had been proven through more than 50 years reuse the scoured rock that had washed into environmental impacts because no new areas of the it was straightforward construction - not team confidence that contractors could accomplish Once a solution had been selected, the design team for construction. Over a hundred engineers, in designing repairs to the two spillways, many on-site in portable trailers near the emergency original spillways resulted from the poor the design phase included an extensive At its peak, there were ten drill rigs The samples were tested in laboratories to support The design team elected to fill the scoured a unique blend of the same essential ingredients water. Instead of flowing into forms, roller equipment and compacted into place with vibratory be made on-site using materials mined near the It also cures quickly, reaching its full strength to place massive amounts of it on an aggressive from thermal effects. RCC is really the hero of hard to develop a mix that was as inexpensive available on the site, while still being strong In the interest of time, California DWR brought roads and staging areas for the main construction slopes created by the erosion to make the site follow. The main construction project was complete. This allowed the contractors to get of equipment, materials, and workers required for the project early also allowed the design team making it easier to assess the impact of design Because the original spillway failed entire main spillway would need to be they didn't have the time to do the whole DWR had developed an operations plan for minimize the chance of spillway flows while the but they couldn't just empty the lake entirely. the reservoir, including flood protection, and the rights of water users downstream. The and there was still a possibility of a flood DWR needed a spillway that could function before from when the contractor was hired), even if it In collaboration with the contractor, the project into two phases. Phase 1 would rush to 2017-2018 winter flood season. The remaining work of the following flood season at the end of 2018. engineers also designed remediations to the existing concrete weir, an RCC apron to protect wall to keep erosion from progressing upstream. To months under normal conditions, the California Regulatory Commission both dedicated full-time working in the same trailers as the engineers. consultants to review designs and provide feedback throughout design and construction, and their Phase 1 of construction began as the to lower the reservoir throughout the month excavating the slopes around the site to crews and equipment. At the same time, an army of was scoured from the hillside and deposited into closed for the season at the end of May, allowing They quickly began demolition of the remaining to stabilize the slopes by reducing their and break up the existing concrete to By June, all the old concrete had been removed, materials of loose rock and soil. The contractor clean of loose soil and dust that could reduce the In July and August, crews made progress on the hadn't been significantly undermined. Because hole in this area, crews could use conventional ensuring that the new structural spillway its entire width and length. Of course, I simply being replaced in kind. Deficiencies in why the spillway failed in the first place. The increase in the thickness of the slab, more to protect against corrosion, flexible to prevent water from flowing through the bedrock to hold the slabs tightly against system. These drains are intended to relieve and filter any water seeping below the slab so it As the new reinforced concrete slabs and training chute, RCC was being placed in lifts into the central scour hole was the most time-sensitive much volume to replace. Instead of filling the and walls on top during Phase 1, the designers for the central portion of the chute during the RCC to be placed up to the level of the spillway for the total original capacity, but enough By September, crews had truly hit their stride, each day, slowly reconnecting the upper and of eroded rock. Reinforced concrete slabs and lower sections of the chute. With only a month the contractor worked around the clock to roller-compacted concrete across the project Phase 1 of the massive reconstruction single injury. The spillway was ready to handle Luckily, it wasn't, and the work Phase 2 began immediately, with the contractor that wouldn't compromise the dam's ability That mainly involved a focus on the emergency original concrete weir, making it stronger and They also installed a secant pile cutoff wall in pile wall involves drilling overlapping concrete cutoff wall was to prevent erosion from traveling A concrete cap was added to the secant piles Finally, roller compacted concrete was placed to serve as a splash pad, protecting if the emergency spillway were Once the flood season was over in May, DWR work back on the main spillway. There were two they needed to completely remove and chute and training walls. Except for this was the only section of the At the RCC section of the spillway, crews first installed to allow the spillway to function at a They never even got to see a single drop of in batches of concrete for the final structure. to make room for the structural concrete to match the rest of the spillway, and finally, to complete the structure. All this work On November 1st, construction hit a key milestone ahead of the winter flood season. Although for the next several months, the spillway handle releases if it was needed. It's a good Crews continued cleaning up the site, working on throughout the 2018-2019 flood season. filled Lake Oroville into the flood control zone, For the first time since reconstruction, barely the new spillway was tested. And it performed and true joy for all of the engineers, and the public to see that one of the was back in service. As of this writing, Oroville resulting from a multi-year drought in California. major water reservoirs like Oroville to smooth out It's easy to celebrate such an incredible constructing one of the largest spillway repair necessitated the project in the first place. its regulators to recognize and address the cost, both to those whose lives were put at taxpayers and ratepayers who will ultimately foot repairs. Dam owners and regulators across the Oroville, thanks in large part to those who shared like to give them a shout out here, because this California DWR's commitment to transparency and reconstruction, much more than I was able involved in the emergency and reconstruction journals. Finally, my fellow YouTuber Juan coverage of the project as a citizen including regular overflights of Oroville playlist after this if you want to learn more. and it doesn't include nearly the level of Finally I want to thank the sponsor not see faraway objects clearly, nor could I Warby Parker is all things vision care, but I've been using them for my glasses for You choose 5 pairs of glasses from their I love this option because there's at the optometrist's office, and I always pick at least one pair I know I'll Once you've tried them on, pack them up and send obligation to buy, but glasses start and you can use FSA or HSA dollars too. It's and I really enjoy the process. If try 5 pairs of glasses at home, completely Supporting our sponsors helps support the channel. Thanks Warby Park and thank you for