- [Narrator] Are you facing in your life right now? The and we're looking for people willing to be vulnerable, and anonymously sharing their on the link in the description - Oh, have that too. - Let me just grab it up by the... I don't know if this is kid-friendly. (lively rhythmic music) - [Host] We brought - I'm a sex worker. - I'm a sex worker. - I'm a sex worker. - I'm a sex worker. - I am a sex worker. - I'm a sex worker - And I'm a sex worker. - [Host] One of them is a virgin. If the group discovers who the liar is, they'll split a cash prize. If the liar survives, Who is the odd one out? - Everyone get naked. (everyone laughs) - What will that tell you about me? - I guess who's more comfortable. - What platforms do you guys use? - I do porn on my OnlyFans. - I do OnlyFans. - Yeah, OnlyFans JustFor.Fans, and I do in-person work as well. - Okay. - I actually don't use a platform. I'm just a stripper and a sugar baby. (Ashley laughs) - [Ginny] Oh, okay. - Like, she said she Like, I feel like every sex like, uses OnlyFans in some regard. Just OnlyFans. Yeah. - I was a sugar baby for a brief period, but since the pandemic, so I hopped on the wave. about sex work? - Money? - Money. - The only good part. - I mean, I'm pretty promiscuous like I'm just doing exactly - I like the creative side. - I feel like I was sexual, after like working in the sex I feel like your boundaries - Even on OnlyFans. Like like, having that - What do you do on your OnlyFans? - I used to do, like girl-girl, but I've kind of transitioned because I'm actually on my way out. I'm retiring this year Not that-I mean, you can - The comment about, like, getting married kind of made no sense to me. When I get married, I'm gonna - I wanted to think of like with an OnlyFans would know. What happens when you block someone? - You can choose whether or No. When they're blocked they're gone. (everyone talking at once) (bell rings) - As a sex worker, everyone He was the only one that didn't - He was shuffling his feet. because I'm anxious. But I was like, hmm. - He just wasn't giving (buzzer sounding) - Bye. - Bye, Jay. - Sorry. - I didn't suspect Jay at all because, like, look at that - Yeah, I was, I mean, but I guess I was pretty quiet. I didn't really say too much, so... - Currently I do like different, like, themes and stuff like that. because I like to dress up. So, this is a cow. - Ooh, okay. - Obviously one of my favorites. And then I have the like, to start off with, but - When he brought out the &quot;What is he-what is he gonna - Like, does he moo, or Or like, what are you actually - So I brought my favorite I love wearing white heels at work because there's, like, the so they just like glow different. - Like, reflect. - Yeah. - Okay. I brought my trans erotica award. I was the best trans man performer. (applause) - How much did that cost to Just Kidding. - Right, I did that just for this. - I have that, too. - Let me just grab it up I don't know if this is kid-friendly. I don't know if it's that - It's like way worse. - It's a speculum. I do a lot of like kink play. - I kind of have like the This is, like, my browser's bag. This is a lube shooter. like, cause I'm Asian-la, la la. This is my first ever, like, This is a ring light, the necessities. This is a porn hum slipper And this is like, you know, like, what I wear on a Saturday night for fun. - [Ginny] (indistinct) - [Kazumi] Yeah. Obvious. - I brought my birth I'm obviously not a virgin. - She brought birth anybody could have birth control. I had birth control when I was, like, 14. So I don't know that - So birth control is like the &quot;I had sex.&quot; - Took birth control control for my acne. - You could have menstrual - I'm a doctor. I have a speculum. - Oh, true. - Yeah. There's a lot of like help. - I didn't really think about that. (Stevie laughs) - How did I get started? - I actually didn't get I was like kind of groomed into it. I was 17 when I started I was a homeless youth the only way that I could support myself. And then And so... Yeah, then I started to do it on the OnlyFans, and then I - Yeah. I was kind of and was trying to start a that was not going very well. (laughter) So I was like, &quot;All right, I'm gonna try to make a And then I started picking and started making my own stuff, and Yeah, that's how I got started. And now I do that, instead. (funky music) (participants exclaim) - I'm 0.2 on only fans. I do it only for the money. I hate men. I literally think I'm to women because of my job. - So I got started I saw an ad on Instagram that and I was like, &quot;Oh (beep) yeah.&quot; And I had been a competitive so it was like, made sense to do it. And then I started working And then at that club I met my sugar daddy who I've had for - Yeah. I started, oh, I was actually working I was a receptionist and the and he would ask me things with me and then I was just So I started with that, but I so I can get my production and have a gay sex shop. (intense rhythmic music) (buzzer sounding) - Okay. - I love you though. - It's okay. - I do want to watch your show. - I want to watch your gay sex show. - Bye. - Bye. I was like, &quot;Why would Like, do I look like a virgin? - I just wanted to, like, go back to the previous conversation of representation as sex workers. So I try to stray away from or easy money because a lot of the times people will be like, oh, see, like they're just woke up - [Ginny] It's not easy. - And it's really hard. - It's like irritating I should just do an only fan Like, it's not that easy. - It's definitely a grind. But in a way that like, I don't know. I was able in my first which like is just like not a normal- - True. - It's such a small are gonna make that easy money. - Yeah. - Even me, as a trans of money compared to what - We do sacrifices and we put ourselves in compromising positions sometimes. And that's why we make a because the social stigma - There's a lot of us. - Totally. Thank you. - For sure. So when did everyone lose their virginity? - So, I hope my mom isn't watching this, but I was 13 and I was- - Oh! - Right? It was so young. for a few months and It was with a banana flavored condom, like, in his like dirty - [Kazumi] W`as he also 13? - He was also 13. Yeah. - Okay. - Oh, banana condom makes more sense. I think virginity is actually a construct. I think that virginity was that a penis can change the But I lost my virginity at It's a horror story. - I wouldn't say I was like but I kind of had like some and vagina sex for a while. So in high school I did so I didn't go to hell. (Ashley laughs) - Oh my God, that's kinda sexy. - I grew up super religiously too. - I was actually a Jehovah's witness. - Wow. - And I was gonna save I can't even for begin to Like it, like, happened enough to say that I lost my virginity, but You know what I mean? Like - Virginity is a construct, like, yeah. - Like it kinda happened, but... Okay, Wait, I have a question: - No. - [Stevie] Water? - Water. I mean spit? like - A water based lube. Yes, please. - I was just looking for the virgin. - Oh my God. - Oh, like shower sex. - I've like had so much - It's the worst. - It's giving UTI. - Yeah. It's giving UTI. It's giving like why is this - Yeah. (bell rings) - She was really timid, and - I heard Jehovah's witness (buzzer sounding) - Bye, I love you. - Bye. - Sorry. - I'm so sorry. I love you. - Ginny was just the the little tiniest bit of suspicion about. - Oh, wait. - What do your parents think? - My dad kind of, I have a really like, weird relationship My mom doesn't know, but I feel like she knows my dad doesn't know but I feel like he knows. So he's, like, probably I have so much free time. - And is he Jehovah's witness still? - No, my dad was never, my mom was. And I used to live with - Yeah. I'm not super I'm totally proud of the work I'll tell anybody all day long, but I'm not close with my family. So it's just not the kind of with them. I don't think that they would- - I respect that. - support it necessarily. - Like, it's not especially since I'm an online It's more like the social stigma want to commit violence But it's like my actual day-to-day. Like I love my customers. Ooh, controversial. But like I like love guys and You know, my supporters, like but sex work can be dangerous because of the way people perceive us. (bell rings) - The fact that she said she'd It was just a possibility - I was kind of listening And I could hear that So then I just wrote Kazumi down. (buzzer sounding) - Sorry. - Bye Ginny. You're beautiful. (intense music playing) (cheering) - That was too easy. - I was pretty confident that, you know, a couple of hookers could - Are you still gonna have a gay show? - No, it was all a lie. - What? - It was all a lie. It was all a lie. - Was just like a Halloween costume, huh? - Yeah, it was a Halloween costume - I knew it. - Yeah it was a Halloween costume. - Can we ask why you're a - No, it's not interesting or anything. I'm not waiting until like I'm just like really, I don't know. I wasn't introduced to like until like, college, but yeah. Not, until marriage or anything just to when I meet the right guy. So if he's watching, call me. - To be a sex worker means It means being a content I sell a product just It just happens to be that my - I did misspeak when I I think it is like a Very, very fast. But it's definitely at I don't want to go too deep, a deep sadness. Like not, not all of us are It was sort of a necessity to bring me out of like a pretty bad place. - There are a million other and ready to do it as me, and they're not making the because they're not doing what I'm doing. Why can't sluts change the world. - That's a stack. - That's a stack. - You got one wrong so and cut it in half. - Wow. - In half? - You get some. - Everybody gets a stack. (laughter) - Yay. I can't dance. (laughter)