Translator: Leonardo Silva I'm 19 years old. I'm a camp counselor and I'm on a hayride. It's a beautiful night, and I'm listening in trying to figure out how to break in, just keeping kind of to myself, not sure where it was going, And just as we're about to turn which is where we were headed, one of the counselors and elbows me in the ribs and says, &quot;Hey, Joan, you know what? You're boring.&quot; (Laughter) &quot;Whoa! Boring? What?&quot; It felt like she took a fork, and just spun it around. Now, most of us have our own versions I'm not sure what it is for you, And that moment and a few other really sparked my interest and to understand what it was that really helps someone develop Across 35 years of research, tens of thousands of hours and teaching and supervising, there was one element and still am to this day, and it's unpleasant feelings. Unpleasant feelings. More than anything else, what I found is what holds people back is their inability or their challenges Yet, nobody really teaches us what to do It seems so silly, so silly: I'm excited about unpleasant feelings. (Laughter) Who the heck gets excited If you can experience and move you can pursue anything you want in life. How? One choice, 8 feelings, 90 seconds. It's a simple formula, and it's one my colleagues and clients Now, most of us believe that our happiness in life comes And it's actually not the big choices. There's a real misconception there. It's the moment-to-moment choices. Those big choices the degree of our happiness or our well-being from a day-to-day basis. Not true. It's actually the little choices, Ponder the moments as opposed to pay attention to them. It's those that matter. That's what's going to free you up. So, let's unpack the formula. One choice: Make the choice Be aware of and in touch with It's about awareness, not avoidance. Think of a time that you've had Perhaps you've been disappointed or with your partner, or your spouse. And check in with yourself here. Be gentle. Did you do what most of us do? Did you run? Did you hide? Did you shut down? Did you distract in really obvious ways, like, I don't know, food? Alcohol or drugs? Sex? Pornography? Shopping? Social media? Did you distract or escape like tightening up, or holding your breath, or swallowing hard, just to try to keep those feelings at bay? Or did you stay fully present, aware of and in touch with That's the best choice, except it's your choice. You make that one. My prescription: stay present, stay fully present. You can do this. In fact, we can all do this. It just takes a willingness, it takes a formula and it takes a decision. Let's go to the second step. The second step has to do with dealing They're the unpleasant shame, helplessness, anger, vulnerability, embarrassment, disappointment and frustration. Now, most of us like to see They're not bad or negative. They're simply unpleasant So, going forward, can we make an agreement and it's no longer going to be They're simply going to be It's an important shift. Why then do we want to avoid Well, we're afraid that, or they'll be too intense or we will lose control Except the key here Why does it matter so much? And it matters because our experience of experiencing emotional strength, is directly tied to our capacity to both experience and move through It it all eight at once? No, it's not. It's one or a few at a time. Like, we can feel disappointment So, again, if you can experience and move of sadness, shame, helplessness, anger, vulnerability, embarrassment, then you will experience and emotional strength. And what do I mean by this &quot;move through&quot;? Well, neuroscientists suggest that, when an emotional chemicals are released by our brain and they activate bodily sensations. It's sort of a biochemical rush, and then flush. Let me translate. And this is super important. What we feel emotionally is felt in the body first, It doesn't feel good. Let me repeat that. What we feel emotionally is experienced in the body first, as a bodily or physical sensation. That's what we want to distract from! That's what we want to get away from. It's not that we don't want to feel We absolutely do want to feel emotionally! We want the whole range of feelings. We just don't want the bodily sensations What unpleasant feelings might you be moving away from? What might be holding you back? Stop and notice where you might And - And if there's a time &quot;I never want to experience that again,&quot; it's probably some of those - Those feelings are ones to move towards, to start to embrace. For me, it was involved Embarrassment was really difficult. So was disappointment, and so was vulnerability. But let's get to the solution. The solution has to do Remember that biochemical rush That biochemical rush and, when that wave it lasts roughly 60 to 90 seconds, which means feelings are temporary. So, from the time and it goes through our blood stream 60 to 90 seconds. You can handle 60 to 90 seconds, right? Heck! That's less than half a song! (Laughter) All of us can do that. And if you think of a beach - Let me draw a parallel: then, as you walk along that shoreline, what you'll notice is that the waves they can come up moderately, And, if we're walking we'll notice that the waves seem before they subside. And you know what? They can come up tumultuously, and they seem to linger and then, they always subside. That's the beauty of it. &quot;Always subside.&quot; Is it one wave? No, it's not. It's more than one wave. Any time we think about the same memory, it's going to fire off And grief? Grief is waves of waves, the feelings of anger, kind of all mixed together. Anybody who's experienced Those waves can come up so tumultuously and it's like we're just and they will always subside. So, the thing again here for you to do is to stay present to the experience, surf those ninety-second waves, and just let them ride out their course. In the moment, you'll feel centered, Insights will follow. And, with consistent practice, you may even be able to unhook I have been the joyful recipient of individuals who have who have engaged who have pursued goals And the most important one I think that they feel so much more That's the benefit. I thought when I was called boring It turns out that moment shifted me, and it's enabled me So, the next time you experience embrace them, join me in the excitement, know that they are the path back Stay present. Stay fully present. Experience them. Surf those waves. It won't take years. It won't even take a day. In fact, it will take just a moment. Start right now. Thank you. (Applause)