On the first of February, 2012, Samatha coffee place where she worked. It had been a day and since things were quiet, the she had already begun tidying up the Common That was when a man approached her, a figure average day into one unlike any other, ending it for a coffee. Despite it almost being the end making his order, expecting it would be the last While it might seem somewhat unnerving and even your place of employment by a stranger wearing financial services like banks might be expecting their identity, possibly so that they can rob temperatures in Alaska, it would hardly be was just trying to keep his face warm... face hidden from what was about to happen next. and went to hand him the order. Then, without terrified for her life as the masked figure money from the coffee stand's register. Trying to Samantha hurriedly went to empty out the cash only to find that the register was empty. having failed his attempted hold-up, leaving Sadly, that wasn't what happened. was then made to put her hands up and kneel down man suddenly dove over the kiosk, forcing his way using zip ties to bind her hands together. Once her feet and guided her outside towards a white towards the vehicle and tried to push Samantha get away from the man. It didn't work, and in he was holding right against her head and warned Forcing her into the car, the assailant got behind hands still bound and unable to flee for fear of driving through town, that he didn't intend to her to demand a ransom. He told her that, as be returned to her family alive and unharmed. that the kidnapper would hold her captive for on his property and turned a radio up to full captive screaming, preventing any neighbors or intervening. Immediately after imprisoning her, taken Samantha from to retrieve her phone. be picking her up from work after her shift. The too, but had changed his mind and decided only cover his tracks and delay his victim's loved he retrieved Samantha's phone and sent a "I'm spending a couple of days The day after the kidnapping, the kidnapper so he could break in and steal her ATM card. She was in her boyfriend's truck. So, the man made his truck. Sure enough, there was a debit card right Samantha and her boyfriend shared. The kidnapper When somebody spotted him. receiving a vague text message from his girlfriend hadn't been the one to send it. When Duane and who appeared to be a burglar attempting to steal the house to get James' help. But by the time they Neither Duane nor James realized they'd just seen Once the kidnapper had successfully making sure it still worked, he returned to his himself a tall glass of wine, then headed out to Samantha. Afterward, he strangled her to death. was named Israel Keyes. To those on the outside just a father to a daughter and and construction worker with his own business, heinous actions were brought to life, he's serial killer of the twenty-first century. wearing the mask of a man and one responsible burglary and bank robbery, arson to kidnappings, between eleven and twenty victims, as well as his already degenerate pile. His crime spree toured only ending after 2012 when the FBI learned and what they uncovered made them Once he had murdered Samantha, Keyes would leave where he had been keeping her prisoner. After The next morning, he woke up his daughter - who the airport. He traveled down from Alaska to took him on a pre-planned cruise around the Gulf At the culmination of the New Orleans cruise, the short time that he'd been away, his abduction so he decided to take matters into his own hands. Keyes figured that perhaps the best way he he'd committed back in Alaska was to... commit parts of Dallas, Texas, intent on launching a he came across a single-story house. It was a complete with red bricks and a barn nearby. set fire to the barn, burning it to the ground. nearby Texas city, this time making a pit local sights? Maybe visit the Ain't that knock over the National Bank of Texas. Putting and a pair of gloves, Keyes marched into the Samantha Koenig. He brandished the weapon at the minutes and racing off before the police had time the money he'd stolen in a hole he'd dug in the Still on his return journey back to Alaska and to carrying out yet another kidnapping. While he he spotted a woman who was out walking her dog. and even almost did, but ultimately quickly on making his way back to Anchorage. Keyes arrived back home in Alaska. Now, while and hold Samantha for ransom was just a lie Keyes still very much his intention. And the fact that stop him trying to get his hands on ransom money. her disappearance had drummed up, the police was already dead. So, Keyes enacted arguably one He took Samnatha's lifeless body out of the her frozen face. Unsettlingly, he sewed her eyes giving the impression that his victim was demanding that thirty thousand dollars belonging to Samantha and her boyfriend. his possession, which would allow him to withdraw he snapped a Polaroid of Samantha's body, giving holding up a four-day-old issue of the Anchorage frame proved the photo had been taken recently like the deceased woman was still alive. containing his ransom demand were then memorial flyer for a dog named Albert. Tortalani to look for further instructions using "Conner Park sign, under pic A few days after leaving the photo and ransom note body. He drove her out to Matanuska Lake, a with a sheet of ice during that time of year. then meticulously dismembered her corpse using dumping her severed remains in the freezing lake. in Conner Park and shared it with Samantha's family. Believing Samantha was still alive, James deposited the requested sum of thirty had access to. Members of the local community had sparing the Koenigs from paying the of course, this was all done under the false them if they coughed over the cash to Keyes. Samantha's and Duane's shared accounts from the sixth of March onwards. This alerted of Investigation. Given the severe nature of its own investigation into the case, and, as a account where the ransom money had been deposited. ill-gotten gains, he started making his way he was not only too close to where he'd left make it easier for the police to catch up with from tracking where in the southwestern USA he was Authorities in Alaska had made the controversial of Samantha's abduction to the public, which is with any relevant information if they recognize crime under investigation. However, without the determine that the man responsible for both the the National Bank of Texas had been driving Louisiana, and Arkansas were alerted to keep an The car that Keyes had been using was he tried to obtain a replacement to better cover the same model and even the same color. This would after a Texas Highway Patrol officer spotted Keyes officer alerted Texas police and began following the driver was traveling above the speed limit. known Keyes, getting the kidnapper to pull over a fleet of unmarked vehicles raced to the out of their cars and surrounding him. A quick search of the murderer's car later, card, along with her cell phone, which Keyes being traced. Also in the car were a ski mask, National Bank of Texas, distinguishable by the also had maps of California, Arizona, and Israel Keyes was subsequently arrested holding facility located in Beaumont, Texas. to Anchorage and confessed to murdering Samantha Keyes conducted himself with an unsettling level the authorities in exchange for confessions of unbeknownst to law enforcement, Samantha He offered to divulge the information regarding he would plead guilty to any and all charges that he'd only agree to do so as long as his trial to execution at the end of it. Naturally, police influence the outcome of the judicial process, so a little far out of the police's jurisdiction. a deal with Israel Keyes to learn about where the Keyes willingly agreed to reveal all, but there he didn't want the public or the media to because Keyes didn't want his daughter to On the second of April, 2012, two months and Samantha Koenig's remains were recovered from ultimately led to him being discovered with some federal agents even being convinced that he might never have been caught at all. authorities would confirm, Israel Keyes' longer than anyone realized. His vile actions were actual human being; the FBI realized they weren't calculating, highly methodical, and So, who exactly was Israel Keyes? How had a man avoid being found? Where does a monster like that born in Richmond, Utah, in 1978. The Keyes family got crowded after his parents, John Jeffery Keyes Mormon, although would often attend a Christian As if being exposed to hateful ideology at such monster, he seemed to adopt a fixation From the age of fourteen, he would walk around that his grandfather gave him. As a child, Keyes silencer and began killing pet animals in true His propensity for burglary would also begin break into local houses and steal valuables. Keyes started working with a construction crew, to Maine. It was there that he'd announce to to him being kicked out of the home of his highly in his life, some point between 1996 and 1998, and it was a grim warning of the type of heinous A hiking group had been making their way along noticed that one of their number, a girl, had surrounding area, attempting to track the missing had found her first. Keyes abducted the girl on her. Later, he released her, although he had to let her leave. It seems he wasn't yet adding modus operandi, although he would later be quoted mind I was never going to let that happen again." relocating to New Jersey and would serve as a Fifth Infantry. He trained in Egypt, spending and near Tacoma, Washington, over in Fort Medal for meritorious service while he had been mortar between December 1998 and July 2001. he was charged with driving under the influence issue, authorities discovered that his driving an additional charge for driving with a suspended offenses, these infractions led to his honorable While discharge from the armed forces would be chance to pursue his true passion; his new lease people's lives. Upon his arrest, he confessed to he took the lives of his first murder victims, a In 2000, Keyes became involved with a woman and their daughter was born a year later. By the still unnamed woman and took his daughter he began taking a number of travels away, visiting never specifying a reason as to why. enforcement in 2012, Keyes was confirmed taking place in between twenty to thirty different other banks. The time he robbed the National One of the most notable of these took place finance his crimes, the quickest way to secure He had allegedly abducted and killed a man in New Keyes made his way toward the Community Bank. He grey shoes, two-tone gloves, sunglasses, and a and a couple of accessories: a forty caliber twenty-two caliber Ruger Charger pistol as a ready, he successfully made off with the cash Keyes had a different approach. he then buried it in the Woodside Natural Area both his Smith &amp; Wesson and Ruger Charger, along both guns, and some garbage bags. Four days later, travels across America over the next two years. York, and later back to Vermont. he prepared to target and murder another victim with maybe some arson thrown in as an added treat. the eighth of July, 2011, Keyes eventually Having observed which room of the Keyes cut their phone line and broke inside. He attack" on the Curriers, ambushing them as they to an abandoned farmhouse that he'd previously with the twenty-two caliber Ruger, Keyes then her. Neither of their bodies were ever found. killers was how exactly he went about conducting spontaneously, he instead meticulously planned taking extreme caution to avoid detection. And career since the police and FBI didn't make any kidnapped and killed Amantha Koenig in 2012. down than other serial killers was that there even the ones that authorities had actually carried out by somebody that the victim is is at least known to the deceased. But when whatsoever with any of his victims. The apropos of nothing, that they're going to end your is genuinely the stuff of paranoid nightmares. in parks, cemeteries, campgrounds, or other of potential witnesses or surveillance cameras When describing his reasoning to the police, he choose from in areas like these. He confessed else around to see what he was doing was what "There's also no witnesses, really. He never went after victims that fit a specific when interviewed by police in 2012, he their parents to be off-limits. How altruistic suspected that Keyes had been involved in the In addition, the fact that Keyes moved around brutal acts, made it initially hard to link in Vermont and another takes place in Washington, leap to assume the same person did them, let work of a notorious serial killer. State to state, police departments might not even be aware of would always enact his killings far away from murder someone in the same area twice, making it several separate deaths, especially when he killed Months of preparation and planning went into his states, he would only pay in - normally stolen all times. Once Keyes had selected a victim at in the area where his target was, just like he kits have been recovered in parts of Alaska and stashed others across Washington, Wyoming, Texas, he rarely used firearms, relying on them to carry to deriving a lot of pleasure from watching preferring instead to strangle them to death. his crimes, Keyes revealed one of the core details the crimes of other serial killers. According Inside the FBI's Elite Serial Crime Unit - a killers from a former FBI agent - and since then In one interview, investigators mentioned Robert also have been active in Anchorage, Alaska, Butcher Baker. Hearing mention of Hansen, Yeah, I know all about him... I probably know written about. It's kind of a hobby of mine." Ted Bundy, even claiming that he saw himself notorious murderer. While it was true that Keyes multiple US states, they clearly differed in how Even though part of the reason that Keyes to avoid being labeled as a copycat of his serial try and imitate Bundy's escape from court later Keyes didn't hold all his fellow serial killers in also known as BTK, that he was a "wimp" for the most admiration for other serial killers One homicide detective from Anchorage, Detective kill people because he was crazy. He didn't kidnap because he had a bad childhood.... He did this out of it, much like an addict gets an immense he was an addict, and he was addicted to the When investigators asked Keyes why he had asking them: It wouldn't be until August of 2013, over that federal authorities released information that he was suspected to have a grand total of between 2001 and 2012. There was also speculation possibly up in Canada, where Keyes had often killings he'd committed in other countries. federal jurisdiction or happened too long ago for Israel Keyes was said to have a body although he confessed to as many as twenty. confirmed and formally identified: those being Koenig. There exists an entire list of speculated teenaged girls from Colville found dead in 1997, and a body that was ruled as an accidental just the possible victims from Washington. to the public, Keyes became uncooperative with the FBI entirely. During a routine court hearing was when he was able to escape confinement and Following this, security measures were increased. left his cell, full restraints, and daily strip what items he could have in his possession, despite these measures, he was still able to sneak have been issued to him by mistake since he was On December 2, 2012, Keyes wrote a two-page and hanging to end his own life. While he was Israel Keyes at least faced some kind of For more terrifying stories involving the FBI Caught The "Eyeball Killer"." Or watch