hi my name is max feinstein and i'm an anesthesia city in this video i'm going to be showing two spinal surgeries and keeping track if you find this video interesting if you liked it and subscribed one of the things that, as a resident, i'm anesthesiology, is exactly how much money i'm today i'm taking care of two different patients of spine surgery and so i'm trying a couple of in addition to comparing how the patients do and i thought it would also be really interesting of the medications that i use for both of these do a back-to-back comparison of cost. get i'm just about to start preparing the operating highlight each one of the medications that i'm save all of the empty medication vials and bags afterwards and come up with a cost for each one of i'm going through my MS-MAIDS mnemonic right that you can check that out right here. and so the first thing i'm going to do is wash and now i'm going to go ahead and get out and i'll label them before i draw one of the things that helps me is to just think about the order in which so starting from the time that we roll into monitors and then start administering medications, and then once i start pre-oxygenating the patient i'll go ahead and administer next will be 2% lidocaine to help reduce the next and we actually have lidocaine next up is propofol and for induction only after general anesthesia has been a depolarizing paralytic: succinylcholine. and the patient paralyzed throughout the duration of the to assess for any sort of changes in somatosensory can't have the patient paralyzed for that however ideal intubating conditions and so i'll do that having said that i will plan on having a small paralytic rocuronium which can facilitate exposure don't plan on this dose lasting for very long so as part of pain control for this case i'm actually which you might traditionally think of being used but it can actually be a really helpful and i get it directly from the pharmacy in a vial link in the description below for an excellent a relatively low dose of methadone is safe and types of surgery. the last medication that i use which is actually just for anti-emesis and is most now that i've drawn up all of the medications going to plan on keeping track of everything so that at the end of the day we can sit down and now i'm going to finish setting up and we'll get the case started. and i'm going to be turning off the camera so alright i'm just sitting down for a lunch break and lentil soup. and this doesn't contribute costs but it's really just more of a public the fact that we prioritize normal human behavior i'll point out that anesthesiology is one of the make sure that we actually get to eat throughout the first surgery has now ended and here's three 100cc bottles of propofol, one bag of 1000 milligrams of tranexamic and four milligrams of ondansetron, also known time to get everything set up for the next case, we'll use for the second case. and i did find with this super fancy microscope. well that was i will just say that no matter how much i love is wonderful, it is difficult to be inside a but on the bright side i did get a new pair of anyways the afternoon break is as you can see i've got all the empty vials right now. and also as you can see i've got more my phone because this has been quite a long case, will actually end up being a pretty substantial complex the case was that we just finished. ta-da! a couple bags of isolyte that left with the ready to tally the maintenance and emergence two, three, four P100s, as we say, additionally three P20s, another component of the maintenance anesthetic one milligram vials that look just like this. and five, six, seven milligrams of remifentanyl. the maintenance, so to speak, were doses and there were also two doses of cefzol and i also ended up giving two of those three ended up going with the coming to a close, because remifentanyl is such a to help with post-operative pain management, then the last medication that i gave on the which is an anti-emetic that's best given from anesthesia. and that is everything i gave for happy to say the patient is awake, comfortable test test test test so even though it's late right now i'm actually on so i'm going to use this opportunity to actually that i've used today for the two spine surgeries start i do just want to point out that the prices hospital but rather from UpToDate. and these price&quot; which are to be used just for reference for so keep in mind that the prices that we use your hospital may differ from what's listed and beginning with the induction medications, we at a cost of $1.80. next is fentanyl, and those cost $2.02 per each vial, so next is lidocaine. we used one syringe, and a 20cc vial of propofol, also affectionately $6.20. next up was one vial of the paralytic agent next i drew up one vial of rocuronium that i will say that the surgeon elected not to exposure for this case so this and this next medication isn't but is typically given at the beginning and i used two vials that were okay now for the maintenance and emergence we used p100s which are the 100cc vials at a cost of $30 each so that's $90 we also used at the very beginning of this case syringe, or 10 milligrams, of three additional vials of fentanyl that were other medications that were given throughout acid, and we gave one bag which cost cefazolin throughout the course of the case, $13.12 of cefazolin. and then to help prevent the case i administered a 2cc, or 4 milligram which costs approximately $1.62. this brings our okay for the second case that i did today induction strategy except i did not draw up any induction medications and those costs. and then this case was actually quite a bit longer, there was actually quite a bit more medication case. so going through this piece by piece: three p20s for a total cost of $18.62. and $120. and then i also used for this case a very short-acting, potent opioid that is surgeries including certain types of spine cases. but it also might not be depending on the billing what's on UpToDate, a one milligram vial of i used eight of them and so at that price the other medications that were administered and i used two 1-liter bags for a cost of $20. and for a total cost of$13.12. and then an additional of $9.14. and then at the end of the case i i administered one milligram of hydromorphone ondansetron which was $1.62. this brings the overall the amount of money that i for approximately fourteen hours when talking about medications and different it's really important to consider that often be used to accomplish the same and comfortable during and after surgery. when your attending anesthesiologist will probably pick anesthesia for similar types of surgeries which many different ways you can provide anesthesia. you gain knowledge of all the different you can actually propose your own anesthetic to be safe, then you can try those out during you'll have a very good understanding of the broad to us to safely get patients through surgery and you liked this video, you might also want to narrates all of the different medications inside the operating room. thanks very