Hit the Subscribe button on this channel and from Chess Talk. Hello Chess Friends, Welcome to Chess Talk! I am Jeetendra Advani. In today's video, I am going to share with you can gain significant advantage in the This secret trick is also called the fried This is like an advanced chess strategy to game. So stay tuned till the end &amp; while watching feel free to ask them in the comments section I will be happy to answer &amp; help you out. So without further ado, let's get started.Before apply this trick only if you are white. Let's start with the opening moves first. You play pawn to e4. Your opponent plays pawn e5. Then Knight f3 and knight c6. Then you take out your white bishop to c4. This is a very popular opening and I am sure times in your games. Today's trick revolves around this opening. It is black's turn now and this move is very A very common move that you can expect from This is called the Two Knights Defense. If he plays this move, you are ready to go. That's exactly what you wanted.Here's where Now you have to play Knight to g5. By playing this move, you are attacking black's gain significant amount of material. So black has to somehow give additional support Since supporting the pawn is just not possible, move pawn to d5. Now you should take with your pawn and play I will try to cover all the main lines so positions. I am not covering each &amp; every move because What I am going to show you is all the best opponent &amp; how you can respond to those. I will cover this trick in detail so I am you will become an expert at playing the fried two good moves that you will see from here. First, let's cover the most likely move. Now since black is a pawn down so he will pawn with his knight. Hence the move knight to d5. Now its time to surprise your opponent so is knight to f7. As you can see now, black is left with no He will have to capture the knight with his either the queen or rook on its next move. Black has now also lost his right to castle. Its your turn so now you play queen to f3. Its check to black. Black can't block with his knight because If black tries to bring his queen in between, bishop. So basically Black will have to move his king. If he moves to g8, bishop captures the knight bishop blocks &amp; finally queen captures the If black moves to e7, e8 or g6, you can easily are also not such good moves for black.The his king to e6 so that he can support his If he plays this, all you have to do is play This puts additional pressure on the d5 knight.From support his d5 knight. First is to move his knight to b4. This move not only supports his other knight to double attack the white king &amp; rook.Your You must be wondering why are we playing this Let me explain the idea behind this. Look, our main aim here is to open up the By playing this move, we are forcing the knight behind the d5 knight which is guarding the We just want to move this knight right away his pawn forward on the next move and support Plus, our rook is not that important because So this is actually a very good move considering the obvious move for black here would be to After you move your king to d1, black knight This is completely fine. Now you have to capture the knight on d5.As In the next move, we are threatening to give the rook on a8. Therefore, now black will have to move his Your next move should now be pawn to d4. As I mentioned earlier, the idea behind this your bishop &amp; rook into play.If black captures bishop to f4 &amp; then once the king moves, you This would be a very bad position for black so now let's suppose if black plays his bishop Then you should move your rook to e1. Again, now you can see we are putting additional There is no good way in which black can save Soon, we will be able to breakthrough &amp; attack game.Now let's go back &amp; see another variation. We discussed the possibility of knight to Now what if black plays knight to e7 in this He is supporting his knight on d5. Plus, he also has the option of playing pawn this position carefully, you will see that He has blocked his queen &amp; bishop &amp; hence, what you should do now is play pawn to d4. He can't capture the pawn because if he does, &amp; then queen e4 check. And then, as soon as the king moves, you can win easily.So going back, the best move for This way he is strengthening his knight in Now your next move should be bishop to g5. This is quite a natural move. The knight on d5 is already pinned because knight to threaten the queen.Black will try You can then capture the knight &amp; black will Now you can bring your rook into play by castling. This would be a really attacking position Once you capture this pawn, you can open the opponent by attacking with all your pieces.These to follow. No need to memorise them. You are just following the basic chess principles. You are bringing all your pieces into play, up the game to attack. So that's the basic strategy you need to follow.Now &amp; check out another variation. This is highly unlikely but since it is a In this position, let's say black plays Knight Black is trying to threaten and move your some tension. But then, you can play Bishop to b5, check. For black, Bishop to d7 is not a good option then you can easily recapture and fork the So Black will have to play pawn to c6. Then you capture with your pawn &amp; black recaptures. Now you should play queen to f3. If you evaluate the position now, you can he is ahead in development. This is actually a very good position for win the game.So That's it guys, Hope you enjoyed Don't forget to like this video if you found Hit the subscribe button below to enjoy more For some interesting chess tips, tricks &amp; puzzles, Links are in the description box below. Thanks for watching &amp; I shall see you soon!