so I recently saw a question on quora about John good was he? was he one of the best or wasn't answer: &quot;in the world of music, good guitar while really great songwriters are the rarest Lennon was this rare and prolific songwriter. he that no two of them sound the same. okay but going he was mostly a rhythm player. and you know, be a little bit messy, but he was always wildly Beatle song that John plays on has some cool ear-catching to the core song. so I'm going most influential guitarists ever and why I argue to explore what John Lennon taught me about so Lennon lesson number one for me is that the production. I mean, it can set up the song, and make the whole song more unique. the eighth-note-to-triplet intro riff on Ticket to Ride. I mean it's so simple but so memorable feedback on I Feel Fine and the suspended song so it turns into an endurance test for your it sound so easy right? so another example is triplets on All My [Music] Loving. it's kind of but John did it perfectly, and again, made it distorted, fast triplets, overload the console, on so cool. and it just proves Lennon was a force just that he could play those riffs, he came up chords as counterpoint to melody. so I'm talking we hear and feel a melody. Lennon wrote a lot of know things like imagine. sounds kind of simple easy if you try, no hell below us, above us only it's got range to: imagine all the people living complex melodies like that, but he also wrote lots like very little movement. it's kind of one stays in one place while the ground underneath let's say on the verses of Help -- he's basically when I was younger so much younger than today, there's just like mostly C-sharp there. when I never needed anybody's help in any way. so he eight of Girl: she's the kind of girl who puts you way through. I'm Only Sleeping: when I wake up tell me that you got everything you want... okay one I think is in my tree, or always no sometimes of yellow and green towering over your head. it's like I Am The Walrus uses a bunch of half steps in the second line: I am he as you are he as you are see how they run like pigs from a gun see there. and then there's Julia. the whole verse meaningless but I say it just to reach you Julia. it only drops at the very end. so the importance of unique chord choices under of descending basslines and leading tones which descends B A G F# Ee: Help, I need you know I need someone, help. I'm not singing descending bass of an A to a G to an F sharp bass on I Am The Walrus: I am he as you are you know that that drop, so cool. and there's [Music] Prudence, and that leads me to Lennon lesson 1967 and after John has been bashing out chords stay at the ashram of Maharishi Mahesh Yogi and is there. and he teaches John Merle Travis-style it's a thumb, index finger, thumb, middle finger. [Music] this. but see John is always innovating, on the White Album, he's already playing his own bit more original with his finger-picking. so on makes the upper strings play this two-note melody style. so watch what I have to do with my going. it's a little tricky right? then she's not a girl who misses [Music] much. sounds deceptively easy, but you can't imagine it song I've always loved but never learned until now written to John's absentee mother. so it's kind John's soul is naked right? it definitely stuff like the Plastic Ono Band LP. so I figured in standard tuning, uh uses chords in the hand D because he plays it with a capo at the second by playing the bass note and the top string melody always that bass and the high note together after learning this part, I asked myself you and honor John in the process? and I thought of really beautiful and surprising chord progression those chords. and I wanted my harmony parts to be Because from Abbey Road. a song I just love. then focus and you could really hear them, I put a this Gibson J-50. all right and I doubled the part listen. leaves a lot of space for the vocals. so to honor and thank John Lennon for everything meaningless. but I say it just to reach you Julia Julia Julia ocean child calls Julia Julia seashell eyes windy smile Julia so there you go, three things I learned is a vital voice in any song. and lesson number counterpoint, and number three, the beauty chord patterns. all right, I hope you enjoyed like this with lots of other tips and fun over at like, subscribe and hit the bell so you know about other great guitarists. so next week I'm going to Julia. I hope you won't miss it. in the meantime now