Approximately two hundred and twenty a nuclear powered attack submarine dived into to be a routine sea trial, but instead, it onboard and shock the U.S. Navy. On today's at what happened when the USS Thresher imploded. 9th April, 1963. The voyage was intended to serve SSN-593, the first in a new line of submarines and a specialised hunter-killer craft. several personnel from the Portsmouth Naval to test the new submarine to its limits, not one At 8am, under the command of Lieutenant the Thresher set following its chartered course where it would undergo a series of deep diving the sub rendezvoused with the USS Skylark, a The Thresher conducted several trials throughout its crew. The same afternoon, after completing ready to perform a second dive. The plan was to test depth, which was estimated to be around undergone a major overhaul, but before that, same test depth around forty times before. stay submerged in the water overnight. The crew seemed to be well that night. would prove to be horrifying. crew of the Thresher re-established communications the next stage of testing: the deep dive trials. test, the Thresher dove under the waves once distance with the Skylark above, the Thresher run checks on all the systems on board. the crew of the Skylark would receive a over their underwater telephone. It being said. As they listened intently to the "Minor difficulties..." "Attempting to blow." "900". Then, there was radio silence. the crew on the USS Skylark realised While in the water, submarines might dive but one thing they rarely do is disappear what happened to the USS Thresher? purpose in mind: to hunt and destroy enemy quietest submarines ever built, and came equipped detection systems available to the US Navy. But the first nuclear powered submarine to be lost disaster in United States naval history. started almost exactly two years prior, in hull had actually been derived from an entirely the Albacore. This unique shape gave such an for military applications, including the Thresher. latest toys. Inside the bow of the sub was advanced sonar system ever built. The range any others at the time, contained within a 1200 transducers mounted within it. of 'hunter-killer', the Thresher had four torpedo were angled outwards from the centreline by in anti-ship and anti-submarine torpedoes. so that it could fire anti-submarine rockets same torpedo tubes and were like a combination a standard torpedo, ASROCs would eventually ballistic trajectory towards a target. Then, would plunge back into the water to deliver an The Thresher was also intended, at some or SUBROC - a nuclear warhead that would behave intended for use in the USS Thresher, possessed was conceived as being a depth bomb, but nuclear. powered component of the Thresher. The sub was giving it an incredible, almost unlimited, undetectable. And thanks to a steel pressure hull, around 1300 feet below sea level. Back in 1961, The Thresher didn't show much initial sea trials. These were considered to be submarine's instruments were reported, leading it 1961. At a commissioning ceremony held for the T. Deutermann claimed "The Thresher isn't just The Thresher underwent a long series of trials practice runs off the eastern Atlantic coast as Puerto Rico on some runs. During one stop encountered problems with the diesel generator the nuclear reactor that powered the vessel. if the Thresher's overall durability would had for this new sub. The submarine was pushed level of intentional shock testing than In January of 1963, Lieutenant Commander John Thresher. When he joined the crew, the shipyard looked like a submarine ready for deployment. involved keeping it moored to the pier, while tested. With cables securing the Thresher to conducted a series of emergency drills. Navigation personal belongings were brought aboard by what would end up being its very last sea trials... of 9th April, engineers began a four hour nuclear reactor aboard the submarine. Sure enough, the sub was at full power. Lines securing and the sub departed. There were twelve officers with an additional three officers present, a from the Naval Ordnance Laboratory. There employed at the Portsmouth shipyard, as well Four members of the Thresher's crew stayed on By 9:50am, the USS Thresher had joined up with the should happen, the Skylark was equipped with a a damaged or malfunctioning submarine. Rescue the stricken sub - however this method had a submarine called the USS Squalus required but another twenty six crew men lost The USS Squalus had sunk in almost 250 feet Skylark had a depth capability of nearly 900 to 1300 feet. The commanding officer aboard the the sub's capabilities. Even if he'd been told the crew of the Skylark were poorly prepared And that's exactly what happened. the Thresher would resurface the following away from the Skylark. An hour later, Lieutenant letting them know he was taking the sub Just before 8am, Harvey reported to the and the crew were keeping an eye out for leaks. to its test depth. Half an hour passed, and they to go before they hit the maximum operating depth. routine check, only to hear the Thresher reporting requested a course and bearing from the submarine. The Skylark crew asked if the men aboard over their underwater telephone. after the question was asked multiple times. distorted message came through from the depth' at the very end. Whether they reached that was the sound heard by Lieutenant Commander the sound of a ship breaking up. to throw grenades into the water, a prearranged event of a communication failure.. The Thresher was informed of the situation, and a massive Before the end of the same day, the of the sub's crew, notifying them that While some small pieces of debris were the USS Thresher was never found. The waters it A Navy court of inquiry would conclude that in the Thresher's saltwater systems, and that far below the ocean's surface would have caused engine room and the critical electrical circuits USS Thresher had sunk to well below its collapse Now go check out 50 Insane Jet Facts That Will