Welcome friends to another I'm your host Richard Wolff. Today I'll be the French and Colombian elections of recent half I'll be talking with journalist and filmmaker Let me start today, though, with the decision of the Supreme Court to overturn what's in the news and what's in the analysis, remarkable. That the most conservative portions the women of our society the right, the liberty These are the same people who deny every kind they're born - are willing to put an unbelievable lives, have a record of failure to take care of to believe that in one area so deep is their is being destroyed with their support in Ukraine in the States that are executing people, the same and on and on - no, no, they want us to respect And, by the way, a week after the overthrow of religious person praying in the middle of a public separation of church and state prescribed Remarkable ability of people to justify a project it's become clear - that in this society here in system they live in. As white supremacy is allowed As guns proliferate, neither are, But I want to turn now to an update of the chaos of capitalism today. I want you to focus We as a nation were unable to organize a pretty again, the single most important statistic: the suffered over a million of them dying. plus billion people, four times the and that's been confirmed by the World Health died here, twenty thousand died in a country all kinds of trouble dealing with this virus. without stressing it. Whereas the other one We also had an economic crash in the year 2020, capitalism, second only to The Great Depression of to prepare for it, we failed to get the people incomes were lost, lives were changed. And we at the same time that we went through a this system is giving us a rollicking inflation. we are now watching food, clothing, gas, oil go And what are we told? That the cure for all I've Which makes our indebtedness more costly and This is a level of failure and dysfunction deep breath. And you add it to the failure immigrants... I could go on. This is a system that Whether they can see it, or they need And, you know, neither Republicans nor Democrats Trump came and went, Biden came, he these issues they could have? They said This is a system, as I have tried to public health-wise, now public policy-wise. It's witnessing and we are living through I want to now give a contrast in my next update. in France. Because they didn't get the coverage that they should have gotten, and that raised mainstream media in this country, are doing. For voting for their National Assembly, their three major parties and several smaller parties. they believe in freedom of choice among many ones and there's a number of small ones. And the a middle that's led by the President, the sitting a few weeks before that, he's the middle. the right - a kind of Trump-ian character, a of Le Pens and political activists in But what was really new was the far left, which of little left-wing organizations, trade unions, alternative at the polls, led by an older Jean-Luc Melenchon by name. Le Pen on the right, And here were the results. Number one: Mr Macron, had had in the French legislature. He didn't even of the vote that day a few Sundays ago? 38.6 Coming in a not very distant second was 31.6% to be precise - of the vote, literally seven of whom he has been and is a fierce critic. If you parties that didn't join the union got, well then, And where did the right-winger come in? The United States as the leader Macron does? The the mainstream media was saying 'in France right?' No it isn't. It wasn't in the past of the vote. What's the far left get? 17%. Get the picture? The left is twice the size left, it is a very strong 'left left,' just as And here's something you may want to think about: who are sick and tired of the old political vote in some numbers, because of the exciting new be clear, that left that got a third of the vote Socialist Party, the French Green Party, and so people who abstained, and there's a lot of them, they would have voted for the left. You might if they had voted. And that'll be the test of the My next update is very brief but very important. Many of you have written to me about in the notion that cryptocurrency, by being not under the control directly of central break away from, some kind of liberation and that therefore it was the wave of the the value of a Bitcoin was 68,000 dollars. was twenty thousand six hundred dollars. That's the stock market, worse than virtually every you this? Cryptocurrency is not an escape from this year, into an inflation over here, a stock Bitcoin went down even harder. You don't escape You got to change the system if you want to Last update that I have time for... I guess Russia, India, China, and South Africa. new center of capitalism. And next week I We've come to the end of the first part I want to remind everyone that Economic that is celebrating 10 years of producing content visions of a more democratic and equitable world. aimed at developing one's understanding of and trends, something we call global capitalism. where you can find that lecture along with you'll also be helping us reach more desperately. Stay with us we'll be right back Welcome back friends to the second half of today's our microphones and cameras a previous guest on to Eleanor Goldfield, as she sits in Stockholm, dimension, or one of the important dimensions radical journalist activist and filmmaker. Rad Indie Media. She won a Women in for Freedom of the Press, and is on the board of Hard Road of Hope won awards from a dozen Common Censored with Lee Camp, and also the RDW: So first of all Eleanor, thank EG: Thanks so much for having me again RDW: And I want to remind everyone, Eleanor was Stockholm, she's a Swedish citizen, she writes want really from her, as I've told her, is I want around the world believe to be quote-unquote important example being Sweden, not the only And because socialism comes in so many different every country of the world, it has come to mean questions you're sending me, we need to do some and what the different meanings of that term in the United States a much more accepted not the case for most of the previous 75 years. So is what the Chinese call their system, it's what Cuba is socialist by its own definition, Bernie a couple of weeks ago, voted for a socialist into power a few days ago is clearly a socialist by telling us what is Swedish socialism? How do means? What it could or should mean? How do you EG: Yeah Rick, I mean they're great questions. And socialism means different things I could say that Sweden was on its way towards You know in 1913 sweden became the first country look at Sweden today, currently Sweden has roughly Some have called Sweden 'cuddly capitalism.' inheritance tax and the wealth tax. Swedes after the Japanese. Schools in Sweden which makes foreign investors millions, quite So, bluntly, it's not socialist. Both should make it socialist, such as things owned by health care, are not. Public transportation on privatizing health care in this country, and in particular health care is something that a lot we should be more like Sweden, and they have they're working again to privatize it. And it's billions of dollars. There was one example several entire Swedish military for private investors. of course, not socialism any way you slice it, of course. Which is defined as an economy workers. And but it's not even socialism when you used publicly and are for the public good. So might consider socialism but it is certainly not the U.S in terms of privatization of these things RDW: Okay, now comes a really hard one. And but it's your situation, your history, your that makes you kind of invaluable, so in when it was going in the direction you EG: Well there's actually been a lot of writing kind of clear with Sweden what happened. Like I administer pensions. In 1932 Prime Minister Per platform of jobs for all, Alva Myrdal, these effort into individual liberty and collective and 40s. And by the 1960s you had well-organized, of protests here, for instance against the Vietnam make cooperative housing, make more workplaces this being kind of the moment of the death knell more socialist and a more egalitarian future, This pushed the Swedish Social Democrats to make a or they could have gone the way of Thatcher. And suggested that the welfare state and rising wages capital, which became more of the primary goal, Sweden shifted from goods and services In 2007, before the crash, Sweden's stock today it's around 120. But that's still more really reigns supreme in Sweden. So I think really decisions. That basically in a crisis these was to throw all of their energy into capital, you know, 40 years after the, you know, the 80s RDW: Is that related to Sweden's EG: Yeah, I believe so. Because I think just of course, following the U.S, and following the Which you, of course, speak to far but basically this concept of following the U.S I think Sweden really, really pushed hard NATO exercises in Northern Sweden for quite asking to be part of NATO. They're also the And that's something that people don't talk about which you can't be if you're a weapons is exporting weapons to dictators to bomb, you its weight behind the U.S war machine. And joining was... Sweden saw this as a great opportunity to been kind of half in for quite some time. Which were still neutral, but we're kind of already in but, you know, we're still neutral. And now they they're blaming Russia. Sweden has been, you know, I guess, OG when it comes to that. But yeah, I NATO. Because it really speaks to following in the and saying that we do believe in human rights and RDW: What are the forces inside Sweden, if unhappy with the very history And who are they? Where are they? And what EG: Yeah, I mean it's a great question. Sweden, the U.S. So there is, you know, there's a left there's a feminist party, there's a there are points that are being made in these and I and your listeners would agree with. But And I think this is also a problem that we see other countries could relate as well. It's kind you know, this utopia. Or they talk about the you know, niche issues that, which but people need to know how they're going to pay how they're going to access the things that more and more of an issue here in Sweden. And is really a fascist party - the Sweden Democrats the Democrats,) that they are speaking to these about how terrible it is that older, that senior and are just left to die, particularly with the to issues that affect people's every day of course, more and more people are shifting actually see people speaking to their issues. So politicians in Sweden. And there needs to be an but definitely on the streets. I think Swedes not noticing that things are being chipped away that their schools, are being chipped away at. And RDW: All right, last question that Is there any interest in worker imaginary notion of how to make a better EG: Absolutely. I mean, I buy my groceries It's a food store that's literally called 'co-op.' that's gaining a lot of traction in Sweden is who have kids. And, you know, so that there's, So there definitely is that kind of push. Which to create the kind of world that they want to And, but there is of course, there's a problem right? That, so there's, like there are Okay, well that's cool. But at the same time deforestation in the past five years than we have cooperatives, but they're destroying are something that Swedes are interested in. And enough. And it's not a more collective perspective RDW: Well Eleanor, besides thanking you for your very valuable. This is part of what we're going a richer understanding of what socialism where it's falling, where it's struggling part of our political thinking. So thank you very a new baby and all of that. So thank you again you've learned as much as I have and, as always, I