Greetings, Ladies and Gentlemen, and welcome to our weekly encounter. There may be more videos in mid-week, because our region, the Middle East, is set to be a mainstay of the impending European war. I used to think we were getting a break from wars and they would be moving to Europe. That the US is done with destroying the Middle East, and there's a good chance it'll now destroy Europe too, with its stupidity, arrogance and inability to adapt to changes in the world. Something is in the process of changing in the Middle East region. What made Muhammad Bin-Zayed and Muhammad Bin-Salman suddenly refuse to take calls from President Biden? This was reported by The Wall Street Journal -- and it's true. Why did they not answer him? Because they're shifting from the American side to the Russian sides. There's now an Egyptian-Saudi-UAE standing, along with Algeria and Syria, by Putin and Russia. Did you hear any Gulf states backing Ukraine? -- except Qatar, which took the American side. But did Saudi Arabia issue any statement condemning the Russian invasion of Ukraine? Did the UAE? Did Egypt? They didn't. And that confirms that something is being cooked up. Bin-Salman and Bin-Zayed wouldn't dare say a big 'no' to America and not answer calls from Biden unless agreements were made with Russia. And who brokered those agreements? Egyptian President Abdelfattah as-Sisi. His unexpected visit to Riyadh last Tuesday laid the basis for this Egyptian-Saudi-UAE axis that will stand with Moscow... in what is now an oil and gas battle. Biden asked the Gulf states to increase oil production, flood the markets to reduce prices and act as an alternative to Russian oil and gas. But the opposite has happened. Saudi Arabia said no, it wouldn't increase production beyond its quota and is committed to the OPEC+ agreement it made with Russia. This is a turning point. It is no small thing. Note that when Sisi returned to Cairo he called Putin -- supposedly to offer to mediate with Ukraine. What mediation? What does Egypt have to do with it all? A million other countries have offered to mediate, such as Turkey. But that's just cover. Some countries simply don't want to take sides. Turkey took sides. It sold drones to Ukraine and condemned Russia and the annexation of Crimea. But not Egypt. My reading is that Sisi wanted to send a message to Putin, that he's sorted out the Gulf states, and they won't increase production or be an alternative to Russian oil and gas in the context of US sanctions imposed on Russia. The sanctions are another example of American stupidity and arrogance. What have the sanctions done after two weeks? Russian oil and gas continue to flow into Europe and keep it warm. The US shot itself in the foot. So far, the sanctions have served Russia. They've raised oil and gas prices to new highs -- oil has hit $140 per barrel and could reach $200. And gas prices have multiplied. Where does all this money go? To the Russian treasury. It can pay for the war in Ukraine just out of the price difference. That's not all. How do the European states pay for Russian oil and gas? Through the SWIFT system -- which the US wants to exclude Russia from. What did Russia lose so far? Hamburgers? McDonalds? Coca Cola? Kentucky Fried Chicken? The Russians don't need any of that. Do they think they're like the Americans? They managed without American junk food for decades. Do they think they will starve if they don't eat McDonalds, or get depressed if they don't drink cola? We're at a very dangerous stage. Russia has said frankly this is a life-or-death struggle. It signalled clearly it would consider any state that replaces Russian oil and gas to be hostile, an enemy and a party to the war... and we'll hit it. This was a message for the Gulf states: where do you want to go? Also, why did Russian Defence Minister Shoigu go to Syria and meet President Asad? He went to seal an agreement. That we are together, forming a new axis against the US. This visit was a prelude to a momentous development. Europe is becoming a big Syria. It could witness a war ten times as bad as Syria's. Now both sides are going for foreign volunteers. Zelensky made the mistake of inviting foreign volunteers to come and fight Russia. Who will he get? Neo-Nazis and far right extremists? That's serious trouble. Putin replied he'd also get volunteer fighters: from the Middle East -- and 16,000 are ready as a first step. We could end up with Muslims and Arabs fighting each other in Ukraine. But Russia insists on giving as good as it gets from Zelensky and the US. You want to bring in volunteers? We'll do the same! What does this mean for Europe? We had 10 years of war in Syria, 20 plus in Afghanistan, and the same in Iraq. Now the US is wrecking prosperous and stable Europe. It is going to bankrupt it, by taking up the Ukraine issue to fight Russia. There will also be a food war. Russia and Ukraine are among the world's biggest grain producers. Ukraine won't harvest much in wartime, and there's been a mass exodus from the country, but Russia will continue being able to produce grain. The bitter cup we sipped in Syria, Iraq, Yemen, Afghanistan, and Palestine, will now be sipped by the Europeans for foolishly following the Americans. If volunteers go to fight with Russia from places like Syria, Iraq, Lebanon, or Afghanistan, they'll be trained, with years of experience in guerrilla warfare. Things will develop. Personally, I don't rule out Putin going on a Middle East tour starting with Egypt. Or Sisi or Asad, or both together, going to Moscow. Or even Bin-Salman going there. Nothing can be ruled out. But one thing is for sure. This realignment is being led by Egypt. Take note -- so you can tell me &quot;you told us so&quot; afterwards! Also, I don't rule out the revival of the Egyptian-Saudi-UAE coalition against Qatar, which stood squarely behind the US. Many surprises are in store for the region. Mark my words! And all the best until next week.