- This is the first-order Over the past 50 years, we have seen food confusion skyrocket. People have no idea what to eat, and chronic diseases have exploded. The same root cause issue is underlying 9 of the 10 in the United States right now. - That's Dr. Casey Means, a and co-founder of the rapidly Levels. Today on the show, we'll and often confusing world of personal nutrition and well-being. Then a little later, we'll take where we'll visit a restaurant that's changing the by offering fresh and nutritious meals at competitive prices. Stay tuned for an in-depth conversation as we examine our current health crisis, the nefarious systems at play, and most importantly, that will assist us in The only way to solve our biggest problems is to have the audacity to try. Welcome to &quot;The Arena with Evan Baehr.&quot; Dr. Casey Means, thank you - Evan, thank you so much for having me. Please, call me Casey. - You are a powerful diagnoser of the challenge we're facing today. You are saying we are sicker, What are the factors that - Yeah. So what people are both doctors and patients, are rooted in the same core issue: which is metabolic dysfunction. There's three main foods our mitochondria, our and all of these foods have over the past hundred or so years and entered our food system. And the millions of years of they never existed, they never touched the human body. And those three foods that are refined industrial seed and ultra-processed grains. So those now make up the that we eat in the United States. We are no longer eating the from meat, from beans, from legumes, from fruits, from vegetables, So it's the emergence of these three foods that has been the key Currently, 50% of American or prediabetes. These are conditions less than 1% of the population And now, over half of American adults do, and 25% of teens are prediabetic. So right there, the has a diagnosable blood sugar problem, which is a metabolic condition. We've got depression rates, and anxiety, and mental health issues exploding, with 25% of adults on a with suicide being one of the leading top three causes of death in young people. And infertility rates are rising rapidly. 1% per year, we are This is untenable. Sperm counts are down So you look at some of these statistics and it's easy to sort of like these are big numbers, But what it really means is of the American body right - The stat that just jumped out to me was going from about of the American population either having diabetes For those of us not fully in give us the basics there. - Yeah, so prediabetes and type 2 diabetes are sort of our core, most What they actually mean is processing blood sugar, Metabolism, fundamentally, to usable energy in the human body. So taking sugar, glucose, to a form of energy that which is called ATP. So we need this currency, this to basically power the that happen in our body And diabetes and a big problem with this happening. The cells are so overwhelmed and their metabolic that the cell basically says, 'No more glucose can come in here because we cannot convert it to energy.' And so what happens is This is your cells saying the food you're putting which means that your body cannot power itself appropriately. And an underpowered body is never going to be able We have 37 trillion and every single one needs And what we're seeing with all these different that we know are related prediabetes, metabolic dysfunction, is that they are rooted in the cells not powering themselves properly. And that can look like so that are downstream of things like Alzheimer's, cancer, fatty liver disease, things like erectile All these different conditions we know are very associated and prediabetes. And that is fundamentally because of the body not making And when you think about it this way, you see how it's fairly illogical to just treat these conditions with medications that lower blood sugar. So let me give you a As an ear, nose, and throat, almost every condition that I was treating was inflammatory in nature. So in the medical practice, the term -itis at the end of the word is So sinusitis is So we say, &quot;Okay, this person's body thinks there's a threat, and it's getting swollen, So what am I gonna do about it?&quot; I'm either gonna give a medication, which is a steroid or an antibiotic, which basically hammers It's a medication that And if that doesn't work, in this piece of the body and drain whatever's backed up there. - It doesn't seem to be really addressing the root cause of why it started. - Well, this is the key thing. We all say, &quot;What's the cause of this?&quot; The cause is inflammation. But that's not really the cause. What's the cause of the inflammation? And inflammation is an that are circulating in the body. There's no scalpel or what's happening with those immune cells. And so, it's like, wait a minute, is it possible that this that has diabetes, heart disease, some dementia, and sinusitis, that maybe there's something The only way that you can truly generate that type of health in the body, the ability of a to convert sugar to energy, There is no medication that can create metabolic There are certainly medications that can decrease blood sugar, but they're not creating which means we remain underpowered and we lose our health capital. - A key player at the table here has to be the healthcare industry. You're a doctor, you went to med school, what are the incentives that are driving how healthcare is delivered? - The healthcare system that is designed to grow. And currently, the business model requires that we have more sick patients Every doctor, I know, is a good person. They went into healthcare but incentives are incentives. And at the end of the day, we actually make more money as physicians if we have patients for we see them more often, and and we get them in and as quickly as possible. - I'm feeling a little conflicted. Can I tell you about it? - Please. - So I love capitalism. I love competition. I love markets. I love the idea of financial I also really like individual choice. I like people being responsible for the actions they're choosing, of what they eat and how they exercise. So I'm feeling a little this massive, multi-trillion dollar, for-profit, capitalist ecosystem and a few hundred million Americans, and somehow all these people in other markets, generate great outcomes, here, it's like killing us. What's happening? - I am a believer in capitalism. I'm a believer in free markets, but that's not actually what we have here. And I think a lot of it has to do with the overreach of So you've got 31+ billion that's almost entirely going which get turned into these three products that I talked about. And you have literally less than 5% going to what are called which are fruits, and that actually build beautifully healthy, well-functioning bodies. And what that does is it that are very detrimental the cheapest and easily especially for the populations that are more strapped for cash. And so, you couple that with for what our public are allowed to be spent spent on, so things like WIC and SNAP, and the number one line items on some of these public food So you've got these systems that are basically allowing people to buy food that is directly And I think a second a huge conflict of interest 95% of the people who have conflict of interest with industry. And so, it's just, you I'm sure, are good people, who are not looking to see the downfall of the American population. But unfortunately, And then I'd say a third really key issue is that our institutions of trust, like academic universities these nutrition studies, are compromised. What we see is that food on nutrition research than the NIH, and this is not because They wanna see outcomes that are gonna support their business. So as we spend more money as we have more health outcomes are getting worse and the percentage of processed foods as a total amount of our diet is growing. - What feels particularly pernicious is when we think about not just subsidies but actually the food stamp program, and so you think about who, in many ways, have the fact that our but really rigging the system so that they regularly and that, it's not just making them obese, it's setting them up to to not perform mentally, to not have the physical energy to go out and succeed in society- that's dark. - I think it's incredible negatively impacting the poor And I think a lot of it has to do with just really deeply entrenched political industry interests to grow these industries. And the way that you get them to grow is you use the cheapest foods, that are directly hurting our bodies, and you get more patients which means more sick patients. And so, you know, there's and I'm actually, like, hugely optimistic because I think people are and demand a different system. You hear a lot more You hear a lot more about people wanting to understand their own health. But unfortunately, it's not yet happening in the populations that need it the most, which is poor and children who are having the largest increased rates of chronic illness of And it's very sad to see. - Let's take a break for a moment and travel to Los Angeles, a company on a mission accessible to everyone everywhere. - Hey, how are you? - Hi, welcome. - Thank you. - This is Rajwinder, a regular Everytable customer - Have you been to Everytable before? - Yes. I come here almost every day. - All right. And this is Timothy of culinary research and - The Southwest Chipotle is my favorite, and I like the Trap Curry. Love the Taco Bowl- and your Breakfast Sandwich. - And the Breakfast Sandwich? - I love the Chia Pudding. That's my go-to. - That diverse assortment of meals Rajwinder just listed to Everytable locations around the city, providing her the option to eat healthy between her demanding schedule as a nurse. - After 10 hours of I don't have time to go It's convenient, it's So this is absolutely life-saving. - Affordable, accessible, convenient, and healthy- behind the creation of Everytable, founded by Sam Polk in 2016. And its secret lies in their business model. - Everytable has created to take ingredients directly from farms, turn them into fresh, and then give them to people at prices that are often less than it would cost if you cooked it yourself. And the way we get to is really about this centralized kitchen. - Good morning, Maria. This is where we prepare from scratch. Good morning, chef. - Hi. - We have our senior working on some recipes At Everytable, we don't on salt, fat, and sugar And so, we rely on good quality, chef techniques, flavor development, using fresh herbs and using spices, ingredients that are bold in flavor but don't impact our So we're working, we got a little browning. - Yep. - So I develop our menu and our pipeline with a team of talented chefs We leverage seasonality that are going to be able to allow us to deliver on that This is our new Calexico So this is a Tajin Chili with a cilantro, honey lime dressing, a five-rice grain blend, pickled onions, crispy tortillas, and a salad blend base. This is something we do frequently, just kind of taste our food, give an honest kind of thought around, are we delivering to expectation? Going from a four-ounce portion is kind of what happens and what we see here. One comment I might make is on the Tajin seasoning. What do you guys think? Once we all feel really and the nutritionals, then we go into a commercialization So this is where our food is and then cooled down, and for our team in the assembly room to then put into our meal kits. And then the meals are and shipped out directly to our stores for our customers that same day. - Everytable is really 'If you can make truly that everybody can afford, And so far, the answer is 'yes.' - I was born in India, so Healthy foods shouldn't it should have a flavor. So I see the Trap Curry, I see different ethnic groups food. Those flavors are great. It's a party in your mouth. - In addition to storefronts, Everytable maintains a smart fridges located on as well as partnership programs that provide medically-tailored Everytable has also devised another innovative to offer discounted prices specific to the income where the store is located. - The thing that's really is that our most profitable stores are our stores in food deserts and underserved neighborhoods. It's not about charity, it's about creating a profitable system that works for everyone and - Always a pleasure, thank you. - Really important and impactful work. - Bye, thank you. - Let's head back to the and discuss the various ways Pick up in your journey, on and residency, and I think had what was that like? - Yeah, to sum up the sort of reflection that I was having at that time, I did, I had a real philosophical based in everything I'm looking at my patients who are putting all of their trust in me, Dr. Means, looking to me for salvation. And what I started to realize after five years in the surgical world is that the problems that were generating, their health conditions, were not things that I could So I put down my scalpel and I vowed that I would not cut into another patient and profit hugely off that act until I really understood if to keep patients out to empower patients to rather than just waiting and then treating disease. So I started a company called Levels, which is completely focused to understand their own bodies. And our premise is simple: We give people a biosensor, called a continuous glucose monitor, that they wear on their 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, what's happening with their blood sugar. - I know many of the recommendations are based on the specific but could you generalize, what are some common that improve their metabolic health? - There's seven main elements that I think are the most important levers that we can pull to improve And so, those are food, adequate sleep, movement and exercise, stress management, toxin avoidance, getting the appropriate and actually managing the So food, that one's pretty obvious. You know, we need to every single day with these that directly hurt our cellular health. Exercise is also pretty obvious. For muscles to contract, they need ATP. And so, it's basically and using it to convert to ATP. So the more muscle you have the more you're churning that's in your body of Stress management is actually The body has this fascinating where, historically, if we had a threat, like we were being chased by a lion, our body would release huge And that actually signals to the liver to dump all this glucose to feed your muscles so you And of course, now, our We're not being chased by a lion. We're usually responding to an email, or a text message, or someone's honking- but we're not actually using our muscles in that stressful event. So what happens is the it raises our blood sugar, The fourth one I mentioned was sleep, which is profoundly related for a similar reason as the stress piece. If you are sleep-deprived, your body will release stress hormones that can keep your blood sugar elevated. Our sleep quality is being that we're looking at in And we're sleeping on than we were a hundred years ago. And then the three that is toxins, light Toxins is one that I'm There are over 80,000 in our food, water, and air supply that have basically just by factories over the past hundred years, virtually unregulated. And what we are now starting is that many of these go through food, through air, through the products that like furniture, and mattresses, they can go into our cells So this is one we really because unless you're and unless you're filtering you become the filter, right? You are the filter. These things go into your - And you have to imagine, so much of that would correlate with income So yet again, it's a human rights issue- - It is. especially children in with clothing, with processed foods, just on a daily basis, These poor kids' bodies and yet we hope them to the kids in the wealthy - Right- it's shocking. And one of the most pressing issues that is a result of this between chemicals and our fertility. We know that so many of these chemicals are endocrine-disrupting chemicals, meaning that they actually And so, one of the big reasons we think that sperm count is plummeting right now is because of the way that these chemicals are affecting hormone receptors, which both directly affect sex hormones but also affect energy and together, are not be able to make or healthy placenta if So the toxin piece is so fascinating, and one that we need to really think about from a public policy standpoint because it's becoming so pervasive that it's almost impossible - It doesn't take a PhD to conclude that if we've done something to our bodies such that as an organism, we can no longer make more of ourselves, something probably isn't working. - Yeah. - So you've encountered this You're a really smart person. You're looking at your toolkit. You've got a number of tools. You could run for office, or write a book, or continue on a career in medicine- and the tool that you picked Why did you pick that one? - It came down to entrepreneurship for me because of a core philosophical belief that I really believe in people. I believe in empowering individuals to have agency and a sense And entrepreneurship is beautiful because you're bringing that is for people to use and a way that they see fit. So this is exactly what You know, you've got all wearing this sensor, in their own lives that work for them. They get joy from that ownership. And so, creating a product that then people can take into the world and use in their own life and aligns with my - One of the incentives sort is the incentives that to live a long and healthy life. And tools like Levels, and and the content in your I've noticed it myself, They're not as powerful as, &quot;Gosh, those lucky charms it's a longer time horizon. But I'm just beginning to connect some of those incentives to imagining life as a 90-year-old with grandkids- but it's kind of hard How do you think about that are trying to make good decisions? How do you put some meat on the bone around the incentives for connecting to living a - Yeah. A big piece of this that in our culture is actually going back to just having profound And one of the ways that I is by understanding how you work better. So that's why awareness and And one of the things I and about people having better access to these personal understanding tools, there's a lot of you know, you've got 50 million Americans with wearable trackers, they understand the cause and effect of what's going on with their heart rate, and their activity, and their sleep, and I think all of this together actually gets us more that the choices that have a distinct impact on our And so, what really motivates is to essentially get the most out of this incredible, short and really a deep sense of understanding that completely comes down to me and the choices I make every day. - Dr. Means, Casey, thank but more importantly, for that you took in your own raising money, and building stuff, and putting yourself out that so clearly can and that of the nation and the world. Appreciate you being with us. - Thank you, Evan.