Once a much hyped EV startup, Rivian faces a severe It's losing about $1.5 billion per quarter. Rivian lost between $30,000 and $43,000 on every truck five quarters. There are potentially 1 or 2 programs away from In March 2024, Rivian announced it would pause a plan in Georgia. That's where it was supposed to produce Then this happened. Rivian announcing, along with Volkswagen, that billion in Rivian. The joint venture which the two companies could saving grace, but it's a lot more than that. It's revolutionary for VW. I think that this deal ended up being really for the industry as a whole. Rivian started out with high hopes it was addressing a The best selling vehicles in the US are pickup trucks, Tesla, the biggest EV maker, wasn't producing one Rivian. I mean, say what you will about them make beautiful products. It's actually the same designer that designed the Jeep past couple of decades that went over to Rivian and of art. Rivian also proved it could make commercial trucks, vans. Then in 2021, it went public. How much excitement there is around Rivian? We haven't seen this in a long time. Rivian set to IPO this week at a valuation that could When I've talked with executives in the auto industry, This is the IPO to watch. When Rivian IPO'd it was met with a lot of fanfare. That was right after the pandemic when there was a lot But things haven't turned out as planned. Shares have plummeted. Market cap shrank from $150 billion to about 16 September 2024. I think what happened was people kind of extrapolated did the same math and they said, well, Rivian's And it was. But the difference is Tesla when they started were the town. You had this EV slowdown happen probably at kind time especially you're trying to sell very expensive Interest rates used to be really low when you had all At the end of the second quarter 2020 for Rivian said It still expects to lose $2.7 billion in adjusted When they went public a couple of years ago, they had, through probably about 75% of that at this point, been spending a lot of money on both on R&amp;D, on new they started spending on building a second factory. But their volumes were not enough to sustain that And the vehicles that they were building already were That's for the VW deal comes in handy. Apart from the much needed cash, Rivian also gets the Rivian is a drop in the bucket, right? Like if their wildest dreams come true, they're going factory in Illinois. They are way down on the totem pole in terms of individual suppliers. Volkswagen sells about 9 million vehicles around the If you call those people up and you have Volkswagen multi million unit order, then that person picks the pricing, much more favorable pricing than what Rivian So if Volkswagen offers Rivian cash and bargaining Despite its troubles, the way Rivian and, companies fundamentally different from the way nearly every It comes down to three words software defined vehicle. Volkswagen tried to really get into the software it. Basically, as the name suggests, it is one that is more software that can be updated throughout the life of Tesla pioneered this. It can diagnose problems on its cars, fix them, and without having to touch the car. Famously, in 2018, the Tesla model three received a extremely long time to bring the vehicle to a complete That's a serious safety concern. The company fixed the problem with the remote update Auto industry analysts, including Consumer Reports' anything like that before. To that end, to compete in this new world, VW founded 2020 known as Cariad. It stands for car, I am digital. Like a lot of other automakers, they intended to do Well at Volkswagen, like many other companies that disaster. Software problems delayed several product launches from as Porsche and Audi. And more importantly, it's been a costly initiative. CARIAD reported EUR2.4 billion and EUR2.1 billion 2023 and 2022, respectively. The struggles led to a management shakeup at VW Group, That is what ultimately part of what led to Mr. Diess having to leave the company. And now what they did was they took the Porsche brand Oliver Blume, and now he's the co-CEO of both Porsche Group. I'm sure he's a very dynamic guy and a great a lot of plates to balance, right? There's spinning. And now to have to think about Since its launch troubles, Porsche said it would expand Vw overhauled CARIAD's leadership in 2023, appointing along with a new chief software officer from.. quess where? Rivian. He's also ex Tesla. All these troubles are despite the fact that VW, like software in cars since long before Tesla or Rivian The first computer chip on a car was designed to 1977 Oldsmobile Toronado made by General Motors. But the way legacy automakers have integrated hardware moment, upending the old ways has proven far more companies established in the digital age. They say, how come Tesla's not having this problem, How come the Chinese aren't having this problem? How come Rivian is not having this problem? One thing leads to another, and then they realize it's vehicles are built are just so different. We can't change. We have to either change which is piggyback off the work that companies like Rivian are They can stay laser focused and they can sort of, you where Volkswagen has to play and say, we got bills We got to pay. Rivian is losing 38,000. I forget what the number is, what, $35,000 per car. And they're doing a victory lap because they're not Volkswagen can't say that. They can't say, oh, give us some time, shareholder. We're only losing $40,000 per car. But they can play by a different script. This is the insanity of this industry. The automakers we know VW, Ford, GM, Toyota, BMW, rely on suppliers to provide them with parts since the More and more pieces of the car have become embedded But one at a time. They wanted to add electronic stability control or They would go to their suppliers and say, okay, here's Or suppliers might develop something that the automaker and say, hey, here's our new feature we And so then the automakers will take a look at that this feature. So the automaker gets a set of components, sensors, called an electronic control unit or ECU. The automaker just fits that into its vehicle. But the software on that computer is isolated to that It is written by the supplier, it isn't connected to systems on the vehicle. Now picture there is somewhere between 70 and 100 of All of them have their own software, their own Automating a simple task like engaging a driver's Climate and entertainment settings could involve From the very beginning of Rivian, we said we need to allows us to own the way we think about the network not just the software stack, but allows us to own how You don't have dozens and dozens of black boxes with Instead, you have one centralized platform that houses code that you yourself wrote, and the only way you can you are the one dictating what the underlying hardware Instead of 70 to 100 different computers throughout the 17. In their second generation, they reduced that That wouldn't have been possible in the time that we If we had to coordinate across 50 or 60 different ECUs suppliers. Rivian like Tesla and basically every smartphone maker independently by making use of a layer called It can send updates to the vehicle's software without That middleware layer is essential to a software And that's where everybody's having a lot of Rivian has added more than 500 features through over 30 years. Even more importantly, what this deal does is it new philosophy regarding what it is an automaker needs of in house. So it's a really consequential agreement. So Volkswagen gets access to software and Rivian gets because its software and hardware will be going into Rivian now also has access to a far larger potential data. Rivian's success in software, hardware and wonder why bother making cars at all? It is very difficult to make a car. You're heavily scrutinized. You have a a product that can has a liability side of speeds. You have this idea of organizing supply bases, everything going down. Logistically, if you're on the agnostic. You don't have to sell it to only your be on You can sell it to many manufacturers out there. After all, Rivian's current financial challenges mostly vehicles to market. To add to that, Volkswagen also plans to resurrect the SUVs. For all its success with highly profitable and Lamborghini, Bentley - Volkswagen has never been able markets. These vehicles would be direct competitors to And I got no proof on this one. But the idea here is one of the strategies could be, subset of Volkswagen? Does Rivian want to be in the car making business at I think what's happening is Volkswagen is looking at You know, in case a scout endeavor is not successful. You know, one of the toughest market, perhaps in the US. And I think Volkswagen has tried doing this in the We've seen Japanese brands try to do trucks in the US. Some of them have succeeded, but for the most part So it's an open question of whether or not Scout would But first, this collaboration has to succeed. I don't know if this approach will ultimately work of failed automotive partnerships between OEMs. Other automakers are, for now, pursuing the path VW Some are familiar to Americans, such as Ford. Their conclusion is that if you believe this is the do it yourself. Others are the up and comers. Much of the industry is worried about. The Chinese, somehow, some way, they figured out how software defined electric vehicles with a 30 plus versus the rest of the world. And it's not because they called up some white knight on their behalf, right? They figured it out. VW and Rivian declined CNBC's request for an interview