- When people think about robots, they usually imagine something metallic and humanoid. But the robots we'll see in the future might not look like that at all. I mean, if humans are on a daily basis, it's sharp, delicate, and heavy. - How rude. - [Derek] Instead, advanced if they're soft, flexible, and all kinds of shapes and sizes. So instead of Sonny from I, Robot. - No. - [Derek] Something like might be closer to what's in our future. - Balalala. - This is a compilation on the surprisingly different and why we build them that way. This is my first time trying out a series, and honestly, it's been a busy We're working on some exciting But in the meantime, we wanted to put this And I also caught up the scientist behind two of these robots, to get an update on and when we can expect Are there more developments happening with the jumping robots? - We have a whole nother and it doesn't even use springs. So I won't give away our our secrets yet. But keep an eye out for that one too, 'cause that's gonna be fun. - So you have another jumping robot which has a totally novel design? - Yep. - And you think it's gonna be better than the one that you had before? - Correct. - And I just wanna shout out our longtime sponsor, Brilliant. They've supported the channel since 2021, and it's great to get that I actually use myself. I've had Brilliant on my phone for years, and it just allows me to instead of, say, doom scrolling. You should make valuable use of your time. So I will tell you more about Non-humanoid robots aren't just safer for us to interact with. One of their biggest advantages is that they don't just do things humans already do, but better. Instead, they're specialized to master entirely new abilities, often ones that no human can tackle. This is a robot that can grow and it can't be stopped Although it looks kind it has dozens of potential applications, including one day maybe saving your life. These robots can be made but they all follow the Powered by compressed air, - That's good. - [Derek] And this allows the robot to pass through tight spaces, - Something like a car It gets stuck in the wheels. Now if I do the same see the robot is able to extend. - [Derek] It can navigate this curvy and twisted passageway effortlessly, which suggests some of the applications it's well suited for. Now, you might think spikes of an inflatable robot. But even if it's punctured, as long as you have the robot keeps going. - And you might be able to hear it. It's actually leaking now. So I'll have to turn up the pressure. This by itself is not yet a robot. But once we add steering, and maybe some intelligence as then we could say it's a robot. So this is sort of the This is what allows us to - [Derek] So where did the - I had a vine in my and it was kinda out of the sunlight. And over the course of like a year or so, it slowly grew out this tendril, out and around the edge of the shelf and towards the sunlight. I said, that's a pretty cool So you start thinking, well, is there a way you - [Derek] The solution is really Just take some airtight tubing It's kinda like a water wiggly, those toys that are really hard to hold. When you inflate it with compressed air, it starts growing out from the tip. And if you want the tube to you could just tape the to shorten one of the sides. For example, you could tape to create a deployable antenna. What about getting them to retract? - Yeah, that's a challenging problem. When you're in a constrained environment, all you really have to do is so the material that is passing through the core of the body. You pull on it and it basically outgrows, it just goes back inside itself. Now if you're in a big open area like this and you try pulling on that, instead of inverting, so retracting, it tends to kinda coil - [Derek] And the engineers to retract the tube to using internal rollers. But the tube doesn't have the whole way along. Here there's actually Think of it like a pillow that's packed into the end of the robot. - Yeah, if you could - Cross-legged on the table? This sounds super sketchy. So it grows underneath and then, as the pillow Is this not good, or is this okay? It can actually lift me up. So my balance is not great, as we can see. - [Elliot] Try standing on it. - Stand on it? - What's amazing is that much pressure above atmospheric. Just a tenth of an atmosphere like a square meter, can as a thousand kilograms, all Whoa. Woo. That was great. That's the paradoxical You can get a large overall as long as the area is large enough. What sort of area is - It's 600 square inches. So with one PSI, 600 pounds. - Yeah, that's just crazy. - [Derek] And the whole - Yeah, 'cause there's - [Derek] It's important so it doesn't hurt anyone. - So you can design these things to have cross-section that So it could be a very small body that could grow into, for and potentially lift a large object off someone who's trapped, or maybe in a car crash It can apply huge forces with very soft and - [Derek] These robots in search and rescue operations by attaching sensors like - These robots are actually So you can take them, potentially a collapsed and they will continue to go somewhere. An alternative is, they're so cheap. I mean, they're basically free. You could grow a hundred into a collapsed building and maybe only one of them finds somebody. But I mean, that's a - [Derek] But how do you keep a camera connected to the front of the robot when it grows out from the tip? Well, one way is to use an end cap, which allows that camera pushed from behind by the robot. But there are other The tiny wireless camera is but this frame interlocks which is actually inside of the robot body. It's similar to how a go around the track. So this prevents the as the robot grows. What's really interesting can be actively steered. They attach artificial So the way this muscle works it expands sideways, which leads to it contracting in length. - We don't actually use these much anymore because although it's soft, So what we use instead are simply tubes of this with the braid oriented at 45 degrees. So in this sense, we just have one single This is the main robot body here. Then we have three pneumatic Now, these three muscles are each connected to connected to regulators over here. As the robot extends from the tip, we can steer it by shortening So just the way your hand works is if I shorten this tendon in my arm, my hand will move this way. Or if I shorten the one on this side, it'll move the other way. So our vine robot, we have so as they inflate, Then if I inflate the it'll turn the other way. - [Derek] So the vine robot it doesn't typically and isn't bothered by sharp objects. And once you attach that it's ideal for things like archeology. The robot was actually taken to Peru to investigate some very narrow shafts. - So we were looking at that was built somewhere in the Andes Mountains of Peru, and it was an ancient temple that had all these underground spaces. And part of what the was trying to understand and what the people who built them were trying to do with them. So part of that was unknown. But there were these giant rooms and then there were these that were offshoots of these rooms, and they wanted to know but they were too small So we were able to to explore three of the tunnels that couldn't have been which was super exciting. And we got video inside the entire tunnels and gave it to the archeology team. - [Derek] There's an like this solution is just so obvious I wonder why it didn't exist before. - Intubation is literally the process of putting a tube into a patient. The purpose is to breathe for the patient when the patient isn't breathing. And so traditionally, a would take their laryngoscope, And once they see the trachea, you start to pass your tube down inside. I'm almost there. I can see the light. So if you can see right now, I just got it in to the trachea. - Oh, yeah. And it took me a couple minutes, and I was really kinda So if there's somebody every second counts. - [Derek] But by using a miniature version of this vine robot, researchers are hoping to make intubation faster and safer. - Somebody like me with no training could pretty simply insert this device, aim towards the nose, and just like that, if you can and all it took was a little Just like that. - [Derek] It almost looks - Yeah, right? It's like a, this reminds kinda like Play-Doh structures - [Derek] How does it know - Yeah, so that's one of about soft robotics, is the and we see that in a lot of these demos. They can squish, they can bend. And so, how we've designed it is that the main robot grows and then we have this side branch that heads towards the trachea, and it's quite flexible. And so, it basically finds the opening. So it's a really neat example of kind of a passive intelligence, mechanical intelligence, where it can find its path even if we don't know - [Derek] Have you tried - Not on a real person, but we've actually tried and we've shown that we can move from this nice idealized version and successfully intubate a patient. - [Derek] There's another application, which is burrowing into sand or soil. When you blow compressed air it fluidizes, it becomes like a liquid, and that can allow the vine robot to grow into granular materials like sand. - If you've ever been to the beach and you try to stick your it's fairly difficult. - I'll try to push that no fluidization. Yeah, it feels like it sort - So now I'll turn on the air. - Oh yeah, you can feel it immediately. Oh, wow. Yeah, that's a lot. - So what we've done here is essentially, we just blow a jet of air and that loosens up the sand enough to reduce the force of the just by tip extension, (air whooshing) (rousing music) - This makes vine robots for NASA when they look for ways to study the surfaces of other planets. Recently on Mars, they tried but it got stuck. Could you do it better - Yeah, that's a good question. So the Mars InSight mission, The idea there was to be able to sort of hammer its way down into the core and then place a sensor that could detect the temperature of Mars. However, the problem they ran into there is that it turned out the was more cohesive than they expected. Inside the robot, something wind up and pounded down. But it turned out there between the probe and the sand. So what was really happening pound down, wind up, pound So it'd never actually go anywhere. The advantage of something is you'd have your base, and you just keep extending your way down. You're not necessarily with what is surrounding - [Derek] What amazes me about vine robots is how a plant inspired It's so easy in fact that in as little as a minute. There are instructions But from that basic design have come a huge variety of robots, with different applications to search and rescue, or And what else can you - I've actually gotten a about crazy ideas that So keep 'em coming. We love to hear your ideas. - Are there any ideas that are like, oh, like - One idea was for So the idea was that you'd actually run a vine robot through the field and then detonate the landmines, that civilians could So I thought that was kind of a cool idea. - Do you think they'd to trigger these things? - I think the idea was put explosives in the yeah, the land mines themselves. - I mean, I'm also thinking, like I'm thinking you could on the vine robot. - So spread them across the field and they'll pick up where the mines are. - I'll give you another crazy example. Another one was for space so two spacecraft docking together, you have to make an airtight seal. And so, the idea was, well, maybe you could use a - Some sort of like airlock or - So basically, yeah, you can imagine the two tubes coming together, not sealed, and then the vine robot growing through and basically making the seal. - Are there any updates Like have the medical - So we just did a trial with emergency medical We gave 'em five minutes of training, we gave 'em the device, and they were 90-ish percent in very rapid, something like 20 seconds. - Oh, wow. - The nice thing about our our device is that if it fails, And so, it doesn't take and then realize you didn't get it. I think something really nice about that is that it is so rapid and easy that even if it does fail, - Yeah, I mean, that one to actually having a big I mean, how common are intubations? - So intubations in the OR, so operating room are quite common. I think like 15 million a year. That's probably not our initial target 'cause those are very The fundamental problem is for those doctors in those scenarios. And what happens is those similar tools get put out into the and a paramedic is trying but they're doing it maybe in the dark, with someone in a poor body position, where there's blood in the mouth. So our device takes and basically lets the vine robot find the way into the trachea. And so, pre-hospital, there's around a million And we think many intubations because the tools just aren't there. And then our kind of there's AEDs, the One issue there is there's not a way to help the person breathe. Possibly if we can make it could basically be packaged with a AED, where you could both get the heart going, and you could intubate But I think we're close. It's pretty easy. You'll have to come back We'll let you intubate a cadaver. That'll be fun. - So we've kind of answered this question, but are these robots, vine - We have a project especially we're interested in. So if you think of a plant root. If you ever try to pull out, I don't know, like a small shrub or something, it's incredibly hard, right? Like you're looking at this, it's got like a half an inch stem and you're pulling on it's like hundreds of pounds of force. So you're like how is this possible? And I think one of the coolest things is that a hundred pounds was created with almost no There was like a seed that - It's like all these little tendrils, and I'm imagining the friction - So basically, when you're the thing resisting you is That's what you're pushing in. And then what's giving is the surface area on the sides. And so, you can imagine, if the area in the tips doesn't change, but the surface area So you basically wanna split 'em up into as many, practically. So anyway, we're using that concept now to make these anchors, and we're working with And so, it's like this deployable anchor, it's very light. You could throw it and then the roots grow down, there's four roots that and it was something like to pull it out. - Yeah, it sounds like a where you could like and it just like phmf, and and you're like, oh yeah, - Yep, absolutely, absolutely. - Yeah, that's amazing. After seeing the unstoppable robot, we returned to Elliot's lab a that has conquered a the art of jumping. This tiny robot weighs and can jump higher than In the competitive the previous record was 3.7 meters, enough to leap a single story building. This jumper can reach 31 meters, higher than a 10-story building. It could jump all the way from up to eye level. For something to count as a jump, it must satisfy two criteria. First, motion must be created So a quadcopter doesn't count, because it pushes off the air. And second, no mass can be lost. So rockets constantly ejecting and neither is an arrow The bow would have to come with the arrow for it to count as a jump. Many animals jump, from sand fleas, to and they launch their bodies into the air with a single stroke of their muscles. The amount of energy delivered determines the jump height. So if you wanna jump higher, you have to maximize the The best jumper in the animal kingdom is the galago, or bush baby, and that's because 30% of is dedicated to jumping. This allows the squirrel-sized primate to jump over two meters from a standstill. - It has like very small and has just like huge jumping legs. It doesn't have better it just has more of them. - [Derek] There are some - I feel like, there we go. Oh! - I used to play with And when you deform a popper, you store energy in its deformed shape. Effectively it becomes a spring. And then, just like an animal, in one stroke, it applies a launching itself into the air. All elastic jumpers of storing energy in a spring and releasing that energy But none of the jumping toys we had could compare to this tiny robot. Of all the things that I this is the most challenging. Because it's so small, and travels a huge distance on each jump. Each takeoff happened faster Now, jumping might sound but engineered jumpers would be perfect for exploring other worlds, particularly where the atmosphere On the moon, with one this robot would be able and half a kilometer forward. Rovers may struggle with but jumpers could hop in and out, fetching samples to And you don't lose much So if you could store the kinetic energy back in the spring on landing, the efficiency could be near perfect. The team has already started to build an entire fleet of jumping robots. Some of them can right so they can take off again right away. Others are steerable. They have three adjustable legs that allow the jumper to - Essentially what we've done is we've added three additional but rather, allow it to that allows it to point a direction and launch in that direction. - [Derek] But how does this Well, the main structure consists of four pieces of carbon fiber, bound together by elastic bands. Together, they create a spring that stores all the energy At the top of the robot is a small motor. A string wrapped around the axle is connected to the bottom of the robot. So when the motor is turned on, it winds up the string, and this stores energy in the After about a minute and a half, the structure reaches maximum compression. How do you know when to put it down? - Basically once the bottom there sticks inward and it can stand up, right now it would roll over, then you can put it down. - So as soon as you can. - [Derek] And at this point, that's holding the string on the axle. So all the string unspools all at once, and the energy stored in - Yeah. - [Derek] The jumper to over a hundred kilometers an hour in only nine milliseconds. That gives an acceleration of over 300 Gs. That would be enough to kill - Watch out, watch out, watch out. - But how does it jump so much higher than everything else, nearly 10 times higher than Well, this jumper has three First, the jumper is incredibly It achieves this weight by employing a tiny motor and battery. Plus, its entire structure, made of lightweight doubles as the spring. Per unit mass, natural latex than nearly any other elastic material, 7,000 joules per kilogram. And the design of the spring Initially they tried connected to hinged aluminum rods. But with this design, when compressing it, the force rises to a Just feels like it all of a sudden got a lot easier to pull. Another design with requires a lot of force to get started, and then it increases linearly after that. There is more and more The ultimate design is a The benefit being, its over the entire range of compression. It feels like that needs a lot of force. And now it feels pretty steady with the amount of force Therefore, it provides of a typical spring, where force is proportional The researchers argue this is the most efficient - Sometimes a string'll snap. It's not always consistent that it releases when it's supposed to. - Oof! - The string cut it. Lemme go restring it. I'll be right back. - [Derek] All right. You'd probably expect that lighter would always be better with a jumper, especially if the added rather than anything useful, - So we're adding basically a and it's gonna jump higher, and the key is that we're You want your body, to weigh at least as much as the foot. When your body's lighter, this energy transfer is very inefficient and you don't jump very high. - But the real secret to how this jumper can achieve such heights the researchers call work multiplication. Unlike an animal, which can only jump using a single stroke of its muscle, an engineered jumper from many strokes, or in this case, many and that's how the motor can be so small. It doesn't have to deliver It builds it up gradually So the trade-off is kind - [Elliot] Exactly. - [Derek] And this is possible because there is a latch under tension preventing the spring from unspooling until the robot is fully compressed. Interestingly, biological For example, the sand flea, which can jump incredibly - It has a muscle that is is right inside of the pivot point. So as it contracts that muscle, the leg doesn't extend, right? It's actually closing it more. But then it has a second It's going to shift this muscle ever so slightly outside the pivot point. - That's wild. So there's these two - So here's your big power muscle. Here's your trigger muscle. It's a torque reversal mechanism. And then all of a sudden, it shoots. - [Derek] But even though the no organism has developed for a jump from standstill, Spider monkeys have been observed pulling back a branch hand over hand using multiple muscle strokes stored in the bend of the branch to catapult themselves forward. There's a spider that which they pull back multiple times in order to slingshot So it's like slingshotting itself? - Yes, they're called - Now, I tried jumping in moon boots to see if they would help me go higher. (remarks drowned out by background noise) Okay. Oof. And it certainly felt like they did, but Elliot pointed out they don't actually help much. - Kind of build it, build - Okay. Only if you jump a few times some of the previous jumps and then that energy helps launch you higher on the following jump. For years, engineered to mimic biological jumping. But with work multiplication, If you can generate a simply by running a motor for a long time, the power of the motor is no the spring is. So you can focus on making the most powerful spring possible. This jumper has nearly maximized the achievable height with this spring. Assuming an infinitely light motor with infinite time to wind up, the highest possible jump is only around 19% higher If you want to incorporate air resistance and play with aerodynamics, another way to send the jumper higher is to make it 10 times leading to a 15 to 20% higher jump. - So we're in kind of where we still are but it's not as bad as the flea. If we went 10 times bigger, we could actually avoid - This works since if 10 times on all sides, the cross-sectional area which increases the drag force, but the jumper's mass So it has way more inertia, meaning the drag force affects it less. The entire concept of work multiplication could bring robots to the next level. Currently, motors and robots so they remain portable. But the simple principle from multiple turns of a motor over time would allow robots to huge amounts of energy, and set some world records in the process. When we visited you, we and it was the record holder. My question, is that still - It is. I also challenge all because it is beatable. So I hope someone in the and if not, we'll beat our own record, because it's beatable. I will say that much. - Are there more happening - We have a whole nother which we also think will beat it, and it doesn't even use spring. So I won't give away our secrets yet. But keep an eye out for that one too, 'cause that's gonna be fun. - So you have another jumping robot, which has a totally novel design? - Yep. - And you think it's gonna be better than the one that you had before? - Correct. And in terms of making - Yeah, so I mean, we do I will say, our stuff with just in terms of what is getting something If they're gonna send it to And so, that's a slow going process. But I just think that's still a goal, is to get it to the moon. - It would be like the next - I think that's a really good analogy. So the Mars helicopter has basically being this little scout that can just go out of where the rover might need to go, or maybe getting some samples. You can't have a helicopter And we think we can get in terms of height and stuff like that with jumping on the moon So yeah, no, that's a great analogy. - Are there any interesting emails that came about from - So a lot of people want to make one, and I will say, it's really hard, and I keep writing that it's really hard. Every piece in that robot was... They talk about safety where you're supposed to and we had no safety factors in anything. And so, pretty much everything And so, that just made it incredibly hard. But what we're trying is put together a tutorial to make like a, you know, it's not gonna but it'll jump maybe 20 or 30 feet. Stay tuned for that, 'cause I think that would to build one themselves and try it out. I will say though that if what we're trying to do, wear your safety glasses and Because the number of I've gotten into my fingers. - Oh, no. Brutal. What is the biggest thing you learned building the jumping robot? - How many things can go wrong when you're trying to build 'Cause this was years over and over, and over and over again. So I think something that sticks out to me is that it takes a lot of failure to get a success like that. - Would anyone ever say to you, well, why did it take that many years? Could you not have like done some simulations of it before you actually build the thing? - Well, no, and I should mention too that it's not like we didn't That's all part of our cycle too. But the problem is, I mean, we We went through so many different Like some were kind of this ball shape, but we had other robots rubber band based. It's like this crazy and comparing all kinds I think that's a reasonable amount of time to make a world record, - The jumper robot can jump so high precisely because it's built with a tiny body and massive legs. Its whole body is designed The specialization of robots is also natural in academic research, since it's easier for and understand one ability. These may later be included into a single more complex robot. People expect sort of the Boston Dynamics, humanoid type robots. Why have you investigated very strange looking type robots? - The thing that maybe they're mostly about and less so about controls, and vision, and AI, and that side. And so, often we think of what we do are kind of adjacent to core robots. But our lab isn't as focused just because I find more joy So that's what I like to do. - Do you have a personal favorite robot? - I can't play favorites with my robots. - I know, it's like picking Like it's just impossible. - I love all my robots. I will say though that the it took a lot of learning and revising it. And so, when we finally I think that was really satisfying. - From your perspective, come to be in the first place? - Oh, wow. Okay. That's a fun story. So you sent me an email, I maybe five years ago, something And I went into lab one day, I I was like, oh, some guy And he is like, &quot;Yeah, who was it? Maybe I could help out or something.&quot; So I forwarded it to him, he's like, &quot;Do you know who this is?&quot; So then we responded. And we appreciated the effort you put in to the details in getting the story right. I forget how long we had this call. I had this call with Emily, it was maybe four hours or something. We went through the 'Cause she wanna get everything just right for that jumping video. As an academic, we care about that stuff and we want it to be right. - But the most specialized perfected match between a robot's build in its abilities comes from one competition for nearly 50 years. Micromouse is the oldest robotics It's like the Formula 1 of robotics, but you have to see their This tiny robot mouse can finish this maze in just six seconds. (rousing music) Every year around the world, people compete in the The goal is simple: get to the end of the - Person who came second (spectators cheering) lost by 20 milliseconds. - [Derek] But competition - When somebody saw my design, - [Derek] Why is there so much tension? What's riding on it? Honor? (spectators applauding) - [Derek] In 1952, constructed an electronic that could solve a maze. The trick to making the mouse intelligent was hidden in a computer made of telephone relay switches. The mouse was just a magnet following an electromagnet controlled by the position - [Claude] He is now exploring the maze using a rather involved As he finds the correct path, he registers the Later, I can put him down that he's already explored and he'll be able to without making a single false turn. - Theseus is often referred to as one of the first examples A director at Google recently said that it inspired the whole field of AI. 25 years later, editors at and Electronics Engineers, or IEEE, caught wind of a contest or le mouse electronique, They were ecstatic. Were these the successors Theseus? But something had been These mice were just batteries in cases, not robots capable of But the misunderstanding stuck why couldn't we hold that In 1977, the announcement for IEEE's amazing Micromouse Maze Contest attracted over 6,000 entrants. But the number of successful Eventually, just 15 entrants But by this point, the enough public interest to be broadcast nationwide on the evening news. And just like the rumor that Micromouse began to Micromouse for the taking Micromouse, it's here and now Take a chance and start creating - The Micromouse. - [All] Micromouse! (upbeat music) - Even people in the top two or three, you can see them trying and they can barely find because it's absolutely nerve wracking. (suspenseful music) It doesn't matter what it was. It could be horse racing, it could be mouse racing. If you have a shred of you wanna win, right? - [Derek] Just like a real mouse, a micromouse has to be fully autonomous, no internet connection, and no nudging it to help it get unstuck. It has to fit all its computing, motors, sensors, and power supply in a frame no longer or There isn't a limit on but the rules don't or any forms of combustion. So rocket propulsion for (whistle being blown) The maze itself is a square subdivided by walls into corridors only 18 centimeters across. And in 2009, the half-size Micromouse with mice smaller than 12 and and paths just nine centimeters across. The final layout of the at the start of each competition, after which competitors are not allowed to change the code in their mice. (spectators applauding) The big three competitions, and USA's APEC, usually limit to seven or 10 minutes, and mice are only allowed five runs from the start to the goal. - So if you spend a lot of time - Makes sense. So the strategy for most micromice is to spend their first run and looking for the best path to the goal, while not wasting too much time. Then they use their remaining tries to sprint down that path for (spectators applauding) Solving a maze may sound simple enough, though it's important to remember that with only a few the view from inside the than what we see from above. Still, you can solve a If you just put one hand along one wall, you will eventually reach and that's exactly what some initial Micromouse competitors realized too. And after a simple wall following mouse took home gold in the first finals, the goal of the maze was and freestanding walls were added, which would leave a simple searching forever. Your next instinct might taking note of every fork in the road. Whenever you reach a dead end or a loop, you can go back to the last intersection and try a different path. If your last left turn got you nowhere, you'd come back to that You can think of this strategy as the one a headstrong mouse might use, running as deep into the maze as it can and turning back only when This search strategy, known will eventually get the mouse to the goal. The problem is, it might because the mouse only so it may have missed a The sibling to this search would find the shortest path. With this strategy, the of an intersection until and then it goes back to before moving on to the So the mouse checks but all that backtracking means that it's rerunning At this point, even often takes less time. So why not just do that? A meticulous mouse could search testing every turn and corner to ensure it has definitely But searching so thoroughly Instead, the most popular is different from all of these techniques. It's a search algorithm This mouse's plan is to through the maze, so optimistic in fact, that on their first journey doesn't have any walls at all. They simply draw the shortest When their optimistic plan that wasn't on their map, and update their new Running, updating, running, updating, always bee lining for the goal. Under the hood of the algorithm, what the micromouse is is the distance from every To travel optimistically, of decreasing numbers down to zero. Whenever they hit a wall, they update the numbers on their map to reflect the new shortest This strategy of following of lease resistance gives the The process resembles and updating values based on the flow. Once the mouse reaches the goal, it can smooth out the path it took and get a solution to the maze. However, it may look back and imagine an even shorter uncharted The mouse might not be satisfied that it's found the While this algorithm isn't guaranteed to find the best path on first pass, it takes advantage of need to return to the start So if the mouse treats its it can use the return trip Between these two attempts, both optimized to find the shortest path it's extremely likely that and the mouse will have often leaving irrelevant areas of the maze entirely untouched. Flood-fill offers both an for micromice to find the Once there was a clear strategy and once the microcontrollers and sensors required to some people believed As a paper published in IEEE put it, &quot;At the end of the 1980s, the Micromouse Contest The problem was solved and did not provide any new challenges.&quot; In the 2017 all-Japan both the bronze and silver placing mice found the shortest path to the goal. And once they did, they as quick as 7.4 seconds. (spectators applauding) But Masakazu Utsunomiya's did something entirely different. This is the shortest path to the goal, the one that everyone took. This is the path that Red Comet took. It's a full five and a half meters longer. That's because micromice aren't actually searching for the shortest path, they're searching for the fastest path, and Red Comet's search that this path had fewer So even though the path was longer, it could end up being faster. So it took that risk. (spectators applauding) It won by 131 milliseconds. Differing routes at competition are now more common than not, and even just getting to whether due to a mysterious algorithm or a quirk of the physical maze. - [Announcer] On the corner, - [Derek] Micromice don't Micromouse is far from solved, because it's not just a software problem or a hardware problem, it's Red Comet didn't win because it had a better search algorithm, or because it had faster motors. It's cleverness came from how the brains and body of the mouse interacted together. - So it turns out solving it never was the problem, right? But it's actually about navigation, and it's about going fast. - Every year, the robots get There is still plenty of innovation left. And there's a small group busy building quarter-sized micromouse, which would sit on a quarter - [Derek] Nearly 50 years on, Micromouse is bigger than ever. (spectators applauding) Competitions have appeared The high jump was an with competitors refining their jumps using variations like the and the straddle over the But once foam padding became Dick Fosbury rewrote the sport in 1968 by becoming the first Olympian to jump over the pole backwards. Now almost every high jumper does what's known as the Fosbury Flop. If Micromouse had indeed the competition would've two innovations that completely After all, a lot can change in a sport where competitors can solder on any upgrade they can imagine. The first Fosbury flop was one of the earliest and had nothing to do with technology. It was simply a way of or rather, cutting through the box. Every mouse used to But everything changed - The Mitee mouse three implemented diagonals for the first time. (spectators cheering) And that turned out to than we really thought. And because it's cool, maze designers often put diagonals into the maze now. So, you know, you could end comes up, but most of the - [Derek] In order to pull off diagonals, the chassis of the mouse had to be reduced to less than 11 centimeters wide, or just five centimeters The sensors and software of When you're running all you have to do is between your left and But a diagonal requires one that essentially guides the mouse as if it had blinders on. - Normally if you're going or something like that, most of the time, you can And so, that helps you to guide yourself, and you know when you're getting off. But in the diagonal situation, you just see these walls coming at you. - [Derek] And if you veer snagging a corner is a lot less forgiving than sliding against a wall. Diagonals are still one of in competition today. But in exchange, a jagged path of turns transforms into one narrow straightaway. - Whoa, whoa! (spectators applauding) (spectators applauding) (spectators cheering) - [Derek] These days, nearly is designed to take this risk. Cutting diagonals opened up Around the same time, mice were applying similar Instead of stopping and pivoting a mouse could sweep around And once the possibility the total number of possible The maze was no longer just With so many more options to weigh, figuring out the best path But the payoff was dramatic. What was once a series of stops and starts could now be a single How micromice imagined had changed completely. (spectators applauding) Available technology was getting upgrades over the years as well. Tall and unwieldy arms that were replaced by a smaller array of infrared sensors onboard the mouse. Precise stepper motors were traded in for continuous DC motors and encoders. - The DC motors give you more power for less size and weight. And so, we were interested in doing that. So then you have to have a servo, you have to actually have to make it do the right thing. - [Derek] Gyroscopes added an It's like a compass. - You had this thing with you. - They came about 'cause So the technology provides people with things which weren't there before. All of the turning is rather than counting 'cause it's much more reliable. - [Derek] But even with all the biggest physical issue for micromice went unaddressed for decades. One thing you'll see almost is a roll of tape. Once you know to look for This tape isn't for repairs It's to gather specks in between rounds. At the speed and precision that tiny change in friction If you wanna turn while driving fast, you need centripetal force to And the faster you're moving, the more force you need The only centripetal force for is friction, which is the road pushing up the weight of the car, or the normal force, multiplied by the static which is the friction of the interface between the tire and road surface. This is why racetracks have banked turns. The steep angles help cars because part of the normal to contribute to the If the bank turn is steep enough, cars can actually make the turn The inward component of is enough to provide the centripetal force required to stay on track. Micromice are no different, and they don't have banked turns to help. As they got faster and their limiting factor was no longer speed, but control of that speed. They had to set their and slow down during turns to avoid slipping into But unlike race cars, there to stop Micromouse competitors by engineering an entirely new mechanism. Micromouse's second Fosbury flop was almost considered a gimmick when the mouse Mokomo08 You might be staring at but you won't. Instead, it's something you'll hear. That isn't the mouse revving its engines. It's spinning up a propeller. And while flying over the there's nothing in the vacuuming itself to the - Dave Otten was the first person I saw put a fan on a mouse, and I think he was really looking blowing the thing down. He had a skirt around, but it He'll forgive for saying so. The idea is to let as And like your vacuum cleaner, when you block your vacuum cleaner, the motor unloads and speeds But if you let too much air And these are just quadcopter motors, and they draw a lot of current. - [Derek] At the scale of Micromouse, a vacuum fan, often just built is enough to generate a downward force five times the mouse's weight. Wow, okay. That's impressive. So how much does the car actually weigh? - About 130 grams. And if you listen, I dunno if you'll get it - Oh, yeah. slow down, loads up. - [Derek] With that much friction, micromice today can turn corners with a centripetal That's the same as F1 cars. Once nearly everyone equipped fans, the added control allowed builders to push the speed limit on micromice. - When it's allowed to, it will out accelerate a Tesla Roadster, but not for very far. - [Derek] And they can zip along at up to seven meters per second, faster than most people can run. (spectators applauding) (spectators cheering) (spectators applauding) Every one of the features now standard on the modern micromouse and the next Fosbury flop The first four-wheeled micromouse to win the all-Japan but it would take another 22 years of the winning mouse growing before four wheeled mice became the norm. With micromice still experimenting in six and eight wheeled designs, and even computer vision, who knows what the next - [Announcer] Your time on only when you leave the start square. So he's not penalized - But if you wanna get you don't need to worry about wheel count, or vacuum fans, or even diagonals. - It is to my mind, of all the major disciplines and engineering, and all wrapped up in one accessible bundle that you can do in your living room, and you don't need a laboratory to run it. You come along because you're curious. And then you think, I could do that, that doesn't look so hard. And then you're doomed, really. If it sucks you in, it turns (spectators cheering) (spectators applauding) - At its core, Micromouse trying to solve a maze. Though nearly 50 years later, it's a simple problem there is no such thing Micromouse for the taking Micromouse, it's here and now Take a chance, start creating Micromouse will show you how - A humanoid robot built for all the same tasks a human does sacrifices specialization in any one skill in order to be a generalist. But if it does all tasks semi well and these tasks are what well, then those robots are copying our capacities So robots are perhaps not as multipurpose humanoids, but rather as precise tools Instead of one Swiss army knife robot, you'd end up with something of specialized robots. Big futuristic questions like how to bring robots requires all sorts of But perhaps the most important one is actually something problem solving. If you wanna hone your own you can get started on with today's sponsor, Brilliant. Brilliant will make you a while helping you build real skills in everything from to math, data science, and whatever you're curious about. On Brilliant, you'll by trying things yourself. And you'll not only gain but learn to apply them all while building your intuition. This gives you the tools to solve whatever problems come your way. You know, we've been partnering and I still find new things like this course on how to maximize the value of an electric car. Brilliant has thousands and because each one is bite-sized, you can do it in just minutes. So no matter where you are, you can always be building right on your phone. To try everything Brilliant has to offer for free for 30 days, visit or you can scan this QR code, or click that link down You'll also get 20% off an So I wanna thank Brilliant for sponsoring this part of the video, and now, dive into a surprising trait we're starting to build into robots. Elliot's vine robot and jumping robot are just two cases where the robots that might save our lives don't look much like But soft robots in particular So why are so many the robots of the future For one, trading out for single flexible bodies might be how we make robots These bendy gear boards are so predictable that they were commissioned to secure nuclear weapons, ensuring that no random motions could accidentally set them off. But predictability is that machines that bend are better. What do this satellite and micro mechanical Well, they all contain so-called compliant mechanisms. - So it's always been considered to be bad to have flexibility in your machines. Well, we've tried to take that and is trying to avoid and say, how can we use flexibility how can we use that to do cool stuff? - [Derek] Now, Professor on compliant mechanisms. - That's the most cited book in-- - [Derek] But he's pretty Just watch how he introduces to prevent nuclear weapons - Actually the safing and - [Derek] What? - And so, yeah, if you want. - [Derek] Hang on, hang on. Hang on, hang on. What in nuclear weapons? - Safing and arming. - Safing and arming. So if there's anything in the world that you want to be safe, that is not going to accidentally go off. - I feel like this is, it But yes, nuclear weapons, obviously you don't want them to go off. Well, I don't understand how this is gonna keep nuclear weapons safe. Now, I wanna come back to this device and explain how it works. Once we understand why are best suited to this task. That's cool. So let's start with something basic. - Probably the first compliant was this thing. What it is, is a compliant So you can put something in there and it'll get actually I can put that in there - [Derek] What if you and squeeze it? - You would scream in pain. Would you like to try? - I would. - [Derek] Like I would actually - Okay. You need to squeeze it yourself though. - Really? - Well, all right, I'll squeeze - But like don't, don't, don't. (Derek screaming in pain) That very quickly got incredibly painful. It felt like having my - That looks suspiciously like vice grips, but now with these flexible - Hmm. What I learned in my visit is that compliant mechanisms over traditional mechanisms. But I thought he needed kind of a clever, pithy way to remember So I came up with the eight and the first of those is part count. Compliant mechanisms because they have these bendy parts instead of having things like hinges, and bearings, and separate springs. This gripper is just a but achieves a similar result to the much more complicated vice grips. Like how much does it amplify the force? - This will get about 30 to 1. So I could get, for 1 pound - [Derek] That's pretty good. It seems like that would be super cheap. - And really inexpensive. So this we just made here in our shop, but you can imagine also - [Derek] That would cost like cents. - Yep, this would cost cents. The other thing is, because of its shape, you could extrude it and - Hmm. - So the simple allows different production processes to be These switches, for example, achieve in one piece of plastic what is normally done and many rigid plastic pieces. - Also a good fidget device. - How long can these last? - We've had these in our and we've been able to go over a million cycles without failure. - What do we got there? - All right, Derek, I've got a quiz. - Uh-oh. - Elephant. - Very good. Okay, I'm gonna push on the I'm gonna hold this. So that little dot right there, is that dot, when I push on it, is it gonna go left, right, up, or down? (Derek laughing) - I just, you know what, I wanted to guess without - Yeah, please do. - I'm gonna say like up and in. - Okay. Up and in. - And I kind of feel like that because like that would be a logical way for an elephant to hold its trunk. But also because like if I feel like this is gonna and that's gonna get pushed up in there. - Ah, ah, good thinking. - Well, I don't know, - Well, it's thinking at least. So this is designed so it actually just rotates in - I knew you were gonna pull some sort of trick question on me. - [Derek] Now, since I was fooled by it, I had to try it out on my - That's so trippy. That is so cool. I don't understand, what? - It's modeled after the where you want to have, say, but then you move it is control, its its angle and not move it around in the wind tunnel. - Don't displace it, but be Devices like this demonstrate are capable of producing which I personally found because these objects are But maybe that shouldn't be surprising, because compliant mechanisms don't suffer from backlash, for one thing. So backlash occurs when you have a hinge, which is basically just a pin in a hole, and it's moving in one direction. And now, if at some point it doesn't happen instantaneously because there's some give in the hinge. This also causes wear, And that is why compliant mechanisms have better performance than - This one though is my favorite. - That is one of my favorites too. It's just so pleasing, right? - Oh, that sound is so satisfying. - This actually, believe when we were doing things where we were building We had to be able to make out of silicon, which And if you're trying to out of glass, it's crazy hard. But that also means, once we could make it in a which is also not the ideal So you can get on our website and get the files to make this yourself. - [Derek] I'll put a - Yeah, that also has a nice - It has a really nice snap. I like when it comes out, it's like gunk. Like there's something it's very pleasing. So these things actually move? - Oh yeah, yeah, yeah. - [Derek] I need to see this. - Okay, all right, we'll do it. - [Derek] Were those etched on there? - Yeah, those are etched. And so, just using the same processes used to make computer chips. - [Derek] So another advantage is that they can be made with significantly smaller proportions, because they take advantage of production processes - [Larry] And we have motion that we want at the microscopic level. - That's brilliant. Plus, since they simplify design, compliant mechanisms meaning lightweight, which makes them perfect - This here is something we did with NASA, making a hinge that could replace bearings for, say, deploying solar panels. This is titanium, 3D-printed titanium. But what's freaky about it is, you get that motion, which people expect, but here's a piece of plus-minus 90 degrees, - [Derek] That is solid titanium? - That is one piece of - [Derek] There's no alloy, - Yep, this is, yep. And even freakier than this is this guy right there. So that looks like a crazy beast, but every part in there has a purpose. All these flexible beams. Here are the two inputs. And again, we did this with where we can put a thruster right there, and now, with our two motor inputs, we can direct that That titanium device moves out, and you notice, it's just all bending. And then, there's no pinch or electrical lines coming in. - Here, this single piece of titanium allows you to use one Okay, that is a clutch. - So the idea is, if you because it's flexible, this outer part will actually And then, if there's a drum around it, it'll contact with that - Oh, so this like kind of, oh, that kind of comes out like so. - Then it gets spinning really fast, and then you essentially So this is like the way or something like that, because you get it spinning fast enough and then it engages the chain, and then, yeah. Yeah. Wow, that's cool. - So here, this is made in But in reality, it's So here it is made in steel. So hang on, you're saying that that thing, which is made of steel, - you spin it up to a certain speed, and then it expands and engages - Yep, yep. So it'll idle with no motion, but then at a certain speed, it'll speed up to that RPM. - You speed it up and it engage? - Yep. - I had no idea. Like I have learned something today. So let's come back to the for nuclear weapons. Its purpose is to ensure say, from an earthquake, inadvertently disable safeties Now, one of the requirements be made as small as possible. - They made those as small using traditional like what the Swiss watch - With compliant mechanisms, they produced a device out where some components were This is high speed video. Here, the device is operating at 72 hertz, meaning this little hole makes two complete The way it's meant to shines on the rotor wheel, and when the proper input the wheel rotates a notch. If all the proper inputs are given, then the hole lines up with a laser beam and crazy things happen from there. So it is essential that is perfectly predictable, even if it sits unused - So are these now being - You know, it turns what they do with their nuclear weapons. And so, we designed we tested them, and then it goes what where it's all classified, and you know, we don't - But these soft components by themselves aren't truly robots. It's only once you combine that you get robots which crazy shapes or new styles of movement, all because they bend. But how do they work, and why would you want a soft So I came up to Stanford and his soft robot. - Hey, Derek. - [Derek] All right, you wanna tip it? So is the idea that the - Totally, yeah. So you can kinda chain to kind of roll around in any environment. They call this punctuated wherein it's kind of stuck on a face until it tips over, and and it can then continue to Once that center of gravity or the base, then it tips over - [Derek] This is a different soft robot made out of flexible tubing. It was designed to mimic where diagonally opposite It's powered entirely by compressed air, and perhaps most impressive, All of the circuitry is pneumatic. And this means the robot can where electronics could spark explosions, or in the strong magnetic But why would you want a soft - One of the things that I like to do is just to take the robot and kind of like beat it up a little bit, show how it's compliant and compressive. - [Derek] Well, because they're safer. - If you'd like to take - But this is your work. I don't wanna break it obviously. - No, feel free. Go for it. - For operation around humans, there's not much damage a I can stand on these? - Yep. - This is a pretty crazy compliant robot. - Because the fundamental structure of this robot is compliant, there's only some maximum force that it could ever exert on me. So it's inherently safe to - [Derek] Could we make it - Yeah, yeah, we could do that for sure. Just watch your head. - Yep. If I go over here. - If you're there, yeah, we can do that. - All right, let's try it. Here it comes. Well, that's not bad at all, is it? - [Zach] I can try another shape that's supposed to open so you can jump out of it quickly. - Okay. - [Zach] I haven't tested so I dunno how it's gonna There you go, that's it. Face right there to your right, and you can exit the truss from that face. - Boom, just that easy. - [Derek] Did you build this by yourself? - Me and one other grad student built this entire thing - [Derek] And how long did it take? - [Zach] We did it in about like actually constructing everything. - [Derek] And was it tricky? I mean, were you sewing that stuff? - Yep, we sewed this all ourselves. - [Derek] The main structural are fabric tubes inflated with air. - Yeah. So these red and then internally there that provides the air tightness. - [Derek] The tubes are inflated to about six PSI above atmospheric. So it's almost one and a half atmospheres. Each tube passes through pairs of rollers connected to a motor. The rollers pinch the tube so it bends kinda like a pinched straw. - Have the rods, and then we have this like wrapped around the rods. And then that coupled with the fact that we have this pressurized the membrane of the tube into the rollers prevents us from slipping. - [Derek] By driving the motor, it changes the lengths of the tubes. - Kind of like when a clown and then folds that balloon The difference between what is that there's some passage of air between adjacent segments of the tube, so that as the robot drives around, we're not pressurizing - [Derek] This robot is each one connected to a pair of motors, forming triangular sides. - We also think that they kind when put together, which is after different sausages. So this one's called Polish. That one over there is Chorizo. There's a Linguica, and a - [Derek] So what shape It's an octahedron? - Yeah, we call it an octahedron, because if you drew lines between these kind of it would create an octahedron shape. - Driving the motors to dramatically change shape. It can get very tall, or short and squat. But since the tubes themselves the overall perimeter of the robot, the length of all the edges So the robot is considered isoperimetric. How do you feel when you watch - Oh, I love those - The Boston Dynamics robots Like isn't the idea with soft robots to like convince people that and kind, and friendly, and safe? - That's that's definitely true, yeah. There are some things that to make them feel like compliant systems based on how you're But yeah, they're and can be dangerous if - [Derek] The hard robots we're used to are strong and precise. Their actions are accurate and repeatable, but they are also heavy, and they can't really change But this robot is still capable - So I have a GUI in MATLAB - that enables me to just put in the positions that I want and then send them out. There's some other functionality. I have some stored configurations - [Derek] Soft robots of shape changing. They can become tall to go over obstacles, or short to fit under obstructions. - So if there's some or that it wanted to roll and the compliance of the tubes would simply just bend - Do you imagine robots like - Oh yeah, definitely. So one of the nice things is that they can shrink down And because volume on rockets being able to have a robot that can pack down small for So NASA was at one point for exactly that reason. And they've contacted us to explore different ideas for So one of the things that is deploying robots So they're gonna drill and then deposit a robot through what is kind of And so, if you can have a robot that can change its or be disassembled and then reassembled to form a much larger structure, then you can have large robots that are able to fit and be deployed in - Is this a little bit like an octopus? Is that how you can think of it? - There is some connection there, because they use their and their compliance to squeeze and then also to wrap So for example, they can open And one of the things that is grasping and manipulating objects. - [Derek] This robot is even capable of picking objects up off the ground. - We'll try that and Because of the compliance of the tubes, it has a natural ability to because as it does so, the which increases the contact area and distributes evenly the forces that are exerted on that object. - [Derek] So I mean, is the - Yeah, that's a big risk. I mean, you obviously for your structure. And so, if you have a leak. (air whooshing) Oh. Then you don't have a robot, right? - [Derek] It's a pretty big - Some things that you would be to have onboard which isn't there to but would help you maintain pressure if there were any small leaks. - [Derek] When you tell someone and they see this, does - Totally. They have no idea what until I show them like I think most people's was really expanded by And I think they did a great job in kind of showcasing and why they're useful, and kind of just popularizing the notion. It's really great to have compliance built into any mechanical system, especially as we want robots to work closer and closer with humans. So I think we'll definitely see more soft robots in the future. - So maybe robots will sooner than we think, just not in multipurpose humanoid form. In fact, one specialty robot the glorious Roomba, built Do you think the way that robots integrate themselves into our lives will be like a humanoid or will it be specialized little things that we don't even think of - Slowly infiltrate, yeah. I think probably the latter would be my guess. I mean, little things like, yeah, like things just start getting smarter, whether it's your shoes, your thermostat, all those things, and then before like your - By dropping the human model of a robot, instead we can choose and materials that maximize And with this method, that can save your life, leap tall buildings in a single bound, move with super speed, and shapeshift. You know, come to think of it, they'd make a pretty good superhero team.