JAMES GRIME: We're going We're break one of the We're talking about something We're going to talk So infinity. Now like I said, infinity It's a idea. It's a concept. It's the idea of being endless, I think everyone's familiar infinity, even kids. You start counting you might be five years old, but what's the biggest number And you go, oooh, it's 20. You get a bit older, and you It never ends, does it? 'Cause So that's the idea The numbers go on forever. But I'm going to tell you one about infinity. There are different Some infinities are bigger Let's have a look. The first type of infinity And I don't like the And Brady gave me a little Because if you're talking about count infinity, can you? Because it goes on forever. I think it's a terrible name. I prefer to call it listable. Can we list these numbers? All right. Let's do these simple BRADY HARAN: You're not gonna do JAMES GRIME: 4. How long have we got? BRADY HARAN: (LAUGHING) JAMES GRIME: Right. 5, 6-- so you can list the So this is called countable. Listable, I prefer. What about the integers? All the integers. That's all the negative So there's 0. Let's have that. But there's 1 and minus 1, 3, and minus 3. Now, that is an infinity And in some sense, it's twice as be twice as many numbers. But it is infinity as well. They're both infinity, same type of infinity. They both can be listed. Perhaps more surprisingly, be listed as well. But you have to be a bit Let's try and list I'm going to write 1 divided by 1. That's a fraction. [INAUDIBLE]. Let's have 1 divided by OK, that goes on. Let's do the next row and 2/1, 2/2, 2/3, 2/4. Let's do the next one. 3/1, 3/2. 4/6, 4/7. That goes on and we So here, I've made some sort of of fractions. Now if I want to make it a list went row by row, you're going If you go row by there's 1, 1/2, 1/3, I'll keep going forever. And I'm never going to I can't list them. Not that way. You can't list them that way. You'll never reach This is how you list them. Slightly more clever You take the diagonal lines. Now, I can guarantee that every one of those diagonal lines. And you list them diagonal So that's the first diagonal. Then you list the second Then you list the third fourth diagonal, So eventually, you are going Every faction appears on going to list them. Now, if you take all That's the whole number line. Let's try that. Look, I'm going to draw it. It's a continuous These are all your decimals. You've got 0 there in the go 1 and 2 and 3. But it has a 1/3. It will contain pi, irrational numbers as well. Can you list them? How do you list them? 0 to start with, and then 1? But hang on. We've missed a half. So we put in the half. Hang on, we've missed We put in the quarter. But we've missed 0.237-- so how do you list It turns out you can't. In fact, rather remarkably, I list them, even though were complicated as infinity. BRADY HARAN: Do it, man! JAMES GRIME: We need paper. BRADY HARAN: We need an paper here, I think. JAMES GRIME: (LAUGHING) Imagine we could list all We can't, actually. But pretend we can. What sort of-- what would it look like? We'll start with all the Let's pick some decimals. 0.121-- dot dot dot dot dot. Let's pick the next one. Let's say the next Next one, let's do And let's take another 0.00176--. Now I'm going to This is the number I'm I'm going to take the I'm going to take this number number and this number And I am going to So what's that number It's 0.12101-- something, something, Now this is my rule. I'm going to make a whole new This is the number I'm If it has a 1, I'm going And if it has a 2 or anything So let's try that. So I'm going to turn 0-point. So if it has a 1, I'm going If it's anything else, I'm going So that will be a 1. I'm going to change I'm going to change I'm going to change that one And I'll make something new. That does not appear That number is completely on the list, because it's not different in the first place. It's not the second number, second place. It's not the third number, third place. It's not the fourth number fourth place. It's not the fifth number, fifth place. You've made a number that's And so you can't list all the uncountable. It is unlistable. And that means it's a whole A bigger type of infinity. BRADY HARAN: Surely we could, to do is keep doing your game them to the list. And if we keep doing that, won't JAMES GRIME: But you could then that won't be on that list. And so the guy who came up with called Cantor. Cantor lived 'round about the He was ridiculed for this. For this idea that there were he was called a charlatan. And he was called-- it was And poor old Cantor was treated contemporaries, and he spent a out of mental institutions, Near the end of his life, It was true. It was recognized. And he had all the recognition BRADY HARAN: And now he's JAMES GRIME: And now he's on accolade of all. Georg Cantor.