There was a man who presented to the emergency made snowglobe. The medical team wasnt told that he drank So they didn't know that he drank the ethylene found in anti freeze. They did know that he was suffering from ethanol He came in with an elevated anion gap, metabolic mental status, that progressed to cranial corrected. By the time he came in, his acidosis wasn't Cases like this, highlight why ethylene glycol a late presentation, because the findings And if it's a late presentation, then there's for that patient. So first off, what is ethylene glycol? Well, it's an alcohol, but really it's It really doesnt look too different from ethanol makes all the difference. Ethylene glycol by itself, if it's never cause harm in humans. It can cause some mild sedation, but overall, body can excrete it as is. The problem is without treatment, the body it a TOXIC alcohol. This is the same as what happens with Methanol, To get moonshine, you have to distill a wash, Heating it up causes the lighter components condense them back down to a liquid. Methanol is the lightest alcohol possible, the person making the moonshine doesn't they're gonna have methanol in their drink. And methanol is water soluble in itself, so But that's not what happens. Methanol is broken down to chemicals that So why are these TOXIC alcohols? Well, lets take a look. How are alcohols broken down? In the liver we have alcohol dehydrogenase. That Ase suffix means enzyme. So in this case, we're looking at an oxidation Keep in mind primary, secondary and tertiary Ethanol becomes ethanal, an aldehyde that's Isopropyl alcohol, which is rubbing alcohol, And that's the final form in the body because body like an aldehyde is. So what happens with the aldehyde? Well it gets broken down again by aldehyde Ase as in enzyme. Aldehyde oxidized to carboxylic acid. Ethanol becomes ethanoic acid, which is vinegar. Methanol becomes methanoic acid, which is And in ethylene glycol's case glycoaldehyde But that second alcohol also needs metabolism. So glyoxylic acid, then oxalic acid, bringing The patient was going through alcohol withdrawal. While obtaining the history, his son had mentioned elves dancing around a few nights before. This likely alcoholic hallucinosis is not But important details were 1) that he was on alcohol and 3) he was malnourished because All of these can cause acidosis, which was A withdrawal post binge means there could production, also known as acetic acid. Now, that acetic acid can be utilized for which can be used to make fats with the end It's not a great source of energy alone but when ethanol levels in the blood start Increased stress means increased cortisol, promoting lipolysis. The patient's in starvation, so insulin This activates lipase, an enzyme that breaks Long chain fatty acids go to the mitochondria generated. So much so, that the Krebs cycle becomes overloaded, The problem with all of this was that the ketones. That's not definitive, but whatever the acidosis. In the body, the definition of acid is a little class. In high school chemistry, you learn that an You learn that strong acids completely dissociate, like acetic acid do not completely dissociate. No one ever forgets their high school chemistry But thinking about how it happens in the body You see, the human body has a good buffer What's pH? It's the negative log of the hydrogen concentration Human blood is kept around 7.4. Any lower, there's acid. Any higher, there's base. And human pH is maintained in part by breathing. Fun fact, when people lose a lot of fat from is actually breathed out over time. Because what are fats? They're long chains of carbon. What's the simplest carbon form from our Carbon dioxide. So, human body is made of on average 60% water. Life on earth is carbon-based and needs water So what happens when carbon dioxide is dissolved Well some of it forms in to carbonic acid. But remember, if it's in water, this is acid so it doesn't completely dissociate. So we have an equilibrium of positive hydrogen of baking soda. The more carbon dioxide you have in your body, The less carbon dioxide, the more base. So if you increase your breathing rate, you're Less carbon dioxide is more base because the dioxide to keep up, and that shift consumes If you stop breathing, then carbon dioxide More CO2 means more acid. But what happens when we go outside this system Meaning the body is either making acids or Well, This is where things can get confusing. Body water needs to be electrically neutral, equal. But... how do you measure pH? By the hydrogen ion concentration. Hydrogen is positive, so it has to contribute Well, if you do the math, you'll find that is several million times less than the sodium Sodium is the predominant cation, so if H+ also millions of times less than sodium, and Well, lets pick the easiest and most abundant Sodium is overwhelmingly abundant as extracellular Potassium is around too as a distant second, Chloride is the predominant negative charge. And bicarb isn't measured directly, the So if blood is supposed to be electrically predominant anions from the easily measured Or if it's not, then we can collect an average And that difference is not zero, bringing The blood has lots of negative charges that Proteins like albumin are negatively charged Other organic anions like lactate can have so there's always an equilibrium to maintain, and negative must be equal. So, if we know that there's going to be going to be more negative anions that aren't holds true, then what happens if we rearrange That would mean that changes in anions impact And what happens when bicarbonate levels change? Well, that impacts carbon dioxide. What happens when carbon dioxide levels change? Acid levels change. So lets go back to the name, metabolic acidosis. Metabolic meaning that the body is producing And that name could be misleading, because increases the anion gap. If the gap is larger, then the difference which equals bicarbonate, decreases. Bicarbonate is a base. What happens when there's less base? The blood becomes acidic, due to an increase This equation tells us a lot about acid base What happens when there is hypochloremia. That is low chloride presence in blood? This can happen from repeat vomiting as a Well if chloride decreases, then the total That means bicarbonate increases, so alkalosis. What happens when someone takes a diuretic? That would cause anion excretion, so a decrease That would cause bicarbonate to go up, meaning How about a woman who is having a heart attack. She goes into cardiac arrest, so her heart She's resuscitated but doesnt produce any Because of tissue hypo perfusion, the medical anion. Additional anion, decreases bicarbonate, causing Remember, doctors didn't know about this His high anion gap metabolic acidosis was alcohol ingestion at first because, well there And a CT scan looked like he could have had consistent with high anion gap metabolic acidosis, working. Because he didn't have an infection. And after a few days, it may have been to Alcohols dissolved in body water exert a different something called the osmolal gap, which could at first, but remember, as the toxic alcohol it's consumed. That osmolal gap disappears, it becomes harder leaves the patient with kidney injury. It takes time to biopsy the kidney and for It takes time to analyze the urine for presence So because of these, sometimes the poisoning But thinking about the high anion gap, which glycol? We know alcohol is oxidized to aldehyde, then a diol, producing oxalate. Oxalate has a negative two charge. Meaning to the anion gap equation, it does context of charge. So that's why there's a profound anion ethylene glycol ingestion. Not just oxalate, but the other organic acids But from a chemistry standpoint, it can be blood. But what "things" exactly? Well sodium is positive and it can interact But the result isn't anything spectacular. Potassium is the next most abundant cation Which brings us to calcium. Calcium has a tendency to form solids. I mean, it's in our bones. Calcium has a plus two charge, so it binds Calcium oxalate falls out of solution and And as these crystals form, they collect in The innate immune system reacts. White blood cells can phagocytose some of die in a way that triggers more inflammation, More immune cells enter the kidneys, causing there that shouldn't be. These crystals continue to cause damage to Damage that may not be reversible if not caught So, the part of all this that might disturb glycol, the metabolic acidosis could resolve This is what happened to the patient who drank acidosis did resolve. The oxalate is consumed by reacting to calcium gap equation, because it's not an anion It's an ionic solid. No more osmolal gap either since it's all And the acid part of it wouldn't be detectable the original injury. And this patient happened to survive that But things aren't done here. On day 6 of his hospital admission, neurology He had sluggish responses to light and myoclonic He also had lower distal limb weakness, slow while complaining of distal neuropathic pains. It was here that the patient mentioned the the medical team know that this was a case Oxalate consumes calcium. Although, hypocalcemia is not a good marker It's not specific and it's not sensitive Hypocalcemia could cause twitching. In some cases, neuropathy from ethylene glycol but the reasons for it happening are unclear. The muscle weaknesses could be due to calcium, this happens. So what would be the treatment for this, had Well, if the breakdown products are what cause the breakdown from happening. Starting from the top, alcohol dehydrogenase Ethanol has higher affinity for the active Because the body can renally excrete ethylene for as long as possible can prevent conversion There's also fomepizole, which inhibits It has a low rate of toxicity, and for some it's good if doctors have a low threshold is suspected. And really, some cases of the ingestion can High anion gap metabolic acidosis can be caused few mnemonics that are taught in schools. It's not rare and students often see it There was the old MUDPILES which was Methanol, Propylene glycol, Infection iron isoniazid, But there's a newer one GOLDMARK, Glycol, bowel syndrome), methanol, aspirin, renal Acute oxalate nephropathy can also happen of oxalate by itself. In this case, it's not broken down by the in large amounts. The nephropathy can also come from too much and iced-tea. Ethylene glycol toxicity is not fun. It's also not easy to diagnose. Collecting a history on patients in this setting acute nephropathy to happen is impending disaster, In many cases, these are patients who are withdrawal. The treatment happens to be more of that alcohol place, and that's if the hospital doesn't And many hospitals don't have fomepizole The high anion gap metabolic acidosis, while the acid base equilibrium equation, the notion body water must be equal, and that changes amount of acid and base present in the body. The formation and deposition of calcium oxalate response, along with the crystals destroying damage, from a parent alcohol that by itself, Thanks so much for watching. Take care of yourself. And be well.