205 grams (0.85 cups) of milk, the amount of milk can be adjusted, about 200-210 grams of milk 38 grams (3 tablespoons) sugar 3 g (1 tsp) instant yeast Mix well 300 g (2 cups) bread flour/wheat flour 3 g (1/2 tsp) salt Mixing to form a dough Then knead the dough by hand, not seeing the dry flour This dough has a lot of moisture and is very sticky. Cover and let the dough rest for 20 minutes. After 20 minutes, take out the dough and flatten it. 28g (2 tablespoons) unsalted butter Covering the butter with the dough and starting to knead, so that the butter can be quickly incorporated into the dough The dough will become sticky in the middle, keep kneading and the dough will become smooth at the end. You can also wrestle the dough, and soon the surface will be very smooth. Rounding up the dough and putting it into a bowl Cover and let rise for about 1 hour until doubled in size. After 1 hour, the dough has risen well Transferring the dough to a mat and expelling the air from it Dividing the dough into 12 portions of about 48 grams each. Take out one dough and knead it Knead all 12 pieces of dough Starting with the first kneaded dough, make a hole in the center of the dough with your forefinger and pull the hole bigger. Put two fingers in the center and turn around, so that the hole in the center will soon be larger When they're done, put them on a flour-dusted mat so they're easy to pick up after they're done fermenting. Cover with plastic wrap and let rise for about 40 minutes. After 40 minutes, dip your fingers in some flour and turn the hole in the center a little wider Heat cooking oil in a pan over medium-low heat. When the oil reaches about 320degF (160degC), add the donuts. Turn the donuts immediately after placing them in the oil Then leave it alone and let it fry. One side of the frying until golden brown, then turn it over, and don't move it after that. Turn the doughnuts twice in total, so that the doughnuts will have a white waistline in the center. Fry the doughnuts until golden brown on both sides, then you can take them out of the pan, so tempting! Coat the doughnuts with sugar while they are still hot. Very soft and fluffy, looks delicious, can't wait to start enjoying! if you like please help to like , subscribe, leave a comment, share will help my channel grow, thank you for your support! Next up is the second chocolate donut One egg. 40g (3 tablespoons) sugar 150 ml (0.6 cups) milk 3 g (1 tsp) yeast Mix well 300g (2 cups) bread flour/wheat flour 3g (1/2 tsp) salt Mixing to form a dough Knead the dough with your hands Knead the dough just enough to form a ball, the dough is very rough, cover the dough and let it relax for 20 minutes After 20 minutes, you can knead the dough a little bit and it will be a smooth dough. Transfer the dough to a mat and spread it out. 30g (2 tablespoons) unsalted butter Wrap the butter in the dough and knead the butter into the dough It's going to get very sticky in the center, keep kneading Knead to form a smooth dough Place the dough in a bowl, cover with plastic wrap and let it rise for about 1 hour After 1 hour, the dough has fermented. Transfer the dough to a mat and flatten it out. Divide the dough into 12 equal portions, or less if you want to make it bigger. Kneading each portion of dough Cover the dough and let it rest for 10 minutes. After 10 minutes take out the dough, poke a hole in the center and make the hole bigger. So a doughnut dough is ready, put it on the mat, remember to sprinkle some flour to prevent sticking Cover it and let it ferment for about 50 minutes After 50 minutes pull the holes in each dough a little bit bigger Heat the oil in a pan over medium heat. When the oil is hot, add the doughnuts and fry them at a temperature of about 160degC (320degF). Put them down and turn them over immediately Fry on one side until golden brown and then turn over Fry until golden brown on both sides. Put it on a cooling rack to let it cool, then you can eat it, but let's make a better one! Put a bowl on top of a pan of hot water and put the chocolate in the bowl. Melt the chocolate over water Frying donuts in chocolate and dipping one side in chocolate The top can be decorated with some white chocolate, beautiful and delicious Let's eat, it's so delicious! if you like please help to like , subscribe, leave a comment, share will help my channel grow, thank you for your support! If you have subscribed to my channel, open the little bell you will get a new video alert! 1 egg, beaten in a bowl 80g (0.4 cups) sugar Mix well 100g plain yogurt Mix well 30g (4 tablespoons) cornstarch, mix well 60 g (1/4 cup) whipping cream, poured into pan 200g plain yogurt, add to pan Heat over medium-low heat Then pour in the egg mixture Stirring while heating Finally, you can reach this viscous state. Remove from the heat, cover the surface with plastic wrap and let it cool down. 1 egg, beaten in a bowl 145g (0.6 cups) milk 3 g (1 tsp) yeast 3 g (1/2 tsp) salt 40 grams (3 tablespoons) sugar Mix well 300g (2cups) bread flour/wheat flour Mix to form a dough Then hand knead evenly, you can not see the dry flour is ready Transfer the dough to a mat and spread it out. 30g (2 tablespoons) unsalted butter Wrap the butter in the dough and knead the butter into the dough The center will become sticky, keep kneading until the surface is smooth Round the dough and put it into a bowl to ferment for about 1 hour. After 1 hour, the dough has fermented very well, vent the dough Divide the dough into 12 equal portions. Knead each portion of dough Cover with plastic wrap and let the dough rest for 15 minutes. Remove the yogurt filling and stir Put the yogurt filling into a piping bag. After 15 minutes, take out the relaxed dough Roll it out long and then turn it over and organize it into a rectangular piece of dough Roll it out a little bit more and press the closed side to make it thinner Squeeze the yogurt filling Wrap it up. Put it aside when you're done. After making the last one, take out the first one and make it a little longer. Flatten one end and wrap the other end. Now you have a donut. When it's done, dip it in water and put it in the breadcrumbs to coat it. Put it on a baking sheet and let it rise for about 40 minutes. After 40 minutes, the doughnuts have fermented Heat a pan over medium heat and add cooking oil Heat the oil to about 160degC (320degF), if you don't have a thermometer you can test the temperature with a chopstick, small dense bubbles will form around the chopstick. Put in the fermented doughnuts Turn over immediately after putting them in Fry until golden brown on one side and then flip Fry until golden brown on both sides and then you can remove from the pan. Let them cool down a little bit and then you can enjoy them, they are very delicious! if you like please help to like , subscribe, leave a comment, share will help my channel grow, thank you for your support! If you have subscribed to my channel, open the little bell to get new video alerts! Thanks for watching, we'll see you in the next video !