They say that war is the engine of progress. as well as ingenuity, perseverance and, of course, Hello, aviators, Sky here, and we're gonna look iron perseverance and plot one of the largest aircraft created So it was 1942 - the height of World War II. The United States, which entered the war, actively first of all, with large-scale deliveries The problem was that at that time not only the sky The battle for the Atlantic was at its peak and huge German fleet - yes, the surface ships of the Bismarck was already lying at the bottom of the and thousands of sailors were falling victims of Atlantic, and the term U-Boat became a symbol communications worked and cargo was transported, that half of it might simply not reach its Seeing this, the US War Department, that's how yet exist, was desperately looking for a way statistics of losses would not be seen. A logical by sea, it must be done over the sea - by planes. J. Kaiser - a highly respected man at that time, transport ships - the main workhorses of those death of his creations no less than the came to the conclusion that an aircraft The Liberty were not some giant ships and but... those were ships, it was difficult to tasks. Moreover, Kaiser's company was a marine The one who was well versed in airplanes was inventor, aviator, pilot, film director In general, an extremely colorful person, a in the first half of the 20th century. In a seaplane capable of carrying about 68 tons or 2 Sherman tanks. Today, 68 tons close to the cargo capacity of the C-17, but in of submarines was eliminated - torpedoes are not The Hughes and Kaiser project index - HK-1. It was assumed that the military However, the work was very difficult and largest aircraft in the world, which already serious risks at all stages, the work was also who, in his race for ideal design, In addition, production, equipment and, most An obvious and basic material in aviation, The industry was working at full capacity for the status of a strategic one, almost completely went extremely difficult for the creators of the HK-1 had to find, let's say, an alternative solution. shifted by months and months, again and again. from the project and the change in the contract by Hughes, naming now fully his brainchild assembling the first aircraft... 16 months The assembly was carried out at at the Hughes airport, yes, the in Los Angeles. There, a huge hangar of over An additional site was also deployed a special composite from it, necessary for itself was brought all the way from Wisconsin, Having learned that the H-4 is made mainly from a said that it was just wooden, it's easier, for the plane, the most famous of which were These nicknames annoyed Hughes very much, as the and as an engineer - the Goose is not made Since the Hughes airport was not located by it was decided to carry out its final assembly on fuselage, wing consoles and the tail were carried - something similar to how sections of the A380 Despite the fact that the plane was almost primarily from the military and Congress. fields of World War II turned out to be very it seems, has ended. It was difficult to answer and it was necessary to refute the theory that simply puts taxpayers' money into his pocket. for it with all his might and, he had arguments popular and mass produced, but we are talking and a company ready for anything to lift it into Hughes will abandon aviation and leave the country spent on the project - a little more than $250 job - the H-4 Hercules was assembled and took off. The H-4 is, for the most part, a classic seaplane wing and conventional single-tail empennage. a wingspan of 97.8 meters and a height of 24.2 slightly shorter than the Boeing 747-400 and its The wing of the aircraft is huge in all possible inside: in case of an emergency, the engineers had the auxiliary engine systems, right in flight. And Mriya - the King among the heavy transports meters less. The only competitor here is maybe the is a plane from the 1940s, no turboprops, no jet But the gigantic size doesn't automatically The maximum takeoff weight of the H-4 was 180 is why the Hercules was made a hydroplane: it aircraft at a conventional airfield. In terms with the monstrous strategic bomber Convair By modern standards, of course, this is quite and a lot less than the C-17 and Il-76. The dimensions and goal-setting of the aircraft The H-4 has two decks. From our time, it is decades later, the creators of modern In front of the center wing box is the upper deck as well as most of the control equipment. formally stretched from nose to tail. Meanwhile, supposed to be opened through the halves of the It's hard to say what the the calculations indicate that the on the other hand, no one has ever verified One of the features of the aircraft and the were the materials used, of which, The main material here was a special composite of birch superimposed on each other, saturated Despite such a seemingly simple base, this and weight performance. So, when you hear you shouldn't take it too literally, as if market and nailed them to the frame. That was called a Lumberyard and a Spruce Goose - often laughed that the Hercules was some kind of this material, like its analogues, was quite can be found - you can't weld an airliner out of In addition to Duramold, fabrics elements - mainly on the fin and rudders - The power plant of the H-4 Hercules is quite R-4360 Wasp Major piston engines. 28-cylinder radial piston engine - the pinnacle of the largest and most powerful of its kind. to 3500 hp. and they were put... on everything like the B-36. The H-4 received a 3,000 hp but quite sufficient in terms of power, price a classic 4-bladed Hamilton Standard propeller These parameters were enough to lift this 400 km/h, and provide a flight distance of about the Hercules, meanwhile, was rather modest, only piston engines don't particularly allow it, and performances, of course, are also theoretical The history of operation of the out to be much more modest than its dimensions. Long Beach and, under the personal supervision test crew of 20 people, plus a dozen journalists the day was the first flight, an event that many chaos surrounding the H-4, almost impossible. The climbed to an altitude of 21 meters (70 Meanwhile, at low altitude, it was still carried supported the plane, so the aviator-inventor saw a very real and flying giant aircraft, Ironically, the loud and pompous first Further tests of the aircraft were first postponed they would not be carried out at all. This was overcome - there are no more German submarines, more efficient equipment has appeared and a huge even before the first flight it was clear is creating an epic museum piece. immediately. The giant was moved to the hangar and After that, disputes arose about whom the Hercules was created with the money of it was never transferred to them and remained the plane into the light and find a use for it. of Southern California, which moved the giant to which became known as the Spruce Goose Dome. purchased by Disney and the plane had to be taken Aviation &amp; Space Museum in Oregon, where it stands was preserved, just next to the museum ocean The giant hangar at Hughes Airport, where Hercules and, given the size and infrastructure, Many major movies were filmed on its of another miracle of engineering, which became This is where our story ends. Like and the continuation - Skyships is still flying. Fast