This video is supported by Established Titles. 3 years ago, NASA unveiled its next generation spacesuit, designed to allow humans to walk on the Moon. But after this, everything went It turned out, NASA was 20 months behind schedule and millions of dollars over budget with the program. So in order to get a new spacesuit developed in time for the upcoming Artemis missions, NASA set up a competition and At the time, SpaceX already had their own IVA suit, so you'd think partnering with NASA to make an EVA suit would be the next step. But surprisingly, SpaceX didn't even put in a bid for this contract. It turned out, SpaceX had and they wanted to go their own way with the development, like they did with their first suit. In this video we're going to learn how SpaceX mastered their spacesuit design and the key breakthroughs that made it possible. Saturn 5 Lego set at the end of the video and so stick around till the end of the SpaceX began developing its first spacesuit all costume designer Jose Fernandez. After several possible, it was then up to the SpaceX engineers To be clear, this isn't the type of suit that an This suit is primarily for keeping astronauts But when you compare SpaceX's suit to other pressure suits, To answer this, we need to look at Spacesuits have traditionally been a one size fits On the ISS, the EVA suit is modular. But often get bruises and injuries after completing Each suit they make is completely custom-made to This has the obvious benefit of creating a much tighter One of the biggest problems when it comes to suit is pressurized, it inflates like a giant When an astronaut tries to bend their joint, Since the suit is completely sealed, the the joint compresses the air, creating Spacesuit designers over the years have come up For larger joints like wrists and shoulders, without changing the volume. For smaller joints way down the back - forcing the glove to bend in don't bend like that. Depending on your shape, the in your body. This could limit your range of Since each SpaceX suit is tailor-made, these line up perfectly with the joints of each bending a sealed tube full That's why every joint on the SpaceX suit is which help the astronaut bend the joint naturally helps the astronaut extend the joint similar to how a spider's leg works. They only so they rely on hydraulic pressure stored inside Another way to improve mobility is to The Space Shuttle suit operated just a quarter of the pressure Lowering the pressure may help with mobility decompression sickness. This is where the lower body to dissolve and form bubbles in the blood when they come back up to the surface, environment to a much lower pressure fatal problem and many spacesuits require the up. This involves breathing pure oxygen for in order to get rid of all the nitrogen in the the process so choosing a pressure for the suit SpaceX's suit had to meet NASA's minimum decompression sickness. This is quite so we can assume that SpaceX didn't go much is a mixture of 21% oxygen and 78% nitrogen. the astronauts wouldn't get a sufficient amount air inside the suit pure oxygen. The SpaceX percentage of oxygen that can be varied system. But it's how this pressure is managed Spacesuits typically have multiple to control the suits pressure and temperature. into just one single port with a hole for air and a port to quickly inflate the suit during an directly into the astronaut's seat, this is where of solenoid valves that automatically control valve in the spacecraft allows chilled keeping the suit cool during reentry. The pressure the spacecraft with information, allowing automation took away the need for astronauts allowing the designers to get rid of the Not only did this make the suit much lighter than easier to put on. On the Space Shuttle suits, separately using bulky metal rings. On the SpaceX and the headset is integrated into astronaut can suit up all by themselves in on the other hand took more than 20 minutes The SpaceX astronauts might not need any help in Christmas gifts this year. You could make your them a Lord or Lady this Christmas. Established natural woodlands of Scotland while helping a historic Scottish custom where landowners are you one square foot of land on a private estate in that contains your unique plot number. With this, name and have it on documents like credit cards, they plant a tree and work with charities like One global reforestation. To get your Christmas gift, the code 'primal space' to get 10% off. The first below will effectively be next to my plot, so And now for the moment you've all been waiting lego set is... Sarah Hambrick! Congratulations, house. Sorry if you didn't win, but don't worry, we want to do another giveaway. In the next 5 Lego set! All you have to do is sign up at you're looking forward to most in the world in next month's video. Thank you very much for