- Hi, I'm Gareth Green, and in this video, we're going to be having beautiful piece written by Edward Elgar, a well-known British composer, and it's entitled &quot;Salut d'Amour&quot;. It's all about love. It's Elgar's Opus 12, and he finished writing the piece in 1888. He was very much in love, and this was what he offered So that's the context of the piece. Not originally written as a piano piece, but written for violin, but it's one of these pieces different forms, different arrangements. And I just thought it might piano score. So let's have a listen to which you may know, if you do that's great and hopefully what we do will enhance your And if it's a piece you don't know, well, here's a chance to engage with it. And so it goes on. So you get the idea, it's a isn't it? Well, how does Elgar go about communicating all this Amour, Well, first of all, it's got a very beautiful romantic melody. Let's have a look at how he So this is the first phrase. Often when we're writing melodies, we might be thinking about the disjunct movement. In other words, which which notes are leaping. Because if it all goes by step, it tends to get a bit tedious. If it all leaps around the landscape, it tends to get a bit disjointed, but sometimes a really good can be really effective. And here's Elgar showing It's interesting just to go through and analyse what's conjunct and what's disjunct because we've got disjunct, disjunct, conjunct, disjunct, repeat, repeat, disjunct. So you see how there's isn't there, between conjunct and disjunct with some use of repeated notes as well, and what he does with the because you notice that at there's a falling sixth, a major sixth. Now, many 19th century Italian use the major sixth. It's a particularly telling interval, very expressive interval. If you want to express love, well the major sixth can do it for you. And it's the first thing He has this falling major sixth, and then interestingly having fallen down that huge distance, he goes back up again. So do you see how that beautifully loaded with this huge fall and then kind of straight back up again, and then having had that leap, he comes back inside the So you see how the first bar of the melody is a beautiful balance with the second bar with this disjunct, then conjunct movement, and then we're ready for the next leap. Well, the first leap was a leap downwards, but this time he decides So you see how that even balances. We've got the downward leap, And then we have a repeated note. we haven't had that before, and he repeats it again, which makes it even more And then right at the we had this interval of the sixth and he reserves the biggest leap for the end of the phrase So it's a huge leap. Very unusual at the end to fall down a whole seventh, but that's what he does. Then he goes on to the next phrase, which starts here and notice We've got the same start, you know, when we had this start up here, we had the falling major Now, what does he do this time? He makes it a minor sixth. So this B becomes a B-sharp. In other words, there's we think we're going to get this again, but this time he goes, and that B-sharp becomes because last time it was B natural. Okay, then what does he do? Then he has exactly the same bar again. So the second bar of this phrase is the same as the second Then he has the repeated So we've got this idea but notice last time they this time they're three So whereas he had this this time we're sticking just going up a note. So last time it stretched Before plunging the seventh, this time it's not stretching as much, it feels a bit more settled, but then instead of having we have a rising note and it's a chromatic rise. The F-sharp goes up to F-double-sharp, it kind of pulls us into the next phrase, even though it's the end of this phrase. And then what does he do? Well, we start the next phrase here and the first bar is the same as the original first bar of the melody. So that's the same. And then we have the same bar again. This bar comes again here. But then what happens, we went up a fourth, the second time we just went next door, this time, biggest leap, we're going up a sixth. So remember what we were saying about the expressive power of the sixth in the first bar? Well, here it comes, but this time it's a rising sixth. So this repeated note this time we've still got the three but this is the highest it's been. We had three repeated Then we had three repeated F-sharp's, now we've got three repeated C-sharp's, the highest point, it adds to a sense of And then he kind of climbs down the scale, And then goes up the scale. And it just sort of finishes it off. So a much more conjunct finish, And by the time we get here, we're happily back with So kind of interesting to see partly analytically, just to think if you were writing a melody and you've got an initial idea, well, what are the ingredients that make up the initial idea? Then when you take this idea forwards, how do you use those ideas? What do you repeat? What do you change? How do you change it? And you just noticed the and how Elgar has gone about that over those opening phrases. So that's quite interesting. Okay, now of course, all So let's go back to the beginning and see what's happening that sits underneath that gorgeous melody. Well, the first two bars and they're very static, aren't they? It's just a tonic chord of E major, kind of rather beautifully And I suppose it's kind of of serenity, of utter happiness, of just utterly being all being well with the world. You know, all that stuff All that's conveyed in the first bar, but conveyed in the simplest way, just a tonic chord as And then when this he could have been tempted to but he says, actually we'll on the tonic chord. Even when he goes into the next bar, he's still with the tonic chord. But this time in this bar, you'll notice the tonic chord G-sharp in the bass. So we're still on a tonic chord, so we've had four bars now of tonic chord, all we've done is shift By the time we get here, the melody is in full flight, and we're past ready for So what does happen? We get this rather gorgeous so a chord II7, ah, I mean it just makes for And this Amour is oozing out And then we go onto the next bar and we have a V7, which is rather clever this is the end of the first phrase. So what's the cadence? Dominant seventh? What, what sort of cadence finishes by going II7 on to V7? Well, of course it's part of Elgar's way of pulling you into the next phrase, especially with that falling seventh that's in the melody as well, because that dominant seventh And it does at the So you have this intense sense of relief when you come to the first of kind of being back with And then he says, &quot;Okay, So apart from the melodic thing that we've already talked about, this chord then becomes the Well, that makes sense. C-sharp minor is the relative So that's what that is. And then we go into the in the next bar, that It's also interesting to look in relation to that because F-sharp is dissonant, it's a sort of accented passing note, passing tone onto the E then a low auxiliary or back to the harmony again. And that just intensifies the longing of love is And then we come into the next bar and we're on the move because we're heading towards B major. So when you get to this chord, you've got a dominant but we've got a 4-3 on Do you notice the B's in this chord, B's going to A-sharp. And it just heightens and allows for a sort with the repeated note in You sort of feel we've resolved onto this, even though it's a dominant seventh, so it too needs resolving, which is what pushes us onto the third of the repeated notes. We finally get a resolution to B major. And of course the is that the B major chord is but it's also the And he's pulling us back to E major and then we have this we talked about. So we get that dominant chord, and then we get this, Because you think, well there's the dominant thirteenth, but you know, kind of what's happening there as it were, pulling us up chromatically from the B major chord till we get pulled into Notice one thing Elgar's He doesn't allow the music to sit down at the end of a phrase. You know how often this happens, doesn't it in the line. You get to the end of a phrase, and we just plunk down on a chord and then we start again. What Elgar frequently of a phrase to pull you classic example here, that B major chord and then, you know, you could you, you've got to resolve it, but as you resolve it, you're resolving into the Gorgeous. And then we're back he keeps going home to E with the world, you know. The perfect picture of love, I suppose. And then he comes into the next bar. Well, all this is a kind we've done up there. So, E major first inversion but then stretching that melody up to the and we have an A major chord then. So that's a chord IV, but then a hint of another key because then at this point he uses a V7 second inversion in the key of F-sharp, it's F-sharp minor of the next bar is the tonic And of course it might be the tonic but F-sharp minor is also So he's had that little bit of colour and a bit more increased but he's going to use it dominant starts in the bass, our preparation for the cadence, two bars of dominant. Chord I in second inversion passing through sort of even though that's all still sounding. And then we've kind of got this pull onto the dominant chord And then this is kind of rather nice hint of chord III there actually and then V7. V7 absolutely longing to resolve to the tonic of the E major again. And here we are with that serenity of being back in the home key. Then of course it goes onto a IVc, diminished seventh, oh, and then the dominant chord, so a lovely linking thing and then we're going to run And on he goes, oh, it's just So this is all absolutely wonderful. The way Elgar manages to convey at this point in his life. And it comes through the music, what a wonderful engagement That would be one to savour wouldn't it? Gorgeous piece, gorgeous with the theme of love so directly. And we've just seen how he musical technique, but kind of emotional grasp through the melody, through the harmonies, through the use of texture, this kind of syncopated rhythm kind of going through How we had these little The design of this conjunct and disjunct movement, the leaps, how the leaps change, the you know, it's all there, and you see how all that ravishing piece. So I hope that gives a little the style of Elgar, into And it might just entice you music of this wonderful composer. Well, if you've enjoyed this video, you might like to go to our website, www.mmcourses.co.uk When you're there, you'll be able to click on all about our global Three levels of Maestros, They're kind of three if you like. So you can be a beginner at this thing, or you could have done it all your life, and you can be part of Maestros. Level one comes with some perks and emojis and exciting things like that. And it's really a kind of support level, it's just an opportunity for those of you who've said that you would appreciating the time and the effort and the expense that goes into producing so many videos every week So if you want to become a we'd be very grateful for your support. It's a fairly minimal just to help us to keep If you want to go a bit further, well, level two gives you access monthly live stream. So once a month, we meet together and I deliver an hour's worth of teaching. We run a live chat, so You can interact with each other, pass comments on what we're doing. So that's very much kind of feels a bit more kind of hands-on. And I'm trying to respond as members for topics that So if you've got particular things you'd really like to know about level two is a good place to be because you can ask away and we'll try to include And then if you want to go a step further, level three also gives you courses and access to a And at this one, you can your own harmony exercises, your own recordings of whatever it is that you would feedback on from me. So I'll do that as part Again, the live chat runs, we can interact with each other. Other people can throw in And it's just a great and lots of people telling us that they kind of exist in this slightly lonely vacuum musically and it's Maestros that with other people on the same journey. Celebrating the same successes and maybe some of the and discovering ways forward and the lovely interaction we other parts of the world. So Maestros, a huge amount to offer there, have a look and see if it's for you. Also on the homepage, you can see a link to courses that will take you to our many courses, all designed to empower So, whereas the YouTube videos these courses are A to Z taking you through what you need to know about theory or harmony or orchestration or analysis, sight singing, that you want to kind That's what the courses are there for. So have a look and see and enjoy.