If you've ever looked up at the night sky of the wonder of watching one of these celestial humanity's history, these bright-tailed objects in yet, in the last 50 years, the tables turned on to visit us, to us being able to visit them. and origins of comets. Where had they come origin of water and life here on planet Earth? agencies around the world have launched a series brought comets out of the realm of superstition Our understanding has evolved, and many models understand comets like we thought we did. I'm Alex McColgan, and you're watching the evolving story of comet science, from ones that caught their stardust, to the first and all the discoveries that followed. has been watching comets for a long time. system. Some are spectacular, known as Great sometimes stretching across a huge portion go without much of a fuss, not visible to the were it not for telescopes constantly monitoring billions of comets in our solar system. intermediate and long periods. Short period comets can be found around the orbit of Neptune and into found in the Oort cloud, which are known as long orbits, with most taking tens of thousands of their tiny size and huge distance from us, most in their orbits. Volatile material on their heat up upon approach, sublimating into space and tails comets are famous for. This makes but once they whip around the Sun and head back see them again; not in our lifetimes anyway. period comets, meaning we'll only see them once in the poster child of comets, and the one you're let's start with this one, as Halley's comet had understanding of these beautiful objects. While every orbit has always produced a fantastic only intermediate period Great Comet. Its orbit it twice in their lifetime. And incredibly, there the way back to 467 BC. With the regularity and it was no surprise that it became one of It was not the first - that honour which NASA's International Cometary Explorer (ICE) which meant that no images were taken of that that detected water and carbon dioxide - helping were just dirty snowballs floating through more. As Comet Halley returned to our region of at the chance to get a close-up look of a Great result? Something known as Halley's Armada. five separate missions from three different space same time. One probe, called Giotto was an ESA between the Soviet Union and France. And the final be known as JAXA, or the Japanese space agency. We'll start with Vega 1 and 2. These Vega off probes at Venus, but it was determined that redirected using Venus' gravity to do a flyby of assist would prove useful not just because of the but the redirection was particularly important which makes a rendezvous very tricky. Its orbit the planets in our solar system, and is inclined it is under, or south of the solar system's plane. that launched within days of each other from March 1986 respectively. These two probes, while a host of data, including photos of the nucleus, properties and composition of the coma. They both interestingly, their positioning data was then a few days later, which allowed them to increase fly past Halley at an altitude of only 600km! agency's probes were approaching. This was the Suisei and Sakigake probes were quite basic, of the launch vehicle rather than the probes and didn't even have a camera onboard, but instead plasma in interplanetary space. Upon the success months later, but this time with an imaging system scientists were interested in the comet's as Suisei passed through it on the 8th March, at Even at this far distance, Suisei hit two dust from a much greater distance of 7 million km Then, it was ESA's turn. On the 13th March, Equipped with a colour camera, scientists of a comet's nucleus. Flying only 600km over that the spacecraft wouldn't survive. As such, were tucked into the body of the probe as much as from collisions. As Giotto approached, it took video of those images, this is what is saw. Just after this approach however, and just particles which sent it spinning out of control, Earth. For an agonising 35 minutes, the mission probe. But then, as perhaps hope seemed lost, re-established contact with Earth, sending Giotto largely survived the encounter, although onboard, but thankfully not before it had So what did all these missions discover about scientists greatly was that Halley was a lot It was so dark in fact, that it was beyond the The image you are seeing here is the result of from the original images. Also, only a small mainly around these beams here. This contradicted instead this data indicated comets were more like the comet's coma and tail included mainly water plus iron, hydrocarbons and sodium. The dusty the comet outgasses, blasting them away from the ejected from comets that we see as shooting stars. meteor showers are likely to happen, as we can of a comet's tail. The brightness of the coma is by the ejected ices, and to a lesser extent due particles. So the brightness of a comet depends Scientists also found Halley to be very 'fluffy' is likely to be porous, or even like a rubble temperature was between 27-127degC, meaning only 10% by. But perhaps the most astounding discovery of ices. Scientists up until recently believed that this comet - and again with Churyumov-Gerasimenko shown that this likely isn't the case. The whether water shares the same origin or not, is found on comets. This likely means we need a new perhaps asteroids could be the next option? project to examine a frequent visitor to the again in 2061, if you want to put it in your information about the outer solar system and But our understanding of cometary science was just we began to realise that comets could solar system. And "impact" is the right word. watched in amazement as the comet Shoemaker-Levy powerful that it unleashed a force equivalent to throttled by 21 separate impacts from the comet's that rose 3,000 kilometres above the cloud tops - gravity - and heated Jupiter's atmosphere to the moment of impact, the comet was travelling at with its largest fragment spanning 2 kilometres of debris that were visible for months more prominent than its Great Red Spot. entirely unheard of. Our Solar System is littered asteroids. Scientists believe Earth was hit by Period, which likely led to the extinction of extremely rare, meaning the chance to see one So, what did it look like? And does the incident happening here on Earth? Let's take a closer look In 1993, astronomers Carolyn and Eugene research at California's Palomar Observatory when captured by Jupiter's gravitational pull; This was the Sun. However, Jupiter is so massive, being its ability to capture other objects approaching irregular moons are likely captured asteroids and material on their surfaces. But this comet also big. So big that scientists think the frequency of But the comet was also fragmented, most likely previous approach. Most striking of all, Eccentricity measures the deviation of an orbit perfect circle and one being the upper limit Shoemaker-Levy 9's orbit had an eccentricity of Almost immediately, astronomers realized there Jupiter, but their suspicion turned into certainty long, astronomers knew the impact would occur world was waiting for the event with bated breath. its movements from the Keck Observatory, Hubble Space Telescope among other instruments. on July 16, 1994, the worst-case scenario spectacle! You see, SL9's trajectory meant facing away from us. That meant none of Earth's the initial impact. For scientists, this But as luck would have it, not all our cameras NASA's Galileo spacecraft, launched in at the time of SL9's final approach. It just the impact as it happened. But Galileo wasn't our which had been launched in 1990 to monitor the Voyager 2, located 44 Astronomical Units away monitor radio emissions from the crash site with its own missions to work together on this Shortly after Fragment A impacted Jupiter, reaching temperatures as high as 24,000 degrees which would make it as big as Australia as scientists hadn't expected to see fireballs later, masses of ejected debris plummeted again turning Jupiter's atmosphere into a raging the impact site into view of Earth, allowing huge dark spot on Jupiter. (As it happens, last only 10 hours. Contrary to what you might than smaller ones!) The comet's impact set off atmosphere at a speed of 450 meters per second. For six days, between July 16th and July the largest coming on July 18th, when a blast 600 times more powerful than the a huge dark spot one Earth diameter across. the comet's aftermath proved just as valuable. By an unprecedented window into Jupiter's atmosphere never-before-seen glimpse of Jupiter's composition readings were able to identify material that had detected diatomic sulfur and carbon disulfide, and Interestingly, they also detected substantial necessarily expecting. In fact, one of NASA's this water is hiding in Jupiter's atmosphere. of the impact was the realization that planets. One school of thought theorized that a lot more frequent earlier in the Solar made it clear that very destructive collisions and we witnessed an extremely rare event? Or does only had the technology to see this kind of event large as SL9 were to crash here on Earth, it would This had a dramatic effect on our collective can attest! It was also a wakeup call for NASA the term "planetary defence" didn't exist. But in Near Earth Objects, or NEOs, with the goal of celestial neighbourhood greater than 1 this goal, NASA is now well on its way toward But before you stay up all night worrying, be And there is, perhaps, one other silver lining planet with a powerful gravitational influence, some scientists now think it might act We know that Jupiter gets approximately 2,000 to perhaps one of the reasons extinction-level that Jupiter has been a magnet for This argument has even become part of the Rare host to a unique set of conditions, without be impossible. Not everyone agrees with we're still a long way from proving it. a massive comet or asteroid hitting the Earth, the our understanding of these events. Moreover, it treated watchers to one of the most impressive one day we'll have the chance to see something While there have been other explosive events, the winner is clear: the biggest explosion And by comparison, the competition So, science had seen firsthand the awesome didn't understand enough about the nature and Armada had collected some useful images it would take more than photographs. A Between 1999 and 2005, two probes were launched. that had never been attempted before. One would to scoop stardust right from the comet's icy makeup of these frosty harbingers. The second than quietly collecting a smattering of space into the surface of the comet itself, to see what could be learned from the although these two missions were to different unexpectedly brought them both together: Tempel In 1999, NASA scientists proposed the lingering questions about comets' internal it would be difficult to understand the internal surface. To know what was going on, scientists to create a crater in a comet using an impactor at high speeds. As they would know the mass of the could calculate from the size of the impact crater surface was a loose aggregate of dust and ice, or The comet they wanted to target was a short nucleus 8km long and 5km wide. Scientists when the impactor hit - perhaps the impactor would and not really create a crater at all. There to find out which was correct. giving it a budget of $330 million, and named it a reference to the 1998 Hollywood film of the the project and the film had been come up with remarkable coincidence if so, as Deep Impact up a meteor that was on a collision course with nuclear warheads. There certainly seem to be some NASA scientists worked on the film. I don't Although, fortunately for the Earth, there the mission too. Tempel 1's orbit was nowhere the impactor compared to the comet, there was no by more than a centimetre or so. It would be of a large vehicle. Additionally, nukes would not any kind of explosives for that matter. The sheer when it collided with the comet's surface would be would be roughly 100m across and 30m deep. work on the Deep Impact spacecraft. The spacecraft and another larger mothership to carry it and section was called the Flyby. It weighed 601 solar panels, a debris shield, and two powerful Medium Resolution Imager (MRI). These would as well as help with navigation. The but it was still smart and housed a camera of Sensor (ITS), would take photos of Tempel 1 right information it collected to its parent Flyby, There was considerable public interest in by getting members of the public to submit their the impactor. Roughly 625,000 names were collected surface. On top of that, NASA timed the impact Independence Day. While this may have been because and its proximity to the sun may have produced reason for this date was that American scientists Deep Impact launched on January 12th, 2005 on a a day of leaving the Earth's orbit, Deep Impact's which it would only do if there was a fault. This gave scientists a bit of a scare, but quickly found to be a minor programming issue. so Deep Impact thought its thrusters were fine. Engineers corrected the issue, and Deep The spacecraft spent the next 6 months travelling time, it travelled 429 million km. It had but this was actually impressive as it had course corrections. One was so precise On April 25th, 2005, Deep Impact caught Of course, NASA scientists couldn't manually guide lag. Deep Impact and Tempel 1 were now roughly the closest distance between Earth and Mars. Deep to guide it in for the final leg of the journey. from the Flyby, and positioned itself into the This was done for a few reasons. First, the front for better pictures to be taken. Second, it would resulting in greater kinetic force. And on anticipated arrival time, the impactor hit. Scientists were thrilled that they had struck travelling at 37,000 km/h, and had struck with This produced the bright flash you see here, the TNT. This flash was much brighter than scientists However, ironically, the success of the first part effect. A large dust cloud was kicked up by of the impact crater. Dust outgassed from the which made it hard to see the results of this interesting insights into the internal pressures of water and between 10 and 25 million kg of Fortunately, scientists were able to rely on explosion. The collision had been observed through including Hubble, Swift, and even many this was a serious problem. Although this purpose of the Deep Impact Mission was to take Without images of the result, many of the like about its structure and composition. Like opened, but it had not yet been seen what to complete Deep Impact's unfinished mission. had already been launched, and, having completed serenely through space. It was about to receive Let's go back to the late 1990's, when Although by this point we had sent 6 probes not very much was known about their origins. foreign visitors to our solar system, older loose pre-solar grains of dust that orbit other only to be caught up in the sun's gravitational confirmed by travelling to one of these comets "stardust" - that surrounds them in space. By would be able to tell if it was unusual when However, this was a challenging mission. As of speed and energy. Comets travel through the kmph. While it was possible for a probe to try this had to be done without needing too would be too heavy and thus too expensive Initially, Stardust had nothing to do with Tempel known as Wild 2. They believed that they Wild 2 at a relatively low velocity. However, this or 23,400kmph. As you can imagine, catching challenging. Although particles would likely small to really impact it, it would do irreparable crashes at 23,400 kmph into a surface, the odds are incredibly small. Scientists would not learn they smashed those particles into pieces, not energy being suddenly converted into thermal So, what was their solution? What was their speeds? Well, much like how an airbag softens the scientists realised that they would need an airbag particle all at once, but would reduce its speed of crushing deceleration involved. For this, they air. Solid air. They decided to use aerogel. discovered in 1931 by Samuel Kistler when he made jelly. As you have probably seen if you have parts. Firstly, a relatively solid structure water. When you add water to solid cubes of dense wobbly substance we are all familiar with. If of jelly would normally contract again. Kistler's all of the liquid from the jelly without making entirely filled with air. An air jelly. Kistler won his bet, and at the same time fascinating substance, as it is usually over support bricks. Nowadays it tends to be made but can be made from a wide range of materials. an even better insulator than regular air. And it would offer just the right amount of resistance destroying it. The trails left behind in the spot where a particle had been captured. Stardust collector tray made up of 90 blocks of aerogel surface area, which would be deployed from inside Stardust would also capture dust from the and to learn more about the dust in our own solar would store them on a Sample Return Capsule, which and collection. This SRC was 0.8x0.5m, weighed recovery aids, and a parachute. Also onboard and interstellar dust analyser, and a dust flux The probe launched on 7th February 1999, and spent the asteroid 5535 AnneFrank along the way, which it finally arrived at its target Comet Wild 2. Scientists had not expected much from Wild 2. Some to be "a rather bland object looking somewhat like found. Instead, the surface of Wild 2 was covered cliffs, massive holes jetting dust and gas that were pointing away from the Sun and thus the surface of the comet was unexpectedly alive, notable for its absence. Craters. Unlike almost exposed to space, there were no craters on the to places like Mars, or our own moon. Given the it surely must have encountered other had these craters gone? It shows that a comet's reducing signs of visible craters over short time during this flyby, Stardust had its rapidly collecting dust samples. Just listen to The samples were carefully stowed away, and upon the SRC. The angle of approach had to be just the approach angle was too low, it would just skim angle was too high, the heat would disintegrate the DC-8 NASA airplane monitoring the sky saw it right angle. The SRC landed in the Utah desert, and deployed just as it was designed to. scientists learned another completely unexpected our solar system at all. Unlike what had not originated from another star. It had been composition of the particles Stardust collected proven that Comet Wild 2 originated from the solar surface might lead you to believe, the rock at Chondrules and Calcium Aluminium Inclusions collected. These are structures that only form in other asteroids between Mars and Jupiter. So, formed in cold conditions at the edge of solar Both fire and ice go into making comets. And particles had been collected, scientists were amino acid Glycine. Amino acids are the that are vital for all living things. Although on Comet Wild 2, this does lend weight to the crashing into our Earth millions of years ago, way to our planet. Which, I'm sure you will agree, Given all these discoveries, you might have been done. But NASA is always reluctant to waste give, and Stardust still had fuel in the tank. NASA would capture that close-up image of Tempel prove to be an interesting opportunity. Stardust 6-year journey around the solar system to arrive comet was visited and then revisited years later, 1 had evolved over the intervening years. Deep surface as it flew past, but even that was enough layered terrains, smooth flows that contrasted crater-like vents and cliff faces. It would changed in the time Tempel 1 had orbited around images of things previously unseen, giving even of the comet. There were other advantages to using equipment that had already been launched new. Stardust's shielding was even designed which certainly came in use, for reasons I'll it needed to take precise images. And so, name to match its new assignment: the Stardust New Of course, achieving this goal wouldn't be advance, to conserve fuel and make sure Stardust complicated, given that Tempel 1 didn't just once every 40 hours. So, it wasn't just a case with Tempel 1. NASA had to make sure it happened and facing Stardust once Stardust flew past. In clearly, they had to calculate all the spins to ensure the arrival time matched up. there would be little room for error. Incredible As such, NASA enlisted the help of dozens 1 was little more than a tiny dot in the track through its surface features, which were its asymmetric shape meant that its brightness profile was pointed our way, then brightening in regular intervals that allowed a detailed model Scientists counted the spins as Stardust they missed a single count, it would potentially objective. Their model needed to be perfect. engaging in one Earth gravity assist and multiple manoeuvre a full year before it would arrive at by a small yet significant 8 hours. A year later, as it closed in on the comet, as tiny particles began clattering off it. rocks into space. Stardust was hit dozens of a millimetre at most - some of these hits had cutting through a graphite-cyanide Still, Stardust survived the barrage Stardust made its flyby. It passed at a distance that scientists waited for another holiday for for their initial impact. Here, on a less Scientists had to wait for hours for the images NASA saw that they'd managed another bullseye. 1 to an accuracy of a single degree. Right been left by Deep Impact's payload. The mission scientists were able to calculate that larger than they were predicting. From this they fluffy material, similar to Halley's comet before and finer in substance than a powdered snowbank. they were able to estimate that 75% of the comet loosely together by gravitational forces. From Tempel 1 after the impact, scientists were able to including clays, silicates, sodium, and even these heavily carbon-rich materials may have been the vital materials that make up life here. changes that had taken place on Tempel 1's merged to become one. A cliff face had eroded back 1's surface was a dynamically changing place, like about how these formations had formed in the So, Deep Impact's mission finally had closure, and the end for Deep Impact. Following in Stardust's a new mission, titled EPOXI (Extrasolar Investigation), which in 2007 saw it heading off of thousands of photos, before ultimately dropping had already done significant amounts to advance What about Stardust? After its extended mission, in its tank. So, it ran with it. Firing it for if their models of how much fuel Stardust held Stardust kept doing science until the end. When last transmission to Earth to acknowledge it finally rests amongst the stars. Earth or through probes in space that we have from a machine looking up at a very different Mars. And the machine? The Opportunity Rover. of the Endeavour Crater. As this was going on, a was hurtling towards Mars. Its trajectory would before it continued on towards the Sun. This Spring, a visitor from the Oort Cloud. Remember, the Kuiper Belt, millions of icy rocks in orbits it had such a long time to accelerate towards the trip from Mars to the closest approach second. However, because of the close flyby of Mars were actually in a better spot to witness Mission controllers of the various missions were are ejected from the comet travelling that speed, orbit around Mars. As such, Hubble, as well as this visitor. Fortunately, mission controllers had another comet that passed by Mars only was 80 times further away than Siding Spring would Unfortunately, it was day just as Siding but Opportunity was able to snap a couple of Here's the annotated version of the same image. observation. As the comet passed by, none of the but what they did observe from this flyby was Mars' weak magnetic field into chaos, albeit magnetic field generated from within its core. Its atmosphere, which generates a very weak charge. the Sun, but solar storms from CMEs and solar stripping away atoms from the atmosphere. Comet Comets are also surrounded by a magnetic field, wind, this time with the comet's atmosphere, or kilometres from the comet, meaning that as Siding for a good few hours. This merged both magnetic particles from both objects interacting strongly some particles to space as a result. like this can come from machines that weren't Solar and Heliospheric Observatory, also known as space. During these 25 years, it has observed the ejections, and observed the atmosphere of the Sun. around this region were the discovery of over 4000 existed until they came into SOHO's view. the STEREO spacecraft, and the Solar comets. And what's so cool about that is that Sungrazers are comets that do just that: they parts of their orbits taking them within a hair's pass through the Sun's huge atmosphere, called its comets whose orbits take hundreds to thousands extreme elliptical nature, they build up sometimes accelerating to 0.2% of the speed a particle, let alone a house-sized object. all originate from one, large comet that was group of Sungrazers, shown in red in this What tends to happen over time is that the meaning that there is probably a steady flow pass by the Sun, they too break apart into even Sungrazers originated from the same comet? Well, The brightest comet in the last millennium, known was so bright as it approached the Sun that it heard of another famous fragment of this comet hemisphere in 2011, called Comet Lovejoy. While it did make for some very impressive long Sun-observing satellites. Comet Lovejoy was it would have been in the Sun's 1-million-degree astonishingly, it fizzed away from the other side severely impacted from the experience. Comet ISON. You may remember that Comet potentially visible to the naked eye that wasn't to be. However, it still made good approach was bright and impressive, and it faded out. Scientists can't be sure if there are certainly no volatile substances on However, these are some of the biggest Kreutz maybe being a few hundred metres in diameter. about until they actually came into the view of a being only 10's of metres across, many of the the Sun immediately after passing by too closely. pretty much immediately after they got discovered. disk of the Sun, never to reemerge from the angle of the comet's orbit means we can distance from the Sun, the heat is incredible, not only evaporate quickly, but the rocky elements Our own close encounters with comets show that sometimes nothing more than a pile of rubble, held the influence of the Sun, and even the largest Now, there's an interesting phenomenon that by the Sun, and that is that a CME will go off are numerous examples of this. However, there is no mechanism for a Sungrazer to big enough to have any consequential impact on examples you see here are purely coincidental. is that while we can't send probes deep into that and even the Parker Solar Probe doesn't dive we do have these thousands of comets that comets are perfect for us to observe what we are magnetic fields within the corona, so that we can Look how as a comet passes by, its tail wiggles. they turn to plasma which can be seen by reacts strongly to magnetic fields, so the be due to the way in which the tail interacts Currently, space weather is something we so as more comets pass through, the more we But when it comes to expanding cometary science, Halley Armada, Stardust and Deep Impact, we'd the dust that made up their tails, and had even to try next - to attempt to land on a comet's The Rosetta-Philae spacecraft that visited most ambitious mission. NASA isn't the only one other worlds, and personally, the Rosetta mission some of the impressive stuff NASA has done. with this mission. Philae, the lander part of experiments on the surface of the comet for 5 For our last stop on this tour of the evolving highs and lows of Rosetta-Philae's visit best (and strangest) comet for last. although it was once a Kuiper belt object . The 2004 onboard ESA's own Ariane 5 rocket. It was 2003 and had a totally different target, but a few months previously with another mission, could determine and fix the problem. With a new target had to be chosen, and ESA settled Once in space, the Rosetta spacecraft had an As is often the case with missions to the outer get that far out. It had a flyby of Earth in 2005, was pretty risky; it would skim the planet this flyby, which lasted 15 minutes, it would be is solar-powered, the craft had to go into standby onboard electric heaters to avoid damage from the were never designed to run by themselves for long. completely drained then it would never have been Nothing could be transmitted back to Earth as this to wait and hope the spacecraft was able to turn gamble". But the flyby was a success, and the some photos of Mars in the process. second time again in 2007 at a distance of it was spotted by ground-based telescopes and so was added to the Catalina Sky Survey as a until a few days later that the mistake was found! speed from the flyby, its trajectory took the asteroid belt beyond the orbit of Mars, Rosetta did one final Earth flyby in 2009, to reach the comet. During this last leg of the called 21 Lutetia, which is 100km in diameter. an interesting comparison between asteroids they look remarkably different. the spacecraft went into hibernation mode until comet Churyumov-Gerasimenko for the first time. they aligned the trajectory of Rosetta with the these fantastic images started to come in, and actually be a contact binary, full of jagged edges It's a breathtaking sight to behold, and is anyone had previously thought. But, upon seeing thought "how are we going to land on this?!" the orbiter, Rosetta, or the mothership of Philae. Mission planners wanted Philae to land on making up the comet with a variety of different have it fall over on its back upon landing, thus special object. So, the first thing Rosetta did of the comet to find the ideal landing site. another thing to consider was the amount of some parts of comets are very active, with especially as the comet approaches the Sun. too dangerous for the health of the Philae So, on the 12th November 2014, Philae and started its extremely slow descent towards with two harpoons which were due to shoot into the as the escape velocity of the comet is if you were standing on its surface, you its gravity would be too weak to pull you back. mission control as Philae descended, as due to all object, the outgassing, and stray bits of comet lot that could go wrong. Philae eventually touched it sent back a landing signal to mission control didn't realise at that moment though was that the onboard harpoons hadn't fired and although off the comet's surface. Commands were sent to but Philae was actually floating in space at that for a while until they realised it hadn't properly bouncing. Luckily, the bounce's velocity was only surface, before eventually coming back down again. before eventually coming to a rest. Sadly though, and came to rest here, in a region that was often run out of power due to its solar panels mission controllers felt extremely fortunate that it could still collect at least some valuable had a rush on their hands, to collect as much ran out. Their estimated five-month mission By the 14th November, battery power had run out, 2015, with increased exposure to the Sun due the little Philae lander was able to turn on again signal was intermittent, the lander was able to the CONSERT radar experiment, and it sent back became more active as it got closer to the Sun. It per second, but at this point, it was outgassing keep Rosetta safe, it had to orbit further and its last signal, and then went quiet forever. eventually found the final resting place out just by here. Knowing where Philae landed data it collected into perspective. the surface? Did it put those 60 hours to good able to make some ground-breaking discoveries? mission planners by itself. So far, nothing closely looks anything like 67P which just goes about 5 km across at its longest point, and has of material in the middle. This by itself was unlike a lot of asteroids that we've visited. it was discovered that the surface of this at the neck connecting the two lobes, it becomes stress. If we look at these rocks, we can see them. Fracture lines are also apparent from a on fracture lines found all around the neck region inside the comet, up to 500m below the surface. the two lobes are pulling away from each over time. Huge 10m boulders were observed being from the volatility on the surface, sometimes This also implies that the comet which scientists found very interesting. be seen, implying that during its formation, this even though it is brittle, the surface of the thought the initial landing site for Philae the dirty snowballs seen in previous missions, on 67P to directly interact with the comet, it thought to be water ice, with a thin layer of get a sample of the soil, but as you can see, up at an awkward angle, and so wasn't able readings were still able to be obtained by which had ended up on Philae after the bounces. determined that there were 16 different organic on a comet before. While organic compounds do not While Philae wasn't able to get too many readings samples of the comet by collecting some of the itself into space. One of the most impressive of dust particles and cosmic rays shooting off background. All the particles are visible because meaning increased exposure of the camera can Throughout the mission, Rosetta collected roughly composition didn't change throughout the course of meaning that the whole nucleus of the comet dust particles consisted of complex, organic, magnesium, aluminium, silicon, calcium and iron. however, is the presence of an It is theorised that asteroids have been heated proximity to the Sun, which has stripped the however, have been kept away from the inner these dust samples are pristine relics from the even the molecular cloud the Sun would have as it's highly reactive, and if there is hydrogen H2O. Carbon and hydrogen were also detected The dust particles you see here are tiny, the but interestingly it is particles just during a meteor shower here on Earth. What these material that formed the solar system, so we By now, we understand that comets tend to be that falls on them, which you maybe wouldn't be icy. But actually, not a lot of the ice in most of the comet is coated in this layer of than asphalt. These coloured sections in as you can see, it's not a very big percentage of instead absorbed, heating the volatile material water and carbon dioxide, which also blasts space. As these are ejected at escape velocity, Zooming out a little bit and looking at comets tails. One tail follows the orbit of the comet; illuminated as sunlight reflects off it. The the water and carbon dioxide that outgassed of the solar wind, and these particles are with the charged particles from the Sun. naked eye on Earth, but every so often a comet In the northern hemisphere, the last bright one I but I did also recently see Comet Neowise guys in the southern hemisphere have been McNaught in 2007 and Comet Lovejoy in 2011. big reason why the Rosetta-Philae mission happened on comets is the source of water on Earth. was bombarded by comets early in its development, Considering a large portion of comets are water the water we enjoy today. But as it turns out Scientists were able to determine this from the is significantly different from Earth's - just and here is 67P's. As you can see, they are very vapour measured for deuterium directly; 67P and were the source of water on Earth. Instead, this asteroids are the source of water on Earth, even But perhaps there was more water on them billions water now because all the volatile substances on it seems that Earth would have had Rosetta and Philae were also equipped to like the one on Comet Siding Spring that had Initially scientists thought they discovered the "hum" of which they converted to audio it turns out this was not the result of a magnetic presence of a magnetic field on the surface, but with the comet's atmosphere. In fact, because nucleus are completely devoid of any magnetic Rosetta finished its mission by crashing into further away from the Sun, there was no guarantee so in order to maximise the science gained, a controlled descent into the comet. During this in this time-lapse, providing better resolutions hit the surface and all communication was lost. our eyes to what the solar system and have provided data that has and will yet lead missions like this one in the future! and it was thanks to the incredible work of probe and Deep Impact probe, and Rosetta-Philae their inner composition and workings. While still their layers of enigma. We understand they are from our own solar system, and may even have led And it was human ingenuity and precision So, the next time you see a comet, with its from it, it will no longer be quite so mysterious, here today. But the thing I love the most is that to uncover. There will no doubt be many more While once we looked up at comets it turns out that visiting and learning more thinking thanks for watching and thanks to our make science knowledge freely available to and miss sometimes so your contributions help haven't already but you want to join the to get in on the party just sign up with the be able to watch the whole video adree see your team once again a huge thank you team meanwhile click the link to this playlist