Honestly, this is why I had to stop hanging I started realizing you catch what you're Now if you need to take out your phone at with that &quot;swipe left, delete&quot; move... Some of y'all don't need to lift your hands thumb, because it is your contacts... I caught something. I catch something every time I'm around them, I noticed this the other day. I get in a certain mood, and I can't figure and now...?&quot; Have you ever had it switch that quickly? I started studying, and I realized that before Sometimes that thought is just me going through register... Here's what I noticed. You don't feel it while you're scrolling. When I ate a whole bag of Oreos one Thanksgiving feel sick while I was eating them. My taste buds didn't tell me to stop. So I'm scrolling, and I don't feel sick until What I realized about myself... Maybe you're more spiritually mature than is whole, healthy, and doesn't have these sometimes you are mad about something that you were in everybody else's life but your them? Are they better than me?&quot; What happened while I was scrolling... I saw them on vacation, and I know they're &quot;Why should they be on vacation when I know Now I feel sick 10 minutes later because of somebody else's situation that has nothing What happened to me was I caught a thought of frustration. I got offended the other day because I saw bless. Did you ever watch God just do something awesome He didn't consult you. So I found myself feeling insecure. he reason I felt insecure in myself is because else. Now here's what happens: You become a victim When you judge others that way, you judge So when you catch a thought of judging others, upon you. So I caught a thought. I caught a thought, and I realized the thought You know, like you can catch a wave. You can catch a football for the game-winning Just this very yesterday. But I never knew I could catch a thought. I knew you could catch a case. I have some relatives who did it. I knew you could catch a cold, but I found Then I trace sometimes the weakness of my did that thought come from?&quot; It's important where it came from, because to. My issue is that when I say I hear from God, God bless you if you do. I've never heard the audible voice of God. Ever. I mean, he speaks through my wife all the never heard the audible voice of God. If you have, I'm not mad at you...unless you by making up stuff God told you, because God Don't tell me God spoke to you something I'm do something you want to do by saying God you to quit your job because you're just tired I don't know if that's God or if you're just a better attitude when you show up. I've never heard from God out loud. One guy asked me one time, &quot;When you say God Great question. I don't hear God at an auditory level, so When Peter said, &quot;Jesus spoke to me,&quot; it was Jesus was a person. &quot;He spoke to me. I was fishing one night. I hadn't caught anything. I was frustrated, and Jesus said, 'Let down And Peter would say, &quot;At first I was frustrated, I'm a fisherman. You do your job; I'll do mine. You wanted my boat to preach from. I didn't know you were going to try to drive But because you say so, I will let down the Now, when he let down the nets, he caught me that before he caught the fish, he caught Before there was a seat, there was a thought. See, the issue with this is I don't hear God not on an auditory or sensory level; I connect be fine if God spoke to me at the level of that way. But I have this other joker. They call him the Devil. When I say, &quot;The Devil tempts me&quot; or &quot;The a guy in a Halloween costume that he got on and a cape and some horns. I never saw the Devil like that. I'd just put him off my shoulder. He's not on my shoulder. When he comes to me, he comes to me through So now I have God speaking to me through my I have the Enemy trying to speak against what I have two voices on the same device, and One is telling me, &quot;Your greatest years are One is telling me, &quot;You've already done all You'd better ride it out, because it won't One is telling me, &quot;Go ahead and speak it believe for it.&quot; The other one is telling me, &quot;Well, you'd If you go too far out there, you'll be embarrassed. After all, if you climb high, they can pull I'm caught I'm caught. I got a thought. I got caught. I got caught by a thought. I don't know how it happened, but, y'all, all the time that says, &quot;It doesn't matter.&quot; Just all the time. I could be doing anything, and it will be You know that eye roll emoji? That would be the face of it, but the thought It doesn't matter.&quot; Have you ever had that thought catch you trying &quot;You're not enough.&quot; I don't know if you say it exactly like that, I used to think it was people who didn't have athletes have this thought that &quot;I'm not enough.&quot; They are the ones who our society worships, It's a thought that's going around. The reason it's going around so much more we don't judge ourselves or measure ourselves we compare ourselves to a fictionalized account That's where you always get in trouble. Now get this point. You always get in trouble when you start comparing When you compare callings, you catch insecurity. When you compare callings, you catch insufficiency. When I think, &quot;I'm not enough...&quot; Even the disciples... &quot;It's not enough food to go around, Jesus. You need to send them away.&quot; How many times have I sent away something that I'm not enough? They wandered around and around and around of their enemy but because of their thought. Then even sometimes when things are going I don't know where it comes from. I don't think it's God. I don't think it is. It's hard to tell sometimes, because it's He doesn't sound like Morgan Freeman. It's just a thought. Come on. If God sounded like Morgan Freeman, you could If he narrated your life like that, you could You could make it. You would go to sleep and wake up and just But it comes like a thought. Even when it's going well... &quot;It won't last. They'll leave you too. You can't count on them.&quot; Then you sabotage the gift because you're happening you don't believe it's real. These are my thoughts. I don't know where I caught them. I had a good mom, a good dad. I mean, they weren't perfect. Don't get me wrong. I wish I could trace it back to just one traumatic I think that would be easier. &quot;I'm not enough.&quot; Where did that thought come from? I'm not sure where it comes from, but I know When I look back on the seasons of my life And I know the Bible verses. I know them better than you. Let's have a quoting contest. &quot;Rejoice in the Lord always. I will say it again: Rejoice!&quot; See my hand motions? I know the verse. &quot;Rejoice in the Lord always.&quot; Then Paul says, &quot;I will say it again: Rejoice!&quot; Well, you can say it as many times as you I'm sad right now, and I can't find my way So now I'm fighting on the level of my feelings, It wasn't just like Moses was a bad leader. Even Paul had to fight against opposing voices of the grace of God in the gospel, even in at Corinth. He would write to that church, and what would or the word he likes to use in 2 Corinthians He says, &quot;I fear that you're being deceived He uses the example... He says, &quot;Like Eve was deceived by the Serpent.&quot; Do you remember that story? When God said, &quot;You can eat any of this,&quot; She allowed something that was beneath her She caught a thought. See, I've never had a snake slither up to I wish I did. I wish it was a snake that I could chop the It's a thought, and I have to live with this, The Serpent said to Eve, &quot;Did God really say...?&quot; Do you see it? He introduces a doubt into the possibility on what is not available rather than what Paul says, &quot;I'm afraid that you will be deceived.&quot; There are these spies in the church at Corinth, They're doing it by the power of thought. They are introducing the thought into the Christ to justify you. He says, &quot;I fear that you have been led astray Pure is the right word. That's the important word: pure. It's that uncontaminated place that you access and everything is going to be all right. Have you ever just felt that and you had no to back it up? Have you ever just felt that, like, &quot;Wow! I feel like I'm going to make it and God is I can't even prove it on a flow chart or anything What happens is the Enemy deceives you. He can't take what God gave you. You know that, right? I need to make sure you know that. He can't take what God gave you, but if he it, he can keep you so weak you will not walk