Hello. This is Yohee from Sisletter. It's been a long time. How have you all been? I've been thinking about organizing pantry for months, sighing every time I see my pantry. It was nice to have a quite wide pantry, but I haven't utilize the space well. It feels like it is going to be much easier to organize when space is bigger, but there will be more space only to accumulate if you do not utilize it well. I'm going to keep kitchen items including small kitchen appliances on the left wall space. The first and most practical way to free up space is to use tension rods. When taller items are stored laying flat rather than standing upright, it takes up less space and is easier to take out from the shelf. When these containers are stacked on top, it is not easy to take them out, so it is necessary to separate the space. It would be nice to install a tension rod horizontally and use it like a shelf at the top, but the tension rod is shorter than the space. In this case, space utilization method second! Use a hanging basket. It is from IKEA and comes in two different sizes that has a non-slip sticker on the bottom. It helps to utilize the space 200% and makes it easy to take out all the items above and below. Space utilization third, use space separation shelves. This is a new Variera shelf from IKEA that can be connected to the existing Variera shelf to make it extendable and I really like it. I'm going to organizing kitchen items here so that it is easy to reach. The house I lived in before had a lot of kitchen cabinets, so I kept everything in them, but the new home has less cabinets, but fortunately the pantry is large, so I can keep them here. Glass empty bottles, including recycled ones I collected, were stacked and stored in an unstable box, so I was anxious. I'm going to organize it in a sturdy IKEA Variera box that I've been using for a long time. This is originally a curtain clip, but it can be used in a variety of ways. It helps to keep the small items neatly stored. Vertical shelves that used to be placed inside kitchen cabinets also find their place here. Instead of putting them right next to each other, space them apart so you can use that space as well for more storage. Perfect for organizing baking plates and trays. Did Ikea read my mind? I thought it would be nice if a larger version of the existing RISTORP basket came out, but it really came out with a stronger base without mesh on the bottom. I will keep all our baking tools together in it. It has two handles, so it's easy to lift and carry when needed. Use a turntable for corner space that is difficult to be utilized . For the space you want to cover, simply make a curtain with a compression rod and double-sided tape. Now I'm starting organizing the space on the other side of the long-awaited. It looks like they have just been piled up, but I'm categorizing them by type to make it easier to organize. Where and how to place them is the problem... For me, this process called mapping took the most time. I've been using this cereal container for a long time, and although it's plastic, there's nothing quite like it. It's light enough for a child to take out and use, and the size of the opening is just right. This glass jars that I have been using for a long time, is not 100% airtight, but I'm still using it without any problems. These are glass jars I bought from Amazon to store spaghetti and pasta. I think the tightness of the lid is much better than the IKEA ones. Labeling is simply done with a white marker on the tape Writing the expiration date with a tape at the bottom would be a good idea. If you have any silica gel, attach it to the lid as well. Choose a type of container is a matter of personal preference, but one thing is for sure, it takes up a lot less space when the packaging is removed and put it in a container. A smaller version of the new Variera shelf, which can also be used alone. I also use recycled items for organizing everywhere. I think the uses of compression rods are really endless. When storing ramen or seaweed, you can use a much wider space if you use a compression rod. I used to store them in baskets, but when I got more of them, they were eventually stacked on top. There will be some unnecessary spare space on top when this kind of milk or juice carton is stored upright. In that case, lay them down, and the space will be larger and it will be easier to take out. You just need to secure the sides with compression rods so that it doesn't fall over. Beverage cans are also stored lying down using compression rods, so they are neatly organized and store much more cans. This is the IKEA PALYCKE hanging basket of a different size that I introduced earlier. It's perfect for storing kids' snacks by hanging it on the bottom shelf, which has a lot of free floor space. Bulky snacks or lunch bags that take up lots of space can be stored in a large basket for tidiness and placed on the bottom of the pantry for easy access. The empty space on the pantry wall is also good to use a tension rod to hang shopping bags, leftover snacks, or food items that you need to consume soon. Regardless of the size of the space, big or small, I think it's important to apply various tips to suit your taste and lifestyle and finally find a method that suits you the best. I hope the video I shared today would be helpful in many ways. Thank you.