Captions by Christmas Vibes (Me), Subscribe for more christmas content! WORLD NEWS Today, children everywhere are making significance... The annual visit of Santa Claus. Informed sources report legions of junior to cry and not to pout. Meanwhile, letters by the thousands have been Doggone thing always conks out when you... Well, hello there! Uh... My name's special delivery Kloogle... S.D. for short. Oh, I've got lots of letters for Santa today, Some ask for toys, but a lot ask questions. Like, you take this one. I bet one of you wrote it. &quot;Dear Santa, why do you wear a red Uh-huh. I thought so. And this one... My turn. &quot;Dear Santa, &quot;why do you comedown the chimney How about these? Why do you have whiskers? Why do you live at the North Pole? Why do you leave presents every year? Why do you always come on Christmas Why is your sleigh pulled by reindeer? Why is some people call you Kris Kringle? Why? [All Children] Why? Why? Why? Now, hold on, hold on! I can answer all your questions because I Now, Santa is a busy man. He has no time to play. He's got millions and millions of stockings So you'd better write your letter now and with his reindeers and his sleigh. So... you better watch out You better not cry You better not pout I'm telling you why So you want Best place to start is at the very beginning, Child: You mean, Santa was once... [Giggles] A baby? Of course. Everybody's got to be a baby at least once Now, this was years and years ago... Oh, way back. In one of the northern countries, there was It was a cold, cold place which shivered in Whispering Winds. [Thunder] Now, the main reason for all this a fellow who was known as Burgermeister Meisterburger. [Children laughing] Herr Burgermeister, Herr Burgermeister! Look what was discovered on your front stoop! What? What, Grimsly? The milk? The daily paper? No, sir... a baby! Oh, is that all? [Choking] A baby?! And there's a note. &quot;Please, sir, take care of my child, and protect Whispering Winds. He will be exceptional if only given the love I, Burgermeister Meisterburger, take care Outrageous! What's its name? This is the only clue, sir. It says, &quot;Claus.&quot; Oh, take the little... uh... baggage to the orphan That's the proper place for foundlings, anyway. [Baby crying] Get that brat out of here! [Wind howling] Oh! The sleigh... it broke away! Oh, my goodness! Where are you Baby Claus? Oh, do come back! Come back! Narrator: Well, that strange wind blew the the Whispering Winds. For, you see, that Mountain was Oh, I hate to even say his name! That Mountain was the home of the... [Thunder] Winter Warlock... The strange hermit of the north who lived his strange spells and snowy incantations. [Thunder] The animals knew they had to hide [Footsteps] They knew where that baby belonged, way. Child: Where? Where? Well, you see, just beyond the Mountain was in the magical stream, was the home of a jolly Elves, you might call them. Kringle was their name. The door was answered by an elf named Dingle... Dingle Kringle, to be precise. Yes? Who's there? There's who? Ooh! Wiggle my ears and tickle my toes, Methinks I see a baby's nose! It's more than a nose. There's a whole baby attached to it! Better call my brothers. Wingle! Bingle! Tingle! Zingle! What is it, Dingle? It's a baby, Zingle. A baby what, Wingle? A baby baby, Tingle. I like babies, Bingle. Our baby's the best baby of them all, Wingle. Narrator: They brought the little fella to A baby! What a splendid idea! He shall live with us and sleep with us and What will we call him, Tanta Kringle? His license says, &quot;Claus.&quot; Unusual name. However, we shall call him Kris... Kris Kringle. [All cheering] Narrator: Well, those little Soon as he was old enough, they set up a little How to read and write and talk and count stars Child: Make toys? Oh, sure. That was the Kringles' main occupation. They were toymakers. The only problem was there were no children You remember, Sombertown was on the other and the little elves just couldn't make it So... The toys kind of stacked up some. It's really quite sad. We will never be able to transport our toys Someday, when I am bigger, I'll take them Oh, that will be the day! We will be great toymakers again, as we once When was that, Tanta? Oh, years and years ago. The Kringles were world-renowned, for, you The first toymakers to the King. It's a difficult responsibility When you accept an appointment from his majesty You must strive for just the perfect When you're the first toymaker to the King All the soldiers must For the Kingdom they protect The balls must bounce much higher If they're to please his royal sire The ballerinas must pirouette, upon And the clowns must make a King forget all his Kingly It's a difficult responsibility When you accept an appointment from You must strive for just the perfect quality When you're the All the sailboats must never sink, and the The Teddy Bears be furry, If they're to gain his royal The Jack-in-Boxes must always pop, at every regal command And the kangaroos must learn to hop into the Prince's hand It's a difficult responsibility When you accept an appointment from his majesty You must strive for just the perfect quality When you're the first toymaker to the King [Applause] Child: So that's why he makes such wonderful toys. Narrator: That's why. The Kringles taught him everything they knew. Of course, Kris had other teachers... The animals. But the seals taught him the most important How to have fun and... Ho ho ho! Ho! Ho! Ho ho ho! How to laugh... Real hard and wonderful, like he meant it. Ho ho ho ho! Well, years went by, and finally, Kris was I'm a man now, Tanta. I can take those toys across the Mountain It would be nice if someone played with our If only one of my dollies could be held tight It's decided, then. Tomorrow, I leave for Sombertown. [All cheering] Tanta Kringle? Ehh, I was just packing. Did I wake you up? I was awake anyhow. I made this for your trip. A real... Kringle suit! Child: So that's where he got Narrator: Yep, and he's always worn one just Well, Kris said good-bye to all his friends... Elf and animal. Just as night was falling, Kris started to lay at the foot of the Warlock's Mountain. Kris: Hey! Why... why, you're a penguin! [Honk] Well, what is a penguin doing here? [Glug glug] You're looking for a stick? - [Honk] A branch? A log? A pole? [Honk honk] The North Pole? - [Glug] No? The South Pole! [Honk honk] Well, little feller, that's on You're just about as lost as you could get. You better travel with me. You need someone to take care of you. - [Kiss] - Now, cut that out. Come on, uh, Topper. I'll call you Topper. Ok? - [Honk honk] Come on. This way, little feller. Voice: Who nears my mountain? Go back... Or you are doomed! Come on, Topper! [Evil laughter] I shall get him when he returns. He's got to cross my mountain on [Laughing] No more being the nice guy. [Laughing] We made it, Topper. And... And look! Sombertown... Just sitting there waiting for us and our Narrator: That's what they thought. But what they didn't realize was at that very Grimsly: His honor... Burgermeister Meisterburger. As I suspected... You've broken your funny bone. Ohh... What caused me to trip, Grimsly? This, sir. Hmm? A toy? As I suspected. I hate toys, and toys hate me. Either they are going or I am going, and I I have a job for you to do. Now, take this down. It's a difficult responsibility That you accept from the number-one lawmaker, me Have it known throughout the land, There'll be no more toymakers to the King All the tin soldiers, melt them down Wash the face of every clown Each bouncing ball, deflate it No, I don't want to debate it! The ballerinas who pirouette The ballerinas who pirouette, arrest their musical toes! Outlaw the dolls and sink the boats, they It's a difficult responsibility That you accept from the number-one lawmaker, me Have it known throughout the land, There'll be no more toymakers to the King Every Jack-in-the-box be sealed Till my wounded pride be healed Stuffed animals...unstuff 'em! When a child objects, rebuff him! No more drummers who rat-a-tat-tat, no Don't let me see another toy, or you will It's... a... difficult responsibility That he extracts from the number-one Be it known throughout the land, From sea to sea... Toys are hereby declared illegal, immoral, unlawful and Anyone found with a toy in his possesion will be placed under arrest and thrown in the dungeon There'll be no more... toy...makers.... to the king! No holdin' back, now. Give me all your toys, by order of the Burgermeister. [Neighing laughter] We'll never play again. Ho ho ho ho ho! Narrator: The townspeople didn't know what Hi there. Ha ha. Nice day, friend. Don't &quot;Hi&quot; me. Good morning, ma'am. You ought to be ashamed of yourself, young Clothes? Look, all I want to do is give away these Toys?! Townspeople: Toys?! Oh! Get him out of here! [All shouting at once] What did I say? [Honk] Well, what's going on here? We're doing our chores. Yeah, and no more playing. No playing, eh? Are you washing out eh... stockings? Uh-huh. It's one of our daily duties. Then we hang them by the fireplace so they That's the only way they judge you around By how many chores you do and how clean your Is that so? Well, uh, you don't have to look so glum about Why? I don't know. I just don't like sour faces. Now, I got some real nice goodies for you, You better watch out. Better not cry. Better not pout. [Both] Why? I'm telling you why! [Both] Yeah? 'Cause I came to town, and look what I brought. [Both] Toys! Real toys! Why, sure... Compliments of the Kringles. But... but what about the Burgalermeister? What about him? If he wants a toy, he may have one. I'll save him a big red yo-yo. [Laughing] Come on. Let's play! Yeah! Come on! Woman: Wait! You must not play with toys. And, uh, who are you? That's miss Jessica, our new schoolteacher. Kris Kringle at your service, Miss Jessica. How dare you come here in those ridiculous Clothes again? I wasn't making... And what do you mean by giving the children Don't you know toys are against the law? - What? - Yep. It's true. Gee. That's kind of a silly law. If the Burgermeister saw you, we would all In danger from toys? Why, that's the silliest thing I ever heard. Toys are frivolous, impractical, unproductive, What's that? For you. A China doll? I always wanted one when I was a little girl, [Kisses doll] Oh! Thank you. I mean... Watch out for that Dolly. She's a hardened criminal, I hear. Well, maybe it is a silly law. I- I mean... What do you say you help me hand out these It's too big a job for one oversized Kringle Oh, what a good girl Oh, what What a big smile All because of kiss a toy is the price you'll pay When Be prepared to pay If you the price you'll pay When you sit prepared to pay If whenever you take give a little back - You give a little whoever you love - Will give a little give a little love - So give a little a little love back - Don't you have you want to get back? - Give a little A kiss a toy is the price you'll pay be stingy Be prepared to pay - Now, a toy is the price you'll pay Burgermeister: Everybody is glum. Ah, see? All the little children are playing with their [Sputters] Playing with their toys?! Stop... in the name of the law! You brats are under arrest! Take them away. Don't arrest those children! It was my fault. I gave them the toys. You?! How dare you? You are obviously a nonconformist and a rebel! Me? Rebel? Arrest this man immediately. For you. [Sputters] A yo-yo? I love yo-yos! I used to be able to do all kinds of tricks. Whee! Hoo hoo hoo! Hee hee! Hoo hoo hoo! Annoying Law Keeper: Excuse me, sir, but you're breaking your own laws. What? What are you saying? What? [Sputtering] Ooh... Ooh! Ooh, I have been bamboozled! Arrest him! Arrest him! Burgermeister: Oh, look! He climbs like a squirrel, leaps like a deer, After him! He went into the woods! We'll never find him in there. I guess we lost 'em, Topper. Ah... Slow down, now. Ooh-whee! Wonder where we are. [Honk honk] &quot;You are trespassing on the lands [Tree roars] Hey! Hey, let go! Let go! Kris Kringle... You've disturbed me for the very last time. Now I have you... And you'll never get away! [Laughing evilly] [Winter Warlock Laughing] Look, uh, before you do me in would you tell your tree friends to let me loose for a second? You see, I have something for you. What is this, a trick? Oh, oh, no, sir, Mr. Warlock, or may I call Mr. Warlock, if you please! Oh. Well, I managed to save one little toy... And I'd like you to have it. You... You wish to give me... A present? A... A toy? Yes, sir. But... nobody ever gives mean old Warlock... I'd like to start a new custom. If you'd just call off... Wha... what? Oh, oh, yeah. Uh, heh heh heh! Oh, yes, of course. But you mustn't mind the tree monsters. Their bark is worse than their bite. Ha ha ha! &quot;Their bark is worse than their bite.&quot; Ha ha ha ha! Hey, uh, Willie Willow, Peter Pine, release [Chuckling] Yeah. And no tricks, now. Oh, oh, no. No, sir, Mr. Warlock. A choo-choo. [Kissing] I've always wanted one. [Sobbing] [Water running] What's that? It's... my icy heart. It's melting. Well, look, Mr. Warlock... Please, please, call me &quot;Winter.&quot; &quot;Winter&quot;? Oh, yes, yes! Suddenly, my whole outlook has changed from Great. Ah... but will it last? I really am a mean and despicable creature It's so difficult to... Really change. Difficult? Ha ha ha! Why, why look here. Changing from bad to good is as easy as taking Put one foot in front of the other And Put one foot in front of the other door You never will get where you're feet Come on, there's a good tailwind to beat Put one foot in front of the the flo-o-or Put one foot in front out the door If you want to change is at hand Well, don't be the rule, way to start is to stand Put one foot be walkin' cross the flo-o-or Put soon you'll be walkin' out the door If see in the mirror each morn Kris: Oh, You mean that it's just my election Kris: To vote for a chance to be reborn? Woo-hoo! You put one foot in front of the other the flo-o-or You put one foot in front out the door Put one foot in front cross the flo-o-or Put one foot in be walkin' out the door Well, there's... there's all kinds of ways we can help each You can bring me nice, new toys and... I can assist you with my magic. Uh... how? Oh ho. I'll show you. Gaze into my magic crystal snowball. Someone is looking for you. Kris! Kris! Kris: Jessica? Winter: Go to her, lad. Oh! Only me, ma'am. I thought I'd never find you again. I wanted to bring you these... Letters and notes from the children of Sombertown, You see, the Burgermeister destroyed the ones You tell those young'uns there'll be plenty No cryin' or poutin' or... Oh, I... I'll know. I got ways of knowin'. My, uh, personal friend, the Warlock, taught Yes, sir, I can see 'em when they're sleepin', My goodness. You know if they're bad or good? Uh-huh. So you tell them to be good, for goodness' Oh, thank you, Kris. For what? For being so kind, for just being you. [Kiss] Gol-Lee! Now, uh... About the toys... I'll have to kind of slip 'em in after dark, all the boys and girls to leave their doors Narrator: Well, Kris went back to the Kringles' And what do you think those crazy Kringles Yes, sir, they all moved in on old Winter... Lock, stock, and toy box. I guess they figured it made sense to move Oh, I'm crowded! [Chuckles] But at least I'm loved. Narrator: Kris made a list of all the children He checked it over once, then checked it over He tried to figure out just who was naughty Lenient Kris: Well, I guess they're all pretty nice. Narrator: So he packed up and was off to Sombertown. [Honking] Narrator: When Kris was safe inside they were open, he knew a child lived inside This is outrageous! Toys! Toys everywhere! What sort of criminal is this Kringle, sneaking I hereby decree that all the town's doors Narrator: Well, more and more letters came Jessica would gather them together and then And Kris, well, he just couldn't turn anybody But this time, he found all the doors were Now, there was one special toy he just had Susie, a tiny little girl who was very, very Kris just couldn't disappoint her. [Honking] Topper, shh. What is it? You have an idea... How to get into the house, but not through Up? The sky? The moon? The stars? The chimney? Go down the chimney? [Kiss] Great idea! Well... Here goes. Narrator: And that's how he started going Child: Oh! Now I understand. Kris: That's fun! What a great job I've got. [Honking] [Kris laughing] Ho ho ho ho! Come on. There's a lot more chimneys to explore tonight. Ha ha ha! Ho ho ho! More toys! Discovered by the hearths and the mantel pieces! Each house in Sombertown will be searched If any more toys are found by the fireplace, severely punished! So be it! Yow! Narrator: But those letters just kept right Doggone, how can I get the toys to them? They got to have toys. Otherwise, their life will be nothing but and... The stockings. The stockings! Take this to Jessica. She'll know what to tell the children. Burgermeister: Company, halt! Search the premises! If you find so much as one marble or half Double time, hup! We can't find anything, Herr Burgermeister. Good. Very good. No toys. Nothing but drying stockings... Ha ha ha ha... As is proper! About face! Forward, march! Hup, hup, hup, hup, hup, hup... Whew! Thank heaven there were no toys. Children: Whee! Look! Narrator: And that's how he started leaving More toys? But how? Ow! Blast it! On my toe-ho-ho! I will do what I should have done a long time I will set a trap for that bothersome Kringle. His next visit to Sombertown will be his last. [Gasps] Oh, no! I must warn Kris. Narrator: But she was too late. Kris had already left with his toys. Oh, Mr. Warlock... Uh, &quot;Winter,&quot; please. You must help me stop Kris. Please, use your magic. Oh... alas. I've been... disenchanted. I have no more powers. I can't even do card tricks. Oh, that's terrible! What shall we do? Grimsly: Nobody is going to do anything! You are all under arrest for defying the law to public enemy number one, Kris Kringle! To the dungeon! Narrator: Oh, I tell you, things didn't look And meanwhile, back in Sombertown... Stop! You are under arrest! Not me! Wait! Look! [Honking] What can I do? You have me. Ha ha ha ha! To the dungeon! Children of Sombertown, you will never, never, [Children crying] Well, sir, it looked like Herr Burgermeister, please. You must set Kris and the little Kringles Ho ho! Ha ha! Set them free? Never. I promise they will never disturb you again. Bah! What good are your promises? Good-bye, good luck, and good riddance! My own town, turned against me. Well, my eyes are beginning to open for the about. And I know just where I belong... With Kris, wherever he is. Today is not the end. It's only the beginning. All the little cares Picked along With yesterday Tossed about My world Is beginning today this way And never seen the little my head So high above the clouds My gonna happen But it's out of my hands any plan All the little cares Picked With yesterday Tossed about My world is beginning today My Narrator: Well, Jessica realized the first thing she had to [Knocking] Mr. Warlock. Hmm? Oh! Oh, Jessica. Oh, &quot;Winter,&quot; please. What are you doing here? Trying to set you all free, but I don't know If only you had your magic powers back. Alas, I've nothing but a few meager magic wand... useless; A dried-up magic potion... powerless; The tiny stubs of 100 or so magic feed corn... just junk. Ha ha. Ah, me. Magic feed corn? Well, it's of no use to us. It can't dissolve prison walls. All it can do is make reindeer fly. Reindeer? Fly? Yes, yes. Ridiculous, isn't it? Narrator: Later that night, Jessica rounded They just had to take one nibble of that corn, Whoo-ee! Look at them go! I bet you know their names. Girl: Dasher and Dancer... Boy: And Prancer and Vixen... Second boy: And Comet and Cupid... Second girl: And Donner and Blitzter. Narrator: Yes, sir. First girl: And don't forget... [Beep] Narrator: Heh heh heh! No, that's another story. Halt! Stop! Stop! Let's go, Donner. Let's gooooo... Tanta Kringle: Onward, Vixen! Onward! Well, I still have a little magic! Ho ho ho! I'm not such a loser after all! [Winter Warlock Laughs] [Honking] Girl: And that's how Santa's reindeer Narrator: That's just the way it happened. We Meisterburgers shall hunt them down throughout Those rebels will not have one moment's peace Ha ha ha ha ha! It's not even safe here. The guardsmen will be coming back. We'll have to push on. I'll go anywhere you say, Kris. Narrator: Like Robin Hood of old, Kris suddenly Burgermeister: &quot;Wanted dead or alive, the &quot;Kris Kringle.&quot; Ho ho ho ho ho! Well, those posters are not going to do them Oh, Kris, let me take a good look at it. Pretty grand, eh? [Giggles] It's perfect. Well, since I'm a Kringle, I had to grow one [Children giggling] Girl: So that's why he Ah, but you should not use your Kringle name. It's dangerous. Not call myself Kringle? What other name would suit me? There is one. You were wearing this when we found you as See what it says? &quot;Claus.&quot; Claus? Your real name. You must use it now. Boy: I knew it, I knew it! That's where he got his name from. Narrator: Mm-hmm, and it was that name he It was that name Jessica agreed to take, as Girl: Jessica. Oh, she became Mrs. Santa Claus. Narrator: It was a lovely wedding. Yes, sir. They held it on Christmas Eve, and since no the Lord in the silent winter woods, and a They put all that pretty stuff onto the pine wedding gifts to each other under the trees. No church ever looked nicer. Oh, please... Let me have... Just a little magic. Children: Ahh! Girl: The very first Christmas trees. Narrator: what better way To tell a token Of affection Placed custom started Long, long ago When Gave gifts of love Of lo-o-ove But there was no rest for our little group of Soon, they were forced up beyond the reaches Up, far past the most northern city, past This is it, people. Ha ha ha, yes. This is it. We'll build ourselves a nice house. Ha ha ha! Ho ho ho ho... Heck... ho ho... while we're at it, we'll build ourselves a Ho ho ho ho ho! And the best toy factory in the world. Narrator: And that's just what they did. And in no time at all... Child: Santa's castle and workshop! Girl: Up at the North Pole! Narrator: Well, as soon as the buildings were toys in earnest. Oh, they needed toys, because, you see, despite of Kris Kringle... or Claus, as he now was Just grew and grew. And, as the years went by, animals delivered Oh, just look at this list. [Sighs] Well... Load up the sleigh. Ho ho! Ah, this is the fourth trip this month. Narrator: You see, he still had to travel Girl: But when did they stop calling him an Narrator: Well, as time went by, that changed. You see, the Meisterburgers... They kind of died off and fell out of power. And by and by, the good people realized how Well, everybody had a wonderful laugh and Yes, sir. The older he got, the more famous he became, Girl: He's very good, isn't he? Narrator: Uh-huh. You bet. Girl: Is that why he's called &quot;Santa Claus&quot;? Narrator: That's why, honey. That's why. It turned into quite a proposition. I can hardly keep up with the orders. I'm afraid I'm going to have to limit my journeys But on which night should I go out? I wonder. Narrator: It wasn't a hard decision to make. They chose, of course, the holiest night of The night of profound love, which was the Girl: Christmas Eve? Narrator: Christmas Eve, and that's how it How goes it, Mr. Warlock? &quot;Winter,&quot; please. I've got my magic power working just fine. I can cast up a big freeze. Yes, sir. I think I can guarantee a white Christmas. Wonderful! Then let's be off! Santa: Away we go! And that is the story of Santa Claus. Girl: Gee, he's so wonderful. Everybody must love him. Well... most everybody. Oh, he's not considered an outlaw anymore, Eh, bah! Humbug! Christmas is a bother... The noise, the crowds. I really wish it were outlawed. How can they talk about Santa Claus when there's Poor, misguided folks. They missed the whole point. Lots of unhappiness? Maybe so. But doesn't Santa take a little bit of that Doesn't a smile on Christmas morning scratch Not much, maybe. But what would happen if we all tried to be give of ourselves, our talents, our love, Maybe if we could all learn Santa's beautiful on earth and goodwill toward man. Hey, it's getting late, and I've got these And you better be getting home, too. Children: Oh! And remember... Behave yourselves, 'cause Santa can still what you're up to. And now that you know all about him, you can Santa Claus is comin' to town You better not pout, I'm tellin' you why Santa a list and checkin' it twice He's Claus is comin' to town He sees you you're awake He knows if you've been sake Oh, you better watch out, you I'm tellin' you why Santa Claus is and little toy drums Rooty-toot-toots comin' to town And curly-head dolls and kiddie cars, too Santa Claus is boy land Will have a jubilee They're the Christmas tree So you better watch not pout, I'm tellin' you why Santa Santa Claus is comin' To town