The sea is home to strange creatures. Among marine animals, there is a At the borders of reality and imagination, preserve their mysteries. as fantastic as their appearance? Crustaceans are everywhere. are found on rocks between land and sea. temporary, their Several million years old, this which includes more than fifty thousand Observing them in the natural environment is they hide in holes or faults. They are animals with very regions of the globe, from the surface to Their size varies from in wingspan for the Japanese giant crab, Their classification is very complex. &quot;gills in the legs&quot; like extracting oxygen from the water through their legs. which have the particularity of living There are many subclasses. malacostracans because it is within this that we find the order of decapods which Decapods, which all have ten legs, lobsters, crabs Within decapods, we speak of Some have a developed, very such as lobsters, Others have an asymmetrical abdomen Finally, those which appear in reduced abdomen and often folded under the thorax But the crustacean group is not other subclasses such as that of the Or even that of isopods The shapes and colors different and vary from one extreme to the other. Sometimes they give them All these animals are part of the same The crayfish obviously descends from primitively marine crustaceans like all these Very quickly, we realize They all have an This shell also earned them their name because the word "Crustacean" comes from the Latin This hard envelope is not in one piece, is possible thanks to the articulation But then, if this shell is rigid, how do they manage to grow? the process of molting and what may fact an empty shell swept by the waves. Molting is the renewal of the Crustaceans molt to grow because their The frequency of shedding is high when It is almost impossible to observe Molting often occurs out it makes them particularly vulnerable. Filmed in an artificial environment, permanent video surveillance. peeling off of the old shell. Then, Rejection occurs through rhythmic movements and inflates its body The old shell is tearing along of the animal allow it to extract itself After molting, the animal is soft and therefore wait a few days for this new Furthermore, this molt allows have legs that regrow. freshly amputated, will just have to wait for its next molt Almost all crustaceans have eyes and among them some deserve Their eyes are composed of a multitude Their vision is not very keen but detect moving shapes. sea species that live in total darkness, Star of the eye, the squill mantis, of the marine world and perhaps even of the animal kingdom. to look in all directions. each with an independent pupil. and depth of objects, it is a The movements of crustaceans to their legs called appendages. always in pairs. give them a particular gait, elegant. But these paws are not only for This is particularly the case for shrimps, which that they give the impression of flying. Porcelain crabs, in addition to their large claws, have more Like nets, it deploys its . This ingenious system allows it These different functions all have Most crustaceans are are sometimes part of their diet. and eat both The smallest ones feed on plankton The largest, powerfully armed, fish or molluscs. lobsters, are able to withstand Among the species that are not very mobile or fixed, microphagous filter-feeding animals, that is to say, such as barnacles which collect They tirelessly filter sea water. sometimes find themselves invaded by corals. Here, less colonized, it is easier Barnacles can live near What we may take, at rocky asperities actually hide living animals. close in their center. This The barnacles can stay like this for They always need something to hang on to Harlequin shrimp, always in a starfish. With their pincers, they The starfish is lucky because the shrimp Small amphipods measuring less than a centimeter, stand firmly attached by their living skeletons, hence their English name skeleton. antennae which secrete mucus. A this mucus paralyzes planktonic larvae and Some shrimp, for their part They offer their services in what are They rid animals of their parasites. And those who could have become predators, without this deworming function their gills and mouths wide where the Beautiful image where solidarity and Parasitic species This parasite attached to the back without the latter benefiting in the slightest. Unlike a predator, the parasite has because it would risk disappearing with it. Easily observed, Small in size, they To attach themselves to fish, they have The parasite is demanding. Indeed, it must necessary and favorable to its development. the same type on the same species of fish. all forms of parasites originated capable of ensuring their survival on their own. stage during evolution. The parasites by allowing all unused organs to regress. , we notice hypertrophy "We are a reflection of what we perfectly to certain shellfish. crinoids are said to adapt their color by The color of the shrimp varies This color adaptation allows them living decor and go unnoticed. crustaceans are both predators and prey. They are a delicacy The problem is always the same: eating predators. Instinctively they Among their predators, many small, well-hidden crustaceans. often bear the brunt. Hunting scenes This crustacean has no chance against It is the harsh law of animal life that underlies To avoid being eaten, you must avoid shrimp, while keeping an eye on the "Pistol shrimp" dig and This one, particularly active, clears an Others live in shared accommodation. that formed by the "goby" and the "shrimp". They share their accommodation and exchange The interest is mutual between the unable to build a shelter. some have developed So, like the famous clownfish, the long-legged shrimp, found In another anemone, a small with part of its amber body visible. the Vir shrimp, takes refuge in the highlighted with purple and reveal Others chose comfortably installed on the fire urchin. thorns and feed on the spot. they benefit from room and As for spider crabs, more commonly different survival techniques. which do not hesitate to change But can we speak of disguise transplantation onto one's own body? undeniable grace and elegance owe it give them this downy appearance. various and varied forms. types of anemones grafted onto the entire body. a most insane version. each more baroque than the last In the most "flourishing" genre, the certainly win the humor prize. full of power, which are Other crabs, very small, always so as to go unnoticed, have As true gardeners, they cultivate These transplanted animals hide and Others look so much like their host move like the seaweed crab here, as Yet another, lost in was able to find the perfect disguise But the highlight of the show remains the unmissable demonstrates inventive intelligence by It grafts stinging anemones to the he mimes boxing with his little nervous "arms". Some, like these corophies, despite sometimes in cracks in the rock, in Life within this community seems Others, tiny, enjoy a nomadic life which barely reaches 4 cm in wingspan, withdraws It shares this surprising shelter Looking at their way of life, we understand that hostile conditions, have developed almost unique in the marine world. to reproduce and thus perpetuate the species. separate sexes. Their reproduction always takes place Sexual intercourse takes place just after During incubation, the female carries the eggs. observed in the transparent shrimp. brightly colored mantis shell are gathered The hatching date varies depending on three weeks after laying. Upon emerging from larval states and undergo numerous changes. Currents carry them and Few larvae survive because they are marine animals. They are so small that it Only the movement of the predator Here, the characteristic tilting of hunt is testimony to this. does exist. This tozeuma shrimp Fixed animals High magnification images allow us to observe these multitudes of small This mantis squill larva is soon the landing is successful, it begins to color. like a mass of If you look closely, it's a caprelle... with a These little ones are wriggling in all directions. sperm at the entrance to the female's marsupial pouch larval stage among caprels, it is likely that Caprellis are tiny In the kingdom of the Lilliputians, there are the among the grains of sand that we can This one, barely larger, extricates itself which it hastens to return to, no doubt This crab, taking refuge in the coral, seems very without fear, frantic activity. Barely larger than the polyps of its in complete peace and quiet. It contorts itself, claws its In this other sea feather exposed to the current this small crab, head down, in like a juggler, grabs all the food Each has adapted to its size Among crustaceans, there is a animal that is both terrestrial and marine, regardless of its environment. story is the most fantastic? soft. From the beginning of its life, the Hermit Crab comes along. Very quickly the small shell it its growth it will change shelter regularly. find another one. But that's not When a shell meets the most dangerous thing remains to be done: extricate itself slip as quickly as With great luck and guided by instinct, his growth continues. At each stage accept this exposure at the risk of his life. They vary according to the size of the individual and real home, these shells worn on and sometimes even a little neglected. protective shell is broken will have no other In the end, like a parade, the crustaceans The abdomen of this pretty amber shrimp, vertically in relation to the rest of the body. she swings it constantly which As an adult, the female is almost twice as large pairs or groups of 6 to 8 individuals in the The parade continues. Red in color, approximately 3 cm long, is very strange. inspired its name, by its resemblance Both speckled and hairy, it represents a gives it a touch of incongruous humor. different appearances during their lives. make classification very complicated. been first described as distinct species. has not yet been able to be identified with certainty. ? The scientific literature does not specify this named to exist. The magic still happens. when it comes to the story of brine shrimp. They generally live for a few months in Their elongated body has 10 pairs of When conditions are good, meaning that the incubation and hatching When conditions are bad, females very hard covering that resembles a shell. Thanks to a binocular telescope, it measure two to three tenths of a millimeter. in the environment is exceptional. It extreme temperatures ranging from minus 190deg to over Although unable to fly, brine Birds carry them in their Then, they are deported and Once rehydrated, the egg can give birth In just 48 hours, the Artemia become adults very they are already capable of reproducing. that it has more than one trick in its shells. some shrimp and the wars, the possibilities are endless. , veritable living impressionist paintings unstructured forms with such paradoxical colors. Always unusual, the crustaceans perched on the end of small stilts, Finally, almost comical, like stubbornness, a refusal to give up. science fiction, is an incredible world,