A small white grain, source of life, It is the staple food of many countries. On the island of Mindanao, in the Philippines, in the village of Kalabugao, life is punctuated by these harvests. Rice is the only means for its Rice is part of our life. And besides, it's the best in the world! Not so long ago, bags of rice were leaving So the peasants united and now every two weeks, a truck takes their produce to the market. Dodong, with the cap, is the village truck driver. I lend a hand to make it go faster, Otherwise, the seeds may germinate. We are in full monsoon period and Almost 70%. In 24 hours, the rice will start to germinate and become unsaleable. A disaster for the village. Lisel is part of the journey. It is she who is I know the rice business well. Discounts In this job, you have to know the difference And the most important thing is to know And this time, Lisel took a risk. Because of the ambient humidity, she had to board What destabilize the old truck, and its driver. When you drive a truck like that, you have to They built this bridge recently The bridge is just two years old and already seems ready to collapse. It is a bit like the Philippines. A country torn between growing modernity and forgotten regions. Located between Taiwan and Indonesia, Outside the tourist trails, in some areas, Trading is sometimes almost impossible. The job is very tiring. I sacrifice myself to make a living. So, even if it means suffering, you might as well take But then again, it takes a hell of a lot of courage 15 meters below, at the bottom of these mud pits. - How do you feel down there? Smile without ever complaining, Suffer to make yourself stronger, thanks to magic. Filipinos have morale and yet in these They would have something to lose him quickly. I can't put my feet down. I have leg cramps. Some will never reach the end of their journey. But again, nothing to get upset about, just as much to laugh about. Like a juggernaut following the rhythm of the caravan, Dodong and Lisel's truck does not exceed 10km/h. We head to Aglayan with all the bags of rice. We have to drive slowly because the road is difficult. A journey of 70 kilometers awaits them. In the But there, in the middle of the rainy season, it is good In addition, we are very busy. Loaded with six tons of rice, which The ravine is never far away. And with this mud, the slightest bit of sudden braking will send Dodong and Lisel 40 meters lower. Even being used to it, I'm still afraid. And to slow down, they will slow down. This vehicle is not broken. However, A miniature truck blocks traffic in both directions. We drove over a very big rock. - The van is too loaded... Little by little, a gigantic traffic jam is forming, To the great misfortune of the passenger of this van. In these lost lands, these are the I am injured here and then there too. I was going to buy cigarettes and He was stuffed. I couldn't escape. He has been waiting for 4 hours and his ordeal is far from over. The lead truck's winch has failed. Lisel worries about her rice and her family. She and Dodong should be halfway there already. There is no network. My family will be worried because Everyone wonders how the driver did Watch your feet! Even if it's absurd, no one is judging. Nobody says anything. Dodong knows well that the roads of Moreover, a few kilometers further, The truck is stuck because it is too heavy. It's dirty rice. The husk of the rice, so that the soil does not slip. Go try it. Dodong and Lisel pay dearly for having I try to step back. They are now 7 hours late. But I'm stuck on this road on almost every trip. Getting upset wouldn't do much good. - Back off Dodong... After an hour, two good stars, Or rather the headlights of this construction truck Come on, come on, let's hurry. It does not work. I am very worried because we are really In an attempt to save their cargo, the driver No question of admitting defeat. And yet... This time the broken cable rings The construction truck takes off. As for We're going to rest. It's too complicated, you can't see anything. Tomorrow we will see better. I should have brought my duvet. A few hours of sleep later, Dodong is already at work. The smiles of the day before have disappeared before Dodong and Lisel took a day The driver wonders why luck has abandoned him like this. In fact, Filipinos tend Many men and women are ready to Legend has it that, on the island of Luzon, a Would have the power to bring you luck and strength. To reach his village, you have to take these strange machines. After World War II, soldiers A genius handyman has the idea to lengthen them Filipino public transport was born. Each driver uses his imagination Mark the destination on the bag! How strong you are. Each space of the machine is exploited. It's frozen deli meats. We're going to sell it. Do you have to put ice cubes? The temperature is around 30 degrees. Not sure these - The battery is low. And who says problem says foot pain in anticipation. If there is a breakdown, we have to walk. At the end of the journey, the much sought-after village Everyone clings to their dream, because Johnny, the I've been doing this trip for a long time. The 40 From the start of the journey, the old Besides, the passengers too. I can't put my feet down. I have leg cramps. And even today, we are lucky, we are not too tight. Okay, it's uncomfortable, but And that is terribly practical for I had to go to town to accompany my daughter The road is rutted but strangely Johnny does not slow down. If you drive too slowly, the journey does not end. Finally, when it accelerates, it rarely exceeds 30km/h. But given the condition of some roads, Filipinos He drives way too fast. And with children, that scares me. Unfortunately for passengers, these paths If the municipality leaves the road in this condition, The bus now enters mystical lands. The village of Buscalan is not very far. This is the territory of the terrible Kalinga warriors. Their specialty was to cut off the heads of their The last heads would have fallen towards the end of the 70s. Legend has it that the strength of Came from supernatural tattoos. These are the tattoos that are looking for The last mystical tattoo artist from the Philippines, lives You know, we come from all the islands of Today, warriors have become peaceful farmers. Wang Aud is over 100 years old. She tattooed the last head-cutters of her tribe. The queue keeps getting longer in front of the tattoo artist. I traveled 14 hours from Cebu Island to get here. Everyone comes to get the tattoo that will bring them luck. A scorpion for strength and protection. Here, a sun that mingles with the moon, Or a compass that directs your Diwata is 28 years old. She came to seek the strength of It is as if something in me had been accomplished. Bahiani refuses to have his - I'm already going to tattoo you my signature. - On the shoulder. - I make two big points and a small one. The ink is made from soot and the needle - It's painful ? - Sorry to contradict you, but I know it's painful. - Okay, a little bit. There is no price, everyone gives what they want. Do not move otherwise the tattoo will be missed. With her art, the old lady brings the whole village to life. But at nearly 100 years old, Wong Aud Although she transmitted her knowledge to a few disciples, Everyone wonders if tattoos will keep their power After her death, the tattoo artist will continue to be revered. Like his ancestors, his burial may be Coffins are hung like this It is a very old practice that Suspended from the highest, also to avoid desecration. At the time, it was not uncommon for head cutters Every time he comes to meditate, Gerald With this offering, I thank them. And I ask them to guide me, my For its part, Dodong is still entangled in From one of his ancestors or from a tattoo Although, the driver prefers to rely on the It's really deep. Dodong and Lisel are now 24 hours behind. Each additional hour spent on The problem is that our merchandise can get damaged. And Lisel could lose the sale. As proof, these grains of rice fallen from a bag The germ is already five centimeters. If moisture rushes into the six tons of But the Philippines are not Dodong and his men keep their good mood. - How long have you been here? Only a bulldozer can get them out. Go look under the truck, if there is Not really a good idea. It's normal to be stuck on a road like that. Today, I have already towed eight trucks. Now the track is completely clogged. We really need a bulldozer. Like these chickens, a cacophony of Go down, it's safer. It's very deep. Steel giants of matchless power, All year round, these bulldozers And serve as a tow truck. Given the condition of the runway, the government Normally it's free, but we give them Dodong and Lisel are still 40 kilometers away - We're on the road. What time do we arrive? - 1 p.m., and where are you? A few more kilometers of mud and they Their journey ends when others wait We've been waiting for the tow truck for three days. Here, have some rice. - There is also coffee and milk. It's important to help each other because it can happen to us too. The sun has appeared, Dodong has I'm not happy with the wasted time. But I'm glad to finally be back. I will finally be able to sell my rice at the market. They will have taken more than 24 hours But their efforts were not in vain. For most Filipinos who live in the countryside, The average salary tops out at 9,000 pesos, or EUR150 per month. Earning a living is a struggle Who wakes up every morning with a dream. Getting rich in defiance of danger. To find gold, Sella is content Besides, there is not much at the bottom of the shovel. A little further ... Others take all the risks. These gold diggers are unique in the world. Congratulations, you are a champion... Ujong just spent 2 hours filling out - How do you feel down there? The well measures one meter by one meter. - Are you going to come back down? Ujong spends an average of 6 hours at the bottom of the hole. Under water, he is plunged into total darkness. Let's go. Besides, a torch would not serve him The air he breathes is sent by this compressor. When you're underwater, you kill this tube. It is thanks to this that we breathe. This pipe is keeping us alive. If you don't have that, you swallow the sand and drown. In 2 hours, the diver fills fifteen bags of mud. The Earth is immediately sieved, It takes between a week and a month to empty a well. The danger is that the sand Impossible to know how many minors The work is clandestine, so there is no What do you risk if you are caught? We are handcuffed! And we pay the fine. The fine is around 300EUR. A fortune. It must be said that the precious metal is often desired. Here, the gold is very fine. There are no nuggets. On average, these extreme miners That is 40EUR to be divided into six. In the Philippines, a devastating gold rush is underway. The country has the third highest potential Mines are springing up like mushrooms. And mainly in a southern province The Compostela Valley. This valley is not famous for its pilgrimages This morning, a dictator is on the move and nothing can stop him. This truck is old, but it drives. Here, they call him a Saddam. It seems that this truck was used during the war in Iraq. Saddam for Saddam Hussein, the truck They are the only trucks that can drive here. The Saddam ferries the gold diggers to The road ends there. Saddam cannot rise higher. The When they arrive, new chisels await them. You see, that's what we pick up. The vein is good, the gold can be seen with the naked eye, There is a price to pay with his life. During the monsoon, the mine weakens. The rock is waterlogged. We are really in danger here. Look at this. The rock is crumbling. It's too dangerous. Because on the surface, waterspouts ravine the Come on, let's hurry! Beyond the collapse, the miners fear drowning. Here is our home. There are twelve of us sleeping in there. The men live almost in autarky. The giant bamboos that grow around serve as ovens. Inside, chicken marinated in lemongrass. Something to warm the hearts and souls of men. Especially since the break is short-lived. Watch out for Jim bags. Now you have to wear the Who will carry them to Saddam. We earn between 5 and 7EUR per day. It's really exhausting. I ache all over. But I have no choice. I did not find Each bag weighs around 50 kilos and the jeep For each bag he rides, the miners get a bonus. Today I had to carry ten bags. But on days when it doesn't rain. I wear 20. At 60 euro cents per bag, The bonus is very meager in view of the effort expended. Pedro, the young driver doesn't like mud. The road is very narrow here. The jeep is suitable for mounting the bags. A bit show-off, the young man prefers to play He earns a little more than a miner. Even if the steering wheel is normally forbidden to him. I don't have my license yet, so I Only here, when one shows off, it is worth If we don't want to become the laughing stock of the mountain. Even relieved of any load, Pedro's Jeep does not pass. To prevent the wheels from spinning, miners I can't move forward. It's too much The Jeep may well run on gold. She is not out of the woods. Here! Pull the cable over there. We do this when there is no other solution. Nothing works. It doesn't work. It's normal, it can happen. His boss arrives quite annoyed. - I'm stuck, I can't move forward... It wasn't complicated, but he doesn't drive very well. Oh it's heavy! All that remains is to charge the Saddam. But the problems keep coming. The tire is punctured. It will have to be replaced and cleaned. You have to wash that. I remove the mud because it's really dirty. Here is the hole made by the rock. Are you going to be able to fix it? No, we'll throw it away. You will have to drive very slowly. It is in danger of bursting. Above all A lot of efforts. A lot of problems. A lot of stress. Gold fever makes men lose their minds. Abe tries to keep a cool head. You have to be very vigilant, be careful Even with power steering, you You have to anticipate. The road is completely flooded, The convicts of gold are far from having finished the job. All cargo must be transferred to this other - We are tired. The seven tons of soil will be washed in a secure place. A burst of energy and sweat which, for once, pays off. Once washed, the mine boss will recover almost a kilo of gold. Miners know very well that they Their fortune is first and foremost their survival. Last year, the mines She don't look like it but that old Jeep At the wheel, we find Dodong, the rice transporter. When he has no delivery to make, he Hi, where are they? They are not far, where the coffee is. Dodong is the only mechanic At his side, Roumi, his boss. In general, when people call me, it means it's serious. At thirteen, I took him on as an intern I am his teacher. Both go to help out a truck loaded with vegetables. And as with rice, the cargo threatens to rot. When it moves, Dodong and Roumi board In this area there is no public transport. Fortunately, people help us, Otherwise we would walk for hours. Finally, sometimes walking might be less strenuous. - Where are you getting off? Thanks a lot. The repairmen arrive on site after a 5-hour drive. Help me it's heavy. Dodong is far-sighted, he took a welding machine. Look at this my friend. It's really broken. It must have hit a rock. Bad news. Soldering would be useless. At this level of breakage, Dodong can only patch things up, In order for the truck to reach the He's been fighting for 6 hours now. As for Roumi, his boss, he encourages him Attach the chain here. Shoot again. Wait, it's too short, We can't do it... It's only late at night, That Dodong will overcome the breakdown.