- I'm gonna start with and there's also pieces of camel fat. (upbeat music) Good morning everyone, it's Mark Wiens with migrationology.com in Muscat, Oman. Had an amazing sleep last night and woke up this morning It was already bright and sunny outside. We only have two full days in Muscat, and Mustafa, who watches our videos, he has kindly offered to take us around. So, we are gonna be and he's coming to pick us up soon. Stay tuned for day number one in Muscat. Thank you very much. Okay we met up with Mustafa. - Hi there. - [Mark] He's brought me this snack. - [Mustafa] It is (speaks - (speaks in foreign language). It's a type of bread with And so, I think we're gonna and eat this along with some tea. We're gonna stop at to get a cup of tea real fast. I got a cup of Chair karak, and this is milk tea. Umm. Oh you can really taste Oh, the cardamone is nice. And then, I gotta try this Oh, yeah. That's wonderful. That's like a... It's kind of like cream cheese. I like that. That's really good. That makes a good breakfast. The bread and cheeses are salty, to go along with the (electronic music) We just pulled up to the fish market. And it's about 8:00 a.m. It is blazing hot already in Muscat. And immediately, you can one of my favorite smells. That fist so so good, eh. - [Mustafa] Of course, for the yam. - [Mar] Ah, okay. Pretty calm, and relaxing fish market, but it's friendly. There are some amazing looking fish. And there's a lot of tuna. There are some different types of mullet. Is it mullet? - [Market Vendor] Milk fish. - [Mark] Milk fish? - [Market Vendor] Yeah. - [Mark] Ah, okay. Very big. - [Market Vendor] (speaks - I think those are either swordfish or dolphin fish. I'm not totally sure, but they are huge, and yeah they're about two meters long. Whoa. (market vendors talking loudly) I just love walking around fish markets. And definitely one of the biggest reasons is because I love to eat that's my favorite genre of things to eat. But also, I just love looking at fish, the different types of fish, Also, dry fish is very Those are huge. - [Market Vendor] It's barracuda. - Barracuda, yes. They are very big. Those are some huge barracuda. I just want to mention that of building a new fish market. So, we went to the old fish market. But if you come to Muscat, they might have a new fish market opened right next to the old fish market. (traditional pop music) We are just walking along The fish market is right over on that side where we just were. But it's amazing how clear the water is. And I'm loving this view of the city. And then, behind, you have the gorgeous, just very rugged, jagged desert mountains. The clear, turquoise water. Yeah, and it's so nice and peaceful. And we are coming up which is a big market place. You can by everything at Muttrah Souk, including clothes, and spices, and food. - Yes. - Household items. - Yes, yeah - Just about everything you - Back in the day, it used to It had people from Israel for shop for their shops over there, and then they go back - [Mark] Okay. We walk past this shop the aroma of all the spices, In the back of the shop of the spices. - Also spices yes. - Wow. Curry masala, all (traditional music) - [Mustafa] So, Oman is - [Mark] Oh. What is it used for? - [Mustafa] For like curry and masala-- - [Mark] Okay. In the food? - [Mustafa] In the food, yeah. - Okay. (traditional pop music) We are now walking where there are lots and jewelry stores. This is my first time to visit Oman. But I have been to Zanzibar And also spent some time on And Zanzibar used to be a part of Oman. It used to be ruled by Oman, and you can see the This market, some parts of this market actually have the exact same feel as parts of Stone Town in Zanzibar. Okay. - Okay. So for special occasions, you were this one with a silver belt. - [Mark] Ah, okay. - And this is usually made form silver. - [Mark] Uh hmm. - Yeah. - [Mark] So, you would still - Yeah. - [Mark] Okay. (traditional pop music) I have kind of a small head. Can I pass for being Omani. - [Mustafa] You'll apply for - [Mark] And what is - Koma. - [Mark] Koma? - Yeah, Koma. (speaks in foreign language). - Mustafa has bought me and fitted me in a traditional Omani cap, And this is... These are only worn in Oman. - Yeah, in the Arab countries. - In Arab countries? - Yeah. - So, also, it's very common to see on the east coast of Africa as well. Thank you very much, Mustafa. - Welcome. - Thank you. - Welcome. - Oh, this is an amazing hat. You guys gotta let me know how I look in the comment section below. But I am loving this look. Now, I can blend it. - [Mustafa] Yeah, you can. - Blend in like I'm Omani now. (laughing) - Except for the spoon in the t-shirt. This guy's got a spoon in the t-shirt. What does he mean? - Yes. (traditional pop music) We just took a quick drive over to one of the old areas of Muscat. Located in this area which we are walking to right now. And also, there are a lot located in this area as well. - [Mustafa] This one is a local foreman. And this one represents the Sultan. - And you can't go into the palace. But you admire it from the outside. What's especially fascinating are the gold and I think, they're turquoise, or like a type of blue columns which go up the face of the palace. And also, what I really the Oman seals, which Standing there, and then, - [Woman] We're gonna do. - We're gonna all. We have just pulled up And I don't think they allow so, I'm just gonna walk around. And then, I will share after we walk around. It's really an Omani cultural museum. Inside, there was a big Omani dress, as well as, of swords and weapons. And then, this whole There's a coffee shop. There's kind of a library area. And then, there's a model of a traditional Omani home as well. I think it's probably And it's also pretty humid. So, this is some intense heat. I am just dripping in sweat. And yeah, this is some It is so outside, that just it feels like your face is just peeling. The skin is peeling away from your face. And it feels like your So, you cannot go long without water. (exhaling) (electronic pop music) Oh. (waves crashing) Oh. Maybe we should drive in a little bit. Yeah, you might want to We just drove. It's a little bit outside of Muscat, to a beach called Qantab Beach. And Mustafa drove all so we are getting a first It's incredibly beautiful the really jagged, brown, But then, the water is and blue green, crystal, sparkling water. (electronic music) We have just pulled up for lunch today. And we are gonna go to a which is a very well One of the unique things is that it's an old former hostile. And so, it's located right next to the main harbor in Muscat. And so people would park their boats. And then, if they needed a place to stay, they would rent a bed in this hostile. But it has been since renovated serving Omani food. And a number of you So, we are happy to be And Mustafa has ordered just I'm starting off with Umm. Yeah, you can really It tastes kind of like woody, like evergreen tree. Yeah. It's really good. So, we're starting with a soup, It's an Omani restaurant, modern twists to Omani food. So, they serve this curry like a soup, and there's rice in it, and fish. Umm. Oh, yeah, you can really or dry lime, which is in here. Oh yeah. It's kind of like a dried fish stew. And I'm gonna go in for some of the... It's also lots of onions in this as well. It's a type of ghee. Some kind of animal oil fat, which you're supposed Okay, that's probably good. Onions. Yeah, lots of onions in here. And I'm gonna make sure with that oil on it. Umm. It's salty dried fish. But it's really tender. And then, those onions are so tender, that they just dissolve in your mouth. Has a depth of a smokey flavor to it. - [Mustafa] This is Harees. - [Mark] Harees. - [Mustafa] It is mashed And the sauce is a Torsha. Torsha is like a raisin sauce. - [Mark] Is that olive - [Mustafa] No, it's ghee. - [Mark] Oh, it's ghee, okay. It looks like olive oil. Okay, so there's ghee in the middle there. And this kind of a puree, but And then you gotta get some of that-- - [Mustafa] Yeah, dip it. - That sauce as well. Umm. It's almost like mashed potatoes. If you didn't know it was wheat, you might think it was mashed potatoes. And then, you have these of chicken within it. It's salty, but then the sauce is sweet, and kind of fruity. And that contrasts the saltiness. Wow, that's delicious. Okay, there's some coarse but I think there's Yeah, I think I can taste some cardamone. The next other dish, import Omani dishes. It's called Shuwa. And this is lamb this time, which it's normally cooked underground, until it's fall apart tender, with a variety of different spices and always eaten with rice. So, I'm gonna... Oh yeah, that feels very tender. I'll put some of this on to my plate. You can see little There are some chickpeas Uh hmm. Tender lamb, and then, it has a really nice... I think I can taste Lots of black pepper. And just a little bit of chili. Yeah, that is a delicious dish. And this is one of the This one is a tomato onion salad with some, the main side here is dried fish. I'll just take some of And there's also, I think this is spinach on the bottom here as well. Really nicely, lemony, and then, the fish, it's like salty, fish jerky. Ah, that's really good, but really, really lemony, And then, we got one more which is called Sahanet Kasha. There's some dried fish on top, but the whole thing. This is kind of an arty version of it. And there's onions and Okay, I think this is the Umm. That has kind of a... That one is not too salty. It sort of has a bitter fish taste to it. Really good as well though. And it's very refreshing. It has lots of tomatoes, lots of onions, so, it's kind of crisp, and really juicy. What really strikes me tried something like with the shredded chicken in it. But it's really good and from any other dish that I've had. And then, definitely, the Shuwa, which is that slow cooked And then, I added on and tomato sauce. Is also, extremely good. And what I really like about it, Is you can really taste the black pepper. There's a lot of black pepper in it. And it's a few simple, maybe in there as well. But it's the black pepper Yeah. - (Speaks in foreign language). - We finished that meal. We were all pretty full. That was a really good meal. And so, Mustafa and I are Does this one you think have rosewater? - Yeah, it does. It has rose water and saffron. - Oh, and saffron too. Thank you. Umm. The coffee, it's not strong coffee. It's quite light. But you can taste the fragrance, and in this one, there is both saffron, and also rose water. So, it has a little bit of a beyond the coffee flavor. Yeah, it's like a... It's weak enough where drinking this all day long. But it's a very soothing coffee. What was your favorite dish of the meal? The dried fish? - The dried fish, yeah. That was mine. - That one was good. We are gonna head back to the hotel to rest for a little while. Because it is a very hot afternoon. So, it's common to take It's about 6:00 p.m. now, resting at the hotel, blazing sunshine, and we (traditional pop music) We drove over to Qurum, which is, the main beaches right in central Muscat, just near to downtown area. And the sun is going down, That really makes all the difference. And you can just walk along this coast, enjoy the great views of the sea, and also the rocky coastline. (traditional pop music) Driving to an area called Al Seeb. (traditional pop music) - (speaks in foreign language). - The chicken, squid, shrimps. - [Mark] It all sounds good. (laughing) - [Mustafa] (speaks in foreign language). - [Cook] (speaks in foreign language). - [Mustafa] (speaks in foreign language). - [Cook] (speaks in foreign language). - [Mustafa] (speaks in foreign language). - There is not a lot of but one of the most well places to eat street food is in Al Seeb, which is right near the ocean. And we have stopped by Which are an assortment We've got some shrimp, some chicken, some liver, some mutton, and some squid. There are few things better in the world than grilled meat on skewer. I think the skewers of meat are marinated, and they are like partially cooked. And then, when you order them, and he really fans that fire and so, they're gonna have, I'm sure, I am positive, and anticipating an extremely smokey flavor to them. (unwrapping foil) - [Mustafa] Yeah, very nice. - And I noticed that there right across the road, so I think there is a lot And we're actually Although, it's night, so The beach is right behind And you can just smell the meat grilling in this entire area. And they have two different sauces. They have a spicy sauce which should probably be kind of sweeter and maybe, sour as well. A skewer that I want to try is liver, and this mutton liver. I'm gonna dip. Dip into that spicy sauce. Oh, yeah. Wow. That is like charred to perfection. It's spicy and sour. And then, that liver is so tender, but it's like crispified, on such a high heat, yet he flamed. I think there might be a You can taste some wonderful Oh, yeah. Mutton liver, fantastic. Okay, I'm gonna try that Umm. Oh, the tamarind sauce It's really good, umm. It's almost like a sour jam. Okay, next up. Let me go for the squid. Both of the sauces are extraordinary. The tamarind sauce is also really good, because it's more on the But this spicy sauce, I do have a bit of an Okay, that is good. Did I just fling some sauce at you? - [Camera Person] I think so. - Umm. Squid is a little bit chewy, but while you chew it, it Okay, the mutton skewer next. And I'm gonna go with tamarind this time. Okay. The mutton is amazing. I think it's marinated That's such a wonderful combination. Mutton and cumin. Any type of meat on skewer, is one of my favorite things in the world. And I am just dripping now in sweat. Not only is it like maybe but it's also extremely humid. We're right next to the beach, and this is the definition You can just, the air - [Cook] (speaks in foreign language). - Thank you. And also, you can stand but a lot of people just order, and then order, and as well to avoid the meat Thank you, Mustafa. That was awesome man. - [Mustafa] (speaks in foreign language). - Alright. - [Mark] Yeah, mixed. - [Mustafa] (speaks in foreign language). - [Cook] (speaks in foreign language). - [Mustafa] (speaks in foreign language). - [Mark] Oh yes, this is a good place. (restaurant patrons talking loudly) - If we did, you don't have this (speaks in foreign language). - (Speaks in foreign language). - (speaks in foreign language). - (speaks in foreign language). - (speaks in foreign language). - (speaks in foreign language). - (speaks in foreign language). This restaurant is You kind of walk up to, where they have the dishes prepared. They have a number of You choose your rice, and they One of them is chunks of And then, one of them is And so, we got a mix of both, and they put it all into a bowl. And then, they gave us a platter of rice. And then, we also got a half And this is fantastic. They put out a piece of plastic, and then put your food down, and it's got some yogurt Alright. - [Mustafa] Whatever you prefer, yeah. - [Mark] However you want? - [Mustafa] Yeah, however you want. - [Mark] Okay. Oh, you make a-- - [Mustafa] No, you don't make a bowl. But in Omani, you use your hand, so you hold it like this, like this, or you can push it with your finger to your mouth, yeah. - Okay. I'm gonna start with and there's also pieces of camel fat. Before mixing with any rice I'm just gonna try one piece of camel. A nugget of camel. Oh, that's amazing. Oh, that is insanely good. It's so tender. It does taste very But a little more meaty But not really, it's really tender. I wasn't expecting it to be that tender. This is the camel hump. So, that's just a pure chunk of white fat. Oh, wow. That just melts in your mouth. It does have a meaty taste to it. But it's not like a gelatinous fat. It just melts in your mouth. But it's almost like squid. It has a little bit of Yogurt to my rice. And also, this is a type of chatni. Like a tomato, it's like a tomato chatni. Put on to my rice here, and then also, I'm gonna go and salad onions. And I think this is rocket. Go in for some of that, that camel is just insane. I'm gonna mix all of that together. Whoa. That is insanely delicious. And the combination of the camel, with the rice, the tomato chatni, the cooling yogurt, Next up, I'm gonna try the chicken. And this is chicken that has been steamed. Wow. I barely even pulled, and just came off. It's so soft. Oh, wow, that feels tender. And for this bite, I'm gonna And what they do, is you You kind of grab a whole fist full. And then, you kind of get it And I will do my best to not spill. Okay, a little messy. Umm. Wow, the chicken is soft though. The chicken just sort of And I think I got a raisin - [Camera Person] Mark - [Mark] Grab a piece of camel. - [Mustafa] Almost. - Almost. Okay. I need some practice at But it tastes incredible. I'm absolutely loving this meal. The camel is delicious. And even the rice is really good. There are two different types of rice.. The redder rice, or oranger rice, has a little bit of spice to it. And it also has kind of a clove fragrance. You can see some cloves in there. And then, it just compliments That is insanely delicious. The whole combination. But that camel is stunner. That was just an absolute stunning meal. The camel was so tender, and so flavorful, that my mouth still, like, after finishing the overflowing with camel flavors. Yeah, this was an incredible From here, just gonna I wanna say a special thank you to Mustafa for bringing us around, and for showing us some as well as some incredible food, particularly this last meal, was just my kind of a meal. Stay tuned for tomorrow. We will have a full day in Muscat again. Actually, we'll be traveling to Nizwa. And so, stay tuned for the next video. Please remember to give if you enjoyed it. And leave a comment below. And make sure you subscribe and travel videos. And I will see you on the next video. Good night from Muscat. And I'll see you on the next video. (beep) - [Woman] It's real? - It's real gold. - It's real? Want to buy me one? Thank you. - [Mustafa] Yeah, now is the time. (laughing) It won't have diamond, only gold. - (speaks in foreign language). - (speaks in foreign language). - (speaks in foreign language). Now, if you did, you don't have this (speaks in foreign language). - (speaks in foreign language). - (speaks in foreign language). - (speaks in foreign language). - (speaks in foreign language). - (speaks in foreign language). Okay. - [Camera Person] Take one (laughs). After take 10. - For dinner tonight, we (speaks in foreign language). (laughing) Not quite. For dinner tonight, we (speaks in foreign language). And this... (laughing) Okay, I better not say the - [Camera Person] Yogurt on your lip. - And I got yogurt on my lip. It is easy to pick out my shoes. (traditional music)