Hour 0. Sitting in his office surrounded by his most Over the past decade or more, he's spent military. His nation now has nuclear weapons - around the world's largest navies. Add to all of that the fact that China's other nation, with 2.035 million people to He's going to bring war to the United States. But to do so, he has to carefully coordinate He knows that the United States has bases those two countries alone - and a powerful a lot more firepower. A full-frontal assault on the United States would be suicide. He needs to secure the Pacific, giving China priority. His attack doesn't begin with missile launches. It starts on the cyber front. For years, China has been working on cyber American infrastructure and military defense an attack in the process. On occasion, China gets caught out. In December 2023, for instance, the United network of small office/home office, or SOHO, the KV Botnet to mask its hacking activities. That was unfortunate for Xi. But it won't stop the first stage of his Xi gives the okay and dozens of cyberattacks Chinese hackers work feverishly, targeting and communications systems, with a special installations. Further attacks take place within the networks to America's military, as well as attacks that will be used by the United States to invasion. That last step is critical. To reach the United States, China has to secure Taiwan, which China has claimed for decades anyway, is chosen as the main target. By securing that island, China can break through to the United States, including Japan and mainland. Hour 1. The United States is scrambling. It's no stranger to Chinese hackers, but before. The country's success against Volt Typhoon were responsible for the KV Botnet attacks has its fingers in major networks. Rail, mass transit, maritime, water, and pipeline And though Volt Tycoon has been mostly eradicated, in the U.S. reveals that it was far from the America is left chasing shadows, at least needs to start the next stage of its assault. Xi Jinping gives the okay for the next - and Activating the People's Liberation Army The group has around 120,000 members, who bases throughout China. However, PLARF's real strength lies in the Recent estimates from the U.S. Naval Institute all of which are capable of targeting ships targets. Both capabilities will be needed by Xi. In arranging this attack, he's had to make He knew that a launch against Taiwan was inevitable, A missile barrage begins, with air support at Longtian, Zhangzhou, and Huian. All three are supporting China with fleets of their own while engaging Taiwanese defenses The tougher attacks focus on the U.S. Pacific Numbering around 200 ships, along with 1,500 fleet is the biggest barrier that stands in United States. It covers almost half of the world's surface, taking in the Pacific Ocean and the Indian Xi can't hit everything in that fleet. But his goal is to strategically weaken the America's ability to rapidly respond to To do that, he needs a three-pronged missile First, he has to target the naval bases the and the Philippines. It's a risky move. Any missile strike on these nations will surely all three of them into the war in support But failure to strike now means leaving nearly supported by around 79,000 troops. Xi can't take that risk. Hordes of Dongfeng 26, or DF-26, missiles and South Korea. Each missile has a range of 2,485 miles, easily They're accompanied by shorter-range missiles, Xi needs his DF-26s for attacks further afield. Those very missiles are also part of the second closer to the United States. More are sent flying toward Guam, targeting as Naval Base Guam in Santa Rita. Xi also unleashes the new jewel in China's The DF-27 is a hypersonic missile that can is capable of evading U.S. missile defenses. It'll be Xi's chief weapon when attacking early stages of the war. Finally, the third strike: in the Pacific. Chief among the targets will be the small near China, including the USS Shiloh and USS All told, there are nine of these ships - all defenses - that China hopes to either eliminate Secondary targets include the much larger less of a punch than the country's cruisers damage to the Chinese fleet if they're allowed There are dozens to target and Xi knows that But the more he can destroy with missiles of Taiwan and subsequent passage to America. However, Xi's missiles won't have clear Though his cyberattacks have left the United country's missile defense systems. America's DSP satellites - overseen by missile launches, giving President Joe Biden Chief among these will be its Ground-Based currently 44 active in the United States. Most of those systems, 40, are stationed in destroying intercontinental ballistic missiles, hour. The other four are stationed in California, and will be responsible for providing most missile barrage. There's just one problem: warheads? Biden consults his advisors, who conclude American satellites show that the missiles Hawaii, suggesting a conventional strike. If Xi were going nuclear, his ICBMs would strategic locations in the American mainland. Right now, the strategy is clear - evacuate hunker down. A counterattack will come. But at present, the U.S. has to rely on its Across the Pacific, Xi watches and waits as their targets in Japan and South Korea. Both have activated their missile defense platform they rolled out alongside the U.S. notice of the missiles China has launched. Many get shot out of the sky, falling harmlessly But the sheer number of Chinese missiles overwhelm Okinawa is practically destroyed. As home to most of America's overseas military strikes. At the Kadena Airbase, missiles rain down and KC-135 Stratotankers. The latter are especially important targets. They'll limit America's ability to refuel to using the bases that China is so steadfastly The strike could be considered a success, process. But Xi knows the bases aren't fully out He can't launch a ground-based invasion bases will be able to rebuild quickly enough the U.S. Air Force. That's okay. He only needs them down for a few days. More missiles make their way toward cruisers in the Pacific. These ships are a little harder to strike, still. Orders from American command have told all to send Chinese missiles off course in the The tactic works in some cases, though not China is successful in cutting down about dozen destroyers. Again, a qualified success for Xi. A few minutes later, China's DF-27 and DF-26 Dozens are shot out of the skies by California's provide complete coverage. Many more break through, striking ships including Xi had hoped his strike would also take out in Hawaii, but no such luck. Even with his cyberattacks wreaking havoc, received orders to submerge underwater, safe ready to fight back. By the end of the first few hours of the conflict, 4,000 missiles. It has wreaked devastation on the American Japan and South Korea into Xi's war. America's Pacific fleet has been severely the speed in which the U.S. can respond to The strike's success wasn't total. But it was enough. Day 2. Having bought himself time with his attack in a temporary state of disarray, Xi can focus China has spent the last day battering Taiwan The barrage has been successful in taking islands surrounding Taiwan, but it's also Patriot air defense system stationed on the surface-to-air ballistic missile defense systems. Still, the barrage will have to end soon, in to take the island. He can't risk killing his own people in After a 24-hour bombardment in which China the damage he's caused. Crucially, his attacks on America's overseas its navy in reaching the Taiwan Strait. And the missiles he's fired at Taiwan have fighter planes from the Longtian, Zhangzhou, He feels ready to start landing troops on a problem: That's partially due to the actions of Taiwan's She's been preparing for an attack from wake of Beijing growing bolder by conducting As soon as the missiles started flying, Tsai sides of the island. To the east, Taiwan benefits from having an Tsai anticipates that Xi will look to blockade is unlikely to launch a full invasion from Still, soldiers are placed on alert, telling that might try to climb the cliffs, which If need be, those troops will receive orders that lead to the mainland. Her main focus lies in Taiwan's west. As the coast closest to China, it's going Tsai places all 15 major ports and harbors their destruction in place if China's forces Tsai can't afford to allow China to set it manages to invade. Then, there are Taiwan's beaches. All are heavily fortified, with any Chinese their way through scores of barbed wire-laden the roads that lead to Taipei. The waters leading to most of those beaches can't land troops en masse. It must take them most of the way before ferrying being subjected to missile fire from Taiwan. Those waters are also packed with shallow spikes that will prevent China's tanks from And, if worst comes to worst, Tsai can collapse forcing Chinese troops to navigate challenging capital. Tsai is going to make this a war of attrition. And that spells bad news for Xi. The United States is almost ready to counter But before it does, Biden puts on his diplomatic in Xi's plan. One of China's biggest challenges in a war The country relies heavily on importing goods, Biden has spent the last three days organizing network of allies finally paying off. China will not only struggle to import goods it'll also be cut off from its European All agree not to sell to - or buy from - China, as long as the war lasts. That blockade extends to oil. China imports 11.8 million barrels of oil Much of that oil comes from Russia, which China buys annually. However, the other 81% comes from countries United States. Leveraging diplomatic pressure, as well as as Saudi Arabia, have related to Chinese expansion, China. Yes, Russia will still supply Xi, though it that results from America's sanctions. And given Putin's war in Ukraine, he also for the sake of solely supporting China, especially Xi didn't expect this. Now, he faces a countdown. China has to defeat the United States in a dwindle to the point where it's practically Day 4. With sanctions in place and trade routes in move is to speak to his allies in NATO. After all, China directly attacked America It also attacked America-owned military bases on the U.S. All of this plays in Biden's favor for one Article 5 of the NATO charter. According to this article, if any NATO ally attack by another country, every other NATO against themselves. In short, China's attack on the United States Biden has been cooperating with NATO members Collectively, that makes him ready to utilize left of the United States' defenses. The focal point of the counterattack is obvious Xi has failed to take Taiwan with his missile in which he's losing thousands of troops beaches. Even if he manages to break through Taiwan's at the island, his troops will face an urban tooth and nail for every street they manage Xi didn't expect this. And this war of attrition all adds up to time and attack. The strategy is to combine America's naval well as the navies of South Korea, Japan, The latter will also be a focal point of the the bases America has set up in Australia. The United States sends a fleet of ships, carriers, toward the Taiwan Strait. They're accompanied by one of the U.K.'s - loaded with Typhoon FGR4 and F-35B Lightning Similar support comes from Canada, which commits as well as Japan, which sends most of its South Korea hesitates. It's happy to support the U.S. in any way But it also has to be wary of North Korea, for it to start a war with its southern neighbor. If South Korea commits its naval or aerial open to attack. Biden understands this, resulting in South Korea to ensure it doesn't get involved And now, the U.S. has an allied fighting force in the sea or air. The fleet sets sail. Week 2. Xi has been bombarding Taiwan to no avail. Every attempt to land ground troops on Taiwan's beach combat. Yes, he's slowly whittling away at those But for each victory he achieves, a road is forcing his troops to divert over difficult The few who manage to reach Taiwan's capital This was supposed to be a quick victory. It had to be. Every day that China doesn't control Taiwan draws nearer. Finally, two weeks after his missile launches, aerial assets reaching the Taiwan Strait. Worse yet, they're supported by NATO and gain more influence, be it in the Pacific Worse yet for China, its navy, though larger of sheer firepower. Though Xi was successful in destroying almost missile barrage, that still leaves 68 to contend And though China has more Corvettes and patrol naval firepower being brought into the Taiwan Worse yet for Xi, America has an ace in the Over the past couple of years, the United aircraft so they're capable of dropping Each pallet can be stocked with up to 30 AGM-158 of between 229 and 1,118 miles, depending Stacked into America's MC-130J aircraft believe them to be a threat - these pallets Taiwan Strait. Those missiles serve two purposes. If they hit a Chinese ship, their 990-pound most targets. But even if they fail to hit, such a large will confuse the missile defense systems built in the three airbases that are the launching While the missile defenses are focused on strikes can take out targets. The allied forces turn the tide in the Taiwan Month 2. Xi has lost the clear passage into Taiwan invasion. He's still getting troops onto the mainland, defenses along with assaults from the U.S. Worse yet, he's lost air superiority. In truth, he never truly had it. Taiwan's 142 F-16 fighter jets, many of inferior to China's J-20s. The Infra-Red Search and Track, or IRST, built tracking and eliminating a target than the But Tsai knew this, and knew that support F-16s to delay rather than defeat China, just tactics to keep China from sending hundreds Now, the U.S. and NATO are in the Taiwan Strait, to their home country. Constant missile barrages on the Longtian, them practically unusable, making it a struggle as quickly as it had managed before. America's aircraft carriers - of which each hold around 75 fighters, bringing the capacity. Add to that the Rapid Dragon strategy and attack China attempts. It's not long before America's navy cuts Cut off from their target, China's naval few thousand Chinese troops still in Taiwan They'll be picked off by Taiwan's forces And with the U.S. now firmly entrenched in onto the island's beaches to attack the It's a lethal pincer movement that soon Still, it hasn't all been clear sailing China has managed to use its strong submarine leading the way, to take out two of America's It's a difficult loss, especially given between them. But America's submarines are just as lethal. Though it has fewer submarines than China are better trained and have fewer targets Both of China's aircraft carriers, brought on its air bases, are taken out, minimizing Xi has to face a very real possibility: Month 3. China has stubbornly refused to give in to The country's navy lies in tatters, with coast to back the few corvettes and frigates Xi has called his ships back, anticipating Chinese mainland. Xi has failed to take Taiwan. And in attacking the United States directly, allies take Article 5 very seriously. The same goes for other allies, including U.S. both because of their military alliances to see the spread of Chinese influence in Xi knows he miscalculated. Now, he faces a very big question: China has around 500 nukes, as well as ICBMs States. His country's CSS4 Mod2 Mod3 missiles [d]could The DF-41 can also hit the mark as it's But Xi thinks better of it. Launching his nuclear weapons against the And while America's Minuteman III ICBMs submarines and aerial bombers could easily Ultimately, China is forced to capitulate. Though its military would prove a strong match have the potential to defeat its American such a powerful united front. Taiwan proved stronger than Xi expected, with the American mainland never got off the ground. And with most of Europe - thanks to NATO fact that he's been overwhelmed. Add to all of this the effects of the sanctions days of him starting his war. They've slowly sapped the morale of the for surrender. America wins the war. But it's a win that came at a cost. It will take the U.S. years to rebuild its And along with its NATO allies, it will be on China for years to come. However, it's proven the impact that its a battle against one of its greatest rivals, might dare to attack the U.S. on notice in Of course, this is just one of many potential the U.S. went to war. It's also optimistic in favor of the U.S. But what could China do to prevent this series Would they happen at all, or do you think it needs from NATO and its allies in Asia? Tell us what you think in the comments below. Now go check out US Navy's Plan to Defeat