Are you ready to order can I have a second sure? Thank you? Are you new in town? I'm passing through on my way to fort bragg. Well. I love a man in uniform I buy you a drink or something. I appreciate that, but I'm waiting on my date She's a lucky lady be sure to tell her I said that you can tell him yourself. He's right here Thank you handsome That's disgusting excuse me I thought soldiers were supposed to be real men not fairies a woman angry when she finds out the soldier She was attracted to is gay. She criticizes their masculinity their ability to serve their country do you join her crusade? Jump in the trenches and defend the soldiers or remain quiet and allow this verbal assault to continue What would you do? I'm sorry. What's your problem you? You're the reason America's the laughingstock of the world We have a bunch of Queers fighting our wars Today, we've Deployed our hidden cameras at the Boxcar Grill in Claremont, North Carolina Excuse me, sir you in the military. Yes, ma'am I am these customers are seated right in the crossfire and share an amused look Are you waiting for someone or do you want to join that I am actually waiting on my date? But check out the looks they share when they learned june is turned down hey good looking for a man Guys, I'm sorry to bother you. Are you guys gay? Yes, ma'am. and you're in the military? Yep, ma'am I think it's uncomfortable for the other soldiers to like be around y'all Because I'm kind of uncomfortable this being right here. You want to just go yeah. I'm really not trying to be rude I just I want to Understand with the soldiers gone jun tries to enlist allies I mean do you agree with me? But are you okay with them in the military I tend to be louder I Don't think it's proud of the military and their rapids it in that country which they shouldn't be allowed in the military. I think Yourself I don't like it, but what are you gonna? Do that? And it's not me It's nothing that I'm gonna have to pay for later They want to be that way that's fine Back in the restaurant. How can you be in the military and being gay our soldiers make another strategic withdrawal? Let's just see if we can get another seat. Maybe a different table and once again with the soldiers gone She joins forces with June I'm sorry we just need to pray for them. their eyes will be opened, The Lord would speak to them and they would listen and realize it's wrong. you know there's nothing against them, personally. it's their lifestyle. Do you think they should be allowed in the military? The man she's with thinks it would be better to retreat to an earlier policy. It was don't ask, don't tell. The guys were and the others knew they were, but they didn't get kicked out. How'd you feel about that? as long as everybody did their job i was fine with it from a service standpoint. others disagree with jun saying that the only limitation on military service Should be whether the soldier can do the job so you agree with me not really? They're doing their job like they're supposed to be. Whatever. They do is their buisiness. So you are just okay with homosexuality I didn't say that. There what they did though, they don't think me and people around mandate that. Long as they don't sit on my lap, that's fine. Or say you see where I'm coming from? There's a lot of you doing and always saying they can be good the wall is me speak up against it So that's what I'm doing It's what they're fighting for. That's why do you perfect for five four you're right? Hi guys? How are you? We're with the TV show. What would you do? We wanted to know what people would say well yeah actor seaver polled But I also see they're sitting there fighting for our country what what did you do? I didn't want them to come in found what they did, but then that's that's their luck I don't know. I didn't set them same thing. You didn't like the kiss. I know I didn't like that I mean, I'm I'm old-fashioned I record But some customers make it loud and clear they have no issue with our soldiers But you're in the military. How can you be gay in in the military ma'am? We're just trying to have lunch Does that not bother you no? It doesn't bother me, and we're here for a meal, and they're good for me What is wrong with you? It's sickening then leave How can you be so judgmental life's life let it go But I'm not trying to defend my country ma'am I know But they are and it was okay until you found out they have a different lifestyle than you And I don't agree with it. You don't have to but they're still doing their job But nothing could prepare us for these last two customers what they thought would be a simple Mother-daughter howdy excuse me guys are you guys game quickly becomes yes, and offensive assault but you're in the military I'm gay. It turns out Taylor moses is an openly gay United States Marine home on leave after being stationed in Kuwait for six months I just don't think you're capable of doing your job I've been doing my job for two years now, and I'm gay I have a girlfriend It doesn't make any difference a good man and because I'm gay and I'm going to makes no difference at all look I'm sorry. I just don't I don't agree with it. I don't feel comfortable with it Or when you kept your opinion to yourself. I just don't understand You can are you gay you can't understand? I'm gonna talk to a manager guys I'm trying to have an enjoyable lunch with my daughter And I don't need no bigot just go get the man to go do whatever you wanted Spree country You should have your own freedoms Just like we have home, and it's because of brave soldiers like Taylor that the rest have those freedoms How do you handle something like that you pretty much let them do whatever they want to because if everybody has some opinions Didn't you feel like yelling at her? I know your mom Did yeah, it makes me mad and when somebody judges someone else, and then they talk about their love. God No, but everybody has their own route to believe the way they want to it's a country she's defending right that right yeah She's defending Iraq for me to be that way What is it now like for a gay person or by person in the military? It doesn't matter actually like we literally get our job done and whatever our personal life is our personal lives I know Terry's all out one big family too. So it doesn't matter what Brian's reuler take up for each other is it doesn't matter Thank you very