Imagine a race that's flat out No horsepower limits No paved roads No barriers Just pure racing adrenaline flying through This was the racing league that drivers had But just a few years into its inception, it to stop Group B rally is one of the most thrilling But when not only drivers, but spectators dangerous. So lets dig into Group B and see how it grew To the entire racing industry's worst nightmare. I'm Guff, this is albon, Let's give away We're doing it again! And it's the last month of our giveaway, so to get entered in to win $1000! The sport of Rally dates as far back as the They were automobile races from point A to And the goal was not speed like you might Many rallies were extremely long races, and And on top of that, most of these events were So if you brazenly broke traffic laws, well Then, of course, there were the drivers. Not everyone was fortunate enough to own a So naturally, rally entrants consisted of People with so much wealth that they could And the race that put rally on the map? The Monte Carlo Rally. Starting in 1911, it was a rally of 23 cars to Monte carlo. The winners were picked based on the elegance of condition the car arrived in. Yes, the original RALLY RACES were judged Two things that perhaps never crossed Walter Anyways! War made the rally events come and go and But for the discerning automobile enthusiast And the Monte Carlo rally continued to be But, it was in the 60s that elegance and comfort Drivers got bored. Spectators got bored! As cars got faster and more robustly engineered, people wanted something else. So around 1960, the world of rally was introduced The Special Stage. These were events held on CLOSED roads for And that meant that the drivers were free. Free of traffic, free of road laws, and perhaps Free to speed. First place was no longer reserved for the It was time to really race, and win the way This was a shift in the sport from car to At the head of this shift was the Federation The FIA The FIA was formed way back in 1904 as an clubs. And the FIA's job was simple: To represent motorsports events. They decided who could race and who couldn't And In 1954, the FIA introduced appendix J, Simply put, If your car didn't follow the But this new movement of drivers wanting more and it was their job to to listen to those So with the FIA, rally drivers took the special The FIA was formed way back in 1904 as an clubs. And the FIA's job was simple: To represent motorsports events. They decided who could race and who couldn't The World Rally Championship, the pinnacle And with WRC, the world was finally starting capable of. WRC blew up. Even car manufacturers couldn't ignore the many created factory teams And thus began the GOLDEN AGE of Rally! A time with insane cars and even more insane Truly the best and sharpest drivers paired Like Lancia and their Stratos HF that dominated Or Renault's 5 Turbo. Which proved to the world that you didn't to compete. And then of course, there's Audi. A factory team that was laughed at for bringing Back then, basically all rally cars were 2 quite basic. People saw the Audi Quattro and said it would But just the fact that you know what the word something really special back then But that era of rally was quickly coming to Because, like before, drivers got bored with FIA for changes, and this time the manufacturers were even The timing couldn't be better, Jean-Marie FIA's International Sporting Commission And he had a reputation for getting his way. After all, he was the one that let Audi enter And he was always ready to break some rules Some called Balestre a visionary. Others called him a Nazi. He'd call himself a survivor and then sue But we're not here for Balestre. we're here for Group B rally. So when drivers and manufacturers approached Balestre saw dollar signs Remember the notoriously strict appendix J Well, it got totally revamped to better reflect Out went the old 'group 1 to 6' classifications. And in it's place, Group N Group A, and of course, Group B Speaking of B, you better B ready to save Paypal Honey! This is Steve I'm filing for bankruptcy. Why is that, Steve?? I don't have any money anymore I spent it all on car parts... Car parts? I couldn't control myself! Brakes, Exhausts Short Shifters I just had to have it all. I spent so much money that I didn't have So they took the car away. So now you have all these parts and no car Yeah, If only I could have saved money on car too. Well, my friend, you could have used Honey! Honey?? Yes! Honey! The Free Online Shipping Tool! Honey is as vital to a mod-crazy gearhead It automatically find promo codes for all Tools Parts Fluids, You name it, Honey is there to find you a I wish I knew about this earlier. I might still have my car. You sure would! Don't be like Steve! Just add Honey to your browser for free at And start saving today! Group B was the class that drivers and manufacturers It was the 'anything goes', free for all, it too class. It replaced both the old group 3 and 4 classes And It was the perfect recipe for a sport its prime. Factories finally got to flaunt their engineering drivers were now able to prove they had the and the FIA and Balestre had a spectator smash But that's not to say Group B didn't have Cars still had minimum legal weight. Tires couldnt exceed a maximum width. And the car still needed a roof and enough But that was basically it! There were no rules on design You could make the car as big or as small Use whatever materials you wanted. Oh and of course the power!! The power was limitless. Strap on a turbocharger, or a supercharger. HELL, put both!! The only caveat was, your horsepower number B to maintain even competition. And as far as homologation rules go? Manufactures only had to make 200 road cars WAY less than the 5000 in group A, And if you made a change to your Group B car total road cars to make your "evolution Which unlocked the ability for teams to make And oh boy, did manufacturers show up. Audi brought the Quattro DNA into Group B A 340bhp turbocharged inline 5 AWD monster! That weighed under 2500 pounds. But then there was Lancia. Their rivalry with Audi in the 1983 season The Lancia Rally 037 was a car built from car It was a mid-engined, rear wheel drive, designed And It was the unofficial successor to that ago. At its debut, it rocked a 2.0L 4 cylinder And it was that Lancia that bested Audi to Audi's loss left a sour taste in their mouths, So naturally, they went back to the drawing And although it couldn't take the title Audi was updating their car far faster than it was totally legal. And halfway through the next year Audi debuted And this? This was THE Audi. The S1 was the most powerful car in the lineup, Legendary drivers like Michelle Mouton, Stig piloted the Audi at its peak, winning the But this was Group B baby, and everyone was Midway through the 84 season, Peugeot homologated This was one of the craziest cars rally racing It had an Inline 4 that made over 500HP, thanks It set a fastest time record immediately at manufacturers championship in both 1985 and But there's an asterisk to that 1986 season Of course, along with every great car was Like Timo Salonen, the winningest driver in T16. Or Stig Blomqvist, one of the drivers behind of course. Then there's Markku Alen at Lancia with Or Juha Kankkunen, the 1986 champion with And of course we cannot go on without recognizing She never won outright in WRC, but before Le Mans. helped Audi win its first manufacturer's And set the hillclimb record at Pikes Peak All these drivers, along with their iconic was more popular than even Formula 1. 100,00 people, 200,000 even 400,000 people races. Spectators spilled over from the sidelines Everyone wanted to get as close as possible by. And if you were in the way? Then you better move fast. Team mechanics would see their cars come back body panels, and sometimes even fingers. And as Group B got more popular, being a spectator But maybe that was to be expected? At its core, Group B was inherently dangerous, And even though this is what the drivers and sour quickly. Drivers were starting to fear for their safety. And It was one thing that the cars were ridiculously But the unpredictable spectators added a whole Drivers were constantly complaining to the obstacles being placed on the track.. Gravel being added to corners to upset the And the racing committee that made the rules? That was FISA, Jean Marie Balestre and the FIA's governing And well, they didn't exactly make it any They agreed with drivers that racing was getting do much to fix it Races were not canceled, spectators were not With the cashflow that Group B was generating, acceptable. Well, that is, until it wasn't. On May 2nd, 1985, tragedy struck during the off track, directly into a tree. The roof was torn open by the tree, the car The co-driver, Maurizo, made it out okay and following cars for help. It took ambulances 20 minutes to arrive to Attilo Battega was killed on impact The entire rally world took a step back and And while everyone's safety concerns were Ultimately, the FIA ruled that the severity and Attilo was killed at no fault to the car's So the racing continued.. But later that season, Ari Vatanen crashed His car flipped over and he broke his legs, He and his co-pilot may have survived, but At this point Balestre and the FIA were forced criminal at this point. So going into the 1986 season, aluminum roll on aerodynamics and spoilers. But that was really it... Nothing on spectators, or barriers, or horsepower And that's probably because an entirely season, Group S. This was Jean Marie Balestre's newest lovechild. It was to be the replacement to Group B. And it had an even lower barrier to entry, homologated Which meant that manufacturers had no excuse But before group S could come to fruition, This time it was the Portugal Rally in March. Portugal was infamous for their love of motorsports. Niki Lauda beat Prost here by half a point. Senna's first ever win was here in Portugal. And it's safe to say that a Group B rally Around 400,000 spectators showed up to witness There were two incidents. The first was fairly minor in retrospect. Tino Salonen hit a cameraman with the rear The cameraman was badly hurt but he lived his stage. And while you could blame the cameraman for else to stand there were just too many people on the sidelines But that accident was all but forgotten... Because not long after, Joaquim Santos was Santos was Portugal's very own driver. The hometown boy who was finally getting his But 2 miles into this 1500 mile rally, everything Santos says a spectator stepped onto the track out the way, when he tried to swerve back His co-driver, Miguel Olivera remembers the He said that when you're a co-driver, everything and read your pacenotes and all you can do But after that swerve, all there was was bump He didn't see it but he felt it all. Those bumps were the car was running over When the car finally stopped, Santos was in on the steering wheel, frozen. Not dead, just frozen from shock. 32 people were injured. 3 people died, including a mom and her 11 To this day, there's still mixed accounts But that doesn't change the outcome of that And while the deaths of innocent bystanders The hardest part to stomach was that the race The drivers staged at the top of the rally the gruesome scene. Drivers had to get to the finish line to flag And it's said that 11 more cars still ran When the racing teams found out what happened, where they held a strike. They signed a handwritten letter for the FISA And that letter had 1 demand, to stop the Surely, the unified call from various teams, too dangerous was more than enough to finally Audi even vowed to pull out completely, promising were addressed. But the letter didn't work. Balestre and the officials wanted the teams and so the rally wasn't stopped, it continued And Balestre went so far as to say that he race. So, Group B continued, somehow surviving another But just 2 months later, the final nail would At the Tour de Corse in France Henri Toivonen was piloting the Lancia Delta But between stages, Henri himself told interviewers "After 4 hours of driving- it's hard to So, with a modern car like this, it's just It's physically exhausting and the brains And during the second day of racing, Henri with no guardrail overlooking a steep hill. The car landed upside down, the fuel tank Henri Toivenen and his co-driver Sergio Cresto It wasn't until a number of other cars crossed that something happened. The finishing drivers mentioned they had seen a rescue team was sent out. But when they got there, all they could do Both of the drivers were gone. And while there's plenty of controversy surrounding was just misdirection. The world had finally seen enough tragedy And Balestre and his committee finally had After this season Group B was to be officially FISA conducted an investigation and claimed to keep up with how fast the Group B cars But that was them passing on the blame. Group B cars could have had better fuel cells, Spectators could have been limited, barriers And most important of all, the officials could Watching footage of Group B racing is mesmerizing. It is truly racing at its most extreme, its But the cost for a sport like that was just Today, Rally continues, but in the way that Safer cars, better courses, far fewer spectators. We really have learned from the difficult But even still, one can't help but look Because those cars, those drivers, those feats Are moments that racing fans will never forget. Thank you so much for watching Don't forget to subscribe and drop a comment And check out Paypal Honey at the link in You can also find us at instagram or discord I'll see you guys in the next one!