(upbeat music) - [Announcer] Sing, learn, create, and play in Caitie's Classroom. (soft xylophone music) - Hi, everybody. Come on into the classroom. I'm glad you're here. Do you know what this is? (soft xylophone music) This is a musical instrument It makes pretty sounds. (soft xylophone music) Do you know what song that is? (soft xylophone music) It's our hello song. (soft xylophone music) Nice to meet you Let's be friends The xylophone makes nice music. We'll be exploring lots of But first, let's sing our Here we go. (guitar music) Hello, hello, what's your name Hello, hello, what's your name My name is Caitie What's your name? Can you shout it out, nice and loud? (guitar music) Nice to meet you Let's be friends Hurray! That song sounds a little different played on guitar, doesn't it? Each musical instrument has (penetrating flute music) Wow, what musical instrument was that? Oh, it's a flute. A flute is played like this. We use our mouth to blow air Let's pretend to play the (penetrating flute music) Nice flute play. Oh, this is a violin. Let's hear what it sounds like. (soft violin music) Oh, I like the violin. A violin is played with a bow. The bow moves across the Let's pretend to play the violin, are your bows ready? Here we go. (soft violin music) Excellent violin playing. Ah, it's a trumpet. I like the sound the (trumpet blowing) Oh, that's a neat sound. To play the trumpet, we use our mouths to make a buzzing sound and blow into the mouthpiece, kind of like this. (blowing raspberries) Sounds pretty silly without Well, let's pretend to play (trumpet blowing). Great trumpet playing. Let's hear what it sounds like when these three instruments (soft music) Oh, such a beautiful sounds! Okay, let's see if we can we heard with a little game. Well, listen to one of and we'll try and guess which one it is. Are you ready? Okay, let's listen. (soft violin music) Oh, do you remember what I think I know, the violin! (soft violin music) That's it, let's try another one. Listen closely. (penetrating flute music) Do you remember that sound? Any guesses? The flute. (penetrating flute music) Nice job. One more, let's listen. (trumpet blowing) What's that one? The trumpet. (trumpet blowing) Yeah, great job, everybody. Let's pretend to play those with a song. We'll sing when the band comes marching in and we'll try some new instruments too. Well, here one now, do you It's a drum. Let's pretend to play the here we go. Oh when the drum comes marching in Oh when the drum comes marching in It goes (drum music) When the drum comes marching in (tuba music) That's a tuba. Oh when the tuba comes marching in Oh when the tuba comes marching in It goes (tuba music) When the tuba comes marching in The trumpet. Oh when the trumpet comes marching in Oh when the trumpet comes marching in It goes (trumpet blowing) When the trumpet comes marching in That's a trombone. Oh when the trombone comes marching in Oh when the trombone comes marching in It goes (trombone music) When the trombone comes marching in A clarinet. Oh when the clarinet comes marching in Oh when the clarinet comes marching in It goes (clarinet music) When the clarinet comes marching in We have that one, the flute. Oh when the flute comes marching in Oh when the flute comes marching in It goes (flute music) When the flute comes marching in Cymbal! Oh when the cymbal comes marching in Oh when the cymbal comes marching in It goes (cymbals clanging) When the cymbal comes marching in Let's play all together. Oh when the band comes marching in Oh when the band comes marching in It goes (band music) When the band comes marching in Oh when the band comes marching in So great, give yourselves a big clap! (clapping) There are so many amazing Did you hear the trumpet and the flute? Our voice is an amazing instrument too. We use it to sing, La la la just like we sang the song. We can sing low. Low And we can sing high. High And all the notes in between. Let's practice an instrument our voice. We can use our voice to sing a scale. A scale is a set of musical notes. Here's a scale. I'll play the notes on the xylophone. (soft xylophone music) Each note has a name. Do re mi fa sol la ti do. Let's use our voice and we'll Here we go. Do re mi fa sol la ti do Very nice. Now let's sing down the scale. Do ti la sol fa mi re do Beautiful. Let's put those two together. We'll sing up the scale then back down. Are you ready? Here we go. Do re mi fa sol la ti do Do ti la sol fa mi re do That's it, shall we try going faster? Sing along with me. Do re mi fa sol la ti do Do ti la sol fa mi re do Let's try going super fast. Do re mi fa sol la ti do Do ti la sol fa mi re do Nice job. Beautiful singing everybody. We have a wonderful musical our voice. I have another wonderful Take a look at this. It's a craft I made. Do you know what instrument A guitar, yeah. Just like the guitar we I'll show you how you can Let's gather the things we need. Some things we need for this craft are: A long cardboard tube, elastic bands, a tissue box. and a grownup. The tissue box is going to The hole in the box is a lot in a lot of guitars. The cardboard tube is going and you can paint them I painted my tissue box it's dry and all ready to go. We'll attach our cardboard onto one side of the cardboard box. Then a grownup can help like this. And we're gonna put the And it doesn't have to be perfect because once the cardboard tube goes in, if it's a little bit smaller, it'll stay nice and snug in place, there. Now our guitar is ready for our strings. We're gonna use elastic bands, We're gonna add four elastic bands, two on the top of the cardboard My guitar in the but this is a crafty Different elastic bands You might like to or thicker ones, smaller and see what sound you To make our guitar sound we're gonna add in some popsicle sticks. We can glue two regular popsicle sticks on top of each other just to here we go. And we'll carefully stick them and just push them to one side. I have another one here, and that'll help make it Now our guitar is all ready to decorate. You can decorate yours any way you like, maybe with some stickers, Look at that. And once it's all decorated, I added in some pom poms lots of different stickers and jewels, and even some double-sided just wrapped it around so it Look at that. Should we try playing it? Oh when the guitar comes marching in Oh when the guitar comes marching in It goes (guitar music) When the guitar comes marching in. Learning a new instrument can be tricky. I remember when I was it felt very hard to do, Practice is an important part Let's go on a field trip and and hear what they have a new instrument, come on. (soft xylophone music) Hi. - Hi. - Rafi. - And what instrument do you play? - The cello. - The cello is beautiful Do you like playing the cello? - Yeah. - When you first started what was that like? - It was hard, but then it got easier. - Yeah, I'm sure it's not easy to learn something new, right? Now you really like it? - What do you like most about it? - I like the sound and - It must sound really nice, - Sure. (cello music) (clapping) - That's beautiful, I Thanks, Rafi. - One, two, sing. (soft music) - Hi? - Hi. - Powen. - Hi, Powen, how old are you? - Nine. - Nine years old, and what - Viola. - A viola, it looks a lot like a violin. What's the difference - It's a little bigger and - A little bit bigger than a violin, nice. How long have you been - One year. - So what would you tell an instrument but they've - Try one. - Just try one? - Yeah? - Here. - Could you let me play yours? - What! Thank you so much, it's so nice. (soft viola music) Thanks so much for letting Will you play us something? - Okay. - Yeah, I'm sure you're a lot better. (viola music) Oh, that's amazing! - Thank you. for playing that. These students are all learning with an afterschool music It's amazing. Those are some incredible Practicing an instrument Let's practice one together. You probably have this instrument at home. A drum, anything can be a drum. You can use a table, or your belly, maybe an upside down cooking or you might have a toy drum like this. Do you have your drums ready? Let's practice. Can you try that? Your turn. Very nice. Try this. (light drum music) Now you go. (light drum music) That's it, let's play altogether. We'll start slow then go faster. (light drum music) Nice and slow, a little faster, faster. Let's go really fast. (fast drum music) And stop. Don't move. Let's go. (fast drum music) And stop. Go! (fast drum music) Stop, go! (fast drum music) Stop, go! (fast drum music) Stop, nice drum practicing, everybody. Give yourselves a big drum roll clap. (fast drum music) That was great. We can always find ways to make music. We can make a crafty or use our beautiful singing voices. I had a lot of fun exploring with you today. Let's use our beautiful to sing a big goodbye to all our friends. Let's wave and sing. Bye bye Good bye Thanks for playing with me See you soon. (soft music) - [Kid] Uuh.