So... listen to this... nicknames are like course the most honorable footballer of all the shark, the bull, the wall, the gladiator, but no matter what they called Carles Puyol... what they meant to say was that he was the relentless defender... while most players hit to their faces... worried they're gonna dollar ad campaign... Puyol did not care, as Franco Baresi, another would put his head where other players wouldn't that literally... we're talking about the kind of guy who and no matter how many legends about his power the goal line with his face... It's no wonder that among the 36 injuries can find a fractured eye socket, a broken Puyol was a selfless leader, one who never line so his teammates didn't have to... me, they are the superstars... I don't have Romario's technique, Overmar's But I work harder than the others... I'm like the student who isn't the smartest, in the end"... and those aren't empty The average Barcelona star gets put into La a personalized coach and diet... every tool they're wonderkids, that one day they'll nothing like that... Up to the age of 17, he was just some kid division of his regional league... He had tried playing on goal, as a right back, but nothing seemed to be the perfect fit... he was a cut above... the one time a Barcelona scout happened to disappointed with the quality of the players Shortly after, a chance to go on trial at Puyol had been hopelessly loyal since he was His family even recalls a time when he shocked so he could stay behind with his best friend It was Barcelona or nothing... Puyol would likely prefer to end up working club's shirt... And it was only with two years of academy that Barcelona invited him to train at their There were no promises, he knew most likely admitted that he was preparing for that... The man was an absolute workaholic, just the made him sick to his stomach, so that day because there were other players better than but if they send you back because someone longer welcome in this house"... At the end of the day, even if there were tell a boy who had worked so hard all day they kept telling him to come back tomorrow... over and over again... and about 30 days later, for good... However, this was just the first step... because rely on their academy, ever since the Bosman a bit crazy in the transfer market... and their starting eleven.... meaning that out that same year... only 3 would go on to become standout names Reina, Valdes and Iniesta... but while the paths towards the limelight... Puyol wasn't so lucky... As much as everyone at the club seemed to clear that Puyol was not a stereotypical Barcelona After years in the B team, the one time first any attention was to mock his appearance, to pay for a haircut"... and soon, with in buying one dutch player after the other... but again... the kid dug his heels into the if another of his old housemates, Xavi Hernandez day so would he... and almost 1500 days after old and still playing as a right back... Michael Reiziger got injured and once Van He never let go... Less than a year later, with Barcelona's everyone in Catalunya wanted his head on a first time since... they knew that if Figo scored, all hell would him... was, of course, Puyol... and for 90 down his neck... as one newspaper put it: in the planet, it felt like an equal fight... One he dominated, without ever succumbing only had he managed to protect Barcelona's escorting Figo off the pitch as the fans desperately Add to this the fact that over summer, at as many goals in the one match where he got and once the next season began, he was already Suddenly, it really looked like Puyol had injure his knee only 5 days later... ending up in the operation room... but what he made it back... just as Puyol was began inside him and leading him straight to the Barcelona went into the longest trophy drought made it into the first team and only ending crisis where they sacked Van Gaal, struggling re-signing him... only to sack him again... Regardless, throughout those years, as much Puyol kept making a name for himself with 2002 with Victor Valdes beaten... and Obiorah Puyol saved his shot using his chest... with the ball hitting him precisely over the gave him his ever standing ovation, reminding for the name on the front of the shirt, and And by the end of the year, even if his time after being knocked out of the World Cup by Puyol had been named in the UEFA team of the that not only made La Masia's ugly duckling but set his release clause at 180 million all of Europe's top clubs were looking to In fact, Man United got close enough that "There was a moment when I thought about Why deny it? I wanted to win things and back then, we weren't I gotta say, it's already strange to see just imagine if Puyol had joined them too... Regardless, next year Laporta won the elections, arrived and still... Barcelona went trophyless one final time... In fact, it was only after Luis Enrique retired new captain, that they finally took back La as Ronaldinho used to say: "It's me in In fact, just as the next season started.... moment... Look...With Barcelona beating Mallorca 2 nil, Sergio Ballesteros was shown the red card... player down, he was met with a slap to the not only did Puyol not hit him back or, at Ronaldinho charged towards Ballesteros... I think it's fair to say that this went For a man nicknamed "The Caveman", Puyol the game... but as much as he truly deserved that year would be as devastating as it would When asked about the 2006 Champions League from ear to ear, but for Puyol... the memory of his life... Having already taken another league title, be his crowning moment and so, thinking back had it not been for the words of his father up to Paris to watch the final... The man, being a workaholic with a special to watch his son from the stands, that was it only happened, because Puyol got him an at work at 8 am... But even though that day, all went well... lifted the Champions League trophy and was would also be the last time he would ever Only a few months later, Josep Puyol passed Carles would be back on the pitch soon enough... Over summer, even if he did set up one of knocked out of the world cup and once the got pretty bad, pretty quick.... Eto'o and Ronaldinho got into a locker room insisting that only one of them could stay going on in his personal life, Puyol was the and figure out what happened... And the next training session, with the camera once they arrived, they were all smiles... Still, by the end of the season, not only to take the title... but Puyol's knee gave surgery and leaving him in a cast... which Whether he realized it or not, Puyol had been feelings ever since his father had passed... tough... so tough that 70 days later, against doctor's to training, as he would say: "Football And one year later, even if things had gotten given the boot... then, over summer, Spain reason his country was finally able to break following 44 trophyless years, wasn't that that their defense was an absolute fortress, entire knockout stage... and almost unanimously, Not just the best defender in the tournament, with that opinion, then he made it a matter You see, the moment Guardiola arrived at the a handsome poster boy, born rich right there in other words, the opposite of Puyol... as and the beast"... and maybe whoever said unlikely that partnership looked, in the end other... If Pique was known for drifting off mid match, himself, told the press: "One time, we were someone was getting picked up on a stretcher instructions at me... I told him to relax and he responded: "So Focus! I know you""... and well... by the end League... again, only one goal had been conceded from matched his idol, Maldini, as the only other and the success wouldn't end there... Then, they doubled down, or I guess, sextuple'd all 6 available trophies in a single year... They were the best team in history and then, time for the 2010 World Cup... And again, It was the defense that carried With 4 goals in 4 knockout stage matches, would be for their backline to remain completely they achieved... not a single goal was conceded, and still... Puyol's most memorable moment was not a no... instead, on top of all he had already against Germany, needing a miracle to seal Xavi whipped in a corner, and in the words as well, but then it was like an airplane Puyol, the man who rarely scores, had scored of Spanish history... and if, for a second, such a big goal... well, not only can you see him planning the he had already pulled off that same goal, ironically, if that time he had angered a his armband during his celebration... Now he surely had done enough to get the entire Spain made sure to go down to the locker room her hand while wearing nothing but a towel... Regardless, four days later, not only had end of the year, Puyol had placed 11th in But unfortunately, just as it was made official everything came crashing down... Puyol blew out his knee for a third time, the season... but still, even though he only League final, he still managed to leave his You see, had Puyol just lifted the trophy, Maldini as the most successful captain of much greater... he handed off the armband place... why? Because Abidal had just beaten cancer... as Puyol would explain it himself: "I truly It's hard to explain but... for what it meant, most"... Had destiny been as kind to Puyol, as he was would probably have been there to win the but unfortunately his surgery did not buy nearly long enough... But no matter what, as he desperately tried to leave the world in awe of his leadership Right in the middle of El Classico hell, Pique from the stands... but if the young man insisted referee... Puyol did not have time for any nonsense... goal line and told him to focus on the game... 6 matches later the fabled 4th surgery became back for one more season... It quickly became clear that he was not capable had always demanded of him... and in his final of his heart for money... he terminated his announced his retirement and left.. no fuss... nothing... All he ever wanted to be was a mere servant find it amusing when they talk of signing They can look all they want but they'll You were our guardian angel... Unique, one of a kind..."