Transcriber: Kaori Nozaki Thank you. Hello. Hello there, thank you very much. I'm going to start by telling you and I travel the world playing concerts, I play about 300 concerts a year It's also my calling in life, I'm one I get to make a living doing what I love, and people say, I call it &quot;the happiness business.&quot; I play music and you get happy. So I was on a long flight I was hobnobbing at up in business class. A gentleman beside me &quot;So what do you do for a living?&quot; And I said, &quot;I'm a guitar player.&quot; And he looked at me I should have been downstairs. And he said, &quot;You make a living Wow! What band do you play with?&quot; And I said, &quot;I don't. I don't play And he said, &quot;Oh, then you're a singer.&quot; I said, &quot;No. No, I'm a guitar player.&quot; But then I started thinking about it; I do have a band, and the band is me. And I think like a band, and that's I think like a band when I play, And that's how I hear music. I hear it is if it is a band, So I'd like you to meet my band, and that is my bass player (Bass guitar music) drummer (Drum-like music) I've got a rhythm guy as well. Think at the money I'm saving up here. (Laughter) (Guitar music) And then finally the melody guy (Music) (humming a song) I'll play the bridge, I think. (Guitar music) Good. (Applause) Thank you! That's my one-man band. (Applause) Thank you. And I wouldn't be standing up if it wasn't for a great man I was about seven years old I was on the road with my family. I'm one of six children, but we were driving along in the car, I tuned in the radio, by this American guitar player And what he was doing is something With his thumb, on the piano would play, and then with his fingers he was So this is what it sounds like, (Music) And then here is the melodies. (Music) Tommy Emmanuel: Is that enough? TE: I'll play with you. (Music) (Humming a song) So that moment was I heard that sound, and I knew Everybody told me, It's a recording trick, But I somehow I could hear it, I just kept at it, and at it, and at it, I eventually got it. Of course, many years later, I wrote him a fan letter, Then, by the time I had learned so much of his material and taught myself to play in a way And I knew it, it was so much of a challenge, When I eventually got to meet him and he confirmed even though I had no training, I still don't read or write music, but I can write you a song, So anyway, this style to keep my one-man show interesting So in my late teens, I started listening to a lot of pop music and trying to come up with arrangements the technique of playing So some tunes by the Beatles and they have become People love it where you get that. (Playing &quot;Day Tripper&quot;) Something like this! (playing and humming &quot;Lady Madonna&quot;) So you get the idea, right? (Applause) Thank you. (Applause) Another thing I started doing was banging on my guitar like a drummer because I am a drummer. I've always played the drums and loved it. So when we were fortunate enough where there's a microphone experimenting by playing So I found these patterns, and I found a way (Drum-like sounds) (Applause) Whoa, look at it! Then I started trying to use so I got myself a brush, (Music) And then I started doing this with my brush so I could get Whoa! (Applause) Thank you. Thank you very much. This stuff is and making my one-man band There's another sound and another that I first heard Chet Atkins doing. And then a little bit later on, his name is Lenny Breau. This technique is called It's not easy to do, And the reason it's called &quot;cascading&quot; is because people describe it So like this. (Cascading harmonics) I use this technique to make and create parts of my show Some songs or the Beatles' &quot;Michelle,&quot; where I used this technique. (Playing &quot;Michelle&quot;) (Applause) Thank you. I use those techniques to make a sound especially here in Australia. But when I started traveling overseas, I noticed that most people over there and it was a new sound for them. These are all things One of the things that I think the quality of songs And the other thing was I quickly learned that if I wanted I should play my own songs. So I started writing songs and I spent a lot of time Well, it's one of the parts I want to play you I read a book called, Lewis and Clark were these explorers and they were led by a young native girl. After I read this book, to describe the American West, the great unknown, and constant travel. Let me play you a little bit of this song. If you want to close your eyes and imagine that's what you can do, they transport us and take us. (Music) (Humming) Yeah. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause) Every now and again that involves all involved in one song. One of those songs (Playing &quot;Classical Gas&quot;) All right! Yeah! (Applause) Thank you. (Applause) Alright. I'm going to read a little bit because my wife helped me and she writes in such a wonderful way that I decided This is what she wrote for me, &quot;A lot of these things that I do but for me the real critics When they laugh at my bad jokes, and when they share stories it touches my heart so deeply. And I know that I'm doing the right thing. My music has been played others have learned my songs My music has brought life will power to cancer survivors, joy to people's daily drive to work. I hear these stories, and I know that music goes There's some innate sense no matter how turned off That's why we tap our foot (Playing) Yeah! There's another point it was one of the things to live the dream life and achieve my goals. &quot;Chet Atkins once told me that I am And I think that being fearless is a huge part of breaking molds I have had many times in my life that my plans were rubbish, But I ignore the critics, to make my show and my life Music brings people together, and I love being a catalyst for it. So I play my shows, I meet I answer their questions on my forum, I upload videos to YouTube I continue to tour around the world And just remember folks So you better get on with it. (Cheers) (Applause) Thank you. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause)