This Italian company makes exact produced in the United States starting in These lever actions were a game changer in reload your rifle one cartridge at a time to the ammunition shoots the factory starts millimetres in diameter. A computer guided circular saw slices it Next, a computer guided drill bores through The drill is fluted. This provides a channel for a continuous breaks down the metal shavings as the drill other. Over the course of 5 minutes, a required diameter. This takes 15 minutes. The diameter of the barrel is what A rifle gets its name from the next This specialized tool rifles the barrel, barrel, bores, smooth walls. This process takes twice as long as drilling The grooves in the barrel put a spin on the the perfect pass of a football. This spin stabilizes the bullet, rendering That makes the shot more accurate over a The next machine mils the outside of the This particular model has an octagonal Another machine then makes threads on the the adjacent part of the rifle. A local foundry, meanwhile, forges the Lever workers feed solid steel bars into a The furnace temperature a blazing 1200 matter of seconds. While the bar is still red hot. They place it in a dye and stamp it with a Then two more pressings in a different die the lever. A fourth pressing against a razor time trims the perimeter. The roughly shaped lever is now ready for They're a computer guided mill, works at it of steel until the leavers shape is The mechanical section of the rifle is Like a lever. It's forged out of a steel bar. Then over the course of an hour, machined to guided tools. This operation not only finalizes the It also hollows out areas for the internal activated loading and firing mechanism. But before that assembly happens, the action where it undergoes a two step process. First 3 minutes submerged in a hot water steel. Then a quick dip in a second bath This gives the steel an antique finish. The action now returns to the gun factory to assemble the rifles, firing mechanism hammer spring to a larger component called Then they connect the hammer itself with a The Hammer Spring provides the resistance hard enough to fire the cartridge after it's Taking the action, they insert the bolt pin extension. This wedge piece links those two components. They insert the trigger guard into the with a few taps of a mallet. They attach the lever underneath the trigger They mount a spring on each side of the Then finally they connect the lever to the Cock the Hammer and prepare to pull the Pull down the lever, then pull it back up. After firing you move the lever up and down reload and cock for the next shot. They finish assembling the action by side loading gate for inserting the The action has two threaded holes, one for cartridges and the other for attaching the It's threaded and requires some top filing specifications set out by the proof house, firearms conform to all manufacturing action. They lock the barrel in a vise, then They use various tools and gauges to ensure the lever closes completely when pulled up. Next, they insert what's called a check chamber. This checks the internal spacing to fires safely. They mount a temporary stock on the other proof house for performance and safety Their technicians place it in an enclosed the proof hose, hand punches, markings onto These markings, recognized by the European the firearm functions properly and safely. The gun factory contracts a woodworking It's made from a block of walnut. First, workers trace a template that's in They saw along the trace line. This gives them a starting form which progressively carves the detailed profile Then they mount the stock on a lathe which surface and perfect the shape. The stock has two holes in the back to which stains and varnishes the finished stock and attach it to the action. After that, they mount the magazine tube to When you feed cartridges into the side tube. Upon leaving the rifle, a carrier pushes into the chamber, preparing the rifle