A group of French tourists at a hotel only for foreigners. We've slipped in amongst them. It's already 10 PM, but we feel The porter follows us Walk here. Stop. Stop? He waves us back as it's strictly without an official guide. Nevertheless, we insist. Thank you. Stop, stop, stop. No? No? The tone is polite but firm. And reluctantly we go back in. Thank you. Inside, two North Korean dictators, dominate the lobby. Mr. Jon works for the state I wanted to go for a walk in town, Because everyone knows you're a spy. Well, we've already arrested Here, every foreigner is North Korea is and an example of the Since its creation in 1945, on another planet. Acute paranoia are its distinguishing features. There are no statistics but what is known is that famine In the late 90s, are believed to have died of starvation. Even today, 20% of the population in particular, It's the reason about 400,000 tonnes We managed to film these scenes in secret. Lacking machinery local agriculture People eat what they can find: seaweed, roots. It's a starvation diet. Officially, the country's still headed the dictator who died in 1994, but is designated He's represented everywhere frescoes and posters. His son, Kim Jong-il, and is officially known He continues to wield thanks largely to the backing believed to be over a million strong, massively equipped, including with nuclear weapons and technically still at war Kim Jong-il continues the work The result is people comparable to those The same queues the same empty stores as the public never ventures inside. Not everything, of course, is so bleak. There are highways, and the clean up squads There is even a casino in the capital except there's never a jackpot. And there's also golf, the most capitalist of sports, enjoyed only by the system's elite. For the 23 million North Koreans but smiling is mandatory. Outbursts of joy in grandiose street parades. It's into this nightmare world, inhabited by people that a group of Western tourists At 8,500 euros it's as expensive as the Seychelles. Only here, no coconut palms, only unfriendly minders No mattresses in the bedrooms and no running water. There are even blankets Wow. That's enough for me. And naturally, Welcome to North Korea, the dictator's paradise. The organizer is the man with blonde hair, Guillaume de Vaudrey, arranges speciality tours In his group is Claude. For this young retiree, it's as for the first time, she's able to follow who was originally from North Korea. Jacqueline had no qualms a former librarian, now also retired. This will be her first experience There's also Henry, It's not his first dictatorship, having already visited North Korea was missing until now. Our minders are with the glasses is Mr. Ho and on the right, Mr. Jon. Three weeks of propaganda lie ahead. Pyongyang, the demarcation line the extreme North the first Westerners Our trip to the land of communist bliss begins with an invitation with the North Korean people. What, after all, than the gigantic lunar park, the only funfair in the country. Here, everyone smiles. Welcoming gestures The fair features attractions archery, as old as the players themselves, ancient swings, and rides fitted with machine guns, very popular with the adults, The infrastructure is critically old and it doesn't look very safe. Still, never mind. It'll take more than that as it climbs onto the Ferris wheel. On board, everyone is No, we're still good. Will you be okay? Now it stopped. Maybe we're broken down. Everything here is so quiet, not like the farm fairs back home. They're so noisy. Henry seems captivated by the calm, Even Mr. Ho, is enjoying the moment and wants to immortalise it. I'm filming the joy of this funfair. Crowds jostle, proffering money Kids with money Is this really North Korea, the world's most evil Look, there's even the riff raff. It's unbelievable. Here, there's a queue, but for the bumper cars. Soon though, the harsh realities of life when a group of soldiers Watch out, there are soldiers. No filming now. To find out why the soldiers are here, we follow along Mr. Jon, &quot;Down with the imperialists Really? But why is there The war is over. No, the Americans They divided the country. But the peace has never been signed. It is just a ceasefire. The Americans started the war and our people The grunts far away But they are ready to fight for real. It's a war since the state and the sworn enemy is the United States. By 1950, the world was beginning from the Second World War. Two blocs faced off and the pro Americans. Korea finds itself and is consumed by a war The South is supported the North by China. In 1953, and to this day, only a ceasefire. Technically, It's a situation the French tourists Right now, we're about to enter of the demilitarized zone of North Korea, which is used for farming. And on the right On the other side, there's the enemy, The tourists have to form a single file, closely observed by the soldiers. The atmosphere is tense This is the world's most sensitive area, surrounded by 1 million soldiers The small group finally arrives It's a solemn moment. On both sides of the border, highlighted in red They don't look at each other, but remain on the lookout. The first one, will be immediately spotted The soldiers uniforms The retro style of the North Koreans and the Ray-Bans The Americans are actually On the South Korean side, They have their photos taken It's as much as they'll ever For the tourists, it's time to leave. But first, Claude It's a very important moment with a Korean father Claude has made this journey 89 years after my father which was occupied by the Japanese, I come to this demarcation line This division always caused who never saw his native land again. Claude's father fled Korea in 1920, The photo was taken shortly He was never able It's an emotional moment. For the tourists are soon reminded where everything is controlled. The guides and the soldiers taken at the border. Many will be erased. To the tourists, this unrelenting surveillance and so far none of them complain. The tour continues put together And the next stop is the War Museum. At the end of the courtyard, Suddenly, one of the guides assistants She was spoiling the scenery and that is something For the very image of the country an image of perfection and an image that is constantly monitored. Hello, welcome to our museum. Behind her is a gigantic mural, as one would expect to the glory of Kim Il-sung, He has a godlike status, not least because he himself rewrote his country's Please sit down, And this will help Visitors to the museum of the conflict with the United States. It's a version in which The voice, the style, the video. Everything resembles from the 1950s. Who then started the war in Korea? These scenes will help provide the answer. Listen to how North Korean authorities &lt;i&gt;The Second World War&lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt;huge amounts of money&lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt;But after the war,&lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt;and entered into a period&lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt;They then deliberately&lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt;to help their economy,&lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt;and they actively prepared for war.&lt;/i&gt; Everything is false. The United States as it was after the Second World War. But it matters not. And the documentary carriers &lt;i&gt;Truman, the US president,&lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt;that there are needed to be&lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt;so the United States&lt;/i&gt; In fact, it's the exact opposite. Historians agree North Korea a reality the regime and being the perfect dictatorship in the country from an early age. The tourists are stunned that decide Obediently, where more surprises are in store. At the double, they cross rooms filled The rewriting of history continues. The Americans staged to bomb the towns and villages and massacre the Chinese people. Henry has never heard about He takes his carriage Excuse me, in which year Which year was this battle? The battle? It was during the war in 1950, '53. Okay, so there was just during the conflict as a whole. The answer is evasive But he dares go no further You didn't follow up You were scared? I just don't have the courage to. North Korea is a totalitarian state The country has virtually and if you get into trouble here, there will be no diplomats The young woman inside real ships and aircraft. The propaganda lesson continues. This is the weapons room, where some of the original weapons These all distinguished themselves like this torpedo boat. It was one of four While the young soldier we dare ask a sensitive question. Were the same ones used recently You know, there was This is the first time I hear about that. Yes, we've never heard of that. Only a few weeks earlier, had been sunk off the coast of Pyongyang. On board, 46 sailors were killed. Tensions between just when the French tourist group Following our off camera question, we were summoned and spoken to who warned us never to repeat under penalty of having to extend But for now, The museum guide continues her tour, She proudly presents one This plane is a MiG. It was visited by The aircraft, a MiG 15, in North Korea since 1952, as this video shot at the airport It's an aging military, but one as shown in the last room. Now, in this area, that are trophies. All these weapons like machine guns, an Aladdin's cave of implements of death. It's also yet another of the Americans. They used chemical and biological weapons during the war, while it was dropping True or false, it's impossible to get The highlight a huge mural The limelight who saved and protects it to this very day. The tourists are beginning Tired, they return to the hotel. It's rush hour, Everyone is heading home from work Are the people queuing to get No, they're waiting for the bus. Pyongyang never has traffic jams. In the middle of the road, There was an accident here, as soon as possible. On the left, and this is the city's main The few buses are packed and look On the roadside, there's no advertising, for the communist regime. We see men proud of building A country in which to raise the children. The two towers one of the most luxurious in the country. Inside are the restaurant constantly tuned in The programs consist of patriotic songs generals making speeches, and how best to use a Kalashnikov. The French appear to pay Back in their rooms, are not allowed to send emails All here is dictated by the state to give the email addresses Henry seems to find nothing I told my friends beforehand that well, Well, you know, the country is cut off The following morning, The same background music It's not yet 6:00 in the morning. The sky is darkened by the opaque And already small hands are busy The woman is directing her movements, Everything must be perfect in this But the extreme poverty Between two rows of buildings, a septic tank on wheels, A few steps away, dressed identically, practicing That's North Korea, a crazy contraption whose wheel somehow In a country there is however a god. He's called Kim II-sung, He ruled a country His image is everywhere statues, photographs, More powerful than a mere life president, he appointed himself And like everyone else the French tourists What will you do with those flowers? I'll lay them in front Next is the approach At more than 15 meters high, It's solid bronze The protocol is precise, We stop here. But first we'll put the flowers down So go and place your bouquets, Step back a bit. All together now in a line, and then we'll count to three. And at three, everyone bows. How many times? Only once, right? The bow, one, two, three... Paying tribute to one doesn't seem too upset Jacqueline. I love it. Saluting a dictator?! It's amazing. The Asians like to bow, even when they just say Everyone does it in Asia. What if we had to bow How would you feel? I wouldn't do it, Well, maybe for Carla. After the French group, another group of Koreans A perfect salute. And it's time to tidy up for the next party. And so it goes every hour, For now, the tourists visit The North Korean guides in the best light. It's a far cry from the more usual image The tour of the communist paradise Next step, the pizzeria, the only pizzeria in the country. Dining there is a privilege and the few foreign visitors. This restaurant is essentially a whim created on the express orders simply because he loves pizza. And of course, as in any hot spot, Everything started and then he had an Italian chef And then he said to himself: &quot;Well, listen, So the chef left and then an Italian expert And at the beginning, &quot;No, it's not right. We need to carry on The only pizza man will prepare the tourists dinner. In the kitchens, despite two power cuts. The pizza man one of the few North Koreans Two years ago, I went to Italy for learning pizza. Okay, thank you. A cheese and ham pizza Guillaume comments that it's not every day This is the only chance So enjoy it. Payment is in dollars or euros, but not the local currency North Korea might be opening up a little, and not just because People are now allowed boating on the river Taedong Rollerblading youngsters can be seen and mobile phones are no longer although only local calls are allowed. There are even places bowling, pool, and highlighting the growing influence imported from their ally, China. The tourists pay scant attention What they want is tradition. Souvenir hunting takes them But when they arrive, There's no sign of any embroiderers. I want a refund, Can't we see just Just one? Just one? Are there any ancient examples Yes. The only evidence is these two little kittens in the dark. It's difficult to make anything out. A lighter isn't bright enough, On the stairs, an employee But even that doesn't help. So the only option towards the light. It's very pretty. If you could make it out, of course. At 150 euros, is trying to make a sale. It's painstaking work. It's very pretty, but it's not handmade. The tourists are disappointed and don't need to be asked twice It's very disappointing. The workers have apparently gone out. There's no electricity and the institute as a whole We didn't see any old examples, no clothes, Nothing, really. They realise that here things Information is not freely available. Everything is filtered The Internet is totally prohibited. And the Central Library of Pyongyang but aren't connected to the internet. A quick test on Google No response, nothing. There is no network They want to control and it starts at a very young age. In the streets, are already learning to march and step, chanting patriotic songs to the glory A few blocks away, a kindergarten. These kids aren't singing, and other playground games, Again, the image of happiness and Henry, who has just had is under their spell. He told me about the youngsters in town, You won't see young homeless people and certainly no kids who take drugs here. And the children respect their teachers. Well, all I can say really is, Poverty is carefully hidden and almost impossible to film. By contrast, to present to tourists. Inside, the children are beautiful, The teaching tools are incredible. In this room, the kids learn A little further, a collection of all the local wildlife. What better way There's a brief show The headmistress The kids welcomed the visitors warmly, In this class, children under five are learning about the major episodes which are then recited with gusto. Using a video, The eternal president Through them, is assured. Their brains are Claude, who was a teacher all her life, They learn a lot by heart. They learn everything about history, about the president, And they start to teach them about what he did. And everything is repeated. They repeat everything I still remember the first thing Claude makes sure what she says who hovers nearby. This room is the dormitory where the children can take afternoon naps From the age of five, never going home. The state takes over the role of parent. A little further, other children play, The military influence is all pervasive. Exact replicas of MiG fighters, some kids dressed as army officers, while others board a huge electric train. It's better than any Western school. So much happiness and good humor. You almost have to pinch yourself It's tough to criticize when To conclude the quick tour there's nothing like a little show. It features a gifted young violinist. The kids are all made up, learned by heart. And all behave like miniature adults: guitarists, twirling dancers, virtuoso singers. Everything's stage Even the smiles meant to embody the ideals of North Korea. Hundreds of hours of work to achieve these sort of results. To finish on a high, a piano solo by a five year old who reproduces every gesture The French tourists are enthusiastic. Did you like it? Yes, it was magnificent. Your visit to the kindergarten We'd just like to thank the headmistress. Thank you. I was reminded of my own childhood when we always did and we would never have dared misbehave, like run a battle or make noise. It reminds me a bit of what it was like In the yard, and slightly dampens A guide translates &quot;Kim Jong-il is the best in the world&quot;. They are wanting It's the kind of slogan that reminds a dictatorship in which 25% of GDP is spent on the military, That's 10 to 15 times than most European nations. In all, it's estimated to do battle An old style army with hundreds of thousands tanks and completely obsolete fighter aircraft. Yet the North Korean army Since 2006, This is precisely and why even It's something that makes Mr. Jon, We feel very good about For example, we have now managed A heavily armed and very secret country. And now to one of North Korea's the north, An old twin engine plane It's owned by Air Koryo, banned from flying in Europe. It's a two hour flight making the journey is why Claude is here. We're now close to Siberia Foreigners are usually not allowed. And in the special area, Three new guides join us. The slightest movement will be monitored We're on our way now to Mount Paektu, the highest point in the country. It's 2750 metres in altitude. And after the winter, which is why there are Actually, and it's not long We can't go up It's dangerous. You can see that for yourselves. If we slide, it's all over. There are still 28 kilometres It's impossible. Claude is hardly surprised though. Claude, so the roads are closed? Yes, it's only to be expected And they have no machines here The vehicles aren't properly equipped. Yeah, there's no snow chains and they just don't clear the snow. Can't we just run some snow rackets? In the absence of the sacred mountain, the tourists at least It looks deserted. It's like an abandoned show village. Where are all the inhabitants? There's no smoke or anything. Where are the people? Only a can of cooking oil We'll never find out more. Mr. Jon immediately intervenes Well, I guess we'll just go What time is it, by the way? Lunchtime? Rather than meeting with residents, to another onslaught It's cold and damp to tire of being manipulated. To begin with, are deleted. A young woman dressed in military uniform to the sacred site where Kim Jong-il, Smoking here is strictly forbidden. One more minute. First, we'll visit the house And on the way back, we'll go that way. This house is where Kim Jong-il a shrine that is to be respected. Please don't stand on that. We're told the dictator was born here and there were Claude, who knows refuses to swallow this crude propaganda. He was born on the other side Yes, he took refuge over that. There were never That's just propaganda then. Yes, it's written somewhere Kim Il-sung created the guerrillas In 1920, he was only eight years old. I mean, do they think we're idiots? I mean, it's incredible. He must have been at least 12. Claude regrets especially as all around them They heard what we said. Do you think there are Don't translate it. The friend Jacqueline whispering to the local political system. It seems like we're in a fairy tale The ogre is still alive. Still so long as we're not eaten up, well, I guess that's fine. Look, there's another house Henry, for his part, has no such issues. He loves everything But even he's amazed launches into a patriotic song about the great leader Very nice, thank you. That was good, You know, Kim Il-sung wrote that song. As to the many statues of the dictator, Henry salutes them The minders can't get over it. Do it with me now. Okay, I'll do it again. Mr. Ho is delighted a true supporter of the regime. A few kilometres further on in the middle of nowhere. Again, again with giant warlike frescoes. Claude has had enough This is just all too much. What do you mean? Well, by their size, the style, the way they're made, Henry, of course, disagrees. But you need to remember Yes, but I mean, even the way they sing the songs. But from the urban point of view, all the perspectives are respected and everything is ordered. You know what, it reminds me Yes, in Berlin, was exactly the same kind of thing. I've seen the models. Well, I just can't get to like that sort No, me neither. Comparing the Pyongyang regime to Hitler, When it's time to leave, Fortunately, at least a dozen helping push the vehicle. Their assistance cheers up, Henry. We'd been in North Korea but have so far still been unable This will change though, along the Sea of Japan with a promise of sleeping and being able to move about freely. But the reality is quite different. Like all the country's shores, To prove it, the road which is there to protect by the South Koreans or Americans. It's forbidden, It's impossible to see Even Guillaume, for the past ten years, finds this too much. They make me cross, Why? look, they don't like it. They really go too far. If it's going to stay like this, I'll never plan any more visits So they bother even you then. I'm going to really complain It's too much. I understand they don't want that kind of thing, As usual, Mr. Jon has already this time to justify all the security. On the beaches and the coast, Everywhere around here is a military zone. Too bad for the tourists to spend a night with the locals. It's an extremely except that everything here is false. The village was built purely This village was built for people Okay. All right, so it's a very nice, The people here are lucky. As for the residents, This woman, for example, The evidence, of meeting Kim Jong-il, An honor since this charming lady in the country as Mr. Ho explains. From time to time, We select the mothers and in a proper socialist way. Rather than endure yet more propaganda, the tourists plot their escape. The beach is not far. It's too good an opportunity For the first time, the grinding poverty and that must remain hidden. On the beach, women are picking up seaweed and stuffing it into old sacks. The seaweed will be served up for eating. But we are soon tracked down We can go there. We can go to the fishing there. We want to see the fishing man. You come with us, No, no. Please. I have no... I have no ability to go forward. And if you go with me and if you go along this route The gesture has The man will risk his life This is my last stop. Look this sight. Down there, he says, And this time we are promised, that photos will be allowed. At the entrance, The architecture The tourists seemed to perk up a little. It's nice, I love it. I've taken lots of photos this morning. It's beautiful and clean. There's even a small demonstration But again, and totally artificial. Nobody lives here. The tourists never see any North Koreans, who are not allowed to talk to them. No? We find a small but it's useless We walk outside over there No, no, Okay, well, and come back a little bit later. Okay? No, we go together. The door is locked now. Why? I can go that way. I've seen another way out. No, you can't, No, we won't give permission for that. Mr. Jon, for a few minutes outside. No, he never said that. Okay, I'll go to the library then. It's not possible? I know what you're up to. Well, at least I tried. Mr. Jon, our guide isn't fooled. He knows the rules No images of real life. This fake village a prison from which you cannot escape. The solid wooden doors A third generation of Kims Indeed, Kim Jong-un, the 27 years old son has been named his heir.