- So, look, you stepped into but that was after a and you took over at and with sort of the demand for cloud computing services So, in a nutshell, can you explain to us what your vision is for AWS? - Sure, yeah. Look, AWS has been going and our vision is not that which is largely to help and governments now, to be able to go and focus on And so our vision is we wanna and storage and services, whether they're startups can innovate fast and do the things that And so if you're a bank or a two-person startup, running infrastructure and or database services or compute services is likely not the thing and makes you different Those are just the ways And so our vision is to help those companies To help them go fast, help and help them be secure and have great operational availability, and so that they can innovate and focus on what makes And so, that's our focus, and we wanna do that with a where we really partner and we want our customers to love us and not have that old school with their tech providers, where it was kind of antagonistic, but we help 'em grow together. - So, like a lot of big tech companies, Amazon is spending huge amounts I mean, do you worry that this, that all this competitive or do you think it's leading - Yeah, I think, well, look, and particularly generative AI, is a transformational technology that is gonna change every single company, every single job, every And so, when I think and where I think the technology will be, then over the next couple years, I really think that everything, every one of those businesses The way that workflows are gonna be done, the way that businesses will be done, the customer experiences I think they'll be And so, I think this is that will change many of those businesses that are out there today, And so, I don't, you know, there will be stories and now it's a best and then once again, it's But I think it is a fundamental technology that is gonna have the on a wide variety of industries out there. - Can you perhaps give us an that's had a sort of, you know, a tangible business - Sure. Yeah, I think, look, if you think about, there's a whole range. So you can take somebody, like a technology company like Adobe, who, on AWS, saw that this was gonna be, have a big impact on how people And so, they trained a new and now they run Firefly, which to use generative AI. That instead of the old way and going in and trying to update things, you can actually use AI to create images inside adjust images and be much more creative as you're going and inside of their suite. Then you look at somebody who's using generative AI to completely change inside of a hospital. And so if you go into a hospital, and you talk to doctors and nurses, they would love to spend and less time doing the that actually take up much of their time. Together With GE Healthcare, to work together on that problem to try to automate many of those workflows that do take up much of their time today. And then you can go look at where Nasdaq is using AI models today in their market, and or to find if there's any sort of market manipulation things going on. And they've been able to respond to any sort of questionable which has a huge impact on making sure to shut So, and that's just I think in the future, there'll be more and more bigger impacts. - So, I think there's a that Amazon was off to with generative AI. What are you doing to - I do agree that that and I totally agree- why it's wrong. (chuckles) Yeah, so look, I think, I think the whole world was amazed when ChatGPT first came out. And it was a fantastic application. One, in that OpenAI did a great but also, it kind of triggered where everyone realized what these models were capable of doing. And a lot of people in the tech industry had been working on some of these things and trying to kind of crack that code for the last couple of years. And we knew the generative and had the potential to And I think this broadly opened it up to a wide swath of people who understood what these And so what you saw was a and try to get something And I'm sure many of you all, 'cause companies ran and did and they had chat bots on And we took a bit of a different approach, mainly because of how we think about how we support our customers. And so we said, I do think this is gonna be a but the things that our our enterprise customers are, we think, fundamental to making sure that you get this right, which is, they're gonna wanna make sure they wanna make sure that they, 'cause we firmly believe that your data is the thing that one company versus the other as you go and actually apply these models inside your businesses. And so companies wanna make that it wasn't leaked back to models, and that they had control over when they're using it And then we also thought that companies... We wanted to enable people to and interesting technologies, really. And so if you're thinking about putting generative we kind of had this long-term view that you wanted access to that were gonna be there. And we had this fundamental view, which was controversial and is not so controversial today, that there wasn't gonna be one model that was gonna be &quot;the rule But there's gonna be a There's gonna be small and actually used in to go build interesting applications. And the people were gonna in order to actually go and go deliver interesting And so we took a step, we basically said, &quot;We're so that our enterprise our government customers can and build what's gonna be unique to them, and not just get to I think we're now seeing, it's probably been about nine months now, and we're seeing our customers build real enterprise use Not just proof of concepts, but things that are And we're quite excited that we're seeing that business on. - So, you mentioned then security, and I know that you've said publicly that that's your number one priority. There's all this data out companies relying on you to Now, we saw over the summer what a big tech outage looked like when CrowdStrike problems Do you lie awake at night if there was some sort of attack on AWS. - (sighs) Well, we spend a lot so I actually am able to sleep at night, mostly because we spend a lot during the day. But we take that and we have layers upon to try to as best protect, our own infrastructure and And so there's a couple of It's both, and by the way, there's kind of like two It really is security and and they kind of go hand in hand. And as you think about security, there's an enormous amount we invest from the very lowest from hypervisors to kernels to our networks, to how to ensure that we have And we employ many of the best and spend billions of dollars every year to ensure that the AWS And we really start from, every time a software developer they start with security. They think about, &quot;Okay, how am I gonna build They have checkpoints to We actually have AI models that are constantly kind of &quot;Hey, you may wanna in a different way.&quot; And then we have a very rigorous process before anything gets close to production to make sure that we are adhering to all of our best practices. But the other important thing is how we architect our systems. And so, the example you're referring to, CrowdStrike was actually it was actually an where a deployment went out. And so we also have systems that ensure that deployments can't hit and they go out, and they roll so that they go to a little bit at a time, and only certain sets of to try to isolate any potential issues that do get through all the that we have. So we spend an enormous how do we really secure the environment, how do we really ensure that And then we then go build tools along with our broader partner ecosystem to help customers secure And it's a hard problem, by the way, and it's getting harder all of the time. - Yeah, I mean, where do you see the Is it individual hackers? Is it, I mean, you know, you must be aware of - Yeah, I think it's from, look, the security is an I mean, security can be, it it can be your own developers that accidentally lift and published it to a and some ransomware people then took control of your account. Like, it can be a wide range of things that can impact customers. And so we try to help across And it's, and again, security that's easy to bolt on after the fact. And there's others out to try to get that security You have to really build and that is key to ensuring you really have - So another big challenge, which I know you spend a so much so that you've, Amazon has bought its own is energy. And Amazon's not the only one. I mean, other big tech in their own energy sources. Now, nuclear is all well and good, but I think I read that these little moderate- - Small modular reactors. - aren't gonna come on stream So, that's great, but what are to meet the energy demands? I mean, is there going is there gonna be enough for everything else? - Yep. I think it's - (chuckles) Well, - We're more optimistic- they can come- a little sooner than that. But they're just part of the portfolio. And so I think there's a number of things that as we think about both call it three to five years, I think we're trying to think about all of those different timelines, because it's really impactful. As you think, particularly if you think about that folks are building, estimates are that kind of an individual model may require somewhere between one to which is like a small to It's like a million households And so, it's an enormous amount of power that these models could And so, we're thinking about... In the near term, there are projects in can meet all of the needs in And many of those are whether they're wind, whether We've invested, Amazon every year for the last five years has been the biggest investor all around the world. We've done more than 500 adding funding brand new projects, bringing new power onto the is an important renewable source of power. And we think that nuclear And so some of that, by there's a bunch of that's been shuttered, because people didn't need And so the very first project with Talen in Pennsylvania or eventually be almost a that just wasn't being And so, some of that is bringing some of Some of it is thinking you know, called dirty and bring them back online And some of them are investing long term. And some of these small they're not gonna solve but in the 2030s, you know, in 2030 plus, they could be a excellent source of energy as we're looking to solve - So, we have an election coming up, and tech industry leaders have very strong views on regulation. So, the question I wanted to ask you was, if there is a new administration, well, there will be a new administration- - [Matt] Of that much, I'm very confident- I'm more confident of. - Either way, would you still like to see Lina Khan in place? - What I'll say is we with every administration - That's a politicians answer. (audience laughing) No, look, like that is the business from an AWS perspective in particular. We supported both conventions, we support elections all around the world. Not just in the US, but in Latin America and And I think it's an important... And we are, the US government is an and we do support them. You know, we support the we support the DoD, we support the fed and financial services. Like, there are many of the US agencies that run many of their And so we, it is a but it's true. We support agencies throughout whichever the And then we take that I think it's an important mission that we support the country on. And so from our perspective, I wanna continue to support the country, no matter if it's a Republican and that's our plan. - But do you fear that too the development of, you know, these new technologies around AI, or do you think it's the US - Well, I do think, and we spend a lot of and actually, I think that is that the key piece that I advocate for is that we're happy to play with whatever rules the government wants. I think what we advocate for not setting regulations or policies that are inadvertently going to lead us to the place that you're trying to avoid. And that is what I worry about the most, is that if you put the US companies at a competitive disadvantage, by saying, &quot;You have to, you whatever it is, &quot;around AI,&quot; I think you have to be somebody because it's very easy to construct a scenario where you actually give China the leg up that you're trying to prevent by accidentally kind of that are doing all this And so, it's a hard question, by the way. Like, I don't think we know the answer, and I think zero regulation is probably not the right answer either. So, and I'm not saying that, but it's just, we have so that you don't accidentally - So, there's one question that I know everyone here is - They are? One question, that's it? Okay. - One in particular. - And I'll cite the &quot;Wall that we gave when this story happened, which was &quot;Bosses Rejoice,&quot; and it was the news that Andy back into the office five Now, you were speaking and you were very clear. You were like, &quot;So shape up or ship out,&quot; was basically your message. - It's not what I said, but it's okay. (chuckles) - It's your editorial license, but that's not quite what I said. - It was definitely the message. So, have people shipped out, or has there been a lot of pushback? - Yeah, just to be clear, (audience laughing) because it wasn't that, we think that being in person We think that our teams and particularly as we really think about how do we wanna disrupt on behalf of our customers. We find that there is no substitution for doing that in person. Just the creative energy, and how fast you're able to iterate. When you're sitting there or you're talking to people or you're running into people that are in a different department, but you see them at the and there is, just that when you're remote. And so we think that that creative spark is incredibly important what we do at AWS. And so that together with which is incredibly important too, and we think is what makes Amazon special and what makes us what we are, it's very hard to impart in a remote workforce. And so, you know, we tried and then what happened is, you know, Bob would come in on Monday, and Sally would come in on Tuesday, and we kind of didn't because everybody picked a And so we didn't have those teams, 'cause it's really that that we wanted. And so what I encouraged that's what we've decided, and we think that that is We think that's important and the culture of our company. And I said, it doesn't it doesn't mean that that's It doesn't mean that that's but it's the decision that we're making. And so if it's not for You can go and find another But for us, that's what we've decided is what we think is the best and that's how we wanna - And so do you, could you put a number on what percentage of to churn in January or before then? - I don't know. It's a good question. I think, look, I've had plenty and say, &quot;Part of the reason is because I wanna work together with a bunch of smart And so I like that we're doing this.&quot; And a bunch of, I've heard &quot;Look, it's super hard for and to get people back 1/2 or 2/3 or 3/4 of the team is back in. But if they're not, everybody's there, you still are in this weird hybrid mode.&quot; So, you know, I don't I am optimistic that most of our employees actually are excited about But you know, I also think that there's that want to work on some of the hardest and want to work on some and the most exciting things and that they actually get with a bunch of other smart people really trying to solve And those are the people to work with us. a lot of CEOs on the phone saying, &quot;Good for you! Let me know how it goes.&quot; - Look, I do think, and there's a reason, it's because I do think that, look, some of those decisions are hard, but I do think that a the speed of execution really is better when you get your teams in person. - So, we haven't got much time left, but I just wanted to ask you, you've obviously been - 18. I'm not quite 20 yet. Oh, you need to correct the record. - Oh, you know (speaks faintly) fact check. (Emma and Tom chuckle) What would be your advice if you're spending a long for avoiding sort of - Well, I've been super So, I've been with AWS for 18 years, and you know, there's that grow from zero to 105 And so- - You didn't have time for professional stagnation. at 19% as of Q2. And so, still growing pretty rapidly, and that has afforded I mean, my job changed every six months. It was, you know, we were a startup trying to to we were trying to win our to, you know, to now trying that's continuing to grow rapidly, and navigating large and everything in between. And so, I've been I changed couple jobs, and I led engineering I got to lead the sales But what I would say is that I think the key and not being afraid to try new things. I think, when Andy first asked me if I would go lead our sales as an example, I had spent leading deep technical organizations, which by the way, I hadn't so that was also a stretch. But when he asked, I was 'Cause I've never led a sales It's like, &quot;No, you could And so, you know, I jumped in And I think being curious and and I, you know, was and was like, &quot;Hey, I'd love and tell me what works and we'll try to go see if that we can do along the way.&quot; And I just, I think that's part of it, is being willing to try new things. - And what would you say is between Amazon led by Jeff Bezos and Amazon led by Andy Jassy? What have you noticed? - I don't know. It's a good question. Fortunately, I still get So we're not without Jeff, But you know, I think there's a lot of that Andy is particularly as we think about scaling that we have and the phase of growth that we're in at Amazon today. I think Jeff was incredibly creative. He is a very disruptive thinker who innovated on probably than almost any other entrepreneur has. And if you think about and the challenges of and the challenges of how you move some where some were very profitable and others were in growth mode but needed to focus more on that, I think Andy is very And then I think Jeff was very prescient in handing off the reins - Good. Well, look, in spite of the I think we should take some So, has anyone got a question for Matt? There's one over there. - [Audience Member] I'm a new customer. I just (faintly speaking) - Awesome, thank you. - [Audience Member] And the security is definitely the most important to us since we handle very private information. And so when we looked my understanding is that the future really is quantum computing, a So as a company that puts all can you tell us what the future looks like with this type of quantum - Sure. Yeah, the question was around, in case you guys couldn't Quantum's a super interesting technology. I think it's probably a decade out before quantum computers are stable enough to perform really useful work, but could be incredibly disruptive on a number of different areas. On the positive side, I think like things like material science and optimization problems, where, unfortunately, it's is another thing that quantum computers will be very good at, once So my advice today is look There are many out there. Some of them, I think onto exactly what that standard is, but I'd encourage you to keep an eye out on quantum safe encryption. That's the best thing you to really ensure your security for when quantum is is out there. But it's an area that AWS is, also makes big investments are, and it's a super interesting in the next decade.