Have you ever plugged in a USB drive and seen this drive&quot;, and wonder, what does that even mean? you're about to find out exactly what it truly even though I'll show you the technical stuff, you don't know much about computers. So let's get this message to appear, and how Windows knows it in a way you're really not supposed to. Okay, it decide that there's a problem with a USB drive? thing. In fact, it looks at one very special byte the &quot;dirty bit&quot;. And it's very simple. If you plug dirty bit is set to 1, it shows the warning. If use this built-in Windows command in the command letter, and it will tell you whether the drive is at the actual hex data later and see the change what might cause this dirty bit to change from 0 to explain, even at a technical level. But I will the drive is failing. Though I'm sure a lot of you it's from unplugging the drive without ejecting it bit more nuanced than that. You might never bother error. It will all become clear in a minute with USB drives, another problem we all encounter which is where today's sponsor can help, spot. For a couple examples, scammers will often like these fake Halloween sales. I mean, I guess just more evil. Or they'll even often pay to run Better Business Bureau, 40% of online shopping But besides the usual advice to stick to reputable you do to protect yourself? Well fortunately, scam detecting chatbot called Scamio, specially even be aware of. If a website looks suspicious, you, just provide Scamio with info about what's can show it text messages, links, QR codes, Scamio is totally free and accessible not just WhatsApp, even Discord. Of course, Bitdefender to protect your devices from malware and hackers link in the description to check out Bitdefender's also check out their other security solutions. And enough beating around the bush, what causes this Well, it's basically just a way for Windows and data was being written to the drive, and whether copy a file to a drive using Windows Explorer that dirty bit to a value of 1, and then start it will set it back to 0 again. The idea being bit is already 1, then that means that apparently data to it before at some point, whether the drive crashed while writing. In any case, that means files on the drive was corrupted, assuming that files in parallel at the same time. So if Windows it shows that warning, and that is the &quot;problem&quot; runs is basically just &quot;chkdsk&quot;, it just does a file system. And you can actually run the whether it detected a problem or not, it but you can anyway. Here is something interesting you can actually manually enable the dirty bit set&quot;, and then the drive letter. But be aware that disable it. I guess the reason is it might be too instead of doing the actual scan. Anyway, if I it's now marked as dirty. And then if I unplug and a problem with this drive. So let's take a closer use this hex editor called &quot;Imhex&quot;, it's free and drives. And don't worry if you don't know any only interested in one thing here. And of course, you're doing in any case. So one neat thing about basically tells the program where these different kind of identify it. And I made this one for you don't need to know all this, but since I know pattern it's called, in the description if you highlighting that the dirty bit is located exactly it is indeed set to one. And now what I can do is and then run the scan to repair it, which if we open the hex data back up, we can now see it. Now I know what you're thinking. &quot;Can you but please do not do this. I don't know if there's this on an empty drive for demonstration only. Now same thing as that fsutil command. And then if we it is dirty as expected. And now I'm going to do dirty bit to disable it instead of using the this for the reasons I talked about in this entire 01 to 00, then close it and run the command to without even running the scan. And the properties now a final couple of points. If you're wondering, warning is actually to use the USB Eject feature. operations are completed before it disconnects it. is being accessed on there or written. It might a file over, but maybe some program is reading writing it that way. Though I believe just reading but it's only if it's writing something, but do often see this error message come up on drives probably is some program that you have installed is accessing the drive and writing stuff to it. but also don't assume that just because you can them that the error must be wrong so you can just is dead. It just means that there might be some scan and be sure to eject it properly, if you if you're wondering why it seems that nothing computer or have a power loss, it's actually technology called self-healing NTFS, which I'm not that's used by Windows has some features that does transfer from one location is completed so that recover it. But that's just one example of it. remember in the Windows XP days, if you did every time it would tell you to run chkdsk. And but you don't really see that these days because scenes, unless something is really wrong with the Windows Vista was all bad. That's kind of when to know what you guys all think. Do you ever was? And do you actually run the scans and maybe We can talk about that all down in the comments. Be sure to check out their free Scamio AI Scam by visiting the link in the description. If recommend is where I had some fun breaking the mean by that, you'll just have to watch that video I'll see you over there. Thanks so much for