(orchestral music) - Give me your horse. I ain't asking- (gun booms) (body thudding) (hooves clattering) (heartfelt music) - [Elsa] She wouldn't speak Wouldn't look at my father. Wouldn't look at me. I heard her crying by I sat beside her and She said she killed a man over a horse. And now John was the to reach heaven. (train rumbling) - Don't do that. Don't hide from it. Beauty's meant to be admired. Let me look. Yeah. Look at you. (purse thumping) All right, ma'am, I get... Ma'am, I get your point, ma'am. All right, ma'am. (purse thumping) Good day to you, sir. You're gonna be the death of me, I swear. - I was just looking out the window. - [Margaret] The window (liquid swishing) (pot clanking) - [Mary] You drink coffee? - It's not for me. - There's no one else here. You lied. - I did, didn't I? - What kind of a woman drinks coffee? - I can't wait to hear This coffee is for him, Someday, if you're lucky to find a man, or simply find a man who you'll learn coffee is a - And to think, all I wanted Ain't all I wanna do now. (gun clicks) - It'll be the last thing you do. - There's a dozen guns with 60 You only got two. - And they're both for you. (gun thwacking) - Get off me! (boots thumping) (horse screeching) (horse thumps) (men grunting) (Mary screaming) (gun booming) (hooves clattering) - Cowboys are heading back to their camp. Need a few boys that help hold the herd. - Well, pick some. Most of 'em, they don't speak English, and ones that do say they can't ride. - Well, (chuckles) they - I don't disagree. Just not sure keeping our food Sure could use y'all. - I can saddle Lightning. - You ain't going by yourself. - You're coming. - No, I'm hunting. We need meat. - I'll catch Poco too. Take care of your son. - [James] You gonna ride herd? - Tired of getting my teeth My choice is to sit on I'm gonna sit in saddle. - How am I supposed to with a five-year-old - Teach him be quiet or find a dumb deer. - I can be quiet. - Well, I guess we're about (cows lowing) - Woo, one for me, one for you. - Think that one's taken. And her husband don't I'd keep that in mind when - Well, uh, good looks - Good manners don't seem to run in yours. We should push these cattle to the water, hold 'em tight for the night. - That's the plan. Just waiting on the cowboys to do it. - Then you are all out of (hooves clattering) - Guess this outfit's got a - She could boss the President. - Hm, the President could probably use it. (hooves clattering) - You smell like a goat. - I was gonna bathe in the river but Ennis said this is bandit country and not to go anywhere alone. - (scoffs) Sounds like Ennis - He didn't suggest a bath. - If he'd gotten this (Margaret sniffs) - I kissed him, Mama. (gentle music) You mad? - I suppose I should be. But I kissed a few boys and the world didn't end. Just don't let it go beyond kissing. - Why? What's beyond kissing? - You've seen enough farm animals to know how babies are made, Elsa. - I know how they're made. Haven't fully figured how - Mm. You spend enough time with that cowboy, pretty sure you gonna I don't know what life is like in Oregon, but there'll be rules there too. (heartfelt music) This trail, it's as free as you'll ever be. The only rules you need to follow are the ones in your heart. (heartfelt music continues) - We gonna talk about sex now? - We just did. (Elsa giggles) (water swishing) (Elsa laughing) (hooves clattering) - Oh. I-I-I'm sorry, I was, uh... We, I had to... We, uh... - Put your tongue in your mouth, son. It helps you speak better. - Ye-yes, ma'am. The, uh... The wagons are moving. - I thought we were leaving tomorrow. - Leaving now, ma'am. - All right. We'll get dressed. - Yes, ma'am. - Once you leave. - Yes, ma'am, sorry, I'm leaving. (Margaret laughing) - I envy you, honey. I really do. Freedom is anything but, Elsa. And every choice has fangs. Do you understand me? - Yes, ma'am. - (chuckles) We're so past &quot;ma'am.&quot; If you have a child, you'll raise it. I will not do it for you. Having a hard enough time raising my own, as you can clearly see. (Margaret sighs) And if you decide to do it again, do it outside of earshot of the damn camp. (heartfelt music) (heartfelt music continues) - If I have a baby, I'll raise it. - Will he raise it with you? - I'll ask. - I suggest you do that. (heartfelt music continues) - I don't regret it, Mama. It was beautiful. And I don't regret it. - Just once I'd love to see One day you'll see it And it breaks my heart. - Some of them cowgirls is Like they ain't never had a mother. - I'm her mother. - (sighs) Would you like a lemonade? - I would not, thank you. - How about a whiskey punch? Look like you could use it. (gentle music) (Margaret sniffs) - Would you join me? - (laughs) Sister, I been (Margaret chuckles) (ice crunching) (glass clinking) - Ice. - My husband bought a block Got the ice box down our well. Hundred pound block will last till June if we don't get in there much. - Mm. and I ain't letting one bit go to waste. - Hm. (Margaret chuckles) (Margaret sniffs) (Margaret groans) (gentle music continues) Sorry. (chuckles) Thank you. - Children can have that effect. Mine sure did. - I've never seen that before! Never seen it before! (laughs) - Hey. I gotta go study the river. (both laughing) - (both laughing) - Can I trust you to stay here? - Yep, this long. As long as this is. (both laughing) (gentle music) (both laughing) (body thuds) - What is this &quot;fuck&quot;? - Fuck did you just call me? - Yes, what is this &quot;fuck&quot;? - He don't know what that word means. Neither does he. And he's about to ask So maybe just don't use it, huh? - It's a hard one to shake, Shea. - Well, start shaking. (Josef speaking German) - What does fuck mean, Mama? - It means a spanking, and a - Is he getting a spanking? - Some form of one's - Mmhmm, come on. - [Cookie] Line up! - Half a steak for him? (hand slaps) Okay, a whole steak. - You use that word in I'm gonna stab you with this fucking fork. - Yes, ma'am. - Half a steak's fine. (utensil clanging) Say, &quot;Thank you.&quot; - Thank you. - You're welcome. - Thank you. - Just so you know, that - Lesson learned. - Yeah, we'll see about that. - Are you happy? - [Margaret] In general or at this moment? - Both. (Margaret sighs) - In general, I'm worried. (sighs) As a wife, as a mother. Our survival feels beyond our control out here. So, no, I'm not happy in general. (heartfelt music) But in this moment, with the man I love, a son I adore, and a daughter I envy, I am very happy. - Them pioneers find their rifles? - (sighs) Found a few. They're right there. - I'd get 'em loaded and handed out. - Why? - Looks like some thieves I doubt it'll happen this way, - Where's my husband? - Went after 'em. - Where's my daughter? - Uh, she said the safest place on earth is right behind him. (Margaret sighs) - I want you boys to sit here and guard my son with your life. (wagon thuds) I need your horse. - Why? - So I can go get her. Get off the goddamn horse. (grass rustling) You guard my son with your life. You understand me? (hooves thudding) (sighs) Well... I see where the girl gets it. - Apple don't fall far. - Y'all wanna hunt for grasshoppers? - You're going anyway. - I don't know where I'm going. I ain't going to Denver. And I sure as hell ain't going back. (stern music) - Do you wanna go to Denver? - I haven't factored what There's a map in your father's mind, no one can stop him from following it. No sense in trying. He said to trust him. I'm trusting him. - Do you trust him? - Know why he lets you - 'Cause he trusts me, too. - 'Cause he knows dresses is your future. No matter where we go, And raising babies, and and swallowing every 'cause that's all the He may find someplace where we can hold the but it'll find us there too, and bring all their rules with it. (heartfelt music) - Are you aware of what he's asking? - I'm aware. Take the horse, Daddy. - Young lady, I will not allow this. - You're not allowing it. I'm 18 years old. I'm allowing it. - You think being 18 makes you a woman? - Law thinks it does. (heartfelt music) (heartfelt music continues) - Don't just stand there, stop him. Shoot him! Do something! (Margaret sighs) You are my child. When you fall down, and you will, it is my duty to pick you up. I can't do that if I and if I don't know what you've become. - It's not your duty anymore, Mother. I love you. But I'm a woman. I pick myself up. (heartfelt music) I'll ride with you to Oregon, then I know where to come if I ever need a place to start over. Maybe I'll just visit, (heartfelt music continues) - So, um... Is there some form of ceremony? - No ceremony. (Margaret sighs) - All I ask, have a ceremony. Say vows before God, so this at least has a chance. - He saved my life. Twice. Saved your husband's life, too. I don't need to ask God's God sent him. (heartfelt music continues) - [James] I could make her go with us. - How you gonna do that? If you tie her to the back of the wagon, she'll just chew through that damn rope. She said she'd ride with us to Oregon and come back to him in the spring. Let's just hope she - With the pattern she's established, she'll fall in love again - (laughs) That's not funny. - You're the one laughing. You think our daughter's falling in love? I bet there's emigrant kids fooling around behind every bush along this creek. Ours just doesn't hide it. If she loves something, she'll hold its hand in (heartfelt music) - She gets that from you. - She gets racing up that hill from me. But the way she loves, she gets that from you. That's why it scares you so bad. (stern music) - [Elsa] We should stay. Better, follow Daddy's - [Margaret] How am I supposed - Leave the wagon. - Should I leave your brother here, too? Two women and a child alone, on the only road in the in this nation. There's strength in We go with them. - I think it's a mistake. - It's all a mistake, Elsa. The right choice is luck, that's all. You need to put on a dress. - Why? - Because if you ride into that army fort half naked, dressed like an Indian, have you not learned enough - Then I won't go in the fort. I'll stay outside. - Grant me one less thing to worry about! (wind rustling) (wagon thudding) (gentle music) - (sighs) I wish I had a mirror, (sighs) so you could see yourself. (Margaret sniffles) (heartfelt music) I am not wearing it for me. You can see it. I guess that's all that matters. (Native Americans yelling) - Wait for it. They're too far away. - Come on, baby. (Native Americans yelling) Come on! (Elsa grunting) - [Elsa] There was no time to think. No time to decide the right thing. Best I could hope is maybe and the wagons would have a chance. (suspenseful music continues) - Aim for the horse, (gun booms) - Goddammit! - It's too far, even for that. - They're almost on us. (Native Americans yelling) Fire! (guns booming) (guns continue booming) - Damn it! (guns continue booming) (guns continue booming) (suspenseful music continues) - This is gonna hurt. - It don't hurt, I'm telling you. - Grab my hand and squeeze. - It's fine. (arrow cracks) - You all right? - It don't hurt, I'm telling you. - Where's the bandages? Give me one. (Elsa panting) When I pull this, she's gonna bleed like Press against the wound You ready? - It's fine, just pull it. (Elsa gasps) (Elsa screaming) (wound hisses) Here, here, move it, move it! (wound hisses) Wrap it tight. (grunting) You've done this before. - Not for an arrow. - You nursed in the war? - Who didn't? Cover, help me get her in the wagon. (heartfelt music) - Where we bury her is where we stay. That is our home. - Not here. Not in this place. - No, not in this place. I will find a place. By God, I will find a place. (heartfelt music) (heartfelt music continues) (Margaret sobbing) (Margaret sighs) - I need a minute.