In the little town of Lavau an archaeological excavation has shed light on the grave dormant underground for over 2,000 years. This is an exceptional discovery. When he was found, the deceased was surrounded Certain items of Greek maybe thousands of kilometers. The archaeologists from the era of the Hallstatt Celts, dating back to the sixth Such tombs can be found The burial of important figures among an abundance of jewels was a customary tradition What of this society Where did these magnificent objects How did they get here? Who were these Hallstatt Celts, and where did their opulence come from? The Celts were first mentioned Indeed, as the Celtic people they have left no written testimony We don't even know the name The name Celts a Greek historian, Stephane Verger is an archaeologist who specializes in the relations Amongst the travelers who visited was Herodotus, the first Greek historian. Herodotus is responsible of the way He re-established the location and in their place he located a people the Celts, Keltoi in Greek. There is a well-known phrase of his which constitutes The Istros River near the town of Pyrenees, The Celts are beyond and beside the Phoenicians, the last people of Europe The Istros River meets the Pontic Sea, The Pontic Sea, where Herodotus situates corresponds to the Black Sea. The Istros River, which meets the Black Sea, Today, if one were to follow the Danube to the place one would reach the southwest of Germany. There, in the Baden-Wurttemberg, one can find the site of the Heuneburg. During the Celtic area, the plateau was inhabited Some homes of the Heuneburg by the archaeologists. Dirk Krausse is among those Here, below we can see the Danube. Herodotus mentions that the Istros River, has its source on Celtic land This is the first mention ever made outside the Mediterranean sphere. Everything seems to indicate In Lavau, the digs continue. The deceased was a contemporary He was found in the center of a necropolis that was used for thousands of years. However, none of these graves equal the sumptuousness They were buried measuring almost a hectare. Bastian Dubui At his side is Emilie Miller, a specialist in metal objects whose job is to unearth Right now I'm clearing You can see the metal part of the handle The Greek god of rivers and his beard. Each of these segments felines, cheetahs, and leopards. The few fragments testify to the exceptional nature The figures of the Achelous God point to the cauldron's distant origins, which were probably made Inside the cauldron, It's really quite amazing. Pieces like this heightened with gold. It's really very rare. This object is called an oinochoe. A Greek jug and which is often decorated There we are. We have the bottom section. It's also decorated with gold. For the archaeologists, and of the oinochoe confirm that they are looking at one ever to be discovered. This grave does indeed date back The Hallstatt territory over part of today's France in the West, up to the Cen and the Loire rivers. Finally, in the east, The Lavau grave is representative of what is often called The Hockdorf grave in Germany already met the qualifications The presence of a cart and golden finery Then the Vix grave was unearthed, with its large Greek krater an incredible piece of jewelry. Let's go back in time. The startling revelation began in the 19th century. In 1846, in the Burgundy region, scholars unearthed the beautiful cauldron A few decades later, in Germany, funerary deposits were discovered They clearly testify German scholars then suggested the idea Then, in 1953, the Vix grave was discovered. It contained, among other things, a large vase, 1.65 meters high and 1.20 meters wide. It is the largest Greek vase During almost two centuries the princely phenomenon in hundreds of graves. However, it is the Vix grave, the Hockdorf grave, that are considered the most remarkable. The Lavau site rests by the River Seine, 70 kilometers downstream It is in this village that the grave of the Lady of Vix Archaeologist Bruno Chaume for over 20 years. Twenty-five hundred years ago, inhabitants covered Lassois Hill, and the Lady of Vix We're on the top Underneath our feet was the central grave. The Lady of Vix was buried a tumulus elevated over her grave in order to mark its place surrounded by objects of great value, She rested upon a cart Princely tombs It would seem that these rivers in the thriving situation The Senne, which flows has its source upstream and flows towards the channel, This privileged position can easily be linked to the wealth Much like the Vix site, the Heuneburg site in Germany that overlooks a river, the Danube. What part did the river play Yes, perfect here. We are at the foot of the Heuneburg. Here, the Danube It takes its source in the west and continues over 2, 500 kilometers to join the Black Sea, where at the time The Heuneburg between various rivers To the east, from Western Europe to the Black Sea to import goods from Southern Europe. To the west, the Rhine opens the way the send to the channel and the Northern Rivers By land, and finally Italy on the other side. To the southwest, For someone looking for a place from which from north to south and from east to west, the Heuneburg is the ideal place. The top of the plain textiles, and metallurgy workshops, At its apogee, the Heuneburg's population an exceptional concentration for the time Due to the geographical location and the economic situation it was very important The fortifications around the Heuneburg He who settled here had great power The development of princely sites is directly linked Via the rivers, all sorts of materials would come through Near the Vix site is a town There, the wealth of objects found in 1953 is kept in the Museum Felicie Fougere, archaeologist and conservator is the director of the museum. Also found in the grave a fossilized vegetal resin during antiquity. Amber was found bracelets that were worn It was also found on a necklace Amber is a material in the best-endowed graves It is a material that attracted contemporary to the Lady of Vix. What is notable in a grave is the presence of amber, a material that comes from the Baltic Sea, This suggests that the material We can also find fibula, Finally, there are even fragments which decorated Since coral is Mediterranean, that crossed Europe which is absolutely considerable. This map represents Archaeologists have found amber even though amber comes from the coast all the way to the north of Europe. The rivers that lead to Central Europe From Central Europe and along the Danube, as well as throughout Amber has enabled the development of trade whether from north to south between the various centers Although the large crater remains other banquet pottery This oinochoe of Etruscan origin was used to collect the beverage Together with the basin, surprisingly far from the Mont Lassois, and are made of bronze, a material Bronze can be used for prestigious pottery but really its most important use was probably in military equipment. In fact, that's exactly around the neck of this face, as the characters represented here otherwise known as hoplites. They are wearing helmets, which are shin protectors, Hence the conclusion that bronze The funerary bronze objects traveled throughout Europe Brought over by merchants Lavau presents By its style and its craft, archaeologists believe that the cauldron was made in a workshop The excavation site shows multiple objects from various parts of Europe. The presence of imported ceramics, is a phenomenon at a time and buried in princely tombs quadruples. The very fact that there are a dozen in a grave or even further from Greece, already well-known about princely tombs Concerning the medal ware, due to the presence which is a very remarkable The precious artifacts were assembled Thus we found the oinochoe with the black figures Certain objects undertook a long journey before being buried in the grave The oinochoe contains black figures The cauldron with the Achelous heads, the origin of which is not yet known, or in Etruria. This small jug and bucket called Cista Amber found around the neck comes from the Baltic Sea. The coral that decorates the pins comes from the Mediterranean. For approximately two centuries, luxury items, traveled hundreds, in order to end up What value did the elites We know that they did not participate The Hallstatt Celts What type of exchanges At the National Museum of Archaeology archaeologist Laurent Olivier He is particularly interested These two objects Here you have an object We call this a stem nose. Then there's this small object meaning a drinking cup that were made in Greece. We think these were gifts that were given in exchange or access to certain raw materials. Therefore, to reward them, they are given objects for indigenous people To use them is to show one's social status It is beyond a unitary object, It is truly an object of prestige The stamnos and scales in the Aube region. These are imported pieces. Inside the tomb, that are made locally, found in the tomb of Celle-sur-Seine. Circulating in the Celtic world, these objects are also given and are attesting to the social status During this period, as a form of currency. These objects were not bought. They were not produced to be sold. In these archaic societies, economies were based How did it work? The powerful accumulated wealth By giving, they secured the allegiance These objects and functioned as alliance networks It also creates a relationship of debt. The economy is one of gifts Such gifts are never altruistic, These magnificent objects, the beauty had an important role between Celtic tribes. They also embody a fondness that confirms to all the importance A few kilometers away, is the center of research The particularity of the Lavau oinochoe are the gold and silver decorations Why did the Celts To repair it? To embellish it? To reappropriate it? The improvement and enhancement are traits that reoccur frequently This customization is particularly common to distribute beverages. It was a vase to be shown In Germany, in the Museum in Stuttgart, also embellished by the Celts. Thomas Hoppe is an archaeologist of the Celtic collection for the museum. Here we have objects where there's a large tumulus an ancient center of power There are notable such as utensils for beverages, a large cauldron and a ribbed bucket. Nearby there are drinking vessels. What's exciting had broken near the coves What is remarkable that the local Celtic artisans and then decorated them. In order to repair these cups, the Celtic artisans were not content and attempt Their gesture goes far beyond. It consisted of bestowing it In another room of the museum, also repaired by the Celts Here's the renowned lion's cauldron that comes from It's the lion figures in particular It is clear that these artifacts However, what is even more remarkable It is in the place It is very different Its outline and size of 30 centimeters are almost identical, This means the Celtic artisans in their own style. To them, it would have been just as easy but they chose to simplify this shape. The cauldron from Hochdorf contained, 300 liters of mead. As for the immense Vix cauldron, it could contain Most scientists agree Alcohol held an important role meaning that, most probably, was to belong to one The person who organized the banquet was also the one and the one who held the power In Hallstattian cultures, but specifically adapted For instance, the Greek banquet, where alcohol was consumed, In the Celtic world, women participated in banquets Thus, women were associated and probably shared in the power. Bettina Arnold, archaeologist seeks to understand the ways was represented in graves Here it is, perfect. In Germany, the Hochmichele mounds Their excavation revealed the presence both masculine and feminine. When they excavated this burial mound, grave six contained both a male individual again without skeletal remains, that can be gender Male burials are identified mainly Weapons are a little more common Very uncommon Also, arrows and quivers A little more ambiguous Bracelets on only one wrist Particular kinds of materials The fact that there's an iron neck ring is a good example of that. Typically, that would not show up Women's graves are a bit easier in the sense because they have a lot more jewelry. They're wearing elaborate headdresses, enormous belts with staple decorations, and lots and lots of beads. Other markers for female graves include If you have bracelets on both wrists, pins associated with a veil, definitively female. The same thing is true for ankle rings, Traces of Celtic graves Archaeologist Pierre-Yves Milcent has excavated While excavating these monuments, the one around is generally a woman's grave. The female princely tombs that in many ways are very similar Elements of adornment, mark the imminent status In these Hallstattian princely tombs, there is a hierarchy of sorts However, amongst the richest tombs, there is only one that sticks out, In this grave, the most emblematic object There are characters Then we can see To house station observer, it was reasonable could be interpreted as the mark between the troops that went to war, and the female statue that is clearly and seemed to dominate Basically, the Vix crater as the fact that the lady of Vix, could preside over the departures to war, which means that she could make particularly the power to declare war or on the contrary, In many ways, we could say the Queen of Vix. The Lady of Vix or the Queen of Vix. Although history hasn't recorded the name her grave testifies within her community of Mont Lassois. However, how vast was this community? How far did it extend The height of the plateau They revealed A large community must have lived here. The Mont Lassois has a surface within the city walls. The upper plateau we're on The most remarkable building is within the greatest enclosure. It was identified The first zone The objects found there These jugs were used to cull liquid It is possible to imagine The Palace of the Lady of Vix It is 35 meters long and 22 meters wide, and its height is estimated This represents a four-story building. Certain rooms are 500 square meters, and it is possible to imagine that they could hold Around the Lady of Vix's palace, each enclosed by fences As with the Heuneburg, it would seem this plateau The Vix's dwellings and surrounded Thomas Pertwieser and his team are attempting to visualize that protected the heights of the plateau. Here we are in front of one At the time, these fortifications they were monumental. When we observe other structures as the apse houses or the tumulus, we can understand is an architectural feature. These fortifications were monumental. They were enormous. What we have here composed of a double line of defense that as a whole measures These walls surround the Mont Lassois and represent an enormous fortress By their monumental nature, these fortifications project Here is an example of a demonstration These monumental walls were intended to extend in order to instill fear but also in the people In Lavau, the excavation In order to determine the gender it was necessary to make the distinction some of which suggest it was a woman. On the other hand, preliminary observations of the skeleton The archaeologists and Lavau It was, in fact, a man. The wealth of objects are proof that the deceased Such a setup could only be an indication For the people on the territory was probably very vast In the Heuneburg, the plateau dominates the landscape majestically. How far did the territories The Heuneburg was a very impressive sight with its silt brick walls It certainly made a lasting impression Today, we know that surrounding many housing locations fortified tumuli, were scattered along the Danube. I can demonstrate here. Look, the Danube is here. The Heuneburg is there. All around, here's a great quantity graves and villages. The site known as Altenberg is on top eight kilometers northwest of Heuneburg. The Altenberg is an enigmatic place. The stone remains do not correspond The function of this structure, has given birth to a singular hypothesis. This location could have housed On a clear day, the plateau of Altenberg The connection between the two sites Vix Lavau, the Heuneburg, and many others, princely sights Instead, they extended far beyond, but their reign The Heuneburg was burned down, and perhaps it's not a coincidence the main princely site in the north, Certain researchers have interpreted between two princely centers that ended in the Horsburgh which soon yielded. The Heuneburg rose from its ashes However, in the mid-fifth century BC, another devastating fire of the plateau and its surroundings. What's extraordinary the other princely sites This sudden decline marks the end We do not know the reasons but it is possible that the development and Etruscan commerce isolated inland principalities and cultural routes, The disappearance of these great houses corresponds to the subsiding of a system that was relatively pyramidal, In Vix's similarity there are buildings that caught fire as well as fortifications However, in Vix, unlike the Heuneburg, The violent destruction of the tatues of the population, and one soldier. These statues were beheaded. It was an attempt to erase the elites from the landscape From the second half of the sixth century, new centers emerged that developed trade networks with those of the sixth century, and those that enabled luxury goods That is to say, and no more Etruscan imports that turns its back on a system towards the Mediterranean. I think that the end of Mediterranean of the change in social values. This is a society The level grave marks the transition between two types Here, we see a transition from a society is celebrated with ceremonies to the military aspects The system of values is one which existed It's as though and we return to societies An entire experience at the Hallstatt without a future in sight. Now, the Prince of Lavau with equal standing to the Lady of Vix Twenty-five thousand years ago, a powerful individual deposed on a cart, and a cauldron full of alcohol, chosen with care, lavishly dressed and decorated He was laid majestically that would follow him into the next life. The Hallstatt Celts and traded with all the peoples of Europe, They crafted sumptuous objects and gold and gave women They built a flourishing civilization, are unearthed They left behind an image precursors of our own cities. The real reasons for their demise