(intro music) (lively upbeat music) - We have a good, hearty supper for you, something, you know, very With pork, and pasta, and so forth. And you may think that pork, this is what I'm going to because it'd braise for a long time. And you may think that it's and it is true, unless you To start with here, I have a center-cut, a beautiful center-cut, which are, you can see, very lean here. I'm removing that layer from the top. Even though it will come all that trim piece of meat, I go further and remove that layer of fat and that layer of sinew from the top. And at that point, the actually, quite nutritious, you know? So it is important to use the right cut, especially, in fatty So this is clean, basically, the top. Remember, that there is not which have gelatin in it, which I like to use some time to give more taste to the meat. What we wanna do is to which I cut like wedge, like this. You make little hole in it, So this really flavor the meat, especially, for a piece of braised pork. I love pork, and look at the color of it, this one is nice, it's nice and pink. And it particularly goes So on each side of it, I bottom and top. And what we wanna do with that, a little bit of olive oil, have just enough to cover And I wanna put a dash of salt and we wanna start This is a nice, little type of cooker. And with this, we are going to do a garnish here of ginger, that I have here, I have some onion, carrot, which are soaking in water We're going to use all of these, and we cut that in pieces, like this way. Large pieces doesn't really matter because you have to to cook a long time, you know? So when it cooks a long time, and we're going to use that other sauce. Makes a nice sauce with and all the carrot, the Well, that's what I'm doing here. And we put that back on top of it. See, those carrots, onion, always make the best juice, you know? So I will turn that on the other side, it should brown on this side, and you can see starting browning nice. It should really brown for like to have it nicely crusted on each side. And after that, we put our vegetable here. This is not quite brown Then I add chopped ginger, which, of course, is going to The jalapeno pepper, again, chopped, depending on your tolerance, And I'm putting those dried tomato with the juice of the tomato. I wanna cover it very tight. See, this is a nice Dutch oven And that now, you can reduce your heat because that type of and that will take like to an hour and a half And while this is cooking, we wanna do the second and this is pasta and vegetable. I like to cook pasta and vegetable because it goes well together, and that prevent me from making a sauce, you know, with too much oil, and so forth. The sauce we are going to do today is done with zucchini and garlic. So I'm going to cut a zucchini You know, cutting it into slice, then cutting the slice that we call a julienne, like that. Actually, you know, if you cut it in dice or doesn't really matter that much. But I like the julienne Now, the sauce, there is we call it pasta alla primavera, that is spring-style, and you have all kind of vegetable, but here we are using So I put a little bit of olive and with that, we are to saute first, and then the garlic. Well, first, I put my And the pasta here are actually which are like those bow ties, and they've been cooking They take about eight minute to cook. And especially in the new style, you want to have them a little that is a little hard to the way you bite it, And what we do with that, sliced garlic. Sliced garlic is going to be different than the crushed garlic I put a lot of garlic as you can see here, garlic is very good for you. I remember when I was in France, my father had high blood pressure, and he used to take garlic pill that people give you So we're going to add The zucchini should maybe a bit more than what I'm doing. I add the garlic to it, continue sauteing a couple of minute. And the pasta is close to be cooked now. So what I'm doing, first, I will take a little bit I cooked that pasta I know that, conventionally, but I have cooked it with and without and don't really see the difference. Maybe a bit of cheese, then I drain the pasta. I use a little bit of that water because after you drain the pasta, it tend to clung together, you know? So what I do is to put it back in a little bit of that reserved water and my vegetable on top of it. Remember, I have, in the vegetable, I have all of the olive oil that I need to toss it together nicely. Maybe a little bit of cheese on top of it, and that's it, ready to be served. Next, I'm going to be frying some clam, little clam croquettes for you. And there is a lot of saturated fats, so I wanna from the point of view of the cook. So there are first, the then you have saturated fat, which is usually animal fat like butter, although some time you can which can be saturated but this is butter. And of course, the monounsaturated oil. All of the fat have basically in term of calorie. Actually, butter has a little less because it has The polyunsaturated oil, or and so forth, even vegetable oil, I tend not to buy vegetable oil because I don't know where they come from. I used to buy an oil with a name on top, and those can withstand, very high temperature it's good to fry. Now, (indistinct) they None, no oil has The monounsaturated oil such we call canola, tend to and that's why we use As well as a matter, walnut oil, you know, those are cold-pressed oil. That is the fruit is There is less than 1% acidity And you have all the taste, all of what you want and and it's monounsaturated, so that's why we use them a great deal. And with those oil now, they are putting herbs in it. Different type of herb, as well as hot pepper or And now, we are going to fry I'm going to use a canola oil, which is the least saturated of all oil to do our clam croquette here. And to start with, I'm and a scallion, a little bit it is a mixture. You can use different We have usually different that we have on the East Coast, you know? But any clam is going A piece of onion, chop it. Nicely chopped, cut across, and this way. And we start by sauteing this that I have on top of the stove, and that will take about During that time, I'll I have those small clams but you can use the larger one, like quahog or cherrystone, I use a knife for that, and press in the middle, preferably. If you can find the middle, here, and you press on the then after, you can scrape it out with the point of the knife. This is the way you open your clam when you want them on the half shell. But if I do a croquette or a soup, I also open them on top of a bowl because I would like to keep the juice, so I can empty the clam in there, you see. If the clam are too large, you cut them. You can cut them with a scissor you know, to have little pieces. I have a whole bunch which are open here, which I'll put in there with their juice. And with that, we're going to flavor that with some jalapeno peppers. And of course, I'm going to use also that onion and scallion Putting that back on the stove. And with this, we are I like that well seasoned, you know, a little bit of mayonnaise, I have a couple of tablespoons You can even lower that, you know, if you wanna put a bit less. And fresh breadcrumb, fresh breadcrumb is very important here. Your dry breadcrumbs, you know, it's like, a lot different You see here, I have about it will give me that amount of Those three slices of bread, and if I put them in to do breadcrumb is going that is I have half a cup of breadcrumb with one slice of bread. If I do little crouton and I have about two tablespoon out of it. So it's not that you but you have to be aware of it. Because if you put the same amount, you're going to have So we tossed it very gently, you don't wanna make the bread gooey. And you may need a bit more sometime it depend the amount of moisture that you're going to have, you know, the amount of to have in the clam. So what we do with that, About one ounce, one, maybe one and a quarter, And that we're going to fry this again with a little bit of canola oil. Put in the bottom, just Again here, you know, we Then the non-stick help a you don't have to put out as as you will put if you didn't So we put that to cook, and it has to cook a couple And while it is cooking, I think I'm going to check First, I clean up my table. So the pork here has for quite a while, and it's nice and warm. So I'm going to bring it on the side. Those cooker, Dutch iron was because things are so enclosed in. I even like to bring that on I think it looks great. So I'm going to take the pork out. See, my roast has, of course, because it dried out, but I still love it. And before I finish that up, I'm going to turn, I'm going to turn my They are nice and brown. You don't want to overcook I lower the heat further. And I pour that directly, the juice, remember, I had that dried tomato here. All of the dried tomato, all of that in the middle Garlic, hmm, taste good. And then you can start slicing your pork, which now, of course, is You know, you can slice a few piece, and place the whole thing in cover up with fresh herbs. And this is really earthy, that I love to eat. Now, I wanna finish the salad. I have different type of salad here, curly endive, red ruby, and so forth. I have some in there, I'm going to season it with just a touch of it, little pepper, dash of salt if you And this, see, that salad is very tender. You are not going to be able to season that too much ahead, you know? Sometime, I do salad with cabbage, and sometime, I cook it for a while because the cabbage need to Here is a bit of salad in the which maybe a bit too much, there, I spread it out like this. And on top of that, we can put our clams, which are nice and Now, I think I would serve, in our recipe, like three clam croquette per portion, and this is our first course. (light music) And now for our earthy menu, apple. Apple, for me, is winter fruit. You know, I love the taste of And remember that &quot;One apple as it's said, but it gives you 1/5 of in the apple. But that said, actually, at 170 calorie, which is quite low, with Without the sour cream, with yogurt, it's going to be even less. I'm leaving the skin of the First, put your thumb this way, you turn around to have a nice round thing that you can keep with a We're going to keep that to Only on one side, the side with the stem, That's nice. And now, they say, if then put a bit of lemon juice Cut it in half. Again, now, this is clean Put my thumb again with the knife, and remove that center part, so the classic way of cleaning an apple. In our recipe, we have four apple. I have washed those apple, of course, because we are not peeling them. So fruit that you don't peel, I think it's probably a bit Cut them in half, and cut them in fairly doesn't really matter, because they are going to cook And I have on top of the stove, a caramel which is about ready. In fact, it is ready now, so And the caramel, of and a little bit of water, just enough water to moisten the sugar. Surely, even if you don't it will turn into caramel. It should have that deep, strong color of what we call caramel now. So we pour that into the caramel here and that, saute it, you of the caramel on top, and we wanna flavor that with lemon. And lemon, we're going to Again, notice that I'm using a vegetable peeler here, which is falling apart, I can use a knife the same way. And what we do with that is that is you pile this together, and cut it into a fine, You could use just grated rind, I have some here, you see? We put that, again, on top of it. A little bit of the juice maybe, we can press it directly and a bit of water. The water is so that at the beginning, at the beginning, if I that melt my caramel underneath more and I know it's not going to burn. So at that point where I do, I cover it. I know you can cover it with something and you continue cooking it slowly. What happened at the beginning of cooking with the juice in the bottom, it's going to release all and that's important. You continue cooking it covered until you can lift it up and touch, and you know that the apple are tender. When the apple are tender, then you cook it open, until all the juice has been disappeared. And I have one ready here, and this is what it looks. By the time I removed the lid, I start boiling it, full At the end, when it's reduced, it's going to continue cooking, and getting browner, and and that's what I want. At that point, you let it cool off, this is a bit lukewarm and this is what we are going to do now. Now, I use that technique to mold here, which is very easy in my opinion, good. I put a little container like this, this is about half cup, and I put a piece of plastic wrap inside. I do that for ice cream You put your dessert directly in there, and pack it, you know, nicely here. And all you have to do, you can do that, of it's perfectly fine. Press it, bring back the side on top of it to really have it nice and tight, so it doesn't pick up any no taste in your refrigerator. And of course, you have the advantage of being able very easily to unmold it. There is no problem right there. So I have some cold in the refrigerator, and I'm going to get it now to show you how easy it is to unmold it. Bring it in the refrigerator. You know, you can also Sometime, I do that in a kind of loaf pan, press all of the apple. You can do that with pear And do it in that, and just it doesn't cut really nicely. Now, here, another with the skin of the You take a little bit of the skin, and you could, if you in an oval type of shape here, 'kay, to imitate a leaf, you know? It's what I say, you can do it But since we have used lemon and that for decoration. So take one of those, very easy to unmold, just unwrap it. And have that strong, turn So it's nicely molded, as you can see. Then I put one of those in the center, maybe a little leaf to a hole there to put it in on one side, So just dress it up a And as I say, in our recipe, we put a little bit of what I'm doing here is yogurt. So the yogurt will be even less calorie, you can put a little bit on just to decorate. And it goes well with it. 'Kay, even put a bit of I mean, you know, can use And that's it, our menu is now completed. I'll bring it here. We have that type of earthy type of taste and that type of menu. I have my clam here, croquette that you've seen Now, I have the roast of veal, and that roast of pork, rather, with all the garnish is about 250 calorie, which is really not much it's important. The vegetable again, with this is very good. And finally, our apple dessert We serve that usually with I have a Barolo here from Italian. This is a very deep, intense, fruity wine, which I think will go terrific with that. I hope you're going to enjoy Happy cooking.