Getting your data from a web page the good news is that Excel's Web Connector easier for us to import data from the web. Okay, as ChatGPT would say; it's a game changer. So header text. Then I have some blocks down here, and then we have separate blocks for individual page. What if I needed to bring the information I want it to have a separate column for the for lessons, and so on. Notice these blocks are this text. I have to find a way to copy this, and then if I wanted to bring over the right? If I hover over this, we can see the the whole process is manual, right? If I add new blocks, Well, the new Power Query Connector puts an end to we can achieve. We get all the information an Excel table that's connected to the web to have our images here, and all of this is all I have to do is refresh my query, and I with the images. This is super cool, and as Originally, I had another web page in mind where I but that one didn't have links and images. Then I our courses, the number of lessons, and the course to use the Power Query Connector, and there must right? When there's a will, there is a way. Okay, so the first thing you need to do is grab I'm going to Ctrl+C this to copy it. go to Data, From Web, and paste in the Now, Power Query is going to create a connection identify any official tables and also any patterns you as suggested tables. So, for example, under picked up. Now, if we take a closer look at this, course category here, then we have the name, we and then the Join Now button. So it starts with if you want to compare this to the actual content browser. You can just switch to Web View in the page; the images just don't load, but that doesn't actually starts from this section right here, and then it ends right here with Google Now, you can take a look at the other suggested to see if it has the contents that you we don't need that. This one contains some more blocks that we have. We also see the popular one thing that all of these suggested tables have the course image. So, what are our other you might find this useful depending on the type this analysis. We also have the displayed text. Add Table Using Examples. This allows me to give to try and pick up a pattern. Let's say from this the number of lessons, the link to the course, I'm going to start with the course name. I'll call one, so you can start typing in. So, I'm going it pop up in this list, which makes it super select it. Next, I want the course category, and right here. Next, let's also add in the number of to grab the link for the course link; it's going links here, and we have to know what that link is. so that's &quot;Fast Track to Power BI&quot;; that's what the image is also a link. So, I'm going to start images. We can see these PNG/JPG files. The one So, we gave it one example; it hasn't picked up a I'm going to come here and start typing Power Query Beginner to Pro.&quot; It's this and I can see a pattern was picked up. Next, which When I select it and press Enter, a pattern is and again, a pattern was picked up. select the link, press Enter, and let's going to start typing in &quot;PNG&quot; to get all So now that it's picked up a pattern, this is this section, it should be automatically picked created. I'm going to go ahead and transform the Now, we can see that a couple of steps were that's the URL. Then, this part is extracted table back to adding table using examples. Then I got this point, you can add any type of transformation &quot;lessons&quot; from this step, right? I can just select and replace it with nothing. Click on OK, and actually going to push this Changed Type step down, just go and update to a whole number for this one right, but there is no data type that's called send this to Excel? Let's go ahead and close Well, I get my course information in a and the links that I get aren't clickable. go into edit mode. So I'll have to and then I get clickable links or but I don't want that. I want these links to be blocks on that web page and I refresh my query, plus I'm going to see the images of the courses tweak to Power Query. So we're going to go and and select Create Data Type. This feature is an helpful for these situations and any situation like if you're dealing with Master data, in this That's what describes the data, Course or Courses. this data type. So, we want to have the Category so I'm just going to multi-select these Okay, now you're going to see how cool and I get my course data type here. So every we get the additional characteristics. I and I have the ability to expand this, but I and I'm going to send this back ahead and change the table design. I'm I'll just go with this more minimalistic look, and Here comes the fun bit. What we're going to do show you the additional characteristics of each of link, and image. So you can click on these category as well. So I'm going to click on that Let's click on the plus here, add the number and I want to have the images. It kind of looks right? None of these are clickable, and I don't something different this time. Look at the formula the data type here, which is the course, and then the image information. Now, because I'm dealing I can update this formula. I'm going to use the hyperlink, so I'm going to press Enter, What am I going to do with this? Well, I'm the images. All of these links are clickable, page. Now, I just want to expand these and just to make sure that nothing shifts again I'm going to go to Data, Properties Okay, so that's it. We have everything we need. I've gone ahead and updated our course page by &quot;Quick Wins with ChatGPT.&quot; The question is when this image and am I going to see a clickable link? table; this is it. The last one is Google Sheets. &quot;Quick Wins with ChatGPT.&quot; We have a clickable image. This is super cool, and you can pretty much across, as long as it doesn't have JavaScript Before we wrap up, if you've enjoyed the you're going to love what's in store for you in Over 50,000 professionals have transformed their whether you're just starting out or this course is going to be your ticket to in the description to start learning today. you for being here, and don't forget to like and do subscribe if you unsubscribed yet,