Hey Crazies. I'm here to burst your bubble again. This picture of the atom is wrong. The real atom is far weirder than we could So weird, that we had to rule out everything And, judging from the length of the video, with this. Alright, we can't really understand where To the timeline! Debates about atoms have been going on since Democritus first suggested that matter was He called them "atomos" because he thought This is why we call them "atoms" today. Of course, Aristotle thought it was a stupid I still do! Why did I make you? Anyway, the debate raged on for over 2 thousand Finally, the 20th century was fast approaching Thomson discovered the electron in 1897 and Negative electrons floating in a positive Rutherford proposed a better one in 1911 with the proton until 1919. Unfortunately, that nucleus couldn't be the masses on the Periodic Table. We had to wait until 1932 for the discovery Neutral particles are really hard to find. Alright, what do we know so far? Negative electrons are on the outside surrounding That nucleus is made of protons and neutrons, we already knew electrons didn't orbit like This picture is wrong. So what does it really look like? Well, it looks like this, but that's probably Isn't there, like, a visual model or something? Like this, but more accurate? Ok, I'll give it a shot, but be prepared Things got really weird in the 1920s, so let's You are all seeing me because light is emitted We saw in a previous video that individual It's called an emission spectrum and it Whatever model we come up with for the atom Let's start with the most obvious question: Energy levels!! Say we have hydrogen gas in a closed glass If we run a bunch of electricity through it, energy. When those same electrons fall back down, Slight problem though! If that electron could jump to any energy, it only emits these four colors: one red, The only possible conclusion: The electron It can only have very specific energies called levels emit or absorb very specific colors We number these levels: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, etc.; all The electron isn't allowed to be anywhere Not even for a moment while it jumps. It must disappear from one and reappear on I know, crazy, right?! Anyway, back to hydrogen. The four jumps for hydrogen's visible spectrum Any other jump emits light that isn't visible. But why though? That's the question that takes us straight When a measurement can only have certain values, emitted or absorbed during a jump between That's right! We're talking about quantum mechanics! We know that when things orbit by gravity, "Classical mechanics" is the mechanism Electrons don't seem to obey those rules So we needed a "quantum mechanics," a Back to the timeline! In 1924, a French physicist named Louis de What if electrons had wave properties? The electron can only exist in certain energy of wavelengths present. They're not actually orbits at all! This was some serious out-of-the-box thinking, One! Why can electrons only be in certain energy Cutting a wavelength up would be like cutting A jump from one level to another is just a Two! Accelerating charges must emit light. Why don't electron orbits collapse? An orbit is accelerated motion. Electrons should continuously lose energy But they don't. Why not? They're not actually orbiting. They're just waves. But, if a wave like light, can come in little like electrons can look like waves. Why stop at electrons? In 1926, an Austrian physicist named Erwin If all particles are also waves, then we're behavior. Maxwell's equations gave us something like we want for ALL particles. Using the total energy of a particle, what that looks like this, which is designed to an equation to contain all the wave properties Another slight problem though! Even if we think of the electron itself as motion. It should still be continuously emitting light The only solution is that the electron isn't Wait wait. Didn't you just say it was waving? Well, yes and no. Ok I think it's time for a summary again. The nucleus is made of protons and neutrons The behavior of all those particles is governed But, if the particles themselves aren't Later in 1926, a German physicist named Max maybe, just maybe, it's a wave of probability. I know, I know. It's nuts! But it fixes all the problems. I think Richard Feynman put it best when he The wave function for an electron in an atom a smooth charge density. The electron is either here, or there, or a point charge. Huh? Alright, here's how it works: Even though a particle itself isn't a wave, its properties are. Where it is, what it's doing, how much energy but they're only waves of probability. Say the position of an electron looks like It's not smeared out across all space. It just doesn't have a definite position. It's most likely to be here, but also pretty not going to be any of these places. But it could be almost anywhere! So what happens if I try to measure where It'll only be one place. You just can't predict where that will be. The act of measuring it, changes what the It changes the wave from this to this but There's still a little wiggle room. That's what the uncertainty principle is But the measurement doesn't destroy the It just collapses it to a simpler shape. Luckily, some measurements can be made together. The energy, the magnitude of angular momentum be measured together, so those are allowed to be definite all at the same time. Again though, there's still a little spread. A little wiggle room, which is what gives But the definiteness of these measurements in atoms. Information we use to categorize them into Ok final summary. The nucleus is made of protons and neutrons The behavior of all those particles is governed But those are waves of probability, so everything We're not sure exactly what anything is some great educated guesses. And that's enough to predict the entire So got any questions? Please ask in the comments. Thanks for liking and sharing this video. Don't forget to subscribe if you want to And until next time, remember, it's ok to We tried out a new type of video and everyone seemed to love it. But Jeremiah Pendley asked if it would take That's a solid "no" Jeremiah. I just don't want to do the same thing all I need variety, so I'm mixing into the line-up.