My energy and my masks are dropping because I can't maintain them. I feel that I'm different. And it's so tiring. It's so tiring. And I wonder if other elder if they feel the same. Hi, everyone. In this video we're looking at autism So this is a patron's I am not quite 40 myself, would be to hear significantly older than myself, So we are having today to discuss that are relevant I'm interested to hear who have understood a little bit How does autism impact of trying to sort of keep up I've just discovered that I might be autistic this week and I'm 73 too. And I've been riding you know, because I've always fed myself and my mask, you know, And I'm, recently with a group of women, I wasn't any longer and I was in a new community, and I've never actually I've always been a loner. So here I am with a bunch of women in a choir And I'm thinking, I have to become part of this. And guess what? Roadblocks. But now I'm feeling like, yeah, with a few health issues my energy is sinking a little because I can't maintain them. I feel the same. I'm so tired of always to fit in and to cope, etc. You know, but there's always, I'm perfectly OK. But as soon as others come in, you know, And it's so tiring. It's so tiring. I'm 78. And a few months ago, you know, you may be autistic. And I says, I didn't think so. But I know I've been weird And then on Twitter, somebody had posted, from an online questionnaire and I scored very high but also it brought back memories of my childhood how much that affected me. And since I've learned all this following your videos and I find that it's kind knowing that others experience the same things that I do. Like one of the other mentioned. I've always been a loner and I still am a loner, and I'm probably getting into try But for some reason since i've gone through this that basically I don't care what anybody else worry about it. I don't believe that but subconsciously I think there was always, And so if I go to something anybody and I'm not accepted, I could say one thing I'm 60 and have just moved from a fairly quiet town career where I didn't have a lot of social exposure aside from work, and I think the biggest thing that's quite surprising me the patience with people I'm down now in this startling at how irritated I've been a bit fearful very busy areas. That's how I would say my ageing and my exposure to social stuff has really highlighted itself. Yeah, is something until you don't You know, I've been lucky my whole adult life, but it's been really difficult. And, you know, like you said, maintain to be able You know, And I think now that I yeah, I'm ready to give that up Right. I just don't have the, I don't get any benefit I mean, I still like contact but I think it's going to be I'm nearly 76, somebody suggested to me that I was an Aspie my partner of 12 years was getting a bit fed up with my Aspie overwhelm and she found your channel Paul and I've learned so much because it's allowed how I impact others by being an Aspie. I'm learning to catch myself a conversation. Surely you must want to know everything about this But it's also yeah, learning about the mask So pretty early on in any business interaction relevant, look, if I do things it may be because I'm an Aspie. And so yeah and that's allowed me that as everyone said that When we start there's a big gap between the cultural understanding And then sometimes make assumptions I met someone who's hired by the local museum to do some work there for detail, it's So I was just so glad for him. And not only that, but who also had Asperger's like a house on fire, if they might be married. this is great. You know, And before then, I didn't really think about it, There's some changes in the recent past that kind of make things What I learned was that there are so many different And my problem is interpersonal communication, But others is also severe and other ones problems, which and so that's what I've learned set of circumstances What I learned in school when I was becoming we had to learn psychology we were taught that people with autism They can't learn in school etc. And then I discovered three years ago and I saw your videos and I read books So that's new for me. I mean, I was just a weird, shy girl, you know. But I was good what's the problem? The problem was One thing that I ran into discovering that I was autistic people and that certainly isn't true And from what I've seen, I don't know if it's a trait it seemed to be a common feeling from people anyway. Sometimes people describe something akin to grief when realising this thing and as it kind of puts a new way of looking What was it like for you with this new realisation I think it was, as my second favorite because I saw him the interviewer asked him, Asperger's you know, He said, Yeah, of course, I've done if I had a normal And that was yeah, I found that quite inspirational celebrate it in a way. For me, there's grief, you know, because it's new I was with two, two yeah, the second one would consult insurance business he was in and he wanted my input and, and yet the jobs that, that I got into, you know, that was sort of successful was a mining engineer. And so she but the other stuff was just I couldn't talk to women and they were and they were bust as far as I was concerned I was top of the class, So like it was like, OK, why did the bottom fall all of a sudden, you know, even realise until like Oh, yeah. I haven't just started I've been a loner all my life. I didn't even, So yeah. So I'm grieving. Yeah. I really relate It's hard My one friend from bowel cancer last year, and it's interesting that you, because I really struggle you know, I'm different. I'm an organic farmer, you know, And funnily enough, I find the opposite sex So are there things you notice that are getting easier as time goes on? I think everything is getting I lost I lost friends I mean, many times very good intention and then they receive it And I'm at the point that I think And it's a sad thing. It's better not to meet people anymore And sometimes someone gets angry or I did something and I think, well, So when I discovered I'm happy But I'm also far more aware that I'm not so good at. I realise that I'm doing things, well, I say wrong, but maybe I should say differently. And I wonder who are getting older, I was thinking And early on who has been sort of around the world helping people into elder hood and all that good stuff, she handed me and it had a little this is how and this is how much this is how much they don't And the circles, I forget. And I've thought about that well, she still doesn't know where I am with this. And but she kind of nailed it, because our patterns are just different, you know, inside our heads. And, and what I'm getting from what I'm listening to Paul on there are ways together where you can learn in touch with people. Learn the rules. But, you know, and I'd fall into pitfalls And it was like, Total surprise. And then it would be pointed you know, how their world looks to them. And this is what you should be doing. And I still wouldn't get it. So, you know, like, we're just. Yeah, so I'm really happy the gap between the two worlds. It seems I could see in your presentation, or your earlier presentations I can see that it's happening. You know, you're fantastic. So they're going to be who are watching on behalf how can I support my person? What do you think? How can the rest support older autistic people? I think people can if they know on a personal level, I think maybe they can because what we're bad And I think how we get how people know us and if you want to find out the things they're good at I think this is specific to people with autism. But when you do have a problem with a person to listen and not and that's what I get. Whenever talk out you know, they always try to fix it instead of So we should wrap up fairly We've talked Is there anything that you think this is what the world needs to know I would assume we're all late We may have been through if not almost the entire life I think just understanding not receiving support for something that really that we see is that now people who are identified as autistic receive a lot more support We kind of went through it on our own masking and things like that what people know we are right? Because we never understood younger adult life. Yeah. I sometimes wonder if they discovered years ago that I have Asperger's want me to fight my depression, to cope with life. What difference would I had therapy, this so many people of my age not any therapist ever thought of testing me on what is Asperger. And I'm very sure So I think the professional helpers should be more aware of, I think Asperger's you don't, you don't, But they don't know how it feels and that's, yeah a bit more understanding. One of the things I would say would say to people is they're please be prepared for that. Yeah, I totally agree. I think if people would say, if I'm behaving, which are not your typical, then I can do something If I don't know, I've gone and people have never said They just get out and drop out of my life. Whereas if they if somebody had do you realise that which are not that usual, then If I don't know I can't. That's frustrating. Well, we might wrap it up there is a pretty good spot So yeah. Thanks everyone for joining and I'll be in touch. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Today's video topic was chosen If you'd like to have your say Patrons Choice video. You can become a cup of coffee supporter of this channel