We're starting with one of the most mysterious it's very Italian but what does Alfa Romeo even Well, A.L.F.A. actually means anonima lombardia fabbrica automobili. Basically, Lombardia is a region at the North of The word anonima is of course anonymous, but it The word anonymous can be found in the languages around the world and it's basically surname is linked to the company. In other words no with their own assets. Instead, the company is be settled it will be settled using the assets from day one. When the company was founded in 1910 ALFA came under the ownership of entrepreneur Now onto the symbols on the logo itself. What do they That's the symbol of Saint Ambrose. He was 274 to 397 and as a result of his importance and of the city itself, and even today the red cross What about the snake? Well the snake is actually known symbol of the city of Milan. If you go to And the biscione is a symbol of the Visconti 11th century Milan. Now when I was a kid I thought But turns out that isn't true. The red part is Well there's many different interpretations Saracen or Moor aka an Arab to signify victory that the human is actually an Ottoman Turk. I Viscontis didn't like at any particular point in nobody's being devoured by the snake. birth to the human orally. This approach was through the years and they say that the human is Just like the snake is a creature of Yeah so it turns out that the logo has nothing or whatever. It's actually just a bunch of ancient If Alfa Romeo is an example of ancient history then In fact the logo of the company which stands behind is probably an example of what a logo would look and that's because a double throat and a fully counterweighted crankshaft call the Well that's because they point to the roots the 60s by modifying and tuning carburetors and more power from BMW engines. The logo does because the red and blue colors point to the The four rings of Audi actually Three of which are defunct, they no longer and wanderer together these four brands car manufacturer in Germany before the Second Horch made it up until 1959, uh while DKW, they After 1966 the only brand alive was Audi Mercedes who later sold it to Volkswagen was dropped and the brand was turned into The white and blue checkered pattern of the A region in Germany where BMW is located. Bavaria is also or Bavarian Engine Works. A very common, but is that it's a white aircraft propeller on a blue What's interesting is that BMW themselves is logo because they offered the inspiration Buick's tri-shield logo as we know it today evolved from family which is originally from Scotland. And the Buick logo was a variation The idea to use the coat of arms as the It came from Ralph Pew who is a GM researcher research in a public library. The shields newly introduced Buick models. Red for LeSabre, The Cadillac brand name actually the man who in 1701 founded which eventually became the city of Detroit. So the Cadillac its name, and Cadillac's logo is Andre Citroen, the founder of the company, bought a gears with chevron shaped teeth. These gears are smoother, more efficient, and quieter gear cutting. and sell these gears, and his business was the financial means and the know-how to start started making cars he decided to use the double his success. And indeed, early Citroen cars for the final drive in the rear axle. Another did you know that the Eiffel tower served as Founded in 1959 by Argentinian Alejandro de Tomaso, coolest cars of the 60s and the 70s. When it comes the national flag of the country of Argentina, in front that looks sort of like a letter T, well Ceballos estate where Alejandro grew up. When the thing was restyled to drop the connection cattle branding isn't perceived as positively Now the prancing stallion or cavallino a highly renowned Italian air force pilot stallion drawn on the side of his airplane, by the Italians, and is probably the greatest He had almost three dozen dogfight victories before his after the passing of ace Baracca, Enzo Ferrari, who was back then a countess Paolina. This happened before the Grand Now the countess suggested to Enzo that he on his cars for both good luck and to keep the he obliged, and then he went on to win the Grand never left the Ferrari emblem. I'm sure that overjoyed to see that his symbol was immortalized of all time. Now the yellow color in the Ferrari where Ferrari was originally founded. &quot;S&quot; and &quot;F&quot; are for means a stable for racing horses but it's And of course the red, white and green those In Korean the word Hyundai roughly translated word was chosen in 1947 when the company Hyundai two things: obviously a stylized capital letter shaking hands. And this represents the company and The Koenigsegg logo is actually based on the Koenigsegg family coat of arms. The Koenigsegg to the 12th century in an area of Germany, Now the logo itself was designed by Jakob Laftman who In addition to the family coat of arms, atop the logo and C and C. And this stands for the company's eventually lead to the first automotive creation The trident in the Maserati logo actually comes the Piazza Maggiore in the city of Bologna. The for a sports car company, because the god Neptune trident is also a symbol of the city of Bologna, If anyone ever asks you which car maker is your best bet would probably be to answer Mazda. different logos and some were perfectly sensible. Mazda released their first motorized vehicle, the were made by Mazda, they were actually marketed and of a logo we don't associate with Mazda today. a letter &quot;M&quot; stylized in a similar pattern to This logo for example coincided with and it looks like a road viewed from the top. continuous and reliable motion. But then in the 90s logo, which was officially called the &quot;eternal sun and a flame in front of the sun. the logo was way too similar to Renault's logo, so The logo we have today is styled like a of wings, and according to the company itself the future, but it also communicates Mazda's Now another interesting thing is that the name of the company's founder Jujiro Matsuda, but Mazda doesn't actually come from Matsuda, instead of the religion of Zoroastrianism. And this deity The three-pointed star which serves as the conceived by Daimler Gottlieb's sons: Adolf and it came from a symbol used by the logo evolved and it was given a additional Each of the points represents different things, the company believed it would eventually Mercedes is actually older than the logo, than the daughter of Emil Jellinek, the man among wealthy elites. He helped create the and, without him Mercedes likely wouldn't be of Mercedes cars was just the word &quot;Mercedes&quot;, was the first word and symbol trademarked Now the name Mitsubishi actually refers to the and &quot;hishi&quot; actually means um you know a water diamond or a rhombus shape. Now you noticed I said &quot;h&quot; is in the middle of a word it turns into a Now Yataro Iwasaki, the founder of Mitsubishi two other &quot;logos&quot;. He took the symbol of the three-leaf crest, and he combined it with the which is three stacked rhombuses, and In 1928 Yoshisuke Aikawa founded a company called Japanese industries, Nihon being Japan. Nissan comes Sangyo, nii san, Nissan. The logo itself also symbolizes And in front of it we can see a blue rectangle, But as you probably know Nissan cars were also known for a pretty long time. Now that word, Datsun, comes of a different company which was later acquired Meitaro Takeuchi together founded D.A.T. and with smaller engines to comply with new Japanese DAT son, so son of DAT, a small changed to &quot;sun&quot; because &quot;son&quot; also means &quot;loss&quot; to be dropped and so we got Datsun. Now Peugeot had the lion on its logo from day one. the Peugeot brothers and originally it was a steel springs and saws and even umbrella frames and company's saw blades. And the lion's teeth, how on the uh on the Peugeot saw blades. The strength The flexibility of the lion's spine - And the speed of the lion pouncing - that's Now the full name of the company we know as This is the full name. Apparently Ferdinand Porsche titles so much that he put all of them into the engineer honoris causa Ferdinand porsche AG, aktiensgesellschaft. and aktiensgesellschaft is stock corporation. of the founder. Now the logo is very very two coats of arms. It's the coat of farms of the Stuttgart being the city where Porsche was founded Rolls-Royce began its life in 1904 when Henry Royce made his first Henry Royce met Charles Rolls, an owner of an early selling the cars under the Rolls-Royce brand name. the Spirit of Ecstasy is far more interesting spirit of ecstasy is Lord John Montagu of Beaulieu, of Rolls-Royce cars. Now he commissioned artist and for Montagu's Rolls-Royce Silver Ghost and Sykes finger to her lips, which he called &quot;the whisper&quot;. Now alludes to the secret relationship between Eleanor Velasco Thornton, while others say that a relationship, instead it relates to the very Whatever the truth Montagu really liked And then the whisper went on to adorn every in public with these cars, others saw the whisper started copying him, making their own versions of Soon managing director of Rolls-Royce found out about these hood ornaments &quot;unsightly additions&quot; commissioned Sykes to make an official Rolls-Royce upon purchasing the car in order to prevent people of the hood ornament. Sykes reinterpreted the The company was founded in 1878 by was a cycling enthusiast who disliked the penny So he designed his own: The Rover Safety Bicycle. this day are still based on the basic design of bicycles Rover designed their first car in 1904, Well that's because the word &quot;Rover&quot; itself means famous seafarers of all, the Vikings as their of a Viking soldier you could buy. This then longboat remained on the logo all the way One of the funkier looking logos with a pair of wings attached to it, and according wings of progress. What's interesting is that American wearing a traditional feathered headdress. happened is a bit of a mystery. But most attribute the Native American to Tomas Maglic, who was a Now in Japanese the word Subaru means &quot;to used to denote a constellation of seven or the Seven Sisters. This constellation is used in the company which Subaru is a part of, was formed So the five small stars on the logo are the five That's Fuji Heavy Industries. So if the constellation is Subaru logo? Well that's because to the naked eye Two of the stars are so close together that much of ancient history many peoples including the six stars. In fact in the eighth century before for this constellation they used the word &quot;matsuraboshi&quot; Here's something you won't be able to unsee: the and it was even confirmed by one of the most active Yeah of course this was a joke. It's not a cat's nose. It's in an electric motor. TA-DA! Honestly I preferred the The name of the company comes from the family name of the was in fact the words TO YO DA in the katakana script all that, the one that Toyota still uses and that we First of all it's made completely symmetrical, but also when you see it in your rear view mirror. customer, the other the company, and the third one Each oval is drawn with a different But the really cool thing is that of the word toyota. Vauxhall's logo was a griffin holding a V flag ever since the company was registered in The creature with the body of a lion and head of an eagle, of arms of Sir Falkes de Breaute, whose mansion Falkes' hall As you know Vauxhall cars are actually known as Opel in the logo, the Opel cars. And the thunderbolt comes from They were called Blitz trucks and they had their own Opel's logo. Now &quot;blitz&quot; in German means with Opel well before that, way back in 1886 was making bicycles, and they called their bicycle Swedish manufacturer Volvo AB began life in 1926 began manufacturing automobiles within parent day one of the largest suppliers of bearings for decision between the SKF management and the to pronounce all around the world with minimal The word comes from latin &quot;volvere&quot; which when means &quot;I roll&quot;. This then reflects both a personal which is similar to the motion of automobiles. So Is it a really macho brand? Actually no. This ancient symbol for iron. This was used for a very alchemists. For example this is copper, it's not for Volvo? Well it was chosen because it represents quality metals, but it was also used to signify Combined together with the word Volvo, the logo as And there you go. The hidden little symbolism and largest car makers. Now I hope you enjoyed this and Now there's countless stories like this in the auto industry. If you have a few stories of your own, please feel free thanks a lot for watching, and I'll be seeing you soon