The average number of weekday riders on New York 5.5 million. By June 2023, paid weekday subway ridership was million, down 34% from that 2019 level. The Metropolitan Transportation Authority, the more than 5,700 busses, two of the country's bridges and tunnels saw farebox revenue in 2022 its 2019 levels. If you're looking at a roughly $20 billion annual before Covid, about half of that came from fare when you're still missing a big chunk of your fare service, that obviously creates a big hole in the Remote work is blamed for much of that decline office workers were at their desks on average 68% and just 37% on Fridays. Fears about public safety and crime have also service. New Yorkers are on edge as violent crime highs. Three subway murders have been recorded in alone. Out of the search for the man who police say might He's accused of pushing that unidentified victim I would say unfortunately, crime has been a I think that folks believe that there is a safety A surge in people not paying their fares has Fare evaders cost the MTA $690 million in 2022 its network, 38% more than the previous year. People are less rule following than they used to, and that Also TikTok young people see young influencers fashions and it makes it feel more socially You're seeing it modeled by very popular figures To stem those losses. The MTA is looking to replace its fleet of subway CNBC got a behind the scenes look at a new high might be considering. In the old days, you had a locking mechanism and open and you pushed through the turnstile. Very simple, very old school. What we've done is a big departure from that. We're leveraging not just sensor technology, but mechanical design, a much more formidable Fare revenue is a critical component of the MTA's So when will New York City subway riders return? And what can the MTA do to respond to fare The New York City subway got its start in 1904 companies with government oversight. The first route was built out from City Hall by fares of just $0.05 a ride. The line is credited with transforming Times The original two private companies are called the They made what we now think of as the lettered Rapid Transit Company, which does what we now By 1940, New York had three competing subway In June of that year, the trio were consolidated, world with nearly 1,200 miles of tracks. From the early 20th century up until right before Two to be rough about it, the city was focused on maintaining subways seemed like mass transit was away a dense city. But in the 50s, support for mass transit waned, future of roads and highways with a focus on the The subway became a symbol of urban decay in the graffiti. This subway station is the end of the line in more At this hour, bodies roll in, sleeping or drunk subway bench is the most convenient bed. On an average day in 1981, 325 trains were A third of all subway car doors were broken and year. Crime was abundant. Subway vigilante Bernhard Goetz shot four teens 1980s. It's about time somebody protect themselves. Nobody's protecting us on the subway. But as the crisis deepened, political consensus to We're not going to have a New York City left state legislature enacted a half a dozen taxes to rail system and began to rebuild the physical New York City Police Department, a decade later subway. In addition to that funding, the MTA proposed a investment program to restore the system and Between 1980 and 2015, subway ridership increased 70% from about a billion to almost 1.7 billion But by 2017, overcrowded trains combined with again, leading New York Governor Andrew Cuomo to We know the system is decaying rapidly. I think of it as a heart attack. You basically see a series of every 10 or 20 years figure out a new set of supports. The eve of the pandemic subway is basically a You know, not to say that they were perfect, but subways with ridership of 2 billion was the . Well funded you had half the revenue coming from these tax subsidies. And the infrastructure was in reasonably good But the pandemic changed everything. As ridership plummeted to historical lows and new The MTA handles about a third of the nation's billion riders in 2019 alone. More than 13% of New York City's subway riders 2022, up from just 3% during roughly the same 2018. On an average weekday, that translates to evaders, enough to fill Yankee Stadium eight The problem got even worse in the first quarter Fare evaders cost the MTA $690 million in 2022, $285 million on its subways, $315 million on $44 million on commuter rails and $46 million on tunnels. While enforcement is up, policing the It's extremely hard to enforce. I would estimate there are about 1,000 entrances To curb unlawful behavior the MTA is looking to As I step into the aisle here, the cameras are you see that there's a big red blob. The big red blob here above me, that's me. Conduit, which provides services like electronic rail network SNCF, to design the system. You think about the cameras and the detection advanced to be able to detect children from and prevent unwanted individuals or devices from Tall plexiglass doors make climbing over or under Flashing lights and an alarm signals a fare The MTA has not yet decided which tech it will showcased its 3D fare gate at a public MTA This is not your grandfather's approach to fare It's fresh, it's different. It's comprehensive. It can also detect if someone is trying to If I pay my fare and someone comes in right behind me and doesn't pay theirs, the system will paid and they'll get busted. In New York, the majority of subway fare evasions open. About 20% of people jump the turnstile. About 16% slipped through the gap and 12% duck Most offenses occur between 3 and 4 p.m., roughly Inflation could be another reason people are not A lot of it has to do with the economy. It's one more cost that people feel like they increased costs for rent and groceries and all of expenses. And often they see the risk of jumping worthwhile for the potential $100 ticket. While low income residents can apply for a 50% third of eligible New Yorkers, or about 300,000 One in four low income New Yorkers can't afford In the MTA's case, if we lost fare revenue, we And so it's well worth a functioning fare and stable is the important part. While fewer straphangers have been a drain on the have been hit even harder. Riders on Chicago's L Train in March 2023 were at levels. At the same time, Washington, D. C.'s Metro saw a similar drop. In 2022 the MTA's operating budget was $19.3 that money it receives comes from taxes and billion came from fares. By contrast, fare revenue from subways, buses and 2019 made up about $6.3 billion or 38% of the operating revenue. To make up for that loss, the MTA received It is also increased its base fare $0.15 for $2.90, and has been promised an infusion of state billion annually in the form of an increase in tax. Congestion pricing designed to shift people collect $1 billion annually and benefit the MTA Manhattan below 60th Street. But why do New York City subways lag behind their For starters, New York transit projects are Our cost of building subway assets is five times at the upper end what it costs to build a So it's not so much that the projects are the but it's that even when they're the right digitizing the subway signals so you can run projects cost much more than they would anywhere Phase one of the Second Avenue subway, for along Manhattan's Upper East Side opened in 2017 billion. Phase two of the project extending the 125th Street, not expected to open until 2030, billion. Greater Paris, the Ratp, it's called, has the same billion or $55 billion and they're building We're not doing that. We're going to get a little extension in Second broken stuff. New York City's strict regulations, as well as blamed for much of those budget increases. If you think of world cities like London, Paris, massive federal investment in their mass transit Here in the United States, it's far less of a Public transit gets very little funding compared highways and bridges and tunnels. Outside of the transit system, this country really Large debt payments are also a burden. While more than half of the MTA's $19 billion New York City subways and the Staten Island Rail The remainder went to the Long Island Rail, tunnels. A debt payment of $3 billion, for DC metro system for an entire year. The MTA has to be in this constant state of assistance and federal assistance. This was happening long before the Covid 19 Every couple of years, the MTA has to reach out isn't a fully committed line of funding that ensures the ability of the MTA to provide improvements on a regular, consistent basis. And that trend could continue as work from home entrenched it could take years before fare their pre-pandemic levels. Where is the transit system ten years from now? Ideally, you've got ridership back to 100% or at 95% of where it was pre-COVID. Your commuter rail system is much cheaper. It's more like a European commuter rail system than a subway ticket and the system is as safe as 2019. I don't believe that we'll get above 75% until required to be in the office or in school five previously were. And I don't know if we'll get to that point.