(audience chattering) It's wonderful to see you all here today, especially given the weather. I understand schools were closed today, so I know we probably lost a but it's really great to see you and we are recording this, so for those of you or friends who are going to we will have a recording I'm Elizabeth Smith. I'm the Dean of the Faculty I'm a professor of biological sciences, and together with Kristi Clemens, I am co-director of the Dialogue Project, our new skill building initiative aimed towards providing faculty, with training in essential Our work is inspired by two learn by observing and learn by doing. And I can't think of a more for the Dialogue Project and author Marc Brackett. He's devoted his career of emotional intelligence in learning, decision-making, physical and mental health, And importantly, he's used from his research in developing to facilitate social I came across Marc's work at a time when I was looking for I was trying to understand and what could I do to provide to engage in dialogue, with their students and with each other? I was looking back at my email and I noticed it's been almost two years since I initially contacted Marc, and I couldn't be more delighted that he's able to join us and that he's been so incredibly generous with his time meeting with and even tomorrow morning. Now, we're all eager to hear from Marc, so I'll share some of his very briefly. Marc is the founding director of the Yale Center for a professor at Yale's Child Study Center, and the author of the bestselling book, &quot;Permission to Feel,&quot; which has been translated I just want to point out, we for our audience members, and Marc has generously agreed to sign books if you're interested. He's published over received numerous awards, and is featured regularly Marc is also the lead developer of RULER, an evidence-based approach to social and emotional learning by over 3000 public charter and independent K through 12 schools across the United States He also regularly consults such as Google and for integrating the principles into training and product design. Most recently, he and with Pinterest co-founder and free app called How We Feel, designed to teach emotion I could go on, but I'll please join me in welcoming Marc Brackett. (audience applauds) - Well, thank you. Can - Yes. It's a pleasure to be here, and we had a great dinner last night, and I'm looking forward to dinner tonight. (audience laughs) And I really had a great with so many people today, from the senior leadership to chairs of departments to other faculty, and tomorrow with some students. And I thought that, you were talking about this presentation, kind of this intersection of emotions, emotional intelligence, and in the world around us, and So that's where we're going to go. I'm not very good at and so I kind of have to feel it, (audience laughs) and I'm hoping that all be with me on this journey. I just thought I would start that I've seen in my research, in terms of what's current in And there's four or five kind of areas that seem to be the challenges right now. People are concerned about mental health, which makes a lot of sense. People are concerned, for particularly around race and gender and kind of wealth discrepancies. People are concerned a lot burnout and having some kind you know, around, you know, wellbeing. So we're going to keep that But first we're going to learn This is a tool that has been around for a couple of decades now that we built based on a research model of emotion. And essentially what I'm going in like 30 seconds, all right? All of you, how many of (audience laughs) And my hunch is that you woke up, and anybody wake up sometimes you're like, &quot;Gosh, what (laughs) Or, you know, Or you don't even, we don't really tend to ask ourselves how are we feeling? But we tend to think about like, do I want to approach this of like stay in bed and pull And so the mood meter helps On the x-axis, it says So pleasantness is in your brain right now. Your brain is sending and it's saying, I want to be I want to approach this Or you know what? This doesn't really resonate with me or sit with me very well. I feel safe and comfortable, I don't feel very safe and comfortable. So on the x-axis right now, I'm and just -5 you're thinking, this is going to be the (audience laughs) this guy from Yale. - 3 is like everyday misery. 0 is kind of neutral. +3 is like, all right, this +5 you're looking at me like, &quot;Oh my God. (audience laughs) So where are you right now? Everyone has a number? Good. Now, emotions are more, they're They're bodily sensations. And so we're going to think from a body perspective, about your energy, your So some of us might feel and some of us might feel quite depleted of our resources right now. - 5 would mean that you're and feel kind of deactivated. +5 is you're kind of got lots of energy. So where would you place in emotion space? Good? Obviously we cross our our (foreign language) so we got yellow, red, blue, and green. Let me get a raise of hands. How many of you are You're high energy and pleasant? Well, that's a lot of people. Interesting. (audience murmuring) A rainy Friday afternoon, (audience laughs) How many You're pleasant, but your Anybody in the blue or red? No one. Oh wait one, thank you. One honest person in the room. (audience laughs) We are a room filled with and people who work at a university, and only one person is admittedly, right, feeling a little red and blue? Kind of doesn't feel that accurate to me, but we can talk about that later. (audience laughs) What I'd like you to do to a specific feeling word, okay? You got three seconds to find Freeze. All right, now I need an How many of you had a little Hands up high, like really high. Stretch it out really Like stick it out there. Freeze. Now leave it up. Look around the room. So we're at Dartmouth, right? And people are struggling Any hypotheses around that? Why would it be that are emotionally illiterate? (audience laughs) (laughs) Any thoughts? Yes. - [Audience Member] We have on our emotions. - Yeah, that's pretty How are we feeling? Fine. Any other hypotheses? By the way, I do a lot of (audience laughs) Why? Yes. - [Audience Member] I think growing up, we're more incentivized academic or quantitative things, not our feelings, so it's to express feelings. - [Audience Member] So I've been used to doing. - Yeah, it's just not something you maybe have been asked a lot to do. Any other hypotheses? Yeah. - It's more vulnerable. It's more vulnerable. Especially if you... Ask me how I'm feeling. - Great. - Ask me how I'm feeling. - Hanging it in there. (audience laughs) - How are you feeling? (audience laughs) I'm a little bloated from my lunch. (audience laughs) I have a little acid I'm tired, I'm excited, and I'm having this like weird existential kind of like mixture of - [Audience Member] Wow, (audience laughs) And she's like, &quot;Good luck.&quot; (audience laughs) And so like the question with all these feelings? And that's a big part of our work. 'Cause we don't just That's a good piece of and as I like to say, but we got to know what So that's another question We're here for about an hour Raise your hand if at you will get distracted. Okay everybody. That's great. I just see the headlines &quot;Dartmouth: emotionally illiterate and attention deficit disorder.&quot; (audience laughs) So, all right, well you know, it's not like I came you know, like to give a speech. I don't want everybody to be So what might be your strategy during my presentation, as I like to say these days, present? - [Audience Member] Repress 'em. (audience laughs) - You're going to repress your feelings? - To be present. Write that one down. (laughs) You're going to repress your feelings. - [Audience Member] - What does that mean for you? - [Audience Member] I would that distract me. Other strategies? We're not going to leave it at (audience laughs) (laughs) I'm sorry, like, I'm just kidding. - Yeah. (audience laughs) - You going to just take - Yeah. I mean, I think I'm moving here. (laughs) I never felt so needed in All right, any other strategies? Please. - [Audience Member] that I can get rid of? Put my phone on silent and in my bag. - Okay, so just like that will distract you. Thank you. Other strategies? (audience member speaks faintly) Yeah, please. - [Audience Member] to maintain curiosity. - That's a good one. (laughs) So try to engage to kind of, yeah. - Yeah, like stay with it. - [Audience Member] You in what you're saying, and and not feel so distracted. - Okay, thank you. Was All right, well I mean I that we haven't had a in emotion regulation, unless people are just feeling Like really, like first of raise your hand if you're a parent. All right. How many of you want your kids to be engaged in school, right? But they're there right from 'til 3:00 or 4:00 in the afternoon, and you're expecting you drop them off and they're going to be for the entire day, focused. I'm just trying to get (audience laughs) I'm going to be distracted, I'm going to repress my feelings or... (audience laughs) And so it's interesting to me, like, how we think about this, about how do we experience feelings and then what do we do All right, let's take a nice long inhale, just to kind of get settled in your seats. So of course as a cheat sheet you don't even have to This is the inside cover of my book to give you some words to And as you can see here, that we can use to describe our feelings. Instead of okay, fine or stressed, maybe you're down, disappointed, devastated, helpless, full of despair. Maybe you're happy, Maybe you are calm, content, One of the goals of our work, the conversation today will be I do want to give you all a free treat. As Dean Smith mentioned one of the benefits of the pandemic, which is weird to talk about it that way, was that the co-founder read my book and he reached &quot;Would you like to and make it into an app and across the world?&quot; And I'm like, &quot;Yeah, sounds great.&quot; And so we've partnered for my team and his team, that now has come out and we and it's free, it's on iOS and Android, and essentially it's going where you're going to in with how you're feeling, choose one of 250 words to describe how you're feeling with this definition. Tag your feelings with Who am I with? What am I doing? So that you can get more why you're having your feelings. You could journal about and then you can choose strategies to help you regulate your feelings, whether you want to do or a cognitive strategy or reach out to someone And then importantly, you can track those feelings over time, and analyze 'em so that to see what your emotional life is like. So check it out. I think Now, I've been curious since we're in a workplace/school setting, like how are people feeling And anyone want to guess is that people are having at work? - Stressed. - You sounded overwhelmed (audience laughs) It's frustration, actually. the number one word that Now, this is different when I did research, it was stressed. It was overwhelmed actually last year. But for whatever reason, are using these days is frustration. I also asked all of you, or that Dean Smith sent out, what emotions are you struggling with? And here are the results of your data. And overwhelm is in there, but So some people said none, but if you look at the aggregate data, you can see here that a is frustration, anxiety, overwhelm. Another question we ask people Nobody says, &quot;I want to feel frustrated, overwhelmed, and anxious.&quot; So what all of you said was joyful, satisfied, These are all the most, these are hot off the press from you. And so this brings up a question what are we supposed to do When you think about people at least in the real world, none of you, only one person in here, but the people who don't go the real world, right, tends to be quite red and blue these days. Then they tell us, well I want to be in that yellow/green place. I dunno, it's hard to all the time, don't you think? I know I struggle trying I don't even like people (audience laughs) Like, it drives me out of my mind. And so it leads me as a well what is the goal? Like what are we supposed to And the first thing I I think we have to understand that emotions are signals They're data for us. And oftentimes they get a 'cause people think it's this is like the soft stuff. Even they call emotional which I don't even know I think it's the most ridiculous term. Anyone here, let me just for at least let's say during the pandemic, did anyone here have a of like, &quot;I'm done.&quot; Anybody have one of those days? Like it just, &quot;I'm, like, done. I cannot deal with my And how many of you thought I dunno. I find dealing with my emotions kind of one of the Now, emotions matter. I've determined there are five reasons why everybody should be here, and none of them are to hear It's all about the research. The first is attention and We're in a education setting. People learn what they care about. What do you think? True? False? - True. Emotions drive how we perceive the world. What do you think about that? Makes sense, right? Anyone here ever bored in a classroom? (audience chattering and laughing) Right, boredom is a tricky emotion. People think of it as a bad emotion. I see it as a signal. It's information. It's saying what's being is not working for me. (laughs) It's not engaging me, and I'm going to go someplace else. Now, believe it or not, which shows that boredom It's not like it leads to... It leads to disengagement, who is teaching you is not and you're not learning from them. Not a good thing in a school, but nevertheless, it's not a It's information. I use the word attention and for me, most people look at me as a, I'm a professor at a place like Yale and they think, you know, Marc must have always been a good student, and you had to be. And the answer is wrong, wrong I was a failing student for a lot of reasons, one and I was terribly bullied in school, and I was unable to focus. What's interesting to me and my childhood as a a lot in school, is no one noticed it, or people noticed it but didn't feel like they needed to act on it. And there I was, you know, or sixth grade, the Roman you want me to like focus on (audience laughs) I need safety. I'm not interested in until you make me feel safe here. And we fail to recognize that how we adults feel, is driving the way we process information, the way we retain information. The second is decision-making. Has anyone here ever made a bad decision? (audience laughs) Would anybody like to just share publicly? (audience laughs) I think we've all made bad choices, right? I do research on emotions and and here's what I found. Emotions influence the but it happens outside of I'm going to say that again. Emotions influence the choices we make, but that happens outside Basic example, randomly assign educators to be in a good mood or a bad mood. It's pretty easy. Like saying I'm going to to write about a really crappy day, like a day that just was not good. Or I'm going to ask you in the other group to write about a day that just like everything went great, and now I'm going to give And I was curious in the research, would there be differences in the grades that the educators assign What we found was one to (audience member whistles) at the end of the study, &quot;Do you believe that how over the way you grade the paper?&quot; 90% said no. So again, what does that tell us? That our emotion system sometimes can bias the way we see the world. Anyone know the antidote to that? What's the antidote to the way we evaluate things? - Acknowledging it? Self-awareness. So if, you know, I dunno has anyone, like, I'm irritable in the morning. For whatever reason, I don't wake up, like &quot;I can't wait to start the day.&quot; I wake up having kind of like, what am I doing with my life? And why am I, is anybody And like, I don't know, and but everybody's going to be distracted. (audience laughs) Like why am I talking to Like that's a great career. And sometimes I'll, you I have, you know, I like and I don't always have that option, and so I'll be like irritable &quot;I can't take it anymore,&quot; and maybe I had an argument at home and then I'll get to my office you know, my assistant or a team member or one of my researchers will say like, &quot;I really need your feedback on this.&quot; And the question is, you know, is my feedback the best possible feedback? And what I've realized is I actually think the paper is terrible, but it's not that the paper is terrible, it's that I'm not really or I'm coming at it through the lens of the anger that I have But before I go into my room or my office, or even my building, if I take a deep breath and I'm like, &quot;Marc, how are you feeling?&quot; Like, &quot;Annoyed. Why are you annoyed? 'Cause it is like the third time we've had this conversation at home. No one's listening to you. Oh, but you're annoyed about that.&quot; And so when you can attribute your emotion to its actual cause, it will have a lesser How simple is that? Just get in the habit of throughout the day, and you'll be less biased The third is relationship quality. Oof, this is a big one. Raise your hand if you've or worked with someone who is (audience laughs) Yeah, we've all been there. I have a relative like that. I'm being recorded right now though. I got to be careful what I say. Anyway, I used to live in and I had a relative I used to live in this on the in a little town called... What the heck was it called? York. York, Maine. Oh, that's Maine, not (audience laughs) Anyway, I worked in New Anyway, it's all the same thing, and (laughs) anyway, so I have this relative come visit me. I live in this cute little town, and honestly it was like the I used to go to this bakery in the morning and the people who &quot;Would you like a refill?&quot; I'm like, &quot;Yes,&quot; you know, &quot;thank you.&quot; You know, and it was just friendly, and they had the best scones And so this relative comes to visit me and I said, you know, I don't know if I'm ready to go back to the kind of real world. And I think I just, there's It seems just easier and nicer, and this person looked at me and said, &quot;You know, it's nice there's an underlying anger.&quot; (audience laughs) And I'm thinking to myself, &quot;Yeah, there is, and I'm looking at it.&quot; You know, like, you are doing (audience laughs) that we need to be really Meaning that how we feel on the inside and how other people make us feel through the way they treat their facial expression, their vocal tone, activates us in ways that makes At the core, I'm convinced is a signal system. It's saying I want to and comfortable and I want to be with, or it's messaging, I They're disrespectful, they want to have power over me. The fourth is mental health. I don't think I need to We know that if you don't have strategies to deal with your emotions, your physical and mental The final one, I think is relevant 'cause I'm here at a university And I'll just say very quickly, you know, I really had a misunderstanding of emotions and performance when I was younger in my career. I was convinced as a person I would say a lower My father was an air my mom had different jobs, and then I ended up at a I was a public school And then I was, you know, I remember I was at this first meeting when I got to Yale, and this one other like young &quot;I've looked at your CV, how many top-tier, first-authored I'm thinking to myself like, this is what we're going Like, honestly, like you're weird. (audience laughs) I mean, it was really And it was just like, I just, it didn't really go well for me, and I didn't really didn't I felt like I don't, I have no interest in having these kinds of conversations. And I just felt, I was over and over again. And then I was getting very insecure because of just my upbringing, and I was just thinking they're richer than I am. They have more opportunities than I have. They had parents who read to them. I didn't. My parents were like, &quot;Why are you asking so Literally it was like, &quot;Go to your room. You're asking too many questions.&quot; And I had this thing about my students and the other people I worked with, like everybody was And I had a definition of success that was based on SAT scores and musical instruments that people played that I never heard of, you that I never knew existed on the Earth. And now I've been like 25 and watching and tracking like who is actually successful? And what I've learned is that kind of, I always joke about this, that oftentimes our cognitive abilities get us into these institutions, but it is our emotional Because at the end of and what's reality is that, like we know there's a restriction 'cause it's like, I always Everybody who plays basketball is tall. So height no longer has prediction. Height can no longer predict the success of a basketball player, right? 'Cause everybody's, there's no variability on that attribute. Well, there's not a lot of variability in our Ivy League institutions 'cause everybody's capable. So it's got to be something else. It's got to be other variables to who gets the job, you know, who has the best relationships. And my research over and over is showing that it is the emotion skills. It's the people who can handle It's the people who can deal with feedback and not get triggered and activated. It's the people who, to being highly creative recognize that there's a lot of And that doesn't mean I'm a failure. That just means I need to work to manage my emotions around that. So that's my, I call when I do talks for (audience laughs) because there's a lot of resistance. I get a lot of business people like, &quot;Ah, this emotion stuff like whatever.&quot; And I say, &quot;You got to read the research. You got to know how emotions and how our emotions to all these important attributes.&quot; Now, the big question is about emotions in our lives? Well, here's what the data show. (audience chattering) Not very much. These are national data. Thousands and thousands of Not very much at all. What about learning it So basically we have a society of people who have not really gotten And that leads me to the big piece here, which is, you know, did Was there anyone who Yeah, question? - [Audience Member] Yeah. so when you presented the survey data, how did you, like, ask people about whether they are Is it just a one, like- - It's a scale, just a Likert scale. You know, how much did you growing up in your household? How much did you learn you know, in your school, - [Audience Member] But will like, say the parents about promotion but the - Yeah, that's possible for sure. There's more, well, we of that in a minute, but good question. I have this, so just to give you a 'cause you haven't read obviously much. (audience laughs) I didn't mean it that I'm talking about giving you So I am, today, I am a 54-year-old man. I'm married, I've been with and I grew up in northern New Jersey, a little town called Clifton. Don't recommend it to anyone. (laughs) (audience laughs) I didn't have a great I had some challenges. I have two brothers, both But when I was in middle, my middle brother was never came home. He's now a doctor in Philadelphia. He was misdiagnosed completely. And I have a older who's my oldest brother who and was the vice president of But he unfortunately had physical illness. He had Crohn's disease, and he was hospitalized at the same time. So at six years old, my or shooken up. One brother goes into the other one goes into and gets surgery for his Crohn's. And unfortunately for me, I And just to be honest with all of you, unfortunately, I was abused by the person who was my babysitter for about He was one of my parents' closest friends and he lived next door. He actually was the head of the Boys Club, which is quite sad, and I Didn't share that with my parents, and I think part of it came my mom was very anxious and about what was happening in our home, and saying things like, &quot;I'm having a breakdown, That's what I kind of heard as a kid, and I realized pretty quickly to my mom about what's going on, 'cause she'll have a And my father was a great guy, Just didn't how to deal My father was, you know, and he has this like kind of thing like, &quot;Son, you got to toughen up.&quot; Loved me, but he was like, I'll never forget, even he's like, &quot;Son, I but I used to beat kids up like you.&quot; I'm like, &quot;Dad.&quot; (laughs) Like, &quot;I'm not sure that's what they teach in parenting classes.&quot; Anyhow, I ended up having with my parents, but And anyhow, I share this with you mostly because of something else. My mother had a brother Uncle Marvin was a middle school teacher in the Catskill Mountains and a band leader at And he was like the in &quot;Dead Poets Society.&quot; And he happened to be And by some wave of a crazy magic wand, he happened to be writing about feelings in his sixth - Wow. in the backyard of my town, and we're just sitting in the backyard, and he looks at me like no adult had ever looked at me before. And he said, &quot;How are you feeling? But really, how are you feeling, Marc?&quot; And that was the moment that I decided to tell And it wasn't like &quot;toughen up&quot; or &quot;I'm going to have a breakdown.&quot; It was, &quot;We're going to And he facilitated the He facilitated the whole Now, I share that with you because I've become really curious. When I wrote my book, I dedicate And it's called &quot;Permission to Feel&quot; because I feel like he was that person who created the conditions And I've been really how many people have an Uncle Marvin? Or an Aunt Maria? Or anyone, a parent, a teacher, a coach, someone who helps them be as they develop? And so let's look at the data. These are your data today. Just 40% of you said yes. 60% said no. So think about that. My national data, it's around 35/65. So slightly higher, but not much. So let's think about that for a minute. Only 40% of us said that we had who created the conditions you know, and be our Now, other questions I so if you had this person, Like who are these people? Anyone want to guess what is of our feelings mentor? - Listener. - Non-judgmental. What's another one? All right, you're all cheaters. (audience laughs) The number one characteristic Let's think about that for a minute. The person is non-judgmental, compassionate, good I want you to notice that use the word wise. There's nothing cognitive It's not that they're brilliant people, whatever that even means. It's all about this emotion system. It's all about creating the good listening, compassion and empathy. We'll get more into this in a minute. Now, oh, I didn't show 'cause I analyzed your data, too. So I got 75 people completed Here's what all you said. Let's see if you're like the real world. Pretty much the same thing. Non-judgmental, empathetic Now, I've been really curious, too, about who are these people? So who else in our lives? The people are moms, grandmothers, fathers. But when I analyze the I mean, I just want you to only 10% of us say that was the person who was That means 90% of us don't who we see as that person. I've been really curious about that, and so I do a lot of work and you know, our programs now I got to update my bio. And so 5,000 schools, that's millions of children that we serve. We're trying to create for this next generation. But I meet these parents and I show them these &quot;We don't like those findings.&quot; (audience laughs) I'm like, &quot;I don't like 'em either.&quot; (audience laughs) but like data are not to like or dislike. They're just data. And so like, let's try to get at it. Like what's going on here? And so recently I was in Chicago and I was talking with families, and firstly it was this one mother, she's like, &quot;I'm like, okay, what's your epiphany?&quot; She's like, I realize right now that my daughter has a feelings mentor. My son definitely doesn't, and I'm going to find my son a mentor. (audience laughs) &quot;Lady, it could be you.&quot; I mean it just like, we're There's your karate teacher, I mean, it just shows you with our emotions and our emotional lives. And then I went on and and you know what's interesting one mom said, &quot;I don't want to ask my kid how they're feeling.&quot; And yeah, that's for me, &quot;I'm not sure I can &quot;I'm not sure I'll know what to say or do if I learned how my child was feeling.&quot; So I'm just, I'm reminding us, like, we've got a lot of work to do in terms of getting more comfort Now, I'm very interested in adults, too. Oh, before I get there, I to know like, does this predict anything? And the first thing it predicts is your ability to regulate emotions. So as adults, what we people who said yes or and then we do a little simple analysis in terms of your adult skill And what we find is that who have said yes to the question have significantly higher scores on our measures of adaptive What we also find is that these people are satisfied more with their lives, have greater purpose and have better physical Just think about that right now. This is one little variable. Did you have a feelings mentor, yes or no? And people who said in terms of the purpose 20 to 25% higher in every study as adults. Now, one question is, what about work? Did we have someone at work with whom we can talk about our emotions? Interestingly enough, 45% of people say yes. What's interesting about that, I've done some follow up research on that, and people say things, &quot;Well, Because then you go home, Like, I can talk with someone, but then I don't have to live with them. (audience laughs) are these people different or the same in terms of their characteristics? What do you think? What are the top three characteristics of the people at work and coaches and colleagues? - [Audience Member] Non-judgmental (audience laughs) Same. So I think this is in terms of, I'll call it the We're craving to be around people, we feel safest, we feel the who are non-judgmental, empathic, and good listeners. Now, how many of you feel like there was this like cool curriculum that was called &quot;How (audience laughs) I mean, when you really think about it, we've been judged from the whether it's about our height, our weight, our physical appearance, our femininity, our masculinity. It's just endless amounts of judgment. And where are we helping people think about being non-judgmental? Really, I'm struck by this concept. You know, we learn about you know, non-judgmental Don't judge, you know, let But this is not that. This is What do you think? Why these three? Why are these coming up? Why are we saying that the manage and deal with our emotional lives are nonjudgmental, good Anyone? Yeah. - [Audience Member] kind of selfish. We just want to be heard and acknowledged. - Yeah, maybe that's part of it. We just want to be heard Yeah. - [Audience Member] (speaking faintly) - It's a vulnerability (audience member continues faintly) - [Audience Member] Part I'm sure there's an but it makes you feel uncomfortable. - You just feel, like, safer around people who don't judge you, - Trust. Any other thoughts? Yeah. looking for the fix. Notice that it's never, there's It's all about being with. You might ask yourself, you know, this stuff, I mean, I obviously, I care a lot about this work and I always get reflective I was giving a speech about two years ago in Westchester, New York, and it was one of those I was in my zone and I was talking, before I wrote my book, I never You know, I talked about but not the details of my story. I didn't feel safe to share my own story until I wrote my book at 49. And then all of a sudden about this relationship And this guy is looking at me, &quot;Are you talking about Marvin Moore, the sixth grade social studies teacher from Monticello, New York?&quot; I said, &quot;Yes.&quot; He's like, &quot;Your Uncle (audience laughs) He's like, &quot;Your Uncle and he changed my life.&quot; (audience member whistles) any of my uncle's actual students. This was 45 years later he remembered, and I said, &quot;Well, I but can you stay after and Can I just record on my phone? And he's like, &quot;I remember your his body language. I remember though his tone of voice. I remember how he taught us He went on and on and on. But here's what was the kicker for me. He looks at me and he goes, your uncle had a huge And I said, &quot;Definitely. I am where I am psychologically because of him.&quot; And he goes, well, &quot;I'm for whom are you an Uncle Marvin?&quot; - Oh. (audience laughs) (laughs) Like, that's (audience laughs) (laughs) You know, I'm I like to do the research And I have to tell you, it in terms of like paying it forward. And so like, I really have in my life to like, how do I show up for my husband, for my nieces and nephews, for whoever, you know, good listening, compassionate lens? You can ask yourself that question, too. Here's what you need to know. People who have those feelings mentors at work are happier in their jobs. They're less likely to So essentially, you know, to I've come up with this a world filled with people as opposed to emotion judges. Wouldn't it be nice if we were curious and reflective, viewed were always kind of in that learning mode, not the knower mode, wants to get granular and So that when you're it's like, you know what? Today was a rough day, but I work with and know a I think I told this story at the senior leadership but I give a speech at my university to a particular department this one veteran professor stood up, he opens up his jacket and he And he is like, &quot;What happened to Yale?&quot; (audience laughs) (laughs) I'm not kidding. And I think, but the good thing for me is that I've had a lot and I have coaching, and I've I know how to deal with difficult people. I'm like, &quot;Marc, breathe (audience laughs) (audience laughs) And I just said, you know, &quot;Tell me more.&quot; (audience laughs) And he is like, you You know, &quot;This is Yale. We produce Nobel laureates, (audience laughs) Now, here's the interesting is that I happened to have gotten a lot of background information before I went to do the that the people who work in - Oh. Remember emotions or signals How many of you want who has that energy? How many want to work for and thinks that way about feelings? It just doesn't work. It's not accessible. There's nowhere to go Right, think about that. My father, you know, but he was like, he had He'd say things like, &quot;Son, this is the way I deal with things. You're going to have to There's nowhere to go with that. There's no learning. That's permanent, static, not helpful. Okay, so now we are going to including the people who We're going to strive to be emotion scientists and that means we need some skills. We need to develop the skills So remember there's the kind and then there's the hard skills So what are they? Well, the first skill accurately perceiving our own That means self-awareness, like the mood meter I shared with you. What's happening here for me? What's happening here for me? It's when I'm looking at it, all of you, and saying, how are you feeling right now? Do I know how you're feeling? Or am I guessing how you're feeling? I'm going to try it with all I'm going to do a facial expression. I'm going to have the four of you, sorry to put you on the spot. I may call on other people too. I'm going to show a facial expression, and you're just going to say what it is. (audience chattering softly) Okay, what do you think? - Friendly. - Satisfied. - Pleasant. - [Audience Member] It's pleasant, but there's (drowned out by laughter) (audience laughs) - There's an underlying anger. - [Audience Member] Spoken - What did you say? Anybody - [Audience Member] I saw - Righteousness. - Skeptical. - Satisfied. - Holding back. - Silhouette. (audience member speaks faintly) All right, let's try it from We ready? I'll do another one now. (audience laughs) - [Audience Member] Overconfident. (audience laughs) What did you see? - Huh? - Satisfied. Wait a minute, you think I'm smug, and you think I'm satisfied? Those are the same. - Condescending. (audience laughs) All right, so let me just tell you, I was trying to do the same one for both, and I was trying to be (audience chattering softly) (audience laughs) Which to some people is condescending. And so what does this tell - [Audience Member] We're bad at it. - You got to get out of (audience laughs) - [Audience Member] It's - It's in the eye of the beholder, but we've been taught through and these movies that it's like, you know, you just read people's facial But here I am, I've got satisfied content, happy, whatever. I got so many different responses So now I'm working in your 600 faculty, Dean Smith walks (audience laughs) And some people are like, &quot;She's got a chip on her shoulder.&quot; And then someone else says, &quot;Oh, she's in a great mood today.&quot; (audience laughs) It's complicated. Which is why the only way to really know how someone is feeling is to ask them. You got to build relationships, If you're not sure, like if I, you know, I only know Dean Smith through Zoom. It's our first time in-person. You know, once we've I can be more accurate, I've got data, I see things happen in the Now, I can be better But that takes a lot of time So before that happens, you and build relationships to U in RULER, understanding of emotions. Why am I feeling this way? Where is this feeling coming from? So let me ask you this, what between anger and disappointment? Who feels they're confident? I know I could define the between anger and disappointment. - [Audience Member] The So when you're disappointed, and when you're angry, you're revved up. - Okay, now let me repeat my question. What is the psychological difference? Sorry, I'm pushing you. The (audience member speaks faintly) Oh, what do you think? - There isn't. - [Audience Member] Anger - Anger's about an injustice. - [Audience Member] When you think there's been an injustice. Disappointment is an unmet expectation. - You're a cheater. She's read my book 17 times. But yes, that's exactly right. So anger is about a perceived injustice. Disappointment is about All right, jealousy and envy. (no audio) - [Audience Member] One's about yourself and one's about the other person. - Say more. - [Audience Member] No. - (laughs) I'm not one of those easy, I don't give easy As. So, right, jealousy- - Yeah. So jealousy is when you feel threatened that you're going to lose - Oh. You fear the loss of somebody It's a lot of times it's triangulation. You know, like in my office, if it's like I have two I'm giving kind of more that's a jealousy situation. Marc likes that person better. Marc's going to write them a That's jealousy. Envy is Yeah. So there are differences. You can go on and on about you know, why we have our Labeling emotions, right, You can have lots of different feelings. You can be peeved, Those are all part of the anger family. You can be many forms of anxiety, too. You can be panicky, you could be stressed, you could be fearful, you All different emotions. And I shared this with and my research with about how IQ and emotional intelligence are not so correlated, say, the word they use, stressed, anxious, stressed, anxious, stressed, And I did follow up and I found that the number one emotion they were really feeling It was envy. That there's the mindset of the student is this one's richer, this this one's studies one less That's not stress, that's actually envy. And so why that's important is that you got to label If we're just going to give to deal with their envy, like Like you breathe in like, (inhales) now, I hate you even (audience laughs) (laughs) I mean, think about it. Expressing emotions, knowing how and when to express emotion with different people So this is an important one, because not everyone has equal permission to express their feelings. I give that example, I mean, I've lived it for many years in my family who is a doctor and my husband and is dark-skinned, and we go to places and there are different rules for us. In my own apartment building, people asked him whose Nobody asked me, ever Think about that. That You start becoming a being your true self when with people perceiving you a certain way. I'm a white guy, I get &quot;Oh, like something's wrong.&quot; If I were a person of color and Same anger, same level of intensity. It's perceived, one is a threat, And I share that with you and I can go on with these examples, going back to emotion perception. If I gave you facial and I had a white person doing this, and a black person doing that, there'll be more signal that the person of is displaying more anger you can do it, you know, and make the exact same movements. But yet there would be an over-attribution of negative emotion. And I share that for, for people to know, but what it makes me realize is that it's not the job of the individual to ask for the permission, right? It's the job of society to ensure that everyone has the permission. I mean families and and communities. And what it also tells me is is not about the individual, right? As a kid, I'll just give you I went for therapy. My parents were, they My father almost killed the And they got me therapist, and I went to therapy and played ping pong with my therapist, and then I went back to a family that was really not doing so well, and I went back to a school where I was being bullied every day. And it got worse because people and that just didn't go well. And so I think about this all the time, like we're trying to and we're trying to say like, you go for emotional Not really. It's, we all got to go for Because the more people who are playing by the same right, the more developed The last skill is regulating emotions. So what do we do with all these feelings? And I know that I have to Is that about right? I don't know. You just because I'll go on and on. If no one has to go It's right, who wants to So what, you know, what are the strategies that we use to regulate? I've been really curious about this. As a matter of fact, it's my It was funny, the pandemic I got letters upon letters, &quot;Marc, thank you for giving but now what the hell do I (laughs) And so it's like, wow. I didn't realize how much, with the regulation piece. And I started trying to figure What does the research show, And I've basically put which is the first is all just like attitudinally. You just got to be like, you know what? I've got my feelings. And it's very liberating. You know, I've had anxiety for 54 years, and I've tried a lot of different things to get rid of my anxiety. And then as I was writing this book, I realized, &quot;Marc, like There's nothing to get rid of. It's like you just have been where you believe that But look at you. You've done pretty well. So maybe it's not so bad after all. Maybe you're making it worse than it is. Maybe if you had more it wouldn't be so burdensome. The second is that we got We have to get granular. We We need to be able to communicate. 'cause sometimes the and I need social support, At night if I'm ruminating before I go to bed about which I probably will do, I'm going to have to say &quot;Marc, let it go. (laughs) You left. It is like, fine, whatever. Move on.&quot; Or I say something kind to myself to put myself so I can sleep. So you do need strategies no matter what. The third is you got to know how to manage your body's budget. A lot of people say to me, &quot;I'm trying to be a better parent. I'm trying to be a and I'm just so tired all the time.&quot; And so what that tells us, right, is that sleep is a prevention It's hard to get up the It takes energy. I mean, when you think about this, emotion regulation is energy. You're pausing, you're and you're trying to think creatively about how I can handle it in that moment. That's a lot of brainpower. If you're doing that all day long at home, at school, at work, You need to replenish. And that's going to come and getting good sleep You got to know how to quiet the noise. I mean, when you think about it, teenagers are spending on on their phones, on social media. Think about that, how much And then we ask people to sit And it's like, &quot;I can't do that. My brain is not, (murmuring) I got to, you know, I don't (audience laughs) How much energy do we It's hard work to be still, to sit with, and not be trying to get the next thing, the next thing, the next thing. We do have to learn how 'Cause we are our own We have to learn how to ask for help. It's funny, many of you may G-R-I-T, the principle of grit. So I'm starting this new web series, which you should all join on YouTube. It's called &quot;Dealing With Feelings.&quot; And I'm interviewing the in emotion regulation, and celebrities, and Navy Seals, and really creative people about how they've dealt with and what strategies were the most helpful, and then I kind of link it to the research and I interviewed Angela Duckworth, who is the writer and And she looks at me, and and I'm like, you know, &quot;Tell and the research, whatever, I want to know about how do And she's like, &quot;Marc, I'm Last year was the worst I just, I hated my I was trying to write my I'm trying to, I felt like and like I just had nothing to offer. I was thinking about changing my career.&quot; And I said, &quot;Well, what And she said, &quot;I would I'm like, &quot;But you're grit.&quot; I thought it's just grit, you know? It's like, &quot;Push through it.&quot; She's like, &quot;Marc, grit's You know, and she said, &quot;Then my number one strategy is perspective taking.&quot; And she goes, &quot;And sometimes but a lot of times I reach of the key people in my life about difficult things and a little coaching with from a different perspective.&quot; So I think that's so that you don't have to do this alone. I think we're brought up in a society that tells people you And here we have like a bestselling author of a book about grit. And her number one strategy (audience laughs) So I don't think we should underestimate the social piece of regulation. And the last piece is how to spend your time wisely. You know, are you doing those You know, for me it is And so if I put it on If I don't put it on my I live in the country now. You know, I oftentimes and just stare at a tree or a pond. And then when I do it, All right, let's take I'm going to ask you to of these strategies you Which area of regulation do from putting a little more time into? Is it just giving yourself Is it I want to be more and I want to label my feelings better? Is it your budget? Is Is it the thinking? Is Is it doing things that you enjoy? I think it's important to notice about things, but there to those goals. Things are going to get in the way of you applying this strategy. And so sometimes we need strategies to deal with the barriers for the strategies that we want to use. Does that make sense? Like, I'm going to, &quot;Marc, You're going to work out.&quot; But then I don't put on my calendar, or I make excuses for myself every time I'm about to go work out. So the goal or that the actually doesn't even get implemented. So then I have to work I had this whole thing, I and every time I'd work out Like, (grunting) You know, like, &quot;What are This is ridiculous.&quot; And I would say, &quot;Marc, a self-saboteur right now?&quot; And I came up with a phrase for every time I was about to give up on my workout. And it was, &quot;Who are you fooling?&quot; And so whenever I was about to be like, &quot;I don't need to do that extra set, like you've done enough.&quot; And I would just stop and say, Okay. (grunting) You know? But it works. You got to use it. You got So let me wrap up by One is, in my work in the real world, in terms of like leaders and companies, this is a study of 14,000 and we looked at supervisors who were low in emotional intelligence versus supervisors who were And we just want to know, did the teams, did they function any differently? Here's what we found. People said they were more to learn new skills when who was higher in emotional intelligence, significantly less likely significantly higher job satisfaction, lower burnout, higher engagement, they were less afraid of speaking up when there was a problem, and we found that they were more ethical. Like they actually, we which I can't mention the name but the employees, when they who were lower and emotional intelligence, it was a company that rates products. They were just like, &quot;Oh, who cares?&quot; They just didn't, they just they didn't really care &quot;You know, I'm just going So think about your electrical products, think about the food you're eating. (audience laughs) You're going to wish for those This is another study And I think what's interesting here is that we looked at personal wellbeing, and we found that people with occupational stuff, that the employees who who were higher in emotional intelligence had more positive fewer negative emotions, and they actually slept better. Think about that. Okay, so just a few last things and then we'll take some I want to make sure you have resources. So I'm delighted and honored that you've got some books to give away. You can certainly read that. There's that webcast called &quot;Dealing with Feelings.&quot; So just you go onto YouTube and those will be released in two weeks. Really excited about kind resources to people to You'll see some really interesting, the Navy Seal one is really interesting, just talking about like He is like, you know, &quot;Marc, I shouldn't really (audience laughs) And then if you're interested in the app, that's another access to this. Okay, here we go. Raise your hand if you - Yay! How many of you're going to give - The hands were a little lower there. (audience laughs) You know, how many of you're permission to feel? All right, good. I always say just be an Uncle Marvin. That's my new hashtag. Be an Uncle Marvin. Related to that, I got an, from a 97-year-old man, and he had read my book and he wrote me this email to read something like this at in his 90s and how he was reflecting on how different his life might've been and his relationships might've been with his family and his wife, and I was just so moved by it. And I said, just like I had And I just wrote him back and I said like, &quot;You just made my day. You know, thank you so much, And the guy wrote back to me and he goes, &quot;No, Marc, thank you for (audience coos) I'm like, oh. You know, that's what You know, it can take, you know, and helping people. It really does. It's amazing. You know, it's almost like a twofer. And I say it's a twofer, because when you are the Uncle Marvin, you notice how people's They feel different, they And what happens for us in other people, it reciprocates on us. I'm going to ask you all to strive not the emotion judge. You know, of course it's You know, my work starts in preschool and goes all the way up to companies and C-suites and universities. But the good news is that that are responsible of emotional intelligence do not atrophy. You learn something today, I hope, that you can take with you. You can always build your language. You can learn a new feeling word. You can always try a new strategy out. They're there for you to But it is life's work. It is life's work. And so my last words to all of you are oftentimes people, you know, Oftentimes, you know, and I I've sometimes, you know, given what I do, and they say things like, you know, &quot;But Marc, like, look at you, you made it. You know, with all of your trauma and everything that happened, look at you. You're so successful.&quot; And I always say, you know, &quot;I And I feel blessed to but you got to know, it was a journey, and I'm still on the journey. And God bless Uncle Marvin, who came into my life who I also got involved in the martial arts and became a martial arts teacher. I also got a PhD in psychology. I also have written, you and 15,000 curriculum and talked about this stuff ad nauseum. Like I'm working on this stuff. I put a lot effort into And so I want to just and think about your own Right, how much effort do Is it worth it? Think about the people in your dorms. Think about the 600 people How many of them have gotten the emotion so they achieve their dreams? So they make the best decisions, build and maintain the best relationships, have good mental health, And so I'll end by saying, you is this a magic pill, but maybe it's a good place to start. Thank you so much for your time. (audience applauds) Thank you everybody. - Thank you, Marc. We probably have time for a few questions if people would like - Yeah, and by the way, I It's late. Yes. - [Audience Member[ I how do you navigate conflicts with people who don't like talking and expressing it in a place, in a classroom setting, et cetera? - So how do you navigate in terms of using these skills? You know, it's a big question. And I think that part of it is recognizing that people's comfort or is mostly around their comfort/discomfort with being dysregulated. Meaning, if you can't deal with the feelings that you're going to have when about something that you don't and then you either want to, or run away. And so my goal is to help One of the things that also that's really important is that these are real world skills. So they're a little bit different than doing your math homework because like, and when I'm on vacation, I'm sitting on the beach, which sounds great right now actually. Like I'm not thinking like honestly. I'm thinking about like, life is good. I'm blessed that I have this. But when someone kicks the that's when you got to use your emotional intelligence, right? Because the system has been activated, and that's what's hard. It's hard to use it in real time. It's easy to use it in your brain. Like you can say, &quot;Oh, I will say that.&quot; And then all of a sudden and you can't do it, 'cause And so my work is really not only learn it, but practice it a lot, because you need to practice because it's hard. Yeah. - [Audience Member] I thought - Thank you. - [Audience Member] And the story that you felt able to give, I think, that your emotional to make in your own And there's a great feeling in this room. I'm wondering however, about the relationship as an individual and undergoing what could be called self-regulation. - Mm-hmm. that profits from self-regulation- - Or from dysregulation? - Say more. - [Audience Member] Because with a social order that And if everyone is self-regulating that has a scientist approach. - [Audience Member] Without what you've learned, about the ways in which you haven't been regulated, - Mm-hmm. - [Audience Member] How - Yeah, that's a good- - [Audience Member] Into the that makes you feel, you yourself feel, every night as if you have - Yeah. - [Audience Member] If the order itself is like that character put his elbows out and gave you a sense if that's the face of the social order, how does self-regulating transform that? - Yeah, I appreciate that. So notice that my definition of self, first I didn't even use Right, we used the term - [Audience Member] You use - Yeah. Yeah. - [Audience Member] And you how do you regulate yourself? This works well for a corporation. And we have a lot of people- - Dealing with their Then the corporation doesn't (audience member drowned out by Marc) - Yeah, I would just, I agree with you. - People to self-regulate. And the definition of emotion regulation, let me just show you, Is this still up? Yeah. To give you more precision, is the thoughts and actions that we use to prevent, reduce, initiate, initiate emotions. Emotion regulation, from the perspective of is not about controlling them, ever. It's about learning how to to achieve an outcome, so if to fight against an injustice, my regulation strategy isn't It's going to be &quot;Marc, figure in a way that's going to That also is regulation. I'll give you an example of that, just to give you kind of how this works. So I worked on this project not the researcher. And it was really fun, 'cause we had a whole symposium at Yale. We did a study together. But the project was about, it was called the Emotion Revolution. And you know, I was She was coming in as the communicator. Anyhow, long story short, what are we going to do? Like, what are we going to do? How is a pop star going to That was yellow, brainstorming. We're like, we're going to do this. We can try this, we can try this. Let's do this, let's do that. You know, there was a million ideas, 'cause that's what the It helps you be generative. So we put all these ideas out there. I'm like, but like, we can't, like, well who's going to do all these things? Like, it's not realistic. So I said, let's getting the green, let's get like, let's put Not like &quot;I'm on the Edge of Glory,&quot; but like, let's be calm and look at the Post-its, like, which one of these What's one that's going to So with my little persuasion, we decided to do a research study, and it was to survey high So we agreed on that. Then we had to realize, we Like, how are we going to And then we had this, like, problem because Lady Gaga's that's going to be a biased sample. It's a terrible study. So we had to figure all of like getting better data so it wasn't just a We got the data, big Didn't matter if you were a We found that 75% of the feelings that high school students They're tired, they're plus other things. And there was, we went through Anyhow, we analyzed the data. It was a big study, national study. And then I got invited to the White House. This is two administrations And the and the Secretary of and a lot of big players And so I had to think to Like, what is your goal Is your goal to like, &quot;That was a great presentation&quot;? Not really. That's not I could have done that. I could have been like, &quot;Everybody, I'm so excited to be here. Have I got a study for you.&quot; Or I could have gone in and in a way that's like, you know what? Let's all take a deep I don't want people to be calm. 75% of high school students That's not good. I could have been in the blue and said, &quot;You know, thank you for I'm going to present a study to you about the emotional You know, my hunch is 'cause like, let's think in our society. It doesn't really go anywhere. I was like, that's not a goal. And then I realized that my goal actually was to get people to be angry. I wanted them to leave angry, angry at the education system that is not preparing our kids. How many kids who are are going to be the kids, the They just, they don't want to be there. So I had to figure out a way to put, and I'm not like good at that actually, but I was like, &quot;Marc, you're that is going to get them fired up, that we got to do something, we got to do something about this.&quot; And so my point of is that was the motion regulation. That was creating an emotion that I felt was going to be the most necessary Sometimes it's &quot;Marc, don't say it, 'cause you're going to That's a different form of regulation. Any other questions? Yes, I saw your hand up, with Venue. - And I think, yeah. - Yeah, two more. - And then we'll wrap up. - Please. Yes. Yes, you. (audience laughs) So I grew up at schools that were all about social-emotional learning. - Okay, cool. - So all throughout elementary school- - We worked with Second Step. Oh, you did Second Step? - Yeah. I was at a private school. And then I was also at a and like the closest teacher I had was our social-emotional - Awesome. and I still feel like I could - Yeah. kind of feel sad sometimes has invested a lot of money into me being an emotionally (audience laughs) Well, it's life's work, so number one. I'm 54 and I'm still like, and I'm like, &quot;I'm a mess.&quot; So you're not going to... You know, I'll also say, and I'm not going to say There are multiple models and some of them are kind of and some of them are more and skills into the entire Most models are more of as opposed to really into the way the adults you know, and the parents And you just have to your life space now is very different than when you were in high school, and the thing, the opportunities or learn about emotions are with sports, with classrooms. Yeah. - I'm going to piggy back a little bit off of her question. - In elementary schools, specifically, when educators are talking to students about your RULER model. - Who are the educators? Are they guidance counselors? Are they physical education teachers? So that's the first part of the question, and then the second do you have data on when are most open to this kind of- - Conversation and information? - Great questions. So the first is, I learned, about the RULER program. That's a whole nother presentation, in terms of like our and support systems for schools. That wasn't, you know, But to just give you the quick I started my career with my uncle and we wrote a curriculum for kids that teachers would deliver and we failed, horrifically failed, because the educators They didn't have the emotion And so they'd say things like, you know, &quot;You're in the red today? Well, what's new?&quot; I'm like, &quot;What? What is happening?&quot; I remember I was videotaping this one... My favorite, I was videotaping this one... You got to videotape Mrs. I go into the school, I'm sitting in the back of the classroom, and we're filming this teacher, and she's talking about her mood, and she's like, &quot;You know everyone, you know, Mrs. Johnson's And I'm like, &quot;Oh wow. She's being authentic. That's cool.&quot; And so then she goes, &quot;And my strategy is that I realized today that we and so I'm going to be (audience laughs) (laughs) And I'm like, &quot;I don't really...&quot; I am going to have a nervous And so, like I learned that the kids were going to be okay if the adults were educated. And so our model has turned into one that's a lot about adult education. And then we realized that if leaders don't support the They don't give them the time to do it. They don't have accountability metrics. And then we found out the school and the superintendent's so it became a systemic model. So it's taken me 15, 20 And it's still, you know, leaving the profession in four years, like how do you keep the system going? And then your second - [Audience Member] Just, - Yeah. Yeah. - What I'll tell you is that it's not about the students' it's delivered to students that So if you know how to present data, present these concepts in a way that are developmentally appropriate, it works at every grade level. It is harder to do at it's always harder in high school than it is in middle But I've seen, we have and I've seen high schools that you just can't I'll end with, just, I have to end with one little cute little anecdote. I think I shared it in but I was visiting a fifth 'cause I was doing some and I was teaching them about creativity. What is creativity? And how do you think creatively about dealing with emotional problems? Like solving difficult, And so the ending was, what did you think about today's lesson? What's your take-home message? And this little boy raises and he goes, &quot;Sir, today I learned the in solving emotion problems.&quot; And I'm thinking like, (audience laughs) Like first, I didn't even know what these concepts were as a kid, but that he had processed this class, this lesson on that intersection, it was pretty remarkable to me. I'm going to tell you that to teach these skills at any age, that we underestimate how much, or how creative people can be when they're given the opportunities. And I know we got to go. Thank you everybody. (audience applauds)