Translator: TED Translators admin I'm going to talk to you about sex. To be more precise, When I'm done, you'll know to prevent it from happening in your life. So first I'd like to tell you a story. For the last three decades, I've been specializing couples who are truly teetering I resuscitate flat-line relationships. I try to teach couples to resolve their differences and put their kids It's not an easy job, my career chose me. You see, I grew up Two loving parents who never fought, a large extended family and all of our holidays. Until one fateful day, I was 16 years old and my mom called us all in and she proceeded to tell us that she'd been miserable and she was getting No one saw it coming. I told you, my parents never fought. I remember the feeling of blood thinking, &quot;How can this be happening? I'm leaving home, And that's precisely what happened. Divorce not only ends a marriage, The sadness about the break up That's because divorce is forever. Now, my parents' divorce First, it made me incredibly impassioned about learning everything I possibly could about how to have a healthy, so I could apply it in my own life and my own marriage. And I'm very proud to say is my nearly 40-year marriage And if you knew him, you'd know (Laughter) The other thing the divorce made me do, about teaching what I know Now when I say that, I really mean that. I'm not just talking I do some of my best work on airplanes, or online at Whole Foods, or as a matter of fact, I want to warn you of a sex-starved marriage. But what is that? A sex-starved marriage is one for more touch, more physical closeness, and the other spouse is thinking, Would you just get a life, it's just sex.&quot; But to the spouse yearning for more sex because it really is about feeling wanted, about feeling masculine, When this major disconnect happens, is that intimacy on all levels They stop sitting next They quit laughing at each others' jokes. They don't spend time together. They stop being friends. And it places the marriage Some of the reasons or an insatiable appetite for sex, But I'm happy to tell you that the primary cause is also the simplest to solve. And before I explain that solution, that if you're sitting here, thinking I want you to think again. Women do not have a corner I'm convinced that low desire in men Having said that, I want to also tell you that in a sex-starved marriage, the person with the lower sex drive When I say that, is intentionally mean-spirited, I just mean, if that person the partner may as well because it's not going to happen. I find this really curious because when we think about how decisions are made in marriage, we generally think about mutuality: two people decide when to get married, whether to have kids, what to do about finances, the in-laws, but conspicuously missing from that mix What's it like, the nature, I find this incredible. I know couples who have been married who have never spoken about sex. The other thing that really amazes me, is one person decides &quot;no sex&quot;, not complain about it, and oh yes, This is an unworkable arrangement. Let me tell you Meet John and Mary. John's a real laid back kind of guy, except in the last 15 minutes he finally gets up the courage that had been bothering him that there really is only on Friday nights between 10 and 12, and he knows not to bother her Like you laughing, I glanced over because she recognized herself John wasn't laughing. He wasn't smiling. So I said to him, &quot;John, And he said to me, He turned to her, took a deep breath. He said, &quot;When I reach out to you in bed, the only thing I ever think about is: Are you attracted to me anymore? Do you want to be with me? And then when you go to sleep, and I'm lying next to you all I can think about is: this is lying next to you in bed.&quot; To Mary's credit, and she reached out She said, &quot;John, I have to tell you, I never, not once, thought about I only think about, am I in the mood? I'm so, so sorry. I'll do better.&quot; John began to cry. I began to cry. For me, it was a magical moment. Because it was the first time that Mary was stretching to try to understand John's pain, his need to connect with her. And she promised she would do better. It was the beginning Unfortunately, for so many couples, In fact, very often, to deal with a sex-starved marriage Let me give you an example. So he says: &quot;Honey, do you want have a glass of wine and fool around?&quot; And she says: &quot;I have so much on my mind, &quot;You were the one to tell me last week Can't you have a headache (Laughter) &quot;I don't think you're funny. Furthermore, &quot;I'm not trying to be funny. I'm furious. I hate this relationship. &quot;You raise your voice, and then you expect me Plus, do you realize you haven't been home at all? And when you are home, we don't do things together, I am not going &quot;I don't want to talk What's going on here? In the early stages of dealing the person with higher desire usually approaches his or her spouse saying things like, &quot;I miss you. but when the pleas for connection are met that vulnerability quickly turns Anger is not an aphrodisiac. Anger leads to sexual withdrawal. Sexual withdrawal Heightened anger leads to sexual anorexia. And on and on. And then both people wait That's how marriages go down the drain. So what are they supposed to do? He needs to get a grip on his anger, regardless of whether he feels And he needs to spend time with her, He needs to recognize And what does she need to do? Well, despite her feelings, she needs to adopt (Laughter) Why? For two reasons. The first is obvious, he'll be happy. He'll be nicer, he'll be more present. Mostly, he'll be more grateful. But there's another reason. It has nothing to do with him, I wish I had a dollar for each time &quot;Michelle, I wasn't in the mood for sex but once we got into it, I had a great orgasm. We enjoyed each other. And then afterwards, we had the best talk And when I described that scenario the husband said, &quot;Yikes, that's my wife. I wish she would just so she remembers it for the next time. (Laughter) There's actually some science to this. I saw this so often in my practice and I bumped into the work She took the mystery The human sexual response cycle The first is desire. This means that you can be doing taking a walk, studying for a test, and all of a sudden, and you start fantasizing about sex. Second stage is arousal. You get with your partner, and you feel that sensation inside. The third stage: orgasm. Do you need an explanation? (Laughter) Fourth stage: resolution, your body Well, apparently, for millions of people, stages one, desire and two, Their bodies have to be in order for their brains The desire is there, but it's not If this sounds like you, it behooves you to be receptive even from a neutral starting place, you're bound to remember: &quot;I like sex.&quot; So, here's the deal. As human beings, We are learning through groundbreaking that our need to connect is more fundamental and more basic The opposite is also true: I mean, get this. When scientists look of the brains of people who have just or that are brokenhearted the exact same regions as in the brains of people And the same is not true like sadness, anxiety, and fear. Just for rejection, rejection is unique. Rejection hurts. So when your partner &quot;I'm looking at this amazing sunset, or &quot;I just read this incredible article, or &quot;Can we just turn off so we can spend some time or &quot;We haven't made love for a while, I'd love to snuggle in bed if we're not interested, rejection hurts. So what are we supposed to do? Well, here are those three lessons Number one. We all have different ways We need to know our way, in our partner's way Number two. If you're with someone more physical closeness, and more sex, &quot;it's just sex, like scratching an itch.&quot; Sex is a powerful way of connecting And number three, when you get you don't have to fully understand it, you just have to do it. And you want to know why? Two reasons. From everything I've learned healthy relationships are based Plus, it's an act of love. I know that what I'm asking you because I'm asking you to put But I truly believe that if more of us that we have to and that we don't have to be slaves then we can make this world one marriage, one relationship at a time. People tell me I'm a psychotic optimist. But I tell them, &quot;That's OK. Thank you. (Applause)