- All persons born are and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the state wherein they reside. No state shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges and immunities of citizens nor shall any state liberty, or property nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the Two sentences, Section arguably that's the second constitution, the second founding that we've lived under since its ratification in 1868, and its drafting in 1866. There are four other sections The third section got a great deal of publicity last winter where that state Supreme Court attempted to use Section 3 for the first time to disqualify a president because they deemed he had The current Supreme Court said, &quot;No, you cannot use Section Supreme Court is on a run right and that's one of them. Section 3 may never be used now, ever in American history, at But the reason it was to prevent former Confederates from ever running for high office, and particularly the Namely Jefferson Davis, who will soon be pardoned he'll be pardoned, not pardoned, excuse me, released from released from prison, that's a big difference, in 1867. But back to Section 1, it was written by this man, John Bingham, not as widely known among I think he should be on a stamp, although his good looks aren't the reason. (audience laughing) John Bingham wrote Section of the vigorous, brutal debates that Congress had with 11 mind you. In the winter of 1866, they fiercely debated this thing that was now called the 14th Amendment. What would it be? What were their responsibilities? What did they need to do now to define what emancipation would mean? What did they need to do to define what these former states would be? Are they states again? How do they become states again? How do you put Humpty And they kept looking in the Constitution for that section that said, and 11 states the seed from It's not there. It's why the debate was so ferocious. And among the many, many, many, oh God, if you ever want to just read the Congressional Globe Online. It's all digitized for those They're incredible. Read those debates. John Bingham of Ohio, an radical Republican, abolitionist, maybe not the most after all, he got elected to Congress from South Central Ohio. But John Bingham, who had of the tribunal that prosecuted the case against John Wilkes Booth's conspiracy, hell of a lawyer, constitutional thinker, would get up in Congress and &quot;This legislation will be after we have all paid He wanted, he said, &quot;To arm Congress&quot; not the president, &quot;arm to enforce the Bill of Rights as it stands in the Note every word of that quote. He wants Congress to have this power to enforce the Bill of The federal government, was intended to at least blunt, if not turn around the Reconstruction, Bingham believed in, and he had certainly enough allies here, had to be federal reconstruction. Somebody had lost this war, big time. Somebody had seceded from and somebody had to run the process to put them back together again. Enforce the Bill of rights in the states. That's gonna be the hardest thing of all. But Section 1, you cannot is the essence of the Second Constitution. You live under the, if you can keep it, you live under the Constitution in 1866, 67 and 68, not as much under the These three amendments, which we'll define in a moment, the Reconstruction Acts and their scope and scale as they were put in place redefined the US Constitution. There's a good reason led by Eric Foner, call The Union had been destroyed. Now, whether you take Lincoln's that the states couldn't or yes, they did leave the Union, they committed state The war had happened and it The 14th Amendment is It also has much deeper roots, much deeper roots. It's rooted in those petitions that those Black soldiers of the American Revolution in the Yale and Slavery book demanding their freedom and rights based on their is rooted in every and written and published. It's rooted in ancient which are somewhere there depending on how you read him. Equality's a very, very, very difficult thing though, isn't it? Hmm. Equal protection of the laws. I'm told by my lawyer friends, and I've been told this for years, that about two thirds of all litigation in American courtrooms, is 14th Amendment litigation. What is equal protection? The Citizens United case which lets billionaires on elections and buy elections It was their right. Elon Musk has equal protection now. Did you vote for that? Don't tell. I don't (audience laughing) Equality is such a tricky, James Baldwin left this little line. It's a beautiful line. It's typical of James Baldwin, warning us. He said, he wrote this in 1956, just as the civil rights &quot;It is easy to proclaim all but it is hard to make men equal on Earth and the sight of other men.&quot; We're equal before nature. We're equal before God, natural rights. But you and I are equal right now before each other, about this, and this, and this, and this, and access to that, and the and that fellowship, and this. That's where the hard part (audience laughing) Whoops, sorry. But that's why people have laws. All right, back up with me. Why is Bingham and his friends so concerned about getting into the Constitution? Did they know where it's all going? Of course not. Did Lincoln know what In the Gettysburg Address, don't forget Lincoln in the Gettysburg Address. And lest we forget, so did Thomas Jefferson, in the Declaration of Independence. The word is always there for Americans. Go with me to Charleston, It's the spring of 1865, winter/spring. Charleston was evacuated and lots of Confederate Charleston had been bombarded, Charleston had been and I showed you, I think a picture or two of the ruins of Charleston. The first regiment to the main street of Charleston, was the 21st US Colored Infantry. They accepted the surrender of the city. Mm, a lot of White troops came in as well. There's gonna be a huge on the actual anniversary of the firing on Fort They will re-raise the American flag. All kinds of dignitaries were there, including William Lloyd who the press said wept uncontrollably. And Henry Ward Beecher And Beecher never gave short speeches. And when the wind blew his notes away, apparently the crowd was kind of glad. (audience laughing) But back in town, out at the old Planter's known as the Washington Race Course in what is today, Hampton the White supremacist, redeemer Black folk and a few allies to bury some dead. Turns out, in the infield of the planters, and by the way, this was in the South. This is where the greatest The low country planters race course was everything to them. And that Washington race famous building, a grandstand. But in the last months of the war, they converted the whole for Union soldiers. And the count we have is that about 257 Union soldiers had died in the open air prison, and and buried behind the unmarked, unnamed. Now, when the Confederates a whole bunch of Black and others got together. Most of the population left in Charleston was the Black population, the former enslaved population, some of whom are already to these things called Freedman Schools. But they got their act together, and they started to reinter and proper mounds, and And they built a white which was in Harper's in 1867. They built a white fence It's right behind where And then they built a little archway to go into the cemetery compound. And over the archway, they Martyrs of the Race Course. And on May 1st, 1865, they held a parade on the racetrack led by and children behind them and with them carrying arm followed by Black men, Black and White. They paraded around the racecourse, humming and singing &quot;John Brown's Body.&quot; They gathered over here, in the cemetery. They listened to a children's choir sing &quot;America the Beautiful,&quot; and two or three Negro spirituals. They heard from three preachers And then they went back into the infield of the old race track and did what most of Children ran races. They had a special of people gave speeches, That's the first Memorial Day. I had the amazing, amazing, at the Lamont Library at Harvard in about, somewhere in the late nineties, when I was working on the I'd been sitting in that and one day the archivist said, &quot;You the one doing this memory stuff?&quot; &quot;Yes, ma'am.&quot; &quot;Well, we got this bunch the military order, the Loyal Legion. They're not accessed fully formally yet, but you'd be welcome to look at them.&quot; I said, &quot;Oh, sure.&quot; (audience laughing) Turns out, long story I don't know if it was the or the third box, and there was a file labeled I thought, Hmm, that's cool. I'm gonna have to write about You know, formal origins of the Republic, the But I opened this up and quite unbelievably, never say never in an archive, folks, they often don't even know what they have. On a piece of cardboard, was At the bottom of it, it said, with a date in May 1865. I didn't know it at the time, but Berwick was the pen a White abolitionist from the North who was in Charleston and helped at least to I thought at first, oh, this is just too good to be true. This is not true. You know, I had my archive prayers going, &quot;Please God, make this true.&quot; (audience laughing) And I went over, crossed the and I started getting The date that had been used by whatever old veteran wrote this down, it was a verbatim article He'd put the wrong date on it. And when I looked up that And I thought damn, you know? I just kept cranking. Sure enough, he just had or something, and there it was. I immediately called an the Avery Research Center, which small, but very important. And I already knew an archivist there 'cause I had worked there. And I said, &quot;Hey, you He said, &quot;No, it didn't happen.&quot; I said, &quot;Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa.&quot; I said, &quot;Was there any any newspapers publishing by May of '65, The Charleston Courier or you know, there were two major He said, &quot;Yeah, I think so. We have 'em all microfilm.&quot; I said, &quot;Would you look, just start looking on May 2nd, please.&quot; He called me back within &quot;Yeah, here it is. Much longer article.&quot; He said, &quot;Yeah, the children's choir I said, &quot;What?&quot; Ooh. &quot;Yeah, three preachers.&quot; Ooh ooh. And it goes on and on and on. Now I got two sources, I can go with it. And I started digging around, and digging around, and digging around. Harper's had a drawing of it in 1867. This was a totally lost story. It got crushed by the lost cause. This incredible drawing of the grave site. And then, well, photograph of the grave site. This came out later. Long story short, I already (audience laughing) I think I first published in Columbia, South Carolina newspaper, then a Charleston newspaper picked it up, and somebody else picked it up, and somebody else picked it up. And finally, on Memorial ran a column I wrote called And we finally got this And shortly after that, Joe Riley and I, with dedicated a new marker up in Hampton Park to the first Decoration Day. There are other cities and towns and graveyards that claim of Memorial Day. And does it matter Not necessarily, but they all claim 1866. They're a year late. Memorial Day was created by declaring their own Independence Day, their own liberty by properly burying the soldiers Now, Bingham didn't know about this story, but pretty soon Memorial officially created by the Grand Army of the Republic in 1868. You could not grow up in a town or city in the United and not have seen, participated in some kind This is a painting, I wish I had the color version of this 'cause it's beautiful, typical of a Northern or into the early eighties, this painting depicts little Of course, sometimes long lines of them decorating the graves. The term comes from decorating graves. My parents always called I finally understood. It means flowers and flowers are available Oh dear. Whoops. Sorry. I forget who found this photograph. It's just been more and more and more and more stuff has been So the radical Republicans, of reconstruction away from, where is he? Andrew Johnson. I thought I had a bigger Johnson, but there he is up in the corner. Andrew Johnson on your upper left, Thaddeus Stevens next to him (audience laughing) Lyman Trumbull, on your lower left, Very important congressman from Illinois, mostly an ally of Lincolns, not always, sometimes quite but he's gonna be the author It's gonna show that even to see that they had a to redefine the country in as best they could. And Charles Sumner, the radical, always was a radical, Republican from, sorry, Massachusetts. Now what is reconstruction? Let me run that by you just a bit. I wanna say a little bit more how it came about. But then we want to between Johnson and the Charles Sumner, Trumbull, Reconstruction was an era of Tragic because it comes Musical accompaniment, welcome, Okay. Reconstruction was one on the meaning of the war. You know, we can always as you know, it's a bunch of laws, it's a bunch of enactments. It's a whole bunch of, hold on one second, I gotta show you the book. Yeah. Oh, there it is. Students and everybody else, there's a little reader edited by Steve Prince, He did a perfect job here of putting together the right documents and a nice tight introduction which he draws mostly from (audience laughing) No, it's great. He knows what he's talking about. But it's more than just a It's this amazing attempt to respond to the meaning and the sometimes was failure. What were the verdicts of Appomattox? Who and what actually won? That's what they're trying to do. The great challenge of how a national blood most ever in any war, at that time, how do you take this national blood feud and begin to somehow reconcile How do you bring that thing back together? Do you bring that thing back together? And if you do, what are you gonna do with those ex-confederates? You gonna wish 'em away as Lincoln did? Just go into exile. Fine, please. Y'all wanna go to Brazil? Bye. A lot did go to Brazil. This task was harrowing because of the survivors on both sides have to still inhabit the same land, just like we do after this election. We have to live here. You don't need me to tell you that. And they're gonna have to eventually inhabit the same government. That's harder. How do you make the eventual logic of sectional reconciliation compatible with the logic of that revolution of 1863, which is emancipation. You've just defeated the planter class. You've just defeated the, you've defeated slavery, How do you put those people back together with the people who defeated and thousands of their How do you square Black freedom and the stirrings of this with a cause that had lost everything except its unbroken How do you compromise with White supremacy if you're John Boone? Lincoln called the war, in the Gettysburg Address, a testing. That famous word, a testing, whether a republic so could long endure. Reconstruction was an How do you create a new And how do you do it through and justice. Reconstruction and the memory of the Civil War is always a collision between these two enormous ideas. They're not just concepts. They're not just abstractions. How do you heal a place that's had this largest and do it with justice. Justice to whom? Justice to all the 4 million freed people, one hopes, they hope. But what justice might is not the same thing as who experienced Sherman's lost all of their land and three of their brothers, justice to them ain't And they are very soon gonna called the Ku Klux Klan and a bunch of other organizations to fight back. Healing and justice, Somebody won though and somebody lost. Now, all right, Andrew so to speak, does he ever. As the saying went in Tennessee, &quot;Old Andy never went back on his raisin,&quot; which means he was That's the translation of He was a Jacksonian You may be wondering, what the hell was he doing since he's a peculiar dude. He had always been a and pro-slavery and racist to the bone, but he hated secession. He did not believe secession possible. Yeah, okay, contradictions, if you like, but contradictions make In 1861, he was the only Southern senator from a seceded state who You know, took some, you know what? Kahunas. In 1862, Lincoln appointed him the because he represented Unionism. Once the Union Army occupied that Lincoln could say, well, we'll start reconstructing and call Andrew Johnson it's governor. That was a sort of a but nevertheless, he had He'd always been an outsider in politics, a kind of a maverick. Now Lincoln puts him on a ticket in '64. And, and by the way, you and honored, and honored, and the greatest that, But we never talked too much about why did you put Andrew Well, the reason was he was a Unionist. He dropped Hannibal Who remembers Hannibal in 1860 from New Hampshire? He didn't need New Hampshire anymore. He needed a border state, But boy, he got more than he Yes, he was a bit drunk as vice president, but largely because he wasn't a perpetual drunk. You can read that But he had a horrific toothache and he had been swilling down some bourbon and he stood there, Johnson's plan of reconstruction was to take Lincoln's 10% plan and make it even more Let's look at those I hope you can see this. I've given this to all the TA students, and they're gonna send this to you. It helps, it's kind of a timeline, plus an expression of the Johnson's plan was state's rightist. He had a strong attachment to the Union, but nevertheless believed all in the States. His slogan for reconstruction sums it up. He said, &quot;the Constitution as it is, and the Union as it was.&quot; Put the Union back together, but don't touch the Constitution. Alright, 13th Amendment, Guess so. The war killed slavery. To Johnson, that was, eh, But he will never support He'll do everything he can to thwart it, and the same of the 15th. He also had a certain hatred 'cause he'd grown up a poor boy, even though he had owned He'd grown up a poor in the hill country. He wasn't even terribly literate until his wife helped him He hated the planter class. He wanted to stick it to 'em. You know, those guys with they're the ones who caused this war. They're the ones that dragged caused all this mess, this blood. He was never anti-slavery in the least and he was a genuine White supremacist. He was also hypersensitive and obstinate. He was not a good politician He was great on the stump. He could get up on the back of a hay wagon and give a hell of a stump He was good at that. But in DC dealing with people, not his favorite thing. He'd usually blow up at somebody like he did to a delegation led by Frederick Douglas in 1866. Douglas led a delegation of Black leaders, including his own son and several other major Black to go face to face with Andrew Johnson and beg him to support Black suffrage and what the radical Johnson didn't listen to them. He gave them about a 45 that their people will in this country. And as they were leaving the room, Douglass finally, he kept &quot;Mr. President, Mr. President.&quot; Finally Douglass got up and And they began to file out. And as they were filing out, he overheard, they all overheard Johnson he's just like every other He'll cut your throat And I don't know exactly at that moment, but I can imagine and probably looked back at Johnson and said to himself, &quot;Not a bad idea.&quot; (audience laughing) Now, peculiar guy though, 'cause when he comes into he has sway with the radicals, by saying, &quot;Treason must be made odious. We must hold the And you know, Charles Sumner thought, well maybe this guy, maybe we can deal with Johnson. Maybe we can find a way although maybe not. He announces, it would of the given voting population to form a new constitution, accept the end of slavery, come back into the Union Johnson said that portion any portion, wherever two or more gather. They want to create a new fast as possible. He wanted all Southerners or more worth of property to be held out and disfranchised for a while. He wanted to punish the planter class and he wanted to make them And he will do that. Planters wives, especially, but especially planters wives will start lining up at the White House to get pardons from Andrew Johnson and he loved that. Walt Whitman got a job working in the corner of the White House writing those pardons out. Poets need jobs. Now those new Johnson governments, as they were called, were put They started passing Black codes, just like the old Black Black people couldn't be on public roads, Black people couldn't do couldn't do this, couldn't do that. Had no access to any kind of institutions, et cetera, et cetera. And he also did another thing. When Sherman took Savannah and his army moved north, very soon, they set aside a region. Sherman wasn't so fond of doing this, but he found they had to. About 20 miles inland and 250 miles long down the of Georgia, South Carolina, they set aside that land for the, allegedly, perpetual inhabitation of freed slaves and their families. They would be given promissory notes, they could pay back when they could. There was a time on it, but it was to be land now redistributed from the old planters, this is some of the best redistributed from the planters back to their former slaves. By September, 1865, Andrew It was called Sherman's Thousands of Black farmers on land, they believe would be their own. Approximately 40,000 freed They got what the law said or sort of, hence that phrase. It used to be the title of October '65, not September, Johnson, here was the great dream property redistribution, but that's what it was. And it was cut off, given right back to its original owners if they could be found, Now the radicals fight back. Do they ever. The congressional response, some of which is on again, Lyman Trumbull, John Thaddeus Stevens, William Pitt Fessenden, another real moderate from Maine, who gets on board with this. The Republicans sustained a coalition here of their own party out of of what they felt. And this is key, think about these people. That Republican party, which to oppose the Kansas Nebraska Act and created this new coalition they got some former of former Whigs, and they got the abolitionist circle with them. And man, it's a bunch but there they have this They almost elected Fremont in 1856. They elect Lincoln in 1860. These men had grown up with this fight, had come of age with this fight. They were victors in this fight. They had something to preserve or create. They had many motives, moral revulsion to Johnson's They had political motives too. They wanted to plant the How do you do that? Black votes, big time. I don't deny them some They're not all morally pure by any means. They had economic motives. They saw the South as America's It was the new West. It was crushed. It was destroyed. It's there for the remaking. They had social motives. Many of them wanted to remake the South, and to some degree in the North's image. They wouldn't have minded if, you know, a good congregational of those Alabama towns, schools. This notion that all the radical to Yankeeize the South but there's something to it. They established something and it was on the outline called the Joint Committee This was unprecedented, There'd never been a committee to investigate something It had 15 members. It starts meeting in January, 1866. Johnson's government, so-called, these rapidly recreated sent representatives to Washington, I'm sorry, in December to be sworn in, including Alexander H. Stephens, the former vice president A couple old colonels showed up in their Confederate uniforms And the Republicans of and they said, &quot;No, no.&quot; They simply shut the door. They said, &quot;There is no readmission. We will decide how and when.&quot; 15 members in the joint committee, it was stacked with the Republicans. There were only three Democrats. Surprise. They did all kinds of investigations. They held hearings with 144 witnesses. No congressional committee had ever done anything on this scale. Today we have congressional hearings and investigations. They wanted to know about many questions. What are the treatment of And they would interview and union officers and so on. They want to know about loyalty and disloyalty among They heard a lot about that, oh boy. They wanted know if which had been set up in the winter of '65 was still necessary. And the answer was yes. The Freedman's Bureau never been anything like It was the first major sort of the federal government. It was set up to provide food, shelter, schooling, even for the freed people in the South and for White refugees, just There were hundreds of thousands of homeless White people in the South. They wanted to know about How long would they have to Where should they be? What Their conclusions. One, it was madness to run these new Southern governments. Madness, that's the word they used in the conclusions of the joint committee. Two, Johnson's level of And third, they had to have legal And the first bill they will It will pass in April of 1866. It's an extraordinary bill. It didn't go that far. And if you actually students, you'll see that compared to many, many other civil rights But here is what it did. This is a federal Civil Rights Act, the first of its kind in Passed over Andrew Johnson's veto, the first of many to come. In a two year period, Andrew Johnson will veto more laws than all previous presidents put together. It became government by passage of laws and veto by president. Government by veto and override of veto. I believe it was 14 vetoes in two years, more than all previous presidents. The Civil Rights Act did not It didn't touch voting. It created national except Indians. They use the term It's there, it's right there. Native Americans not included, yet, and for quite some time. Lyman Trumbull, who wrote it, used the term fundamental and protection of one's free labor. And that law said that were to be heard in, very not state court. But the bill also lacked precision. It lacked a certain It was addressed only to not private acts. An issue throughout our history, but here's where it begins. What's a public act? What's a private act of discrimination? When do you have the right 'cause you don't like 'em? But it was the first effort to into that 13th Amendment. Well, you just ended slavery, Okay, then they passed that 14th Amendment after ferocious debate. It will pass on June 8th, 1866. I think one of the most of the United States Congress, if we could ever agree on what the 14th Amendment actually means. It ought to have a giant statue. It ought to have a memorial on the mall, but we'll never agree 14th Amendment needs a It passed the Senate, 38 to 11 and the House, 138 to 36. It is the legal DNA under which you live. It actually was more than just Section 1 of the 14th Amendment, it was a resounding answer in Roger B Taney's Dred Black people have no rights that White people must acknowledge. The 14th Amendment is saying, yes they do. Now, okay, leave you to this. This is heading toward of course, between Johnson and the radical Republicans, the whole Republican party. His behavior, for one thing, just kept driving them toward impeachment His enactments, and please read, it is it's in the GNAP Reader, students. It's also in the Prince book and everyone else who has those books, read Andrew Johnson's veto It's very short, but it sums up everything Oh, does it ever? But you gotta understand these radicals. Leave you with this. They had a certain ideology and they were ascendant in this moment. From roughly the end when they get the 15th Amendment passed, more on that next week, or no Thursday. They believe, first of all in Unionism. They're gonna put this They're determined about that. There's gonna be a United Secondly, they believed They're not all gonna That's a big one. But this notion of equality before law, they had more than a consensus on that. And that's a revolutionary of modern jurisprudence And thirdly, very important, and it encompasses the first two, they believed in positive They believed in using They had just used government in its most colossal way to win a war. They had just spent millions and millions of dollars They passed the Homestead Act and the Transcontinental Railroad Act and the Moral Act creating Homestead Act was supposed to be the most democratic thing ever. I mean anybody, any slob could go west and just enclose a little land and it's gonna belong to him if he builds a good fence around it. But these people believe They'd grown up doing this. They were all adherent of of political economy. They believed in the Labor itself was the and they wanted to maximize that. They're not gonna fully And everybody knows that, yeah, in the end, reconstruction fails and in the end, reconstruction's a tragedy and blah, blah, blah. But all around you today, you live with so many countless legacies of this moment. Every time we debate every time we debate the every time we debate states rights, abortions should go to the states now. Hmm. What is positive interventionist One of our political One of 'em doesn't. That's almost always the case, isn't it? How about that right to vote? Who has it and how is it protected? Is it? Okay, I'll leave you here. Reconstruction came down One was, who's gonna rule in the South, ex-Confederates with the freed people, Yankees who moved there or everybody? Second, who's gonna rule in Washington DC, congress or the president? Talk about a testing here. Lincoln had the right word. Who's gonna rule over reconstruction? President, president C, or congress? Third, what are the What did it actually mean that 4 million people And last but not least, is reconstruction going to or a reinvention of the new? All four of those questions all at the same time. And God, did Black people Come back to that. And Thomas Nast was waiting Oh my God, did he give this is his sense of And we will come back to that next time. It's a hideous image, but it represents a lot of what is going to happen faster than you might guess. Reconstruction is a rise and fall story. The rise is fast, the fall is prolonged, but just as precipitous. Thank you.