- [Narrator] Tic Tac Toy! (upbeat music) (phone rings) - Who could be calling so (phone rings) - Oh, this better be good. Coming, coming. Hello? - Hello? - [Toy Master] Good morning. I'm a little bored so - What kind of game? - [Toy Master] An escape room game. I'm locking you both in your bedrooms. (lock clicks) In order to get out, you'll have to each follow a unique set of clues that will lead you to an escape button. Press that button and - How long will this take? We have a play date this afternoon. - [Toy Master] That depends on how quickly you solve the clues. Oh, and I'm gonna add to make this a bit more, well, fun for me. - I'm afraid to ask, but what is it? - [Toy Master] For every five minutes that you'll be trapped inside your rooms, I will wipe out a popular of every single toy - OMG! That's disastrous! - [Toy Master] It may be for you, and for the millions of but I call this fun. - I guess we have to work quickly, then. - [Toy Master] Tell ya what, I'm feeling extra nice today. If you get stuck on a clue, I'll give you one free your mother, for assistance. Use it wisely because you only get one. - Okay, how do we get started? - [Toy Master] Addy, in your Our Generation Awesome Academy. Maya, your first clue can be found in your stuffed animal bin. The clock is starting now. Good luck. (upbeat music) - Okay, Awesome Academy. This is it, I gotta find the clue quickly. What is the clue? Maybe it's inside this pencil case. I don't see anything unusual in here. This all looks pretty normal, Let me check this file. Nothing. Let's see what's inside Lily's desk. Looks like some science supplies, a crayon, nothing unusual. I don't even know what I'm supposed to be looking for and time is ticking. Let's see what's inside this desk. Paper, notebook, post it notes. Nothing in there. Wait a minute! I didn't write anything in this notebook. What has a head and a tail, but no body? What kind of clue is this? - Okay, here's my stuffed animal bin. Mr. Skittles, are you the clue? Ariel, no. Scruff a Luv, no. I don't think it's Tramp. Is it Ellie? Hopefully I don't have to cut open one of my precious stuffed (upbeat music) Huh? What are watercolors I don't remember putting these in here. Could these be the clues? But what would they mean? - What has a head, a tail, but no body? What has a head, a tail, but no body? Maybe a snake? They have a head and tail, but do they have a body? I know I don't have any Do I have any toy snakes? Okay I have a toy unicorn, a toy bird, even a toy puppy. Do I have any snakes? Here's a kitty and here's two turtles. Puppy, unicorn, but no snakes. What could that clue What has a head and a tail, but no body? (chimes) Is that an incoming message on my tablet? - [Toy Master] Five minutes have passed and all Pikmi Pop Surprise from the shelves of toy (gasp) The timer has been reset. If you haven't escaped in five minutes, another popular toy will disappear. - Oh no, this is devastating. I wonder if I should use Cause I have no idea what - Well, all I could think of to do is use the paint to paint the paper. Hopefully that will show me the clue. (upbeat music) Is that words I'm seeing under there? I better get this whole paper painted so I can get a better look. Whoa, there's definitely a message here. It's kind of hard to make out, Let me see if I can read it. Send my favorite princesses to the ball in the correct order? Princess, ball, what's this kind of clue? - Oh! Okay. Hello? - Hi mom. I need your help. Me and Maya are both trapped in our rooms and the Toy Master is making us play this horrible game in order to escape. - I know, I know, he called me too. I'm locked inside my room until both of you escape from your rooms. - Well I need your help with a clue. What do you think this means? What has a head and a tail, but no body? - A head and a tail, but no body? Huh, that's a tough one. - I know! I thought it was a snake but I don't have any snakes in my room that the clue could be leading me to. - Hmm I got it Addy! It's a coin! Every coin has two sides, heads and tails. - You're right, and Thanks mom, I have tons - No problem, good luck and I'll see you when you - Thanks mom! See ya later! Let me get my piggy bank. Okay, I have tons of coins in here. Maybe if I dump them Okay, there's a lot of coins. Anything unusual? Whoa, there are some coins This has to mean something. Here's two more. Okay, I can tell these two coins are dimes and this one's a nickel. It looks like they've been colored with a Sharpie or something. What could this mean? These coins are shiny Hmmm, wait a minute. I know that a dime is worth 10 cents and a nickel is worth five cents. So, two dimes plus one I bet the number 25 is important - Okay, these are the and I bet the ball is the dance floor. So, I don't know the order to send the princesses to the ball in. There's gotta be something I don't see anything in the castle. What about in the dolls? Oh! What's this? It says order! Perfect, this will work. One, this princess must Oh, that's Cinderella. Okay, you're going to Cinderella's first. Number two, this princess won't That must be Rapunzel! Pascal is her lizard friend. You're going to the ball, Rapunzel. Two down. Three, this princess hopes My favorite princess, Ariel! Go on down. Onto the fourth princess. Four, this princess had to travel all the way from New Orleans. That's Tiana! This way, Tiana. Four down, time for number five. This princess can decorate the Elsa! She's my second favorite! Here we go, Elsa. This way, Elsa. Okay, I slided them all Hmmm, is there another clue? (chimes) Oh no, it's my tablet Has another five minutes already passed? - [Toy Master] Another and all Hatchimals have been removed from the shelves of the toy The timer has been reset. If you haven't escaped in five minutes, another popular toy will disappear. - Oh no, this is so, so bad. - These flashcards add up to 25, but I don't see any type of clue on them. Maybe I'm not supposed to look for the number 25 after all. Maybe I have 25 of a certain toy. Could that be what I'm looking for? Let me go see! Here are my toy collections. If I have 25 of any one Hmm, I have a lot of LOLs but I don't think this is quite 25. Shopkins? No, this is way too many. I bet this is more like Maybe I have 25 Pikmis???? One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 21, 22, 23, 24, 25. That's it! I have 25 Pikmis! But is this what I'm looking for? What's the next clue supposed to be? I don't see anything. Maybe it's in the bin? A note! (upbeat music) Don't forget to read between the lines. What lines? What does this mean? - I put all the princesses in order but now I don't see a clue. I think it's time I use my phone call. (beeps) (ringing) - Hello? - Hi mommy. You won't believe what's going on. - Oh, I already know hun, I'm sorry. I've already helped Addy with a clue. Do you need help too? - I had to line up my princesses in a certain order to get the next clue. And I did but nothing's happening. - Okay, well, how did you know what order to line them up in? - There were a bunch of and they told me the order to put them in. - Well, if you lined them up correctly, could a clue just have Like maybe a dresser drawer popped open, or a clue fell from the ceiling, or something like that? - No, nothing has popped up in my room. I would've noticed something like that. - Okay, well, tell me what - First it was Cinderella, Rapunzel, Ariel, Tiana, and then Elsa. - Okay, so, let's see. What about the dress colors. Do they form a pattern or something? - No, it doesn't look like it to me. It's blue, purple, teal, green, teal. - The order of the princesses Cinderella, Rapunzel, Ariel, Tiana, Elsa. - Doesn't ring a bell. - Wait a minute! I think I'm on to something. - Good, what is it? - When the princesses are you can take the first and it spells C-R-A-T-E, crate! Does that mean anything to you? - It sure does! Thanks mommy, gotta go! - Don't forget to read between the lines. What lines? Let me get my blacklight. Here it is. There could be something but I can't see them. Maybe my blacklight will reveal something. I'm something that gets inflated but I am not a tire, and when I'm filled with helium, let go and I float higher. I knew there was a clue here! I'm something that gets And when I'm filled with helium, Well, I can only think of one thing that I fill with helium to make it float. It must be a balloon. I know I have some of There they are! It feels like something's inside of them. There is but I can't get it out. Maybe if I blow the then I can see what's inside of them. (tense music) (upbeat music) - Is this my next clue? What is all of this? A scale, Mickey Mouse, an Enchantimal? This is like so odd. This looks definitely like a scale but what does three ounces mean? I'm so confused. (chimes) Oh no, not another message. It's been another five minutes already? - [Toy Master] Another and all Little Live Pets have been removed from the shelves of toy The timer has been reset. If you haven't escaped in five minutes, another popular toy will disappear. - It's a tragedy! I've got to move quicker. Another toy can't disappear. Okay, I've got a scale, a What do I do with that? Maybe one of these toys maybe that's our clue. Marshall, let's see what you weigh. .8 ounces? Let's try something bigger, than! 5.4 ounces? That's too big. How about Mickey? 2.3 is too small! I don't think any of these Maybe I have to put a few toys together to make it weigh three ounces. Let me try these two. 2.5? Nope. How about that Enchantimal and this pony? 2.5 again? Maybe I'll try all the Rubble, Marshall, and Skye. Skye, Rubble, three ounces! I did it, these three Paw But what does that mean now? - Okay, time to start popping these! This must be the clue! Letter E, better save that. Another E. A and C! C, I, R, and M. These letters have to spell something. Mice? No. What could this be? What could this be? Ice? Ice what? Cream. that's it! Ice cream! And I have an ice cream cart in my room! Okay, clue, clue, it's gotta be over here! Popsicles, I don't think Let me check this side. Ice cream sandwiches, nothing Wait a minute. What's this? I found it! This is the escape button! I need to get out of here fast! (boing) (lock clicks) I made it! I made it! - Okay, Rubble, Marshall, and Skye, do you know what this clue means? Maya, I just escaped, how - I'm stuck in here Addy of this before another - What's your clue? Maybe I can help. - I have a Skye, a Rubble, and a Marshall and I don't know what they mean! You know, they're Paw Patrol? - Okay well, do you have any more Paw Patrol toys in your room that it could be leading you to? - Addy, I do! I have a Paw Patrol cruiser somewhere. - Find it quickly, then! I bet your next clue's in it. - Here it is! I found it, I found it! No clue here. Maybe in the back. Oh, let me push this button. The escape button, I found it Addy! (boing) (lock clicks) - Maya, we made it, we escaped! - I've never been so glad to see you! - I know, come on, let's go get mom. - [Toy Master] You may have Parents and kids around the country won't be able to find Pikmi Pop Surprises, Hatchimals, or Little Live Pets. So sad. (evil laugh) (eerie music)