The Science of Getting Rich Written by Wallace D. Wattles and originally Read by Randy Scott. This recording is a production of the Master This recording may contain antiquated language, While worthy of study, the views and opinions reflect those of Master Key Society, nor its PREFACE a practical manual, not a treatise upon theories. It is intended for the men and women whose to get rich first, and philosophize afterward. It is for those who have, so far, found neither go deeply into the study of metaphysics, but the conclusions of science as a basis for by which those conclusions were reached. It is expected that the reader will take the he would take statements concerning a law by a Marconi or an Edison; and, taking the their truth by acting upon them without fear Every man or woman who does this will certainly an exact science, and failure is impossible. For the benefit, however, of those who wish so secure a logical basis for faith, I will The monistic theory of the universe--the that one Substance manifests itself as the of Hindu origin, and has been gradually winning for two hundred years. It is the foundation of all the Oriental philosophies, Schopenhauer, Hegel and Emerson. The reader who would dig to the philosophical for himself. In writing this book I have sacrificed all of style, so that all might understand. The plan of action laid down herein was deduced been thoroughly tested, and bears the supreme If you wish to know how the conclusions were mentioned above; and if you wish to reap the read this book and do exactly as it tells The Author. CHAPTER I. Whatever may be said in praise of poverty, live a really complete or successful life No man can rise to his greatest possible height plenty of money; for to unfold the soul and to use, and he cannot have these things unless Man develops in mind, soul, and body by making that man must have money in order to become of all advancement for man must be the science The object of all life is development; and to all the development it is capable of attaining. Man's right to life means his right to have which may be necessary to his fullest mental, other words, his right to be rich. In this book, I shall not speak of riches not mean to be satisfied or contented with No man ought to be satisfied with a little The purpose of Nature is the advancement and all that can contribute to the power, elegance, with less is sinful. The man who owns all he wants for the living rich; and no man who has not plenty of money Life has advanced so far, and become so complex, a great amount of wealth in order to live Every person naturally wants to become all to realize innate possibilities is inherent be all that we can be. Success in life is becoming what you want only by making use of things, and you can rich enough to buy them. To understand the science of getting rich There is nothing wrong in wanting to get rich. The desire for riches is really the desire and that desire is praiseworthy. The man who does not desire to live more abundantly to have money enough to buy all he wants is There are three motives for which we live; we live for the soul. No one of these is better or holier than the of the three--body, mind, or soul--can live of full life and expression. It is not right or noble to live only for wrong to live for the intellect and deny body We are all acquainted with the loathsome consequences and soul; and we see that real life means give forth through body, mind, and soul. Whatever he can say, no man can be really fully in every function, and unless the same Wherever there is unexpressed possibility, desire. Desire is possibility seeking expression, Man cannot live fully in body without good and without freedom from excessive toil. Rest and recreation are also necessary to He cannot live fully in mind without books for travel and observation, or without intellectual To live fully in mind he must have intellectual all the objects of art and beauty he is capable To live fully in soul, a man must have love; Man's highest happiness is found in the finds its most natural and spontaneous expression The man who has nothing to give cannot fill or as a man. It is in the use of material things that man mind, and unfolds his soul. It is therefore of supreme importance to him It is perfectly right that you should desire you cannot help doing so. It is perfectly right that you should give Rich, for it is the noblest and most necessary If you neglect this study, you are derelict for you can render God and humanity no greater CHAPTER II. THERE IS A SCIENCE OF GETTING RICH There is a science of getting rich, and it There are certain laws which govern the process learned and obeyed by any man, he will get The ownership of money and property comes those who do things in this Certain Way, whether those who do not do things in this Certain they are, remain poor. It is a natural law that like causes always man or woman who learns to do things in this That the above statement is true is shown Getting rich is not a matter of environment, neighborhoods would become wealthy; the people of other towns would all be poor, or the inhabitants of an adjoining state would be in poverty. But everywhere we see rich and poor living often engaged in the same vocations. When two people are in the same locality and the other remains poor, it shows that getting Some environments may be more favorable than are in the same neighborhood, and one gets getting rich is the result of doing things And further, the ability to do things in this of talent, for many people who have great very little talent get rich. Studying the people who have got rich, we having no greater talents and abilities than It is evident that they do not get rich because men do not, but because they happen to do Getting rich is not the result of saving, are poor, while free spenders often get rich. Nor is getting rich due to doing things which business often do almost exactly the same remains poor or becomes a bankrupt. From all these things, we must come to the of doing things in a Certain Way. If getting rich is the result of doing things produce like effects, then any man or woman and the whole matter is brought within the The question arises here, whether this Certain may follow it. This cannot be true, as we have seen, so far Talented people get rich, and blockheads get rich, and very stupid people get rich; physically people get rich. Some degree of ability to think and understand ability is concerned, any man or woman who words can certainly get rich. Also, we have seen that it is not a matter Location counts for something; one would not do successful business. Getting rich involves the necessity of dealing to deal with; and if these people are inclined the better. But that is about as far as environment goes. If anybody else in your town can get rich, can get rich, so can you. Again, it is not a matter of choosing some People get rich in every business and in every in the very same vocation remain in poverty. It is true that you will do best in a business you. And if you have certain talents which are which calls for the exercise of those talents. Also, you will do best in a business which would do better in a warm climate than in better in the Northwest than in Florida, where But, aside from these general limitations, in some particular business, but upon your If you are now in business, and anybody else business, while you are not getting rich, the same Way that the other person is doing No one is prevented from getting rich by lack True, as you get capital the increase becomes is already rich, and does not need to consider No matter how poor you may be, if you begin to get rich; and you will begin to have capital. The getting of capital is a part of the process which invariably follows the doing of things You may be the poorest person on the continent, friends, influence, nor resources; but if infallibly begin to get rich, for like causes If you have no capital, you can get you can get into the right business; if you right location; and you can do so by beginning location to do things in the Certain Way which CHAPTER III. IS OPPORTUNITY MONOPOLIZED? No man is kept poor because opportunity has have monopolized the wealth, and have put You may be shut off from engaging in business open to you. Probably it would be hard for you to get control field is pretty well monopolized. But the electric railway is still in its infancy, and it will be but a very few years until will become a great industry, and in all its of thousands, and perhaps to millions, of Why not turn your attention to the development with J.J. Hill and others for a chance in the steam It is quite true that if you are a workman very little chance of becoming the owner of true that if you will commence to act in a of the steel trust; you can buy a farm of as a producer of foodstuffs. There is great opportunity at this time for and cultivate the same intensively; such men You may say that it is impossible for you you that it is not impossible, and that you work in a Certain Way. At different periods the tide of opportunity the needs of the Whole, and the particular At present, in America, it is setting toward professions. Today, opportunity is open before the farmer in his line. It is open before the business man who supplies the factory worker; and before the professional the one who serves the working class. There is abundance of opportunity for the trying to swim against it. So the factory workers, either as individuals The workers are not being "kept down" by the trusts and combinations of capital. As a class, they are where they are because If the workers of America chose to do so, in Belgium and other countries, and establish they could elect men of their own class to of such co-operative industries; and in a of the industrial field. The working class may become the master class Certain Way; the law of wealth is the same This they must learn; and they will remain do as they do. The individual worker, however, is not held down by the ignorance can follow the tide of opportunity to riches, No one is kept in poverty by a shortness in for all. A palace as large as the capitol at Washington the building material in the United States country would produce wool, cotton, linen, world finer than Solomon was arrayed in all them all luxuriously. The visible supply is practically inexhaustible; Everything you see on earth is made from one proceed. New forms are constantly being made, and older by One Thing. There is no limit to the supply of Formless The universe is made out of it; but it was The spaces in, through, and between the forms filled with the Original Substance; with the things. Ten thousand times as much as has been made not have exhausted the supply of universal No man, therefore, is poor because nature go around. Nature is an inexhaustible storehouse of riches; Original Substance is alive with creative When the supply of building material is exhausted, so that food stuffs and materials for clothing or more soil will be made. When all the gold and silver has been dug stage of social development that he needs Formless. The Formless Stuff responds to the needs of thing. This is true of man collectively; the race if individuals are poor, it is because they which makes the individual man rich. The Formless Stuff is intelligent; it is stuff It is alive, and is always impelled toward It is the natural and inherent impulse of of intelligence to enlarge itself, and of and find fuller expression. The universe of forms has been made by Formless in order to express itself more fully. The universe is a great Living Presence, always functioning. Nature is formed for the advancement of life; For this cause, everything which can possibly there can be no lack unless God is to contradict You are not kept poor by lack in the supply a little farther on that even the resources of the man or woman who will act and think CHAPTER IV. THE FIRST PRINCIPLE IN THE SCIENCE OF GETTING Thought is the only power which can produce The stuff from which all things are made is form in this substance produces the form. Original Substance moves according to its nature is the visible expression of a thought As the Formless Stuff thinks of a form, it it makes that motion. That is the way all things were created. We live in a thought world, which is part The thought of a moving universe extended Stuff moving according to that thought, took that form. Thinking Substance takes the form of its thought, Holding the idea of a circling system of suns and moves them as it thinks. Thinking the form of a slow-growing oak tree, though centuries may be required to do the In creating, the Formless seems to move according the thought of an oak tree does not cause but it does start in motion the forces which of growth. Every thought of form, held in thinking Substance, or at least generally, along lines of growth The thought of a house of a certain construction, might not cause the instant formation of the energies already working in trade and commerce building of the house. And if there were no existing channels through the house would be formed directly from primal of the organic and inorganic world. No thought of form can be impressed upon Original the form. Man is a thinking center, and can originate All the forms that man fashions with his hands shape a thing until he has thought that thing. And so far man has confined his efforts wholly labor to the world of forms, seeking to change He has never thought of trying to cause the upon Formless Substance. When man has a thought-form, he takes material of the form which is in his mind. He has, so far, made little or no effort to work "with the Father." He has not dreamed that he can "do what Man re-shapes and modifies existing forms to the question whether he may not produce his thoughts to it. We propose to prove that he may do so; to man or woman may do so, and to show how. As our first step, we must lay down three First, we assert that there is one original things are made. All the seemingly many elements are but different forms found in organic and inorganic nature stuff. And this stuff is thinking stuff; a thought Thought, in thinking substance, produces shapes. Man is a thinking center, capable of original to original thinking substance, he can cause thinks about. To summarize this: -- There is a thinking stuff from which all things permeates, penetrates, and fills the interspaces A thought, in this substance, produces the Man can form things in his thought, and, by can cause the thing he thinks about to be It may be asked if I can prove these statements; I can do so, both by logic and experience. Reasoning back from the phenomena of form substance; and reasoning forward from this to cause the formation of the thing he thinks And by experiment, I find the reasoning true; If one man who reads this book gets rich by in support of my claim; but if every man who is positive proof until some one goes through The theory is true until the process fails; man who does exactly what this book tells I have said that men get rich by doing things must become able to think in a certain way. A man's way of doing things is the direct To do things in a way you want to do them, the way you want to think; this is the first To think what you want to think is to think Every man has the natural and inherent power far more effort to do so than it does to think To think according to appearance is easy; laborious, and requires the expenditure of upon to perform. There is no labor from which most people shrink thought; it is the hardest work in the world. This is especially true when truth is Every appearance in the visible world tends which observes it; and this can only be prevented To look upon the appearance of disease will and ultimately in your body, unless you hold is no disease; it is only an appearance, and To look upon the appearances of poverty will unless you hold to the truth that there is To think health when surrounded by the appearances midst of appearances of poverty, requires a MASTER MIND. He can conquer fate; he can have what he wants. This power can only be acquired by getting appearances; and that fact is that there is which all things are made. Then we must grasp the truth that every thought that man can so impress his thoughts upon visible things. When we realize this, we lose all doubt and we want to create; we can get what we want As a first step toward getting rich, you must previously in this chapter; and in order to I repeat them here: -- There is a thinking stuff from which all things permeates, penetrates, and fills the interspaces A thought, in this substance, produces the Man can form things in his thought, and, by can cause the thing he thinks about to be You must lay aside all other concepts of the dwell upon this until it is fixed in your Read these creed statements over and over meditate upon them until you firmly believe If a doubt comes to you, cast it aside as Do not listen to arguments against this idea; contrary concept of things is taught or preached. Do not read magazines or books which teach faith, all your efforts will be in vain. Do not ask why these things are true, nor take them on trust. The science of getting rich begins with the CHAPTER V. You must get rid of the last vestige of the it is that you should be poor, or whose purposes The Intelligent Substance which is All, and you, is a consciously Living Substance. Being a consciously living substance, It must living intelligence for increase of life. Every living thing must continually seek for in the mere act of living, must increase itself. A seed, dropped into the ground, springs into a hundred more seeds; life, by living, multiplies It is forever Becoming More; it must do so, Intelligence is under this same necessity Every thought we think makes it necessary is continually expanding. Every fact we learn leads us to the learning increasing. Every talent we cultivate brings to the mind are subject to the urge of life, seeking expression, more, and to be more. In order to know more, do more, and be more use, for we learn, and do, and become, only We must get rich, so that we can live more. The desire for riches is simply the capacity desire is the effort of an unexpressed possibility It is power seeking to manifest which causes That which makes you want more money is the is Life, seeking fuller expression. The One Living Substance must be subject to with the desire to live more; that is why The One Substance desires to live more in you can use. It is the desire of God that you should get He wants you to get rich because he can express of things to use in giving him expression. He can live more in you if you have unlimited The universe desires you to have everything Nature is friendly to your plans. Everything is naturally for you. Make up your mind that this is true. It is essential, however that your purpose in All. You must want real life, not mere pleasure Life is the performance of function; and the every function, physical, mental, and spiritual, any. You do not want to get rich in order to live desires; that is not life. But the performance of every physical function who denies the impulses of the body a normal You do not want to get rich solely to enjoy ambition, to outshine others, to be famous. All these are a legitimate part of life, but intellect alone will only have a partial life, You do not want to get rich solely for the of mankind, to experience the joys of philanthropy The joys of the soul are only a part of life; other part. You want to get rich in order that you may do these things; in order that you may surround lands, feed your mind, and develop your intellect; things, and be able to play a good part in But remember that extreme altruism is no better are mistakes. Get rid of the idea that God wants you to can secure his favor by doing so; God requires What he wants is that you should make the and you can help others more by making the You can make the most of yourself only by that you should give your first and best thought Remember, however, that the desire of Substance more life to all; it cannot be made to work in all, seeking riches and life. Intelligent Substance will make things for some one else and give them to you. You must get rid of the thought of competition. You are to create, not to compete for what You do not have to take anything away from You do not have to drive sharp bargains. You do not have to cheat or to take advantage. You do not need to let anyone work for you You do not have to covet the property of others, has anything of which you cannot have the away from him. You are to become a creator, not a competitor; such a way that when you get it every other I am aware that there are men who get a vast to the statements in the paragraph above, Men of the plutocratic type, who become very ability on the plane of competition; and sometimes in its great purposes and movements for the evolution. Rockefeller, Carnegie, Morgan, et al., have in the necessary work of systematizing and end, their work will contribute immensely Their day is nearly over; they have organized the agents of the multitude, who will organize The multi-millionaires are like the monster a necessary part in the evolutionary process, dispose of them. And it is well to bear in mind that they have lives of most of this class will show that wretched of the poor. Riches secured on the competitive plane are yours Remember, if you are to become rich in a scientific of the competitive thought. You must never think for a moment that the Just as soon as you begin to think that all by bankers and others, and that you must exert and so on; in that moment you drop into the creation is gone for the time being; and what movements you have already instituted. KNOW that there are countless millions of the earth, not yet brought to light; and know from Thinking Substance to supply your needs. KNOW that the money you need will come, even led to the discovery of new gold mines to-morrow. Never look at the visible supply; look always and KNOW that they are coming to you as fast Nobody, by cornering the visible supply, can So never allow yourself to think for an instant before you get ready to build your house, Never worry about the trusts and combines, to own the whole earth. Never get afraid that you will lose what you to it.&quot; That cannot possibly is possessed by anybody else; you are causing Substance, and the supply is without limits. Stick to the formulated statement:-- There is a thinking stuff from which all things permeates, penetrates, and fills the interspaces A thought, in this substance, produces the Man can form things in his thought, and, by can cause the thing he thinks about to be CHAPTER VI. HOW RICHES COME TO YOU. When I say that you do not have to drive sharp to drive any bargains at all, or that you with your fellow men. I mean that you will not need to deal with for nothing, but can give to every man more You cannot give every man more in cash market give him more in use value than the cash value The paper, ink, and other material in this it; but if the ideas suggested by it bring wronged by those who sold it to you; they cash value. Let us suppose that I own a picture by one community, is worth thousands of dollars. I take it to Baffin Bay, and by &quot;salesmanship&quot; worth $500 for it. I have really wronged him, for he has no use it will not add to his life. But suppose I give him a gun worth $50 for He has use for the gun; it will get him many life in every way; it will make him rich. When you rise from the competitive to the transactions very strictly, and if you are more to his life than the thing he gives you You do not have to beat anybody in business. And if you are in a business which does beat Give every man more in use value than you adding to the life of the world by every business If you have people working for you, you must pay them in wages; but you can so organize the principle of advancement, and so that a little every day. You can make your business do for your employees You can so conduct your business that it will who will take the trouble may climb to riches will not do so it is not your fault. And finally, because you are to cause the which permeates all your environment, it does the atmosphere and come into being before If you want a sewing machine, for instance, impress the thought of a sewing machine on without hands, in the room where you sit, But if you want a sewing machine, hold the certainty that it is being made, or is on After once forming the thought, have the most sewing machine is coming; never think of it, sure to arrive. Claim it as already yours. It will be brought to you by the power of minds of men. If you live in Maine, it may be that a man in some transaction which will result in your If so, the whole matter will be as much to Do not forget for a moment that the Thinking with all, and can influence all. The desire of Thinking Substance for fuller of all the sewing machines already made; and and will, whenever men set it in motion by Way. You can certainly have a sewing machine in you can have any other thing or things which of your own life and the lives of others. You need not hesitate about asking largely; the kingdom,&quot; said Jesus. Original Substance wants to live all that all that you can or will use for the living If you fix upon your consciousness the fact of riches is one with the desire of Omnipotence invincible. Once I saw a little boy sitting at a piano, the keys; and I saw that he was grieved and I asked him the cause of his vexation, and but I can't make my hands go right.&quot; The music in him was the URGE of Original of all life; all that there is of music was God, the One Substance, is trying to live He is saying &quot;I want hands to build wonderful glorious pictures; I want feet to run my errands, truths and to sing marvelous songs,&quot; and so All that there is of possibility is seeking God wants those who can play music to have have the means to cultivate their talents can appreciate beauty to be able to surround those who can discern truth to have every those who can appreciate dress to be beautifully food to be luxuriously fed. He wants all these things because it is Himself who wants to play, and sing, and enjoy beauty, and eat good foods. &quot;it is God that worketh in you to will and The desire you feel for riches is the Infinite, to find expression in the little boy at the So you need not hesitate to ask largely. Your part is to focalize and express the desires This is a difficult point with most people; poverty and self-sacrifice are pleasing to They look upon poverty as a part of the plan, They have the idea that God has finished His the majority of men must stay poor because They hold to so much of this erroneous thought they try not to want more than a very modest comfortable. I recall now the case of one student who was of the things he desired, so that the creative Substance. He was a very poor man, living in a rented day to day; and he could not grasp the fact So, after thinking the matter over, he decided for the floor of his best room, and an anthracite weather. Following the instructions given in this book, and then it dawned upon him that he had not He went through the house in which he lived, like to make in it; he mentally added a bay complete in his mind as his ideal home; and Holding the whole picture in his mind, he toward what he wanted; and he owns the house his mental image. And now, with still larger faith, he is going It has been unto him according to his faith, CHAPTER VII. GRATITUDE. The illustrations given in the last chapter that the first step toward getting rich is Substance. This is true, and you will see that in order to the Formless Intelligence in a harmonious To secure this harmonious relation is a matter I shall give some space to its discussion you will follow them, will be certain to bring The whole process of mental adjustment and gratitude. First, you believe that there is one Intelligent second, you believe that this Substance gives relate yourself to It by a feeling of deep Many people who order their lives rightly lack of gratitude. Having received one gift from God, they cut to make acknowledgment. It is easy to understand that the nearer we we shall receive; and it is easy also to understand in closer touch with God than the one which The more gratefully we fix our minds on the good things we will receive, and the more is that the mental attitude of gratitude draws from which the blessings come. If it is a new thought to you that gratitude with the creative energies of the universe, is true. The good things you already have have come laws. Gratitude will lead your mind out along the you in close harmony with creative thought thought. Gratitude alone can keep you looking toward the error of thinking of the supply as limited; There is a Law of Gratitude, and it is absolutely if you are to get the results you seek. The law of gratitude is the natural principle and in opposite directions. The grateful outreaching of your mind in thankful of force; it cannot fail to reach that to instantaneous movement towards you. &quot;Draw nigh unto God, and He will draw nigh That is a statement of psychological truth. And if your gratitude is strong and constant, strong and continuous; the movement of the Notice the grateful attitude that Jesus took; Thee, Father, that Thou hearest me.&quot; You cannot exercise much power without gratitude; with Power. But the value of gratitude does not consist future. Without gratitude you cannot long keep from are. The moment you permit your mind to dwell with begin to lose ground. You fix attention upon the common, the ordinary, mind takes the form of these things. Then you will transmit these forms or mental poor, the squalid, and mean will come to you. To permit your mind to dwell upon the inferior with inferior things. On the other hand, to fix your attention on best, and to become the best. The Creative Power within us makes us into We are Thinking Substance, and thinking substance about. The grateful mind is constantly fixed upon best; it takes the form or character of the Also, faith is born of gratitude. The grateful mind continually expects good The reaction of gratitude upon one's own mind grateful thanksgiving increases faith. He who has no feeling of gratitude cannot living faith you cannot get rich by the creative It is necessary, then, to cultivate the habit comes to you; and to give thanks continuously. And because all things have contributed to in your gratitude. Do not waste time thinking or talking about or trust magnates. Their organization of the world has made your because of them. Do not rage against corrupt politicians; if into anarchy, and your opportunity would be God has worked a long time and very patiently and government, and He is going right on with There is not the least doubt that He will of industry, and politicians as soon as they they are all very good. Remember that they are all helping to arrange riches will come to you, and be grateful to This will bring you into harmonious relations in everything will move toward you. CHAPTER VIII. THINKING IN THE CERTAIN WAY. Turn back to chapter VI., and read again the of his house, and you will get a fair idea You must form a clear and definite mental an idea unless you have it yourself. You must have it before you can give it; and because they have themselves only a vague to do, to have, or to become. It is not enough that you should have a general has that desire. It is not enough that you should have a wish Everybody has those desires also. If you were going to send a wireless message of the alphabet in their order, and let him you take words at random from the dictionary. You would send a coherent sentence; one which When you try to impress your wants upon Substance, statement; you must know what you want, and You can never get rich, or start the creative longings and vague desires. Go over your desires just as the man I have you want, and get a clear mental picture of That clear mental picture you must have continually toward which he is sailing the ship; you must You must no more lose sight of it than the It is not necessary to take exercises in concentration, and affirmation, nor to &quot;go into the silence,&quot; These things are well enough, but all you it badly enough so that it will stay in your Spend as much of your leisure time as you one needs to take exercises to concentrate it is the things you do not really care about upon them. And unless you really want to get rich, so thoughts directed to the purpose as the magnetic hardly be instructions given in this book. The methods herein set forth are for people overcome mental laziness and the love of ease, The more clear and definite you make your it, bringing out all its delightful details, stronger your desire, the easier it will be what you want. Something more is necessary, however, than If that is all you do, you are only a dreamer, Behind your clear vision must be the purpose expression. And behind this purpose must be an invincible yours; that it is &quot;at hand&quot; and you have only Live in the new house, mentally, until it In the mental realm, enter at once into full &quot;Whatsoever things ye ask for when ye pray, have them,&quot; said Jesus. See the things you want as if they were actually and using them. Make use of them in imagination just as you possessions. Dwell upon your mental picture until it is Attitude of Ownership toward everything in Take possession of it, in mind, in the full Hold to this mental ownership; do not waiver And remember what was said in a proceeding it all the time as you expect to be when it The man who can sincerely thank God for the has real faith. He will get rich; he will cause the creation You do not need to pray repeatedly for things about it every day. &quot;Use not vain repetitions as the heathen do,&quot; knoweth the ye have need of these things before Your part is to intelligently formulate your life, and to get these desires arranged into Whole Desire upon the Formless Substance, you what you want. You do not make this impression by repeating vision with unshakable PURPOSE to attain it, it. The answer to prayer is not according to your to your faith while you are working. You cannot impress the mind of God by having what you want, and then forgetting Him during You cannot impress Him by having special hours dismiss the matter from your mind until the Oral prayer is well enough, and has its effect, vision and strengthening your faith; but it you want. In order to get rich you do not need a &quot;sweet ceasing.&quot; And by prayer I mean holding steadily to your into solid form, and the faith that you are &quot;Believe that ye receive them.&quot; The whole matter turns on receiving, once When you have formed it, it is well to make in reverent prayer; and from that moment you Live in the new house; wear the fine clothes; and confidently plan for greater journeys. Think and speak of all the things you have Imagine an environment, and a financial condition time in that imaginary environment and financial Mind, however, that you do not do this as the FAITH that the imaginary is being realized, Remember that it is faith and purpose in the between the scientist and the dreamer. And having learned this fact, it is here that CHAPTER IX. HOW TO USE THE WILL. To set about getting rich in a scientific to anything outside of yourself. Your have no right to do so, anyway. It is wrong to apply your will to other men you wish done. It is as flagrantly wrong to coerce people physical power. If compelling people by physical force to compelling them by mental means accomplishes is in methods. If taking things from people by physical force is robbery also; there is no difference in You have no right to use your will power upon you do not know what is for his good. The science of getting rich does not require in any way whatsoever. There is not the slightest necessity for doing others will only tend to defeat your purpose. You do not need to apply your will to things, That would simply be trying to coerce God, as irreverent. You do not have to compel God to give you your will power to make the sun rise. You do not have to use your will power to and rebellious forces do your bidding. Substance is friendly to you, and is more are to get it. To get rich, you need only to use your will When you know what to think and do, then you and do the right things. That is the legitimate use of the will in yourself to the right course. Use your will to keep yourself thinking and Do not try to project your will, or your thoughts, or people. Keep your mind at home; it can accomplish Use your mind to form a mental image of what and purpose; and use your will to keep your The more steady and continuous your faith rich, because you will make only POSITIVE neutralize or offset them by negative impressions. The picture of your desires, held with faith and permeates it to great distances - throughout As this impression spreads, all things are thing, every inanimate thing, and the things into being that which you want. All force begins to be exerted in that direction; The minds of people, everywhere, are influenced of your desires; and they work for you, unconsciously. But you can check all this by starting a negative Doubt or unbelief is as certain to start a are to start one toward you. It is by not understanding this that most in getting rich make their failure. Every hour and moment you spend in giving in worry, every hour in which your soul is from you in the whole domain of intelligent All the promises are unto them that believe, Notice how insistent Jesus was upon this point Since belief is all important, it behooves will be shaped to a very great extent by the important that you should command your attention. And here the will comes into use; for it is things your attention shall be fixed. If you want to become rich, you must not make Things are not brought into being by thinking Health is never to be attained by studying is not to be promoted by studying sin and by studying poverty and thinking about poverty. Medicine as a science of disease has increased promoted sin, and economics as a study of and want. Do not talk about poverty; do not investigate Never mind what its causes are; you have nothing What concerns you is the cure. Do not spend your time in charitable work, to perpetuate the wretchedness it aims to I do not say that you should be hard hearted but you must not try to eradicate poverty Put poverty behind you, and put all that pertains Get rich; that is the best way you can help And you cannot hold the mental image which with pictures of poverty. Do not read books or papers which give circumstantial dwellers, of the horrors of child labor, and Do not read anything which fills your mind You cannot help the poor in the least by knowing of them does not tend at all to do away with What tends to do away with poverty is not mind, but getting pictures of wealth into You are not deserting the poor in their misery with pictures of that misery. Poverty can be done away with, not by increasing about poverty, but by increasing the number rich. The poor do not need charity; they need inspiration. Charity only sends them a loaf of bread to gives them an entertainment to make them forget them to rise out of their misery. If you want to help the poor, demonstrate by getting rich yourself. The only way in which poverty will ever be and constantly increasing number of people People must be taught to become rich by creation, Every man who becomes rich by competition he rises, and keeps others down; but every for thousands to follow him, and inspires You are not showing hardness of heart or an poverty, see poverty, read about poverty, those who do talk about it. Use your will power to keep your mind OFF with faith and purpose ON the vision of what CHAPTER X. FURTHER USE OF THE WILL. You cannot retain a true and clear vision attention to opposing pictures, whether they Do not tell of your past troubles of a financial of them at all. Do no tell of the poverty of your parents, any of these things is to mentally class yourself certainly check the movement of things in &quot;Let the dead bury their dead,&quot; as Jesus said. Put poverty and all things that pertain to You have accepted a certain theory of the all your hopes of happiness on its being correct; theories? Do not read religious books which tell you do not read the writings of muck-rakers and it is going to the devil. The world is not going to the devil; it is It is a wonderful Becoming. True, there may be a good many things in existing is the use of studying them when they are of them only tends to check their passing Why give time and attention to things which when you can hasten their removal only by your part of it goes? No matter how horrible in seeming may be the or places, you waste your time and destroy You should interest yourself in the world's Think of the riches the world is coming into, and bear in mind that the only way in which by growing rich yourself through the creative Give your attention wholly to riches; ignore Whenever you think or speak of those who are are becoming rich; as those who are to be Then they and others will catch the inspiration, Because I say that you are to give your whole not follow that you are to be sordid or mean. To become really rich is the noblest aim you else. On the competitive plane, the struggle to other men; but when we come into the creative All that is possible in the way of greatness endeavor, comes by way of getting rich; all If you lack for physical health, you will on your getting rich. Only those who are emancipated from financial free existence and follow hygienic practices, Moral and spiritual greatness is possible battle for existence; and only those who are are free from the degrading influences of If your heart is set on domestic happiness, is refinement, a high level of thought, and are to be found only where riches are attained strife or rivalry. You can aim at nothing so great or noble, fix your attention upon your mental picture tend to dim or obscure the vision. You must learn to see the underlying TRUTH wrong conditions the Great One Life ever moving complete happiness. It is the truth that there is no such thing Some people remain in poverty because they for them; and these can best be taught by own person and practice. Others are poor because, while they feel that indolent to put forth the mental effort necessary the very best thing you can do is to arouse that comes Others still are poor because, while they so swamped and lost in the maze of metaphysical which road to take. They try a mixture of many systems and fail For these, again, the very best thing to do and practice; an ounce of doing things is The very best thing you can do for the whole You can serve God and man in no more effective get rich by the creative method and not by Another thing. We assert that this book gives in detail the and if that is true, you do not need to read This may sound narrow and egotistical, but of computation in mathematics than by addition, no other method is possible. There can be but one shortest distance between There is only one way to think scientifically, by the most direct and simple route to the No man has yet formulated a briefer or less it has been stripped of all non-essentials. When you commence on this, lay all others Read this book every day; keep it with you; other &quot;systems&quot; and theories. If you do, you will begin to have doubts, and then you will begin to make failures. After you have made good and become rich, please; but until you are quite sure that anything on this line but this book, unless And read only the most optimistic comments your picture. Also, postpone your investigations into the Do not dabble in Theosophy, Spiritualism, It is very likely that the dead still live, mind your own business. Wherever the spirits of the dead may be, they to solve; and we have no right to interfere We cannot help them, and it is very doubtful any right to trespass upon their time if they Let the dead and the hereafter alone, and If you begin to mix with the occult, you will bring your hopes to shipwreck. Now, this and the preceding chapters have facts:-- There is a thinking stuff from which all things permeates, penetrates, and fills the interspaces A thought, in this substance, produces the Man can form things in his thought, and, by can cause the thing he thinks about to be In order to do this, man must pass from the form a clear mental picture of the things with the fixed PURPOSE to get what he wants, what he wants, closing his mind against all vision, or quench his faith. And in addition to all this, we shall now Way. CHAPTER XI. ACTING IN THE CERTAIN WAY. Thought is the creative power, or the impelling thinking in a Certain Way will bring riches alone, paying no attention to personal action. That is the rock upon which many otherwise failure to connect thought with personal action. We have not yet reached the stage of development, man can create directly from Formless Substance human hands; man must not only think, but By thought you can cause the gold in the hearts but it will not mine itself, refine itself, along the roads seeking its way into your Under the impelling power of the Supreme Spirit, one will be led to mine the gold for you; so directed that the gold will be brought business affairs that you may be able to receive Your thought makes all things, animate and but your personal activity must be such that it reaches you. You are not to take it as charity, nor to use value than he gives you in cash value. The scientific use of thought consists in of what you want; in holding fast to the purpose grateful faith that you do get what you want. Do not try to "project" your thought in of having it go out and do things for you; power to think with sanity. The action of thought in getting rich is fully faith and purpose positively impress your THE SAME DESIRE FOR MORE LIFE THAT YOU HAVE; the creative forces at work IN AND THROUGH toward you. It is not your part to guide or supervise that is to retain your vision, stick to your But you must act in a Certain Way, so that comes to you; so that you can meet the things their proper places as they arrive. You can really see the truth of this. When things reach you, they will be in the for them. And you can only get what is yours by giving Your pocketbook is not going to be transformed always full of money without effort on your This is the crucial point in the science of personal action must be combined. There are very many people who, consciously in action by the strength and persistence they do not provide for the reception of the By thought, the thing you want is brought Whatever your action is to be, it is evident You cannot act in the past, and it is essential you dismiss the past from your mind. You cannot act in the future, for the future And you cannot tell how you will want to act has arrived. Because you are not in the right business, that you must postpone action until you get And do not spend time in the present taking future emergencies; have faith in your ability If you act in the present with your mind on a divided mind, and will not be effective. Put your whole mind into present action. Do not give your creative impulse to Original results; if you do, you will never get them. Act now. There is never any time but now, and there If you are ever to begin to make ready for now. And your action, whatever it is, must most and must be upon the persons and things in You cannot act where you are not; you cannot where you are going to be; you can act only Do not bother as to whether yesterday's work well. Do not try to do to-morrow's work now; there get to it. Do not try, by occult or mystical means, to reach. Do not wait for a change of environment before You can so act upon the environment in which to a better environment. Hold with faith and purpose the vision of upon your present environment with all your all your mind. Do not spend any time in day dreaming or castle want, and act NOW. Do not cast about seeking some new thing to action to perform as a first step toward getting It is probable that your actions, at least been performing for some time past; but you in the Certain Way, which will surely make If you are engaged in some business, and feel wait until you get into the right business Do not feel discouraged, or sit down and lament No man was ever so misplaced but that he could became so involved in the wrong business but Hold the vision of yourself in the right business, that you will get into it, and are getting Use your present business as the means of environment as the means of getting into a Your vision of the right business, if held to move the right business toward you; and will cause you to move toward the business. If you are an employee, or wage earner, and to get what you want, do not "project&quot; your you another job. It will probably fail to do so. Hold the vision of yourself in the job you on the job you have, and you will certainly Your vision and faith will set the creative your action will cause the forces in your you want. In closing this chapter, we will add another There is a thinking stuff from which all things permeates, penetrates, and fills the interspaces A thought, in this substance, produces the Man can form things in his thought, and, by can cause the thing he thinks about to be In order to do this, man must pass from the form a clear mental picture of the things with the fixed PURPOSE to get what he wants, what he wants, closing his mind to all that or quench his faith. That he may receive what he wants when it things in his present environment. CHAPTER XII. EFFICIENT ACTION. You must use your thought as directed in previous where you are; and you must do ALL that you You can advance only by being larger than his present place who leaves undone any of The world is advanced only by those who more If no man quite filled his present place, in everything. Those who do not quite fill their present commerce, and industry; they must be carried The progress of the world is retarded only holding; they belong to a former age and a is toward degeneration. No society could advance if every man was guided by the law of physical and mental evolution. In the animal world, evolution is caused by When an organism has more life than can be it develops the organs of a higher plane, There never would have been new species had their places. The law is exactly the same for you; your principle to your own affairs. Every day is either a successful day or a which get you what you want. If everyday is a failure, you can never get cannot fail to get rich. If there is something that may be done to-day, far as that thing is concerned; and the consequences You cannot foresee the results of even the of all the forces that have been set moving Much may be depending on your doing some simple open the door of opportunity to very great You can never know all the combinations which the world of things and of human affairs; small thing may cause a long delay in getting Do, every day, ALL that can be done that day. There is, however, a limitation or qualification You are not to overwork, nor to rush blindly greatest possible number of things in the You are not to try to do to-morrow's work It is really not the number of things you that counts. Every act is, in itself, either a success Every act is, in itself, either effective Every inefficient act is a failure, and if your whole life will be a failure. The more things you do, the worse for you, On the other hand, every efficient act is life is an efficient one, your whole life The cause of failure is doing too many things things in an efficient manner. You will see that it is a self-evident proposition and if you do a sufficient number of efficient If, now, it is possible for you to make each getting of riches is reduced to an exact science, The matter turns, then, on the question whether itself. And this you can certainly do. You can make each act a success, because All fail. Power is at your service; and to make each it. Every action is either strong or weak; and the Certain Way which will make you rich. Every act can be made strong and efficient it, and putting the whole power of your FAITH It is at this point that the people fail who They use the power of mind in one place and and at another time. So their acts are not successful in themselves; But if All every act will be a success in itself; and the way to other successes, your progress what you want toward you, will become increasingly Remember that successful action is cumulative Since the desire for more life is inherent larger life more things attach themselves multiplied. Do, every day, all that you can do that day, In saying that you must hold your vision while commonplace, I do not mean to say that it distinctly to its smallest details. It should be the work of your leisure hours your vision, and to contemplate them until If you wish speedy results, spend practically By continuous contemplation you will get the details, so firmly fixed upon your mind, and Substance, that in your working hours you to stimulate your faith and purpose, and cause Contemplate your picture in your leisure hours that you can grasp it instantly. You will become so enthused with its bright call forth the strongest energies of your Let us again repeat our syllabus, and by slightly the point we have now reached. There is a thinking stuff from which all things permeates, penetrates, and fills the interspaces A thought, in this substance, produces the Man can form things in his thought, and, by can cause the thing he thinks about to be In order to do this, man must pass from the form a clear mental picture of the things all that can be done each day, doing each CHAPTER XIII. GETTING INTO THE RIGHT BUSINESS. Success, in any particular business, depends developed state the faculties required in Without good musical faculty no one can succeed mechanical faculties no one can achieve great tact and the commercial faculties no one can But to possess in a well-developed state the does not insure getting rich. There are musicians who have remarkable talent, carpenters, and so on who have excellent mechanical are merchants with good faculties for dealing The different faculties are tools; it is essential that the tools should be used in the Right One man can take a sharp saw, a square, a article of furniture; another man can take the article, but his production will be a He does not know how to use good tools in The various faculties of your mind are the is to make you rich; it will be easier for for which you are well equipped with mental Generally speaking, you will do best in that the one for which you are naturally &quot;best But there are limitations to this statement, No man should regard his vocation as being he was born. You can get rich in ANY business, for if you that talent; it merely means that you will of confining yourself to the use of those It will be EASIER for you to succeed in a in a well-developed state; but you CAN succeed talent, and there is no talent of which you You will get rich most easily in point of fitted; but you will get rich most satisfactorily Doing what you want to do is life; and there compelled to be forever doing something which we want to do. And it is certain that you can do what you you have within you the power which can do Desire is a manifestation of power. The desire to play music is the power which the desire to invent mechanical devices is development. Where there is no power, either developed any desire to do that thing; and where there proof that the power to do it is strong, and in the Right Way. All things else being equal, it is best to best developed talent; but if you have a strong work, you should select that work as the ultimate You can do what you want to do, and it is or avocation which will be most congenial You are not obliged to do what you do not a means to bring you to the doing of the thing If there are past mistakes whose consequences or environment, you may be obliged for some you can make the doing of it pleasant by knowing to the doing of what you want to do. If you feel that you are not in the right to get into another one. The best way, generally, to change business Do not be afraid to make a sudden and radical you feel after careful consideration that sudden or radical action when you are in doubt There is never any hurry on the creative plane; When you get out of the competitive mind you hastily. No one else is going to beat you to the thing If one place is taken, another and a better on; there is plenty of time. When you are in doubt, wait. Fall back on the contemplation of your vision, all means, in times of doubt and indecision, A day or two spent in contemplating the vision that you are getting it, will bring your mind that you will make no mistake when you do There is a mind which knows all there is to this life, if you have deep gratitude. Mistakes come from acting hastily, or from of the Right Motive, which is more life to As you go on in the Certain Way, opportunities you will need to be very steady in your faith the All Mind by reverent gratitude. Do all that you can do in a perfect manner or fear. Go as fast as you can, but never hurry. Remember that in the moment you begin to hurry you drop back upon the old plane again. Whenever you find yourself hurrying, call of the thing you want, and begin to give thanks The exercise of GRATITUDE will never fail CHAPTER XIV. THE IMPRESSION OF INCREASE. Whether you change your vocation or not, your to the business in which you are now engaged. You can get into the business you want by are already established in; by doing your And in so far as your business consists in or by letter, the key-thought of all your impression of increase. Increase is what all men and all women are within them, seeking fuller expression. The desire for increase is inherent in all universe. All human activities are based on the desire more clothes, better shelter, more luxury, increase in something, more life. Every living thing is under this necessity of life ceases, dissolution and death set Man instinctively knows this, and hence he This law of perpetual increase is set forth those who gain more retain any; from him who he hath. The normal desire for increased wealth is simply the desire for more abundant life; And because it is the deepest instinct of to him who can give them more of the means In following the Certain Way as described increase for yourself, and you are giving You are a creative center, from which increase Be sure of this, and convey assurance of the you come in contact. No matter how small the transaction, even to a little child, put into it the thought is impressed with the thought. Convey the impression of advancement with receive the impression that you are an Advancing you. Even to the people whom you meet in a social to whom you do not try to sell anything, give You can convey this impression by holding in the Way of Increase; and by letting this Do everything that you do in the firm conviction that you are giving advancement to everybody. Feel that you are getting rich, and that in benefits on all. Do not boast or brag of your success, or talk boastful. Wherever you find a boastful person, you find Simply feel the faith, and let it work out and look express the quiet assurance that rich. Words will not be necessary to communicate sense of increase when in your presence, and You must so impress others that they will get increase for themselves. See that you give them a use value greater Take an honest pride in doing this, and let of customers. People will go where they are given increase; all, and which knows all, will move toward you. Your business will increase rapidly, and you which will come to you. You will be able from day to day to make larger to go on into a more congenial vocation if But in doing thing all this, you must never or your faith and purpose to get what you Let me here give you another word of caution Beware of the insidious temptation to seek Nothing is so pleasant to the unformed or power or dominion over others. The desire to rule for selfish gratification For countless ages kings and lords have drenched their dominions; this not to seek more life To-day, the main motive in the business and their armies of dollars, and lay waste the scramble for power over others. Commercial kings, like political kings, are Jesus saw in this desire for mastery the moving Read the twenty-third chapter of Matthew, to be called &quot;Master,&quot; to sit in the high burdens on the backs of the less fortunate; with the brotherly seeking for the Common Look out for the temptation to seek for authority, one who is above the common herd, to impress The mind that seeks for mastery over others mind is not the creative one. In order to master your environment and your should rule over your fellow men; and indeed, the high places, you begin to be conquered rich becomes a matter of chance and speculation. Beware of the competitive mind! No better statement of the principle of creative declaration of the late &quot;Golden Rule&quot; Jones for everybody.&quot; CHAPTER XV. THE ADVANCING MAN. What I have said in the last chapter applies earner as to the man who is engaged in mercantile No matter whether you are a physician, a teacher, life to others and make them sensible of the will get rich. The physician who holds the vision of himself works toward the complete realization of that in former chapters, will come into such close be phenomenally successful; patients will No one has a greater opportunity to carry the practitioner of medicine; it does not may belong, for the principle of healing is by all alike. The Advancing Man in medicine, who holds to and who obeys the laws of faith, purpose, he undertakes, no matter what remedies he In the field of religion, the world cries the true science of abundant life. He who masters the details of the science sciences of being well, of being great, and from the pulpit, will never lack for a congregation. This is the gospel that the world needs; it it gladly, and will give liberal support to What is now needed is a demonstration of the We want preachers who can not only tell us us how. We need the preacher who will himself be rich, to attain to these things; and when he comes The same is true of the teacher who can inspire the advancing life. He will never be &quot;out of a job.&quot; And any teacher who has this faith and purpose giving it to them if it is part of his own What is true of the teacher, preacher, and real estate man, insurance agent--of everybody. The combined mental and personal action I Every man and woman who follows these instructions will get rich. The law of the Increase of Life is as mathematically getting rich is an exact science. The wage-earner will find this as true of Do not feel that you have no chance to get no visible opportunity for advancement, where Form your clear mental vision of what you Do all the work you can do, every day, and manner; put the power of success, and the you do. But do not do this merely with the idea of hope that he, or those above you, will see likely that they will do so. The man who is merely a &quot;good&quot; workman, filling and satisfied with that, is valuable to his interest to promote him; he is worth more To secure advancement, something more is necessary The man who is certain to advance is the one a clear concept of what he wants to be; who be and who is determined to BE what he wants Do not try to more than fill your present do it with the idea of advancing yourself. Hold the faith and purpose of increase during hours. Hold it in such a way that every person who fellow workman, or social acquaintance, will so that every one will get the sense of advancement Men will be attracted to you, and if there present job, you will very soon see an opportunity There is a Power which never fails to present in obedience to law. God cannot help helping you, if you act in Himself. There is nothing in your circumstances or you down. If you cannot get rich working for the steel and if you begin to move in the Certain Way, of the steel trust and get on to the farm If a few thousands of its employees would would soon be in a bad plight; it would have go out of business. Nobody has to work for a trust; the trusts only so long as there are men who are too rich, or too intellectually slothful to practice Begin this way of thinking and acting, and to see any opportunity to better your condition. Such opportunities will speedily come, for you, will bring them before you. Do not wait for an opportunity to be all that more than you are now is presented and you It will be the first step toward a greater There is no such thing possible in this universe is living the advancing life. It is inherent in the constitution of the work together for his good; and he must certainly Way. So let wage- earning men and women study this upon the course of action it prescribes; it CHAPTER XVI. SOME CAUTIONS, AND CONCLUDING OBSERVATIONS. Many people will scoff at the idea that there the impression that the supply of wealth is governmental institutions must be changed can acquire a competence. But this is not true. It is true that existing governments keep the masses do not think and act in the Certain If the masses begin to move forward as suggested systems can check them; all systems must be If the people have the Advancing Mind, have forward with the fixed purpose to become rich, Individuals may enter upon the Certain Way make themselves rich; and when any considerable they will cause the system to be so modified The more men who get rich on the competitive get rich on the creative plane, the better The economic salvation of the masses can only of people to practice the scientific method These will show others the way, and inspire faith that it can be attained, and with the For the present, however, it is enough to you live nor the capitalistic or competitive rich. When you enter upon the creative plane of and become a citizen of another kingdom. But remember that your thought must be held an instant to be betrayed into regarding the level of competition. Whenever you do fall into old ways of thought, in the competitive mind, you have lost the Do not spend any time in planning as to how future, except as the necessary policies may You are concerned with doing to-day's work with emergencies which may arise come. Do not concern yourself with questions as may loom upon your business horizon, unless be altered to-day in order to avoid them. No matter how tremendous an obstruction may you go on in the Certain Way it will disappear or around it will appear. No possible combination of circumstances can get rich along strictly scientific lines. No man or woman who obeys the law can fail two by two and fail to get four. Give no anxious thought to possible disasters, of circumstances; it is time enough to meet you in the immediate present, and you will the wherewithal for its overcoming. Guard your speech. Never speak of yourself, your affairs, or way. Never admit the possibility of failure, or Never speak of the times as being hard, or Times may be hard and business doubtful for they can never be so for you; you can create When others are having hard times and poor Train yourself to think of and to look upon which is growing; and to regard seeming evil Always speak in terms of advancement; to do your faith is to lose it. Never allow yourself to feel disappointed. You may expect to have a certain thing at and this will appear to you like failure. But if you hold to your faith you will find Go on in the certain way, and if you do not so much better that you will see that the A student of this science had set his mind seemed to him at the time to be very desirable, When the crucial time came, the thing failed if some unseen influence had been working He was not disappointed; on the contrary, and went steadily on with a grateful mind. In a few weeks an opportunity so much better first deal on any account; and he saw that him from losing the greater good by entangling That is the way every seeming failure will hold to your purpose, have gratitude, and doing each separate act in a successful manner. When you make a failure, it is because you larger thing then you were seeking will certainly Remember this. You will not fail because you lack the necessary If you go on as I have directed, you will the doing of your work. It is not within the scope of this book to but it is as certain and simple as the process However, do not hesitate or waver for fear will fail for lack of ability; keep right will be furnished to you. The same source of Ability which enabled the government ever accomplished by a single man mind there is for wisdom to use in meeting Go on in full faith. Study this book. Make it your constant companion until you While you are getting firmly established in recreations and pleasure; and to stay away are advanced in lectures or sermons. Do not read pessimistic or conflicting literature, Do very little reading, outside of the writers Spend most of your leisure time in contemplating and in reading this book. It contains all you need to know of the science essentials summed up in the following chapter. CHAPTER XVII. SUMMARY OF THE SCIENCE OF GETTING RICH. There is a thinking stuff from which all things permeates, penetrates, and fills the interspaces A thought in this substance produces the thing Man can form things in his thought, and by can cause the thing he thinks about to be In order to do this, man must pass from the he cannot be in harmony with the Formless never competitive in spirit. Man may come into full harmony with the Formless gratitude for the blessings it bestows upon Gratitude unifies the mind of man with the are received by the Formless. Man can remain upon the creative plane only through a deep and continuous feeling of gratitude. Man must form a clear and definite mental do, or to become; and he must hold this mental grateful to the Supreme that all his desires The man who wishes to get rich must spend and in earnest thanksgiving that the reality Too much stress cannot be laid on the importance coupled with unwavering faith and devout gratitude. This is the process by which the impression forces set in motion. The creative energy works through the established and social order. All that is included in his mental image will instructions given above, and whose faith What he wants will come to him through the In order to receive his own when it shall activity can only consist in more than filling He must keep in mind the Purpose to get rich And he must do, every day, all that can be in a successful manner. He must give to every man a use value in excess transaction makes for more life; and he must of Increase will be communicated to all with The men and women who practice the foregoing the riches they receive will be in exact proportion of their purpose, the steadiness of their