Mike Mood and The Meatly breathed a sigh of They'd completed their most ambitious project Bendy and the Ink Machine Chapter 2 had been the original instalment of their unbelievably Surely now, they could relax, right? And, yet, as the pair began watching YouTube kept being presented to them more than any When was Chapter 3 going to be released? Mike and The Meatly each took a deep breath. It was already time to go back to work. They had a lot to do to complete their accidental This time, the journey would take even more In addition to building a brand new chapter little indie studio would need to grow into not only with the video game, but also merchandize fans were clamoring for. It was time to finally make the change from This is the story of how Bendy and the Ink creators forever. If there was one big thing that Mike Mood was the creation of a streamlined process The first two chapters of this game had been without any real thought to the bigger picture. Now that Mike and The Meatly had managed to sure that they didn't face the same crunch Instead of committing to a short six week chapter 2, the pair were now looking to build they been waylaid by in the past. As much as they were trying to avoid a crunch, any other way to work! Despite no longer having to work to an ambitious long hours every day to get everything done. It turned out that two people building a game It didn't help things that TheMeatly was He'd been suffering with this illness through that he was working on the follow-up chapter, Long hours working on the game, in addition him. He began to have fever dreams, imagining himself within his own bedroom! It was clear that Mike and The Meatly couldn't They would need a lot of help. This meant expanding the team. TheMeatly Games had already grown to include Pascal Cleroux and sound designer Ray Gould, to full employeed. Several other new also teammates joined the games as well as the social media and merchandising The team also needed to rope in a bunch of While initially, TheMeatly had done a little growing cast of characters meant that the Most notable among these was Lauren Synger, named Alice. TheMeatly and Mike had big plans for Alice, game just right. Even with all the extra staff, it was clear their day jobs and their work on this game. Mike was under contract with a games company completely up and leave his work at that moment. The Meatly, on the other hand, was still working desperate to escape. So, taking a bold step, TheMeatly decided His boss didn't exactly understand the situation. TheMeatly explained that he was working on to build the game, but even so, the popularity Trying his best to be friendly and helpful, always a place for him should he wish to return. He knew who to call when he eventually ended The moment TheMeatly left his old work, Mike demeanor. Instead of feeling beaten down and frustrated, on Bendy. It was as if an enormous weight had been lifted all of his energy into their game. Of course, TheMeatly couldn't exactly take If anything, he now had more work to get done! TheMeatly was responsible for writing the the levels, while other members of the team into a concrete world, with visual effects, It was an exhausting process, and TheMeatly of hours' sleep a night, going to bed at Meanwhile, questions about merchandize were Big companies had realized just how profitable and TheMeatly were being offered a lot of the sweet merch that could be produced. As tempting as the idea of instant wealth have liked to spend their time cruising around big companies down. They weren't in this for the money, and they could be proud of, as independent developers, This wasn't to say that some merchandise Mike and TheMeatly wanted to please their They just weren't that interested in keeping Revenue that came into the company first and contractors that were working with TheMeatly Many of these creators were being paid more because this seemed like the most important Even then, the pair at the head of the company They began contributing to Girl Force, a charity This felt like a much better place for the Even with the expanded team and all the time clear that finishing Chapter 3 in a prompt Because they were constantly updating previous to leave things out of the initial build of that they were going to return to it later. The even floated the idea of postponing the entirely. For a little while, Mike and TheMeatly considered maze for a future update or chapter, before him, in spite of the extra workload that he What mattered was that they built a game that putting in extra work to get everything done, The entire team at TheMeatly Games did everything Bendy and the Ink Machine to a high standard. Finally, after months of work, they debuted patches for the first two chapters of the The response was...mixed. On the one hand, a lot of fans of the game There was no doubt that people really connected people definitely appreciated the work that first two chapters of Bendy as well. The problem was the bugs. TheMeatly Games didn't have its own dedicated Instead, Bendy's creators had to try their couldn't imagine every different way that hardware issues that might crop up between So, exhausted as they were from all their released, the team, led by Mike, began building This not only fixed bugs, but also tweaked interacted with them in order to create a Finally, after a lot of work, and the biggest Mike and TheMeatly felt that they could put They had Chapter 4 to work on now. This should be a piece of cake, right? The moral of the story is that hard work pays It's not always fun to put your nose to best. It can be exhausting trying to achieve your you want to accomplish. Mike Mood and TheMeatly have never taken the or simply making a slightly simpler video As difficult as it is to keep pushing forward, making, and they want to be proud of their Feel free to pace yourself. Don't necessarily work yourself to the point done. It's pretty clear that, all said, they've so definitely isn't healthy! Just remember, that when you're trying to a new skill, or making something creative, exam, it pays to put in the hours that your Eventually, if you're really committed to with your results.