Black holes are very real, but It turns out that in order to make we need to consider that each real black hole has the potential to be connected to multiple imaginary black holes via wormholes. And you thought the universe couldn't get any weirder. Some of the most profound leaps in have come when we noticed inconsequential seeming inconsistencies in our theories. The fact that Maxwell's electromagnetism didn't square with Galileo's relativity led Einstein to his special theory of relativity, from which followed our general relativity. Now, there's an uncomfortable conflict between general relativity and quantum mechanics when we try to describe the tiniest scales and the highest energies. This drives our quest for theories of everything. A quest that seems to have stalled after a century of work. But there is another less well known that might provide a way forward. I'm talking about the black hole information paradox. Efforts to resolve it have led to stunning quantum information, and even to the latest attempt to solve the black hole picture in which each black hole behaves like many parallel black holes connected by wormholes. Before we jump into that particular wormhole, let's remind ourselves what the black home information paradox is all about. Feel free to but it's not essential for understanding this new angle. A little review from me, should be enough. Stephen Hawking discovered that black holes aren't quite as, well, black and inescapable as we thought. They radiate, and this Hawking radiation causes them to slowly evaporate. But that means that all the information is erased from the universe. conservation of quantum information, which is a non-negotiable constraint of quantum mechanics. Perhaps the most powerful way is in terms of entropy. Think of hidden by a system - information not observable in the system's gross properties. Black holes have huge entropy because every black hole The quantum version of entropy is called entanglement. If two particles are entangled then they share mysterious correlations - you can learn about and even influence the properties of one particle by measuring its entangled partner. Some of the quantum inimformation of each of the pair is stored in its partner. The von Neumann entropy of an entangled particle or system of particles is a measure of how much quantum information is not stored locally in the system itself, If you can entangle a particle you can entangle a black hole. One way to think about Hawking radiation is that the black hole is swallowing and emitting virtual particles. We can think about the vacuum of space as being filled with a boiling flux of and annihilate each other. If these particles get separated by a black hole event horizon before they can annihilate, one particle escapes and becomes real, while the other is swallowed. But those virtual particle pairs are entangled, which means that Hawking radiation and the interior of the black hole are entangled. The about the radiation. But when the black hole information seems like it should disappear, violating the law of conservation of quantum information and giving all of its past Hawking radiation a permanent and unrecoverable non-zero von Neumann entropy. The Von Neuman entropy of the radiation should increase over time as the internal information of the black hole evaporates space. Meanwhile the black hole's entropy decreases. Actually, the black hole information paradox arises as soon as these lines cross each other. You might wonder if the Hawking radiation itself can serve as an escape route for that information. But according to Hawking's original formula, Hawking radiation should be completely random. It should contain no information about anything besides the black holes gross properties. paradox have largely focused on ways to encode Hawking radiation with that quantum information, so that each new particle is entangled If information leaks out this way, then the should rise over time as more but then at some point the entropy starts to radiation is increasingly leaked out in newly figured out by physicist Don Page. It's actually the exact evolution of von Neumann entropy that must occur if Hawking radiation is our information escape route from the black hole. Any theory trying to solve the black hole information paradox I mentioned that the information paradox advanced form of this is AdS/CFT correspondence, a branch of string theory that reveals that a particular type of universe with three spatial The power of AdS/CFT correspondence is that some calculations that are horrendous in the 3-D universe become possible on its boundary, and vice versa. hole entropy using these holographic methods, and even managed to produce the Page curve. The problem with this approach is that we have no idea whether string theory is right, and forget about the fact that some of the assumptions of AdS/CFT definitely do NOT apply to our universe. And that brings us to the new, intriguing discovery. In 2020, two teams managed to predict the Page curve using only general relativity theories attached. To be fair, these US teams, dubbed the "east-coast" and "west-coast" teams, used some of the insights of the AdS/CFT solution, but they don't depend on its significant assumptions of AdS/CF. The tidal wave of math in these papers quantum field theory, and We're going to focus on the one main concept behind this innovation - the gravitational path integral. This is the general relativistic you, the Richard Feynman's path integral particle traveling between two points by adding up all ways the particle could make that journey. And that includes paths that are impossible the "classical" and sensible path that we observe is the sum of infinite paths, many nonsensical. With gravitational path integral you analyze some patch of spacetime changing from one geometry to another. And you do this by adding up all possible geometries that spacetime could go through in that transition. For example, you could use this to study the evaporation of a black hole, as its geometry changes with each When Stephen Hawking did his original calculation, he didn't think it was necessary to consider a lot of different geometries - after all, not like there are many geometries they can go through. But it turns out that, in this respect, Hawking was wrong. The new papers from 2020 argue that to get a proper calculation of the von Neuman entropy of Hawking radiation, you need to consider all transitional states of the evaporating black hole - even those that seem impossible - Specifically, they argue that different topologies should contribute to the path integral. New geometries should be included which include spacetime folding into itself in a way required to build wormholes. Even though these wormholes don't really exist in a classical sense, the fact that they can possibly exist in between measurements is enough to alter the outcome. Let's go into a little bit more detail. What do these crazy topological spacetimes look like? It's very difficult to properly picture the image wouldn't fit in our primate distances between some points are complex-valued rather than real valued. But for the purposes of this video we can take some artistic When computing the von Neumann entropy, there is a neat mathematical trick you can do. For some reason, it turns out that it's easier to compute the entropy of many evaporating black holes rather than just one. The entropy of called the Renyi entropy. You can find the by computing the Renyi entropy for an n, and taking the limit of n going to 1. The Renyi entropy is found using the gravitational path integral. For a spacetime geometry where none of the black holes interact with each other, the entropy doesn't change from Hawkings' original result. But there's another geometry that one where all of the black holes are These replica wormholes connect regions of the interior of each replica, called "islands". When you take this spacetime topology into account, and then you set n equal to 1 single black hole, you end up with a new equation for Since the wormholes seem to disappear when there's just a single black hole, you'd expect their effect to disappear, but amazingly, the math stays different. The mere possibility of a wormhole connection between our black hole and a bunch of its clones is enough to leave an imprint on the entropy. This results in a new equation for the entropy of the radiation, which has been called the island physicists had seen this equation. The island rule had already been derived in string theory. The researchers were surprised to find derive the island rule: all you need So, what's the result? Did these virtual, paradox? Well, it sort of looks like they might of. Using the gravitational path integrals and the island rule, the physicists found that the von Neumann entropy of Hawking radiation exactly follows the Page curve. Somehow allow the radiation to leak quantum OK. so we have this quite elaborate and information can escape from the black hole. But what's the real physical picture here? Well, no one really has any idea. More work is needed to translate this crazy math into a physical picture - of the correct Page curve tells us there's something right with this picture. So, has the paradox really been solved? Well the community is divided. Some of the mathematical tricks that were used have invited skepticism. Regardless, these breakthroughs have clearly resulted in a new chapter in the story of black holes and information. Since replica wormholes hit the scene, hundreds more papers have performing a sort of theoretical path integral - exploring all possible explanations of the result. In time one of these seems sure to land on understanding of our universe, past an infinity of strange topologies and imaginary spacetime.