There's just not enough If you live somewhere where insurance. It is the largest natural It's happening all the Wow. You can't make a irrigating or else you water. It's hard, really, to find a affected. These aren't just issues in something you hear about These are things that are all the time. 71% of our planet's surface 332.5 million mi3 of it. 366 billion billion That's over 48 billion person on earth. But today, one out of three safe drinking water. Some projections will show population will be living That's over 4 billion These aren't just issues in something you hear about These are things that are all the time. Worried and angry about lead The military in remote parts And that's the result of But one of them is that in our oceans. It's undrinkable, and most of locked away in glaciers or Less than 1% of it is When you dig a little bit even here in the United numbers of people that clean drinking water. So why can't we just take out the salt and have a clean, drinkable water? Desalination broadly is the from water. It's been practiced for In fact, it's a natural sun heats the ocean and and it falls again as If you mix salt into water, And if you could watch did that, you'd see that breaking apart the salt chemically interact with So salt water is a It's not just water with around in it. And that's fundamentally tricky The two main types of desalination and reverse Thermal desalination is the It's essentially boiling steam and turning that into But in the 60s, we were osmosis processes at UCLA, to dominate the market. So between the two is reverse doesn't boil anything. You're really just tremendous amount and membrane where it doesn't It wants to stay with the pressure, it is forced to Broadly speaking, what you desalination is where's my do I have enough of it? And it, do I need to augment starts to become a very option. Which is why the vast efforts right now are Middle East and North fuels, but also scarcity. Just two countries, Saudi one fourth of the produced currently on this Concerns about desalination categories: the amount of costs and its environmental There are some that really There are others that push very energy intensive, it's impacts on the marine should pursue alternatives It requires a tremendous basically break up that the salt. Ocean water desal intensive as other Historically, the impediment being more abundant or been cost. It has been cost The Claude Louis Carlsbad of San Diego is the largest Hemisphere and has been producing 50 million day. It's in San Diego arid climate. The county nearly all of its water Northern California. In San Diego and the spending twice as much for they do on imported water. Now they were looking at it point in the future the And I think some folks well, when that's the case, you should build it. Today, desalinated water in twice as much as imported But you're comparing apples imported water is coming a half a century ago, where has been paid off. Standing down for 5 or 10 major breakthrough in the materially reduce the cost And that's not unique to That's true of all public We have a huge deficit. We need to start building transportation and housing now. The Carlsbad plant is partnership. With the Carlsbad Seawater proposed Huntington Beach plant, we're proposing a where the plant is 100% we enter into a long term agreement with the public And essentially we're over time through the sale There's an infrastructure States. There's certainly California. And you can't federal government to pay The private sector is going dollars. And I think in water in a way that both also allows for the capital. Beyond the environmental energy needed to power concern arises because clean desalinated water. They're also producing huge called brine as a Seawater desalination plants typically operate at a 50% take in two gallons of produce one gallon of hypersaline brine. It's a fixed volume of salt So whether I put it in. Half a gallon of water or a it's still going to be To be much more As desalination efforts should be done with these Globally right now, we're gallons a day. Most brine is in one way or the ocean. But because it concentration than regular potential to, among other floor and wreak havoc on there. In addition, because in millions of gallons of itself could destroy local But Poseidon Water, which says the regulations in sufficient environmental Numerous studies have been around the world that show increase will not harm And you're also providing need. But a recent study that we're producing even For every liter of produce 1.5l of brine. In other words, overall, we than we produce desalinated And while some places like regulations regarding brine that as a whole the disposal seriously enough. Currently we are disposing use to dispose of 40, 50 years ago. So if desalination uses a very expensive compared to end we're producing more than clean water, why do we Desalination has its benefits is that it's a process, particularly for You can be confident that when you need it. Reliability is the key. Water scarcity is a Climate change is affecting growing uncertainty. Weather is variable, but if plant, energy and seawater, water. But desalination amount of energy, and for difficult to advocate for a adding to our ever-growing I think when we start to worlds, we start to think us services, it heats our and buildings. And if we that can give us water, for average person in the US water per day. If I were to day with ocean water desal, amount of electricity would require over an hour. So to kind of put things in think about our energy invest it? How important is It is the most basic element And people go out and they day and spend more on that supply of desalinated And they don't realize it. It's clear that desalination the world's water problems. Up In some places where desalination probably won't Poseidon Water as a company seawater desalination is a We can't just build one or our water challenges. Desalination is not the It's one of the options to supply and demand. But for some communities already making an enormous It's currently a pretty supply globally and There are, though, a fairly significant It can be quite important Desalination is one tool of maximum impact, it must be techniques. Israel maybe provides a good invested quite a bit in they also made investments their water use on a per than we see here in parts of the United States. So they did those things wasting that very expensive their need to build a And when they built it, smaller than they would savings there to the I would almost look at it as to hedge your risks. A desalination plant is portfolio. Kind of going to deliver. I think we do the cheaper, damaging things first. That seawater desalination communities, they don't Others, though, do have They can use water more water, save energy. You can have less And while most attention is desalination, a similar treating many other sources The volume of wastewater, if recycled, that is almost volume of water that passes year. And if we look at the desalinated water, which we annual basis, is almost of the water that passes We don't want to lose sight Brackish water. You can think of brackish as ocean water, but it's It's that whole space And there, the energy substantially less, simply So less salt, less stuff to Desalination is an important water scarcity. Its reliability is becoming it's not a cure all and always be implemented Desalination is already communities around the continues to transform our concerns about energy use get clean water is going to How exactly desalination clean water is yet to be The West, now in its third According to the US Drought facing abnormally dry The Western United States is territory. Afflicted by a mega drought two decades in at least Reservoir levels have We've seen worsening California, Arizona and And with climate change, continue. And the problem isn't Globally, the United shortfall in freshwater We're seeing a third of our just 40 years. 21 out of our top 30 at critical levels. No sector has felt the agriculture, which takes up freshwater. Irrigation is by far the in California. Agriculture is notorious for the state's water. California is the largest US. It produces foods that parts of the country or the Mediterranean climate. Devin Wright experienced the water crisis when he on his property, he quickly supply. I was trying to manually sometimes just make running. I'd run my well realized like, wow, you you're irrigating or else your water. And that kind issue. Well, this is But improvements in the integration of the tide in managing an resource. Growers are preparing agriculture. Ag and tech are going to go The current drought started escalated to one of the The American West is Scientists estimate that over the course of the next Climate change has conditions in places like Arizona. The current drought has of damage, especially to Water levels in the their lowest point ever. The Colorado River is a depended on by the million people across seven The Colorado River has for the Southwest, and it's history for agriculture, sustaining human life. But reduced snowpack in the drop, severely impacting Lake Powell. Since 2000, we can clearly the diminishing storage in And those are the two United States. Both of them are now at As the decline in water The shortages and forced we saw for the first time increase. The impact of these cuts is West. Dwindling water devastating consequences security. A prolonged drought in the income of local farms in create much tighter supply potentially for consumers In California, drought is a but trends show it is for longer stretches of The state has started to water usage. In July 2021, Governor voluntarily reduce usage by And in Southern California, gone into effect. And while these be helpful, it is unlikely meaningful way. In normal water years. Agriculture and the equal amounts of water, and Being down in the 10 to 15% So when you're told to take your car, honestly, these the amount of water that's And the absolute worst school irrigation systems. For centuries, farmers have flood irrigation. This is the most wasteful However, in recent years, adopting more efficient Sprinkler irrigation has And what's even more micro irrigation, which was and it's now almost 10%. Micro irrigation systems sprinklers are some of the available today. With flood irrigation, you or twice every two weeks. But with Micro-irrigation You can inject the irrigation water, you keep plants and so you minimize And so they figured they on less than 20 or 30% less In some places, the adoption strong. Tomatoes used to be irrigated. They are now irrigation. But drip irrigation systems upwards of $3,000 per acre. Instead, many farmers have sprinkler systems. The most popular method now or around 50%, is sprinkler center pivot irrigation. And the investment for the unit of land. For farmers, water challenge. The impact of made things worse. I was in Arizona this year farmers. I was driving outside of Phoenix and was land and dried up canals It was a very desperate heartbreaking for farmers this Arizona desert land In the last couple of rough number, half a fallowing. And that's in acreage in California being acres. A lot of farmers in Arizona fallowed their land. Some farmers have switched crops because farming in intensive and other farmers more groundwater, which is During previous droughts, as a crutch to lean on. When we had these multi-year do, would if they got zero they would drill a well. Groundwater was sort of an would go to. But over reliance on slowly aquifers have created a Places like Central Valley, States, sunk 28ft because groundwater. Then, of course, you have Canals start to collapse, collapse. With little alternatives for intensified in better have. Several are working efficiency issue with more Us-based Jain builds and systems on farms. An Israeli company, modern drip irrigation even more efficient drip And one startup is hoping to the internet of things with Lumo is a series of valves, and the system irrigation, automation, they can quickly and easily Most important thing is valves. Today, a lot of turning them on and off lot of cost and it also precise about the amount of distributing. It is powered battery and solar. It has a computer inside as well as some sensors. Think like a flow meter. They stay connected to the We can allow our farmers to app or a web app. We queued that here by saying, okay, block two, we pick 30 now it's got a 30 minute That's it. Hit the schedule and now These lines will all fill that flow through here. Total remote control, which We've saved easily 30% of for irrigation simply by error. We think that's farmer, but we also think really valuable to other communities, governments, districts, because they're are we using? And they They just have to estimate. It's currently testing its a small pilot program. One user, Kurt Beitler of to water his six acres. We saw an opportunity to try my vineyard blocks, and The biggest improvement operation has been the with how we're irrigating. We've safely reduced excess 20%. It might be as much as Boheme has its system irrigate at night. We take great effort to so we get greater uptake by the vines. And for specialty growers the precision system offers growing conditions. With optimal use of water, finished wine quality. So this is one more very project. Others have sought to approach farming altogether indoors. We felt like we needed a alternative, a solution adapted. And so what we do kind of advanced robotic Iron Ox, a San Francisco breakthrough energy greens at facilities California, and Austin, Gilroy, California. That's been in operation with different greens, And so the idea is that to including we have cucumbers in the pipeline. Our new facility outside of That's going to be about 100 the next year. The company is utilizing hydroponics to optimize the With hydroponics, we're able amount of nutrients plant. And then for things other parts in the future, water to use less and less drought stricken states. Square Roots is another is utilizing vertical It currently has five across the Midwest and in We just had to kind of r at commercial scale in Inside the farms, we have growing the plants or go days, which might be almost can do in an outdoor field. It is also using hydroponics waste. A ton of research studies that a well tuned about 90% less water than For now, the company is microgreens and selling in it's deployed farms. It is working to expand as turnips, eggplants and Researchers are exploring a could also help farmers. At the University of Pereza started a lab to sensing technologies to The focus of this lab is to support tools for growers critical decisions about fertilize. One of his projects is yield, helping farmers underperforming. And then we manage each zone That would help us reduce example, fertilizer or to optimize the crop Isaiah Kosaka oversees a simulation models to farms. With these computer models, if scenarios? What if I have this amount project how much yield I'm As I make irrigation season, they see what decisions are going to have But despite the potential technologies, adoption is Some think it could take regulation to push more into mass adoption. I think government can play introducing some incentives a smart farming practices You need policy and the water challenges in Both together, I think we As the industry adapts to will be no one size fits We're not going to get to of farming with an I think it's going to solutions. I think by the end of this pretty established practice some automation, to use the in agriculture. I think it's exactly this fact will be the solution shortage of water. If farmers have access to them better utilize the significant impact as a state. Water is a crucial resource And right now what we're enough water to go around. The current situation is West, basically all of and Utah and a few other drought right now. It's hard really to find a affected. And when the water runs low, effect. Agriculture consumes more water supply. During drought years. Agriculture will drink up water supplies. Tourism, landscaping, just some of the businesses of the worst droughts the experienced. In 2020, wildfires and of $21 billion, according Environmental Information. And with lower water levels wildfire risk runs hotter. In the West climate region California and Nevada, billion in damage in 2020. With fires, political feuds water wars are becoming more than ever. Right now, the West is with water shortages and During the drought, we've temperatures, dry soil and essentially fueling season and depleting So, for example, like California, is a for the region. Right now, capacity. Climate change is causing intense. Rising less snowpack accumulation wintertime precipitation snow, which diminishes the Water from melted snow in snowpack we're referring region's rich farmland, agricultural powerhouses. Farming in California billion in 2018 and another by farms in Oregon and Wildfires can seriously enterprises. What we have is a number of wild land fire that were entury based on assumptions world no longer exists. Entry level federal forestry lines are paid about $13 Biden administration is The issue is not only pay, increase in, it's the fact seasonals. And so there's So this year, firefighters preparations for a wildfire They're forecasting could year's. With fire season states are now faced with adequately preparing and disasters they're seeing So just a couple of months said that FEMA is going to help cities and states disasters. As farmers saw the writing going to be a dry year, distribution emerged. So what is a drought? Well, drought is a natural It's when precipitation is So this year it also unusually high its own set of problems, energy demand for cooling, losses. Our water year in California the least amount of water We got 11.46in and that's a normal year would be. Water scarcity is a problem the local level to the In the background, state and Department of Water agencies work year in and drought periods, on water climate change and climate At the local level, water to the residents of There are people who are from when their showers a bucket, the cold water in that for landscaping or Right now we're in the and these consecutive dry severe. Water markets in California, drought realities by water from one user to Unfortunately, water lawsuits both between states and between states crop up over who gets what. Some bodies of water don't Water in the US is at times states, like the Colorado designed to help states shortages. So these agreements between understanding is, were put abundant water in the Unusually so. And so that amount of water And now we have these Obviously we will have Sometimes the federal access with agencies like weighing the needs of parties with environmental for sustainable fisheries dams. You always get the whether, should the fish or water? Should the farmers Should municipalities get These aren't new issues for The economic effects of ignore. A large body of evidence is driving changes in the droughts, both in the US And we can see the change on this event in Farmers get hit the hardest water runs low. The impacts of drought the agricultural sector. Perennial crops like like peaches, those have a They don't produce frequently have costly and systems like drip and micro Because of this, water need to fallow those crops term investment. The government keeps track US and the numbers don't West this year. The most recent ones from 85% of California in a exceptional drought year, less than 3% of the exceptional drought. So we situation right now. In California, there's been from annual crops and orchard crops like almonds, The perennial crops can be than many of these annual install these permanent and systems. But the downside They can lock in the water them in dry years. California had another 2016, rivaling this one in And we're also in the midst to be a mega drought out Essentially, a mega drought dryness with not a lot of lasts for decades and and water shortages and all the West right now. Water indexes could be a unpredictable water And in fact, we have seen futures. There has been a 2018 and it has become more But it's not a futures sense where water is It's more like an insurance Upgrading infrastructure and also two more ways to help conditions that result in Contemporary solutions technologies and practices urban, agricultural and more recently, preserving water underneath the that is typically called So think of desalination, expensive, but think of You know, they export water desalination. I'm of American enterprises. So if shortages and high will attract bright minds to enable more efficient supply sources. The 2020 hurricane season Hurricane Center ran out of Hurricane Delta. It's the to the Greek alphabet. This year, 29 named storms. Hurricanes bring high winds Two residents we speak to bomb went off in their But often the most damage is It is the largest natural It's happening all the my house right now, it's We've had three major them we've had major Even just a little bit of FEMA estimates one inch of $25,000 in damage. It's mid intensity storms that are being the catastrophic losses. With sea level on the rise severity, all Americans are If you live somewhere where insurance. However, flood insurance is Arguably, if the insurance people wouldn't be living Congress created the Program, or NFIP, in 1968 flooding. At the time, there was no that was available in the The application and the NFIP is very tedious process is slow. The NFIP is over $20 billion This line on the map, the 1% map, has had unintended Could the private sector flood insurance? And did insurance encourage 14.6 million properties in substantial risk of In 2019, 93 people died the US. You can check out floodfactor.com, but home is at risk. We are seeing more severe hurricanes, more severe Why? Most of the time it's living in harm's way. Folks think that they're not need flood insurance our losses in any the low to moderate risk a Take, for example, Florida, populous state and fifth US, with a growth Once the pandemic hit and even more people started State. My name is Kurt Dyer and I Florida. I've lived here I love Miami Beach. I it. It's a beautiful town. Friendly people, great Florida is one of the top biggest substantial flood only continue to grow over The first flood that we had the little bedroom and bath They were completely steps going up to the bedroom. The water was up Washer and dryers, of garage. We lost our water We lost the central AC that I had fish floating in the We had a parts of a boat front yard. It was quite I was devastated. It was just a shock. When it's devastating. You know, it's a miserable check. Luckily, I'm insurance and can afford to A lot of people don't. But I wouldn't have else. I mean, I love Miami I wanted a house. We've seen a lot more of not random rainy day flooding, Part of it is due to You know, the more we is to soak up the Unfortunately, most people they're purchasing a beautiful barrier island California and the risk them. I had no clue this house house. And the seller nor But I have no regrets. You know, I just need to that's all. Cities like Miami and New experience the most sea may in turn cause mass If the residents are . However, that is not Most of the time people Sometimes even people think That's a big misinformation because most people think homeowner's policy when In 2018, only 15% of flood insurance. 60% of have flood insurance when Federal grants, loans and Florida following the storm billion. It's estimated all impacted areas was not Conversely, those who do feel emboldened to live in A mortgage lender may since that can be provided thanks to the NFIP, people for living in a dangerous We're causing a false in riskier areas and really throughout the government taxpayers. And prior to 2012, flood artificially low because before the NFIP was required to purchase flood It has affected mostly the A lot of those homes have Congress then created a of the policies, that are So by law they pay less So a lot of people think, insurance. If I have a Fema will just, you know, That is not how it works. In order to be eligible for everything, you have to be In 1968, the NFIP, or a Program, was created. It has the fundamental make insurance available. But we do a few other Flood Insurance Program. In 22,400 communities, we policyholders, right? A trillion.3 insurance communities generate revenue. So it's a program that has a number objectives. There's different branches There's the flood insurance management, as well as insurance rate maps, which currently in rating of NFIP insurance costs about day. For residential $250,000 of damage to the building contents. It also requires a 30 day participants must sign up their way. Some insurance as flawed. So if you live in a home bought a $250,000 limit and poses the question, what do The second responsibility of risk using the floodplain They determine your price two main factors. One, what flood zone you're your home. When I say comparison to what they year flood event. There's three different There's a flood zone X forced to purchase flood mortgage company. And then zones, flood Zone A, which then flood Zone B, which you have the potential for The flood insurance rate time, but currently with risks in the same zone with same building type are The NFIP intends to release risk rating 2.0. We know more about flood the current rating four decades ago or so. And so now, because of understand the risk better, methodology that identifies property specific basis It's going to be a little Some people will probably people will see decreases, verall. Communities are the third to adopt land use floodplain. Communities requirements and show that and are making progress in more flood resilient. FEMA is very good with help them bring their codes the NFIP standards. Some examples of Elevate your house if you're enclosures down below and space. You know, allow for bottom level. Our insurance went down replacing the windows. As of 2020, the NFIP is over US Treasury. But it's debt that one another government program attributable to the areas actuarially sound. The program was never bring in all the money programs, whether that's program, the mapping management program. And so the program's operating as it was It just the design needs to In 2012, the Biggert-Waters create rates based on more flood maps and attempted to higher premiums that better That law was amended to over time instead of doing year. This was a big deal. We were trying to make some and rate and price the risk But politics set in and one of the biggest We're, I think, definitely direction to get the but it'll take a number of financial framework is put fully risk-based premium Although it is starting to insurance has been around In 1983, the NFIP started a insurance companies through As of September 2020, 60 participate in that The NFIP and FEMA are the situation, but it's not an traditional aspect. It's really more in the benefits. The move toward a more has continued to evolve. We've seen a significant in terms of number of So in 2016 you had about 16 Now you've got about 41. The premiums have grown 500,000,000 in just four So a lot of activity. Good. What I would call beginning to see private market. And hopefully we political headwinds that Flood Insurance Program. TypTap is an example of In Florida alone, there are and only 1.7 million NFIP So there's lots of insurance to develop. We were already in the business in Florida, and we policyholders saying, can Is there any way you can Because we're in a able to afford this flood We're ultimately going to And with the use of there was a better, more write flood insurance, A lot of private flood rely so much on the flood building's specific With the application of that to attract some homeowners a profit. Through our technology, dislocations in the market, offer flood insurance at a Even with the growth of think Florida is going to And I hope we see expand We're still going to have a the risk is high and the of those in a given area is marketplace just is not that. We've got to understand that the number of properties There is a huge market out In the high risk area, we properties have either an flood coverage. There's a So we want to do what we sector to also take part in the nation. Private insurance companies higher rate than the NFIP. That means more protection $250,000. But that could built in riskier areas. For example, the average close to $366,000. That's the same Miami that A report by Risky Business billion worth of existing underwater by 2050. I don't think Miami Beach is lifetime. That's not saying now because it's not going You know, the king tides If I can't get insurance and I'm not a fool, I'm not But I hope it doesn't come Clearly, without the Program, there would have the high risk area and losses without the program. Has the program stopped any Of course not. But our floodplain save $100 million in losses The NFIP also encourages who have experienced work on resiliency and aids a buyout provided by FEMA. It's also has to be due from a mortgage not fixed, would have a sold. You can't convince gone down. And you can't don't want to still buy they're buying like crazy. There's no incentivization rates that aren't actually on political judgment. Investing in the resiliency save lots of money and You can get into these them, you can inform them what better building can That's really one of the For every dollar spent on in recovery. Closing the insurance gap property owners living in But that could just be a issue. Both the East and impacted by flooding from The second piece, and this marketplace would ever do, program that acquires at particularly those that and says we're going to pay structure, but buy out the and dedicate it as open This is predicted to spark a The question remains if communities will be ready residents or climate