Yo, it's Cloe with the flow and today, I'm coming at you with another food out of something video. You guys really loved making food out of candy So I decided to do a part 2 Making food out of slime To like this video, press my notifications, press subscribe if you're not already and leave a comment below telling me your favorite food. In the time it takes me to Say hello in five different languages Okay. Lets do this Clo Hello (English) Hola (Spanish) Sholo??(?) Bonjour (French) Nihau/Ni Hao (Chinese) Konichila/konnichiha(Japanese) So I'm not sure if I completed that challenge. One second YES, that's hello in Chinese Oh my god, and it means hello I got six Girl girl, I'm proud of myself Okay, we are here in the kitchen. We have all the ingredients So first I started with my white clay and I molded this into this little tootsie roll shape and then I cut little slivers that look like marshmallows and these are so cute like they look like real marshmallows. So then I just took my fingers and molded them because these marshmallows were just way too perfect and no marshmallows look like that let's be realistic people. But then you want to put those in the oven, I put them in at 270 degrees for 10 minutes And now we're starting the slime. So I filled a little bowl with glue which is our base and then I just added all the colors of the rainbow to make a beautiful, lovely poop brown. Now we're adding the magic potion ingredient, which is borax mixed with hot water. I added some shaving cream to make it fluffier. I'm not really sure what I'm doing, this is just what I read online. But now we have our slime. You know this just isn't the right shade of poop brown, we need to add a little bit more. There you go! Our little pile of poop, so cute. Then I just stuffed it in our mug and let it kind of sit and settle down for a little bit. Settle down! Settle down! The marshmallows are freshly baked from the oven and now I'm just adding them to our hot chocolate. I kind of like squish them in so they look like they're sinking, not floating, we want them to be sinking. Drowning! No. And there we go our finished hot chocolate slime, I think it looks better than the original honestly I feel like this kind of looks like a brownie cookie batter or something. Sorry guys, I'm a little gassy today And now we're making waffles (Cloe, you're making pancakes.) But the line's like we're making waffles. (But you're making pancakes!) We're making pancakes! Start off with your glue as usual. This is gonna get boring. Adding my food coloring. I didn't use all the colors this time. That perfect pancake batter color. And then I'm taking my hot water mixed with borax make a little solution formula. Mix it all in there to create your slime. I struggled with this hard. Gonna be honest with you guys. I did not get the perfect slime I wanted. It was a little too sticky. Okay. Enough. Clearly enough. Actually you know what keep going? While we let those pancakes cook for a little I'm going to make the butter. Add your special formula, mix it together and we should have some lovely, butter slime. Then you want to just cut two little squares of butter to put on top of your pancakes girl Now for the syrup, so I took some clear glue, poured it in a little bowl added some red food coloring. Just kidding. That's yellow. I added less borax than usual because I still wanted this to be a little bit more of a glue texture, rather than like the slime. But then you just want to stack your pancakes, add the butter, pour the syrup on and you are good. I had to move quickly with this one because it all just kind of melted into one giant pile We also decided to make some chocolate pancakes Bon Appetit! I don't know why all my creations end up looking like this. On to the next one. Okay, so you're gonna start off with a various assortment of colorful clays and you're gonna roll these up. I don't know how useful this step was, I just did it cause it was fun. And I want to cut all of these into little sprinkles Then I just pop those in the oven at 270 degrees for 10 minutes and now on to the slime. Pour your glue in a bowl. We get it Cloe. You're pouring glue in a bowl. Then you want to mix some colors together to get that perfect, you know, tan, pop tarty color. I'm sorry none of these slimes are satisfying pretty colors. And now we're making our frosting so this one's super easy. You just get white glue, a little bit of borax and there's your frosting. I added a little shaving cream because, I don't really know. Took my sprinkles out of the oven and let's put it together, baby! I tried to mold this into as much of a pop-tart shape as I could it was hard because it kept like, you know, melting. It's slime. I layered my frosting on top added the sprinkles, and then I took a little pen and just dotted along the tan part of the pop-tart. And there's your finished pop-tart girl! You rock it! So that was it for this video, I hope you guys enjoyed. Make sure to check out my Facebook videos again they're in my description and the winner for the Beats giveaway is SimplyJade123. Thank you so much for watching my videos. Thank you for subscribing to my main channel, my vlog channel and just being awesome. So, here you go. Take them. Yeah, just take them. And I will see you guys next time. Bye *Music*