Pluto is a captivating member of the solar system, for all that I cover, I can never cover you in the comments with questions unanswered, when telescopes like Hubble can see distant Pluto were so illuminated, when it's supposed to these sorts of questions, as the answers to them universe works. So if you've ever had questions It's time for you to get some answers. I'm Alex McColgan, and you're watching Astrum. about Pluto. The answers to these questions But let's jump right into it. How can Hubble Hubble has taken some of the most know of, giving us clear views of galaxies it struggles to take clear images us like Pluto and other trans-Neptunian how can it see something so clearly so far away, The answer is a lot simpler than you may think, in question. This fantastic image is the Andromeda years away from us. You might think that this perspective. But even though it is so far away, it is actually 6 times bigger than the Sun or a 220 thousand light years across, and at that size, to make it seem tiny. Its size and distance from It is so big in fact, that when Hubble looked at it simply couldn't zoom out enough. So, of Hubble exposures, and even then, they This is true of other galaxies as well. Now, most but they are still big enough for Hubble to image Here's the Pinwheel galaxy, 21 million light between some foreground stars found in our galaxy. the sky. If you could see it clearly with your Moon. I hope this is giving you some perspective. still has a large apparent size in our sky. As you Just as a side note, I can only if all galaxies local to us were bright But what about Pluto? We might need to clarify our the sky, astronomers use degrees, arcminutes and 60 arcseconds in an arcminute. So Andromeda arcminutes across. The Pinwheel galaxy is about arcseconds across at its closest approach to us. a wonder that Hubble can resolve any details on which have bigger apparent sizes, can be resolved Horizons to Pluto back in 2015 was so exciting, there as we don't have a telescope powerful enough New Horizons sent back was a revelation. to really hit the idea home. In this picture, sizes. I want you to think of this flower distance. And yet, there's some buildings in the which are clear in this image. Imagine So, that should clear up the mystery Why does Pluto and its big moon Charon orbit would know that Pluto was doing this, but those Is there something invisible and hugely lurking black hole? As the New Horizons it saw this orbiting phenomenon up close and in is necessary. Scientists were expecting this they had never detected anything present at not just Pluto, orbits around a barycentre. two objects. To help visualise this, if I get and a kiwi on the other end, we can see that the For most of the planets, with their much the centre of mass in these situations resides as its moon's gravity tugs on it. With Pluto and which means the point in which they orbit is are swinging around an invisible object in space! the other big celestial objects in the solar So, another enigma about Pluto A lot of you have asked: how are the seeing as Pluto is so far away from the Sun? right? Well the answer is, with your it would indeed be darker than in these images, Thankfully, we don't have to try and imagine it, the illumination of our sky matches how NASA calls this "Pluto time," and you can check next where you are. As you can see, it's Pluto easily take a video. Pluto is an average of 40 and only has a 16 hundredth of the sunlight. per square metre, so on Pluto it would stairway or corridor lighting. Even if that still see darker objects by utilising longer and with a 15 second exposure, my camera can pick I can always up the brightness So, there you go! Why Pluto appears We've got one last question to go, and I think public ask about Pluto. It is part a search it all. But its answer actually comes with this: Why is Pluto not a planet anymore? once were considered to have a hundred planets in the number of planets in our solar system has gone this is not because planets suddenly appeared were discovered. Since antiquity, there were five to the naked eye, Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter and the moon to their list of planets, but that Uranus was discovered, which was revolutionary be more planets beyond the visible five. After were being found, like Ceres, Vesta, Pallas and the asteroid belt, or the large belt of asteroids were not initially listed as asteroids. they were all listed as planets. In the middle and within just a few decades, we had quite a a clear distinction between the eight planets being discovered. By the 1860s, over one hundred given their own distinct classification as objects that couldn't be distinguished from sky. So you might as well ask why Pallas isn't A lot of people in the world feel like Pluto another victim of this ruthless refinement of and with the excitement of finding something a planet. However, within a few decades, it was of traditional planets. The planets we know plane of the solar system. Pluto, on the other and its orbit is so elliptical that at some Sun than Neptune. But it was also unique, so in the 1970s, Pluto was discovered to be a its mass is only one sixth of our moon. This made but not our Moon when it was so much bigger than when telescopic technology had greatly discovered in and around the orbit of Pluto. it quickly became apparent that there was another the Kuiper Belt. These objects are still being Sedna, Haumea and Makemake. But seriously, they the International Astronomical Union knew that with a new definition for the word planet. They that: (a) is in orbit around the Sun, (b) has rigid body forces so that it assumes a hydrostatic cleared the neighbourhood around its orbit. two categories, because it lies in the Kuiper not a planet. I have heard argument that lots their orbits too, but it is a bit different to in an actual belt. Pluto is instead known as a not massive enough to have cleared its orbit. We rather because of these new discoveries, we have about! Also, because of the classification change, Ceres - it got promoted from being an asteroid to So there you have it. 4 questions about Pluto now arisen? Perhaps as you've watched the icy all that's happened is it's got your mind turning maybe this is a beast that never can be truly that's part of the beauty of the universe. much more to learn. It's the journey that is has sparked in your mind any more questions or about our solar system in general, let more videos like this one going forward, But for now, whatever you were wondering about Finding answers to your questions about space can questions too. Christmas is fast on its way. Have to get? Don't worry, we at Astrum and the sponsor suggest some great ideas. I'm pleased to announce Displate collection, based on the moons of posters do a great job of bringing the grandeur home. But Displate posters go further than that depicting whatever you're passionate about, from or Elden Ring. Being magnetic, they're easy to put up or swap out, and they'll be at your door QR code, link in the description below, or out to get 22% off 1-2 posters, or 33% off if you Displate designs, not just mine, so be sure to Thanks for watching! If you want to see a recap of video here. A big thanks to my patrons and members to the end of every Astrum video too, check the