- Now we know it's been In fairness, we thought about It just takes awhile for You guys loved our Amazon and that we couldn't resist but with a sketchier twist. So, strap on, guys, because that this is not gonna Speaking of unplanned, I to our sponsor, GlassWire. With GlassWire, you can to see if any of them are Check it out at the link to get 25% off GlassWire. (upbeat electronic music) All right, step one, put on Step two, let's start So first up is our case. You can tell that it's super-high quality because even with my weak sauce left arm, I am easily manhandling it here. Let's go ahead and do a nice (plastic crackling) Ah, yes. (plastic crackling) Oh, oh, that was not a good peel. You know what, the case, though, actually feels better Ooh, oh, crap, I bent it. So I was holding it by and actually warped it a little bit. Think I'll pick it up the from now on. Features-wise, though, this We've got three front USBs, including a USB three, power, reset, front ports, we've got, wow, an easily removable magnetic fan filter with room for a couple of It actually includes what appears to be a 120 millimeter RGB fan, the label is red, green, and blue. The side panel mounts in like but this is, in fact, And then check this out. It's got that punched-out So you've actually got for cable management back here. I mean not a ton, but a little That is a weird fan. Like it's a 120 millimeter So this is what I'm talking about. Look how big the blades versus the other one. It's like a 90 millimeter fan It's got this like thick Now this is a cool feature. You've actually got color and your LEDs here. And it seems to correspond to the colors that at least some manufacturers use. I'm pretty sure ASUS How much did we pay for this thing? - [Man] 97 US dollars. - Nine what! So apparently cases are not actually a great deal on wish.com. At least it has a tempered All right, let's open up our Ah, a motherboard. (plastic crackling) What is with all the bubble I mean, (laughs) in like it got dropkicked. So there's a couple of takeaways here. One, all the extra packaging And, two, the way that they're applying their extra packaging is Oh, so that's interesting. Yeah, this motherboard is not that at all. Full testing, okay. All right. So this is clearly a very used board. Was it clear from the listing Okay, how much did we - [Man] 46 bucks. - $46 for an H61 board? That's not even a good deal. Why do people buy this stuff? And like, do you know how if you buy them in bulk? I know, pennies. They put a piece of paper in. Look at this. That's it, that's their socket cover. Now in fairness, it doesn't look like there are any bent pins, so that's good. But it's still not how I All right, we also apparently have a CPU. And it comes in what looks which I guess is kinda cute. It's an Intel Core i3-2130. I guess this was just what CPU with what board they had kind of thing. How much did we pay for this guy? - [Man] $49. - 50 bucks? Seriously? This is a rip-off. So already for the price of we probably could have gotten that would have included probably a drive, some RAM. Could've just like thrown but what the heck. So I was informed before we started that I actually have I have this Great Wall heatsink cooler. I am kinda likin' this. This is actually very similar to the old Zalman flower back in the socket 754 days. So that's candidate number one. And candidate number two is I mean, it shouldn't surprise me, given that they're all But this looks very, very similar in materials and construction from an AIO cooler that you purchased just normally off of Amazon or whatever. Tubing-wise, seems like the materials they're using are okay. It feels like an aluminum But that should be fine, except that there's a copper block, except that some manufacturers do that. I don't know what they're Okay, you know what? If the AIO fits, then But it's no guarantee to get it in here, because have mounts for dual 120 that doesn't mean that there's once we install a power supply. And no, in fact, there isn't. So it looks like we and we are unfortunately going to be stuck with our regular heatsink. So how much were each of those? - [Man] So, the air cooler was $17 and the AIO was $80. - So our theme continues of our prices not necessarily being I'd say 80 bucks for like a, I don't know, a kinda decent-looking AIO is fine, but it's certainly not special. So it should just be a matter And clip one and clip two, and plug in. Did we also buy RAM off Wish? Oh, there it is. Oh, wow. That is some, hey, they, wait a second. Wait a second. I am pretty sure that to use this image. So this is Vaseky High Performance DDR. And you can tell that and care a lot about their packaging when they use the same from DDR3 1333 to DDR4 3200. Like, ah, it's some of Let's go ahead and install this stuff. So this is a DDR3 1333. I'm super-glad we spent money on this. How much did we spend? - [Man] $40. $40 on eight gigs. You know what? I think that's actually The funny thing about memory like DDR2 or DDR3 or it's really expensive. And then it gets cheap when Then it gets expensive again when it becomes like old All right, so there we go, friends. I'm gonna plug our case fan into the bottom of the motherboard here. Wow, that's really curious. This case, you know, at the start there, but it Like check this out. Our bottom fan here, and it seems to me that the is that almost none of are even gonna be accessible because of the tempered glass panel here and the power supply with what would be the bottom slot if we had a full four-slot Like this thing is not very Now seems like a good opportunity to get back to our solid state drive. It's another Vaseky product. This is the V800 256G. At least this one is clearly labeled. But I do have to wonder if Like didn't SandForce get acquired like 1,000 years ago by someone? I'd be surprised if it even Wow, oh, it just comes apart. Now maybe we can see what it uses. This is nothing to do It's a Silicon Magic controller, but not the one that's listed online, which is actually good because at least this one's that it says this product uses. Unfortunately, this is, in There is no RAM on it whatsoever. And we did a video about that awhile back explaining why that is a And, in some cases, you might out of a mechanical hard drive So, there you go. I mean, it's nothing but we wouldn't recommend this. Let's install it in our computer. How much did I pay for that? - [Man] You paid I believe $56. - $56? I mean capacity for capacity, But for like a piece of that's not a good deal. Oh, boy. When your SLI still uses a lowercase i because you haven't updated since like 2010. (laughs) Oh, boy. Now let's have a look So, we've got two leads, and a SATA. Wow, this wiring, it's so cheap. Even the plastic for the On a positive note, I do think we have all the connectors we need. Four pin for the CPU, 24 six pin for, oh, right, graphics card. So, this one we're Actually, how much did, how much did I pay for - [Man] $31. - 31 bucks? That's overpriced. Not that you should ever use even like a good $31 power A power supply is one of those things, it's just not worth it to cheap out on. And wow, look at this thing. So if I had to guess, I would or a 560, what is it? - [Man] That is a 1060. - A 1060? It doesn't even have a six 1060, my ass. Wait, Nvidia's 10 series Oh, you. How much did I pay for this? - [Man] $45. - 45 bucks. Well, at least the price was right. All right, let's go ahead and install this piece a hot garbage. Now, normally, your power the one that comes with but either they fell in the bottom of the box or So, what we're gonna do a couple of what appear to be power supply-compatible screws, but that seem to have been So, what's our total bill for the tower? - [Man] - With the air cooler, it's $380. - $380 with the air cooler option. That is brutal. That is so much more than Now our PC is done, but is how true any of the about their products. To find that out, we're gonna have to actually install Windows But before we can do that, of course, we're gonna need some peripherals. Let's start with the Ziyou K16 game keyboard. Wow. This may be the lightest Then also from the same brand, I think, although this time it's in but it's the same logo here, we've got some kind of That is quite literally that I have ever felt on anything. You can even see, a lot of that travel is being absorbed by the PCB underneath. See how much that port is moving? That is grody. Okay, this I've actually seen. This mouse pad is a pretty good deal. All right, how much did - [Man] The grand total is $56.33. - And that includes the mouse pad? - [Man] That includes the mouse pad. Well, at least the price is 'cause these are definitely like $10 worthy peripherals over here. All right, so this is Our epic gaming setup is now and a gaming test. We'll be right back. All right, so we're gettin' We're gonna get some drivers installed. But before we do that, This power supply was even Not only did it suck, So we had to pull in a TX750 in order to get the The good news is that once we did that, we were at least able to Yeah, it's clear by this that you guys would want to emulate. But get subscribed if you're not already, because we're gonna coming out pretty soon. It's gonna be more by the book. Now let's take some time to we've really ended up with here. So we'll fire up hardware info, fire up our device manager, One thing I figured out already is this computer is All right, so we're gonna You can see all of our for like our chipset and It's older hardware, so Windows just knows what to do with that. So, it turns out this is, So, that's good, I guess. Okay, all right, gigabit, everything here looks fine, but we don't have a GPU driver yet. So that's not showing up. So it says here we've got a GTX 1050 Ti. We've actually got the Nvidia drivers unpacking in the background here. But we fire up hardware Sandy Bridge processor, fake It's not, one fake is not enough for this. Two fakes. So this is a GF116, which, if I recall correctly, is Fermi. That is an old, old GPU. Unfortunately, because it's we have no way of knowing at So, the only way to to try and get some real drivers installed so that it can hopefully So, let's try the Nvidia installer here and see what happens. Oh, wow. It successfully installed the driver. It still reports as a So I thought we were actually off the included driver disc with like these hacky drivers on it. See, that looks really legitimate. But it seems like the and they have even tricked into thinking that this is a 1050 Ti. Now with that said, we haven't All right, so we've run while attempting to press alt Z to see just a quick and dirty I got into GeForce Experience here and went to configure my settings. And theoretically, we meet because we have a 600 series or higher, but in practice, the configuration And when you go to press because, no, this is not So, we're just gonna have Yay, oh, no. So the good news is this The bad news is that It's not exactly known for being a particularly demanding title. And I'm dead. We found our problem. Fermi only had HDMI 1.3. So that was limited to That's a little bit, not 60 hertz, which is the native So when we try to run So I think the last thing for us to do is figure out exactly what graphics card we're dealing with here. So, we're gonna go ahead and run 3DMark. We're gonna use the And we're gonna have a look perform similarly to And it crashed. What can you tell me about this error? The workload produced no results. So, this could be either It could be that 3DMark was expecting the GPU to support features that it, in fact, didn't and or it could be part of 3DMarks' to doublecheck if something as something else, so that flash RTX 2080 Ti's to GTX completely dominate the leaderboards. Either way, it looks like be able to run 3DMark to validate which, at this point in the because it really doesn't Any time you're buying is not what it said it And, frankly speaking, that were what they said weren't amazing deals either. So, the old adage If something seems too good I think the cooler is about that I think is even It's got pretty cool RGB lighting effects and for what, 17 bucks? I guess it's all right. Speaking of all right, our sponsor. - [Man] Knock knock. - I don't want any. Ha, get it? I don't have to say who's there 'cause I've got a Ring Doorbell. Ring wants you to know without even getting up. And the Ring Doorbell camera kit includes their Video and solar security sign. The Video Doorbell 2 has with 1080 HD resolution It features two-way either a battery or eight to The spotlight camera is 10 ADP as well and features two-way talk as or solar-powered in this case. And it can also act as a siren. And their solar security sign is designed to act as a general deterrent, since they know that if they're gonna be The entire kit is great, since you can use it to and my personal favorite, of course, is letting the Amazon delivery wait, wait, hold on a second, I'm coming. Don't leave, don't leave with So get some peace of mind with It's compatible with iOS, and we've got it linked So, thanks for watching, guys. If you wannna buy a GPU that's not a scam, check out our recent GPU Buyer's Guide. It covers everything that's at a bunch of different price points. See ya. (ball smacks) Ow, my toe. Ah, sandals, okay, it's There you go, guys. I think that's where I hit it. So whatever happened here, (laughs) someone was not happy about