Hey, Dr Bernard here. This video is based on a case that is published below. I don't intend to scare anyone about food I'll be eating leftovers for dinner tonight, This was a freak accident happening in a perfect I publish a video every month, so if you hit we can have some leftover food, together. A Student Ate His Roommate's Leftover Noodles This Is What Happened To His Limbs. JC is a 19 year old man, presenting to the shortness of breath. Five hours earlier, a purplish discoloration his skin, and his roommate immediately drove In the car, JC could barely move his head matter anymore because his vision was starting One day earlier, JC was on his regular schedule. He was hungry for lunch, but it was cold outside. Food wasn't easy to come by but his roommate back leftovers. "Hes not really gonna care if I eat this, JC thought. Immediately after eating the meal of leftover He could feel his stomach shake and convulse. As the hours passed, JC could feel a blanket He felt like there was gas, but there was A pool of sour saliva flooded in under his in to his cheeks as he was brought down to He huddled over the toilet as a stream of as he felt his eyes squeezing out of his skull. Laying down now in a world of hurt, JC felt He started shivering. His arms and legs felt weak and clammy and chest. It was getting harder to breathe. His head started pounding. He slowly became unaware of his surroundings. When his roommate came back, JC couldn't was pulsating and starting to blur. That food must have been no good, he thought. "I ate your leftovers for lunch, but they "Sorry, I shoulda just tossed it, I didn't too," his roommate said. As the night passed, JC could feel his heart His roommate was fine. JC's head hurt so bad that he was in a fetal "What was it about those leftovers?" He thought. "I shouldn't have eaten them for sure," As the sun started to rise, JC tried to get He noticed some bruising on his arms and legs put the toothbrush in his mouth. But everything was in a state of pain and Knowing an ambulance would be too expensive, hospital as he's brought to the emergency At examination, JC was responsive, alert and He had a fever. JC's heart beat was fast, heart rhythm was he had tachypnea. Tachy meaning fast and pnea referring to breath. As doctors were examining him, JC empties Doctors noticed it was a greenish yellow color, of food. Doctors drew some blood to test and to get But as the minutes pass, JC's tachypnea air and his face was starting to turn gray. JC has hypoxemia. Hypo meaning low. Ox referring to oxygen and emia meaning presence Low oxygen presence in blood, but how could He's breathing faster than normal, and it's room is breathing, and no one else is gasping Doctors put him on supplemental oxygen to As the hour continues, JC's blood pressure to the emergency room. The nurse used a vein in his leg to administer get it to beat harder to increase his blood Doctors sedate him and stick a tube down his But it wasn't enough. JC's blood pressure kept dropping. But then doctors started to notice a rash his body. At first this mottled appearance looked like brown, well defined at the edges, and multiple his body. But how could this happen after eating food The fever. The sudden drop in blood pressure. The hypoxemia and the diffuse rash. All of this pointing to a sudden, terrible as doctors start him on broad spectrum antibiotics. They dont know exactly what bacteria they're They dont know what could have caused this The best they can do until they find out, different bacteria. But things are only getting worse. Doctors try to push more medicines in to his it keeps going down. Low pressure means blood can't get to his They call for a helicopter because he needs more resources. In the second hospital now, doctors notice Usually, you can feel a pulse, the heart beating, But the medical team couldn't feel one for The lesions look like more than just bruises Occasionally, JC would open his eyes, and His pupils still reacted to light. This reflex is natural in humans and means Both his pupils were the same size, so this for now. What isn't OK is JC's kidneys. At the previous hospital, before putting him placed a catheter, that is a tube that will But as it turns out, there is no urine in made any, and they've completely shut down. Another blood test finds that JC has thrombocytopenia. Thromb from Ancient Greek Thrombos meaning Cyto meaning cell. And Penia from Ancient Greek referring to A deficiency of cell pieces known as thrombocytes, But what does this mean? You see, blood has the ability to coagulate, like consistency. This is called a thrombus made from thrombocytes. Another word for all of this is blood clot. This usually happens in times where the body If clots are made of thrombocytes, but JC means that he can't make any more new blood bleeding. That could explain his bruise-like rashes But JC doesn't have a history of bleeding He was healthy and fine less than 24 hours food, meaning at some time in between, this If his thrombocytes weren't low before, them? They could have been destroyed. The remnants of those destroyed would have But where from? He emptied his stomach multiple times after Platelets don't just float into the stomach JC hasn't made any urine so they wouldn't likely they were destroyed. Instead, this could mean JC's thrombocytopenia of his thrombocytes by making clots everywhere be? When JC presented to the emergency room at blood and sent it to a lab so they could try On the phone now with the previous hospital, The species found in JC's blood was Neisseria The stiff neck. The nausea declining quickly into respiratory The thrombocytopenia and multi organ failure. The rash on his cold hands and feet. Doctors had already suspected meningococcemia, by the time these results were confirmed, roommate's leftover food for lunch, JC's down. Even though this is a meningococcal bacterial the inflammation of the meninges the membranes even though he had a stiff neck, called nuchal But when he presented to the emergency room, brain seemed to be OK. Instead, the bacteria flooded in to his blood meningococcemia. But why is this happening? This brings us back to his blood clots. We can already see where they are. When JC's body started to react to the meningococcemia, It's kind of like getting a cut on your of blood clot, and then the area around the It's swollen because the blood vessels dilate, and the swelling is partly due to the fact is the inflammation. But when bacteria is present in the blood, dropping the blood pressure, preventing oxygen Thrombocytes are consumed causing little clots small blood vessels, blocking blood flow. As his hands and feet become cold, they starving A pulse can't be felt because nothing is The bruising happens because the remaining is flowing out looking like a bleed. All of this is called Purpura fulminans. Fulminans from Latin Fulmen meaning lightning something happening suddenly and Purpura from that appears suddenly. As the days pass, JC is stabilized, but parts and caused gangrene. Both of his legs down to his feet were also be amputated, because the tissue can cause JC's body. And they were amputated. The Neisseria meningitidis bacteria is known air, which brings us to the final point. JC's roommate threw up after eating parts These became the leftovers that JC ate the This kind of reaction is generally not normal history on JC, they found that he only received just before middle school and not the booster A second, Serogroup B meningococcal vaccine which also consists of 2 separate doses, given JC had gotten this one, but again, only one The evidence appears to point to the food We'll never know exactly what happened to on it, it would be hard to even culture and we know that bacteria is transmitted through It made his roommate throw it back up, his schedule, this bacteria doesn't just materialize it caused parts of JC's limbs to necrose. And the missed partial vaccines twice on JC's this particular place, at this particular As JC's organ function starts to come back and hes moved to the stepdown unit as his Blood products were given to him to replenish and other anticoagulants were given aggresively. The bacteria was handled promptly with the by it lasted for days. He isn't critically ill anymore, but he he was able to make a recovery. Thanks so much for watching. Take care of yourself. And be well.