The Roman Army is best known for However the physical strength of the force Another key ingredient was its information warfare. This was made possible by the eyes the unsung story of the scouts of the Roman I wanted to take a moment to thank guy michaels sponsoring it i spend a lot of time reading yet i still find myself with a growing list i'm sure in your own busy life it can be tough you'd like thankfully our sponsor blinkist thousands of non-fiction books and uses experts for you to easily digest with text or audio in engaging with subjects you'd never otherwise get definitely want to read in full as an example levitt's freakonomics evil harares sapiens it's honestly been extremely liberating and a you can check it out right now by clicking the day free trial in addition the first 100 people Intelligence gathering has always been a core part this often means sending assets ahead of the army so to speak. What is the terrain like and cartographers and intelligence just as badly as amount of technology. The closest equivalent to As a result forces might be within miles of one they literally bumped into one another. Thus reconnaissance of some form. This was especially Failure to scout properly could suffered unnecessary attrition, Early Roman armies of the monarchy and nascent matters. But they didn't necessarily need to home in familiar territory. A few riders out in However, as the legions expanded their scope or the Island of Sicily and beyond, the What developed was a more robust in the form of the Procursatores. These were in the close vicinity of the main army. march of the infantry column and were The Procursatores were not some Rather they were merely a group of troops to fill the role as the situation demanded. Rome's equite cavalrymen filled the role initially allied and auxiliary troops. Caesar for instance horsemen for many of these activities. In terms in proportion to the overall force. For example army of about 60-80,000 men employed a mere 1500 Whilst deployed, the Procursatores primarily acted as a close screen for the army who would These patrols were maintained day and night dangerous territory. As such they could intercept Another important role was that of pathfinder. The immediately ahead and make recommendations on as simple as selecting which fork in the road to to consider things like the availability of water, and the presence of defensive high ground. course of the army but ignored the advice Valentinian for instance very nearly lost his chosen a more difficult path than was necessary When a path was selected, the Procursatores This involved cutting down trees, removing might also be supplemented to disperse any token resistance offered by A cleared path was not just important mobility which was one of the most important A final role of the Procursatores was to This would be done in conjunction with troops and Lignatores. Such daily activities were since an army could only remain in operation Roman Army Logistics in another video While the Procursatores were certainly they did not fulfill all of its needs. For example acting as a close screen of the army. The vast category of scouts known as the Exploratores. of about 35km (24 miles) away, while Ammianus As with the Procursatores, the Exploratores selected for an ad hoc assignment rather than on be chosen from among the auxiliaries who made up was not always the case: in Trajan's Dacian wars, By the later Empire, however, it does seem that their own formalized units. Whatever the case, possessing the necessary skills and experience Their primary role was that of a scout force, to gain an understanding of the world around them. time and the Exploratores were thus equipped One can imagine a detachment of of operations by a recognizable landmark from As they travelled they took notes on all kinds positions, and recent events. This may have been network of spies and informants in the field. For along the eastern road for a distance of three which had recently been occupied by a garrison A good eye and experience would be invaluable in an encamped force while a low, wide dust cloud infantry and a tall, narrow cloud If line of sight on actual the little details mattered. What unit types they disorganized, did they have their shields In an age before detailed maps, these sorts of an up to date understanding of his surroundings For instance when two armies drew encamp, and begin to probe one another. Once again They might be sent on specific patrols to look for exploited. Sometimes the Exploratores might get a of the enemy army which would also have had its When a specific action was to be undertaken, consultation. For instance if a commander wished against the enemy it would be the Exploratores taken. If a commander wished to give battle, the battlefield to the general and his officers. our sources, one can imagine the use of simple fully. These descriptions would note any and all army. For instance the river can only be crossed hill unassailable from all but one side, this these woods may hide troops, and so on. A failure if they reported incorrect information, In a more routine capacity, the scouting of the location of the army's daily encampment. This as a means to provide security An ideal camp would be placed on elevated, level easy access to building materials and once a site had been selected, the Exploratores perhaps as a signal to the army or to provide a Once this had been done, the Exploratores might and survey the site before the army vanguard Another important role of the Exploratores was This meant that in addition to tracking units disrupt their supply lines, or poison their water an enemy army, making it easy prey for Yet more aggressive actions were possible as well. ambushes, and even engage in targeted One fantastic attestation to this is Tiberius Claudius Maximus. It which included two awards for bravery as a Apparently it was his unit that was tasked with They managed to corner their target, leading the tombstone and depictions on Trajan's column, head, and brought it back to the Emperor as a ruthless and effective men must have been exactly While not explicitly stated by our sources, on the trail of Rome's other infamous enemies Occasionally, especially when combat was not locals as Exploratores. Such individuals have a good understanding of the land and the few times we hear about them in our One such incident occurred during the Roman led the infantry-heavy army on a circuitous of their march. The attrition on top of other of the entire Roman force. Locals who provided generally richly rewarded, but if things even if it was an innocent mistake. Guides who Thus we have seen how Rome used a consisting of the Procursatores who acted as in addition to the Exploratores who acted as Both were a key part of any military operation and were fundamental to the dominance However they were just a part of Rome's larger for future episodes where we will get to cover A huge thanks is owed to the Patrons for writers and artists who made this episode more content and as always let us know what units