Haaaaaa But you know what? It's important because this channel without this type of videos Not only has this printer provided me my projects over the last few years, it's But as amazing as it is, let's be honest, now, right? I mean, Creality sent me their latest Ender Not only was it easy to assemble all the upgrades I added drawers, it comes with a drawer. I added LED lights I added a BL Touch. It has a CR Touch. I added direct and it has a way better and lighter direct As sweet as it is though, It made my channel what it is today, my favorite printer to use. So I decided to make some changes, but this time I went a bit over the top. Step one Customization. Step two, mark its birthday again. Step three is some general maintenance. I added some new grease to the threaded then tightened the belts, and now we can get to the upgrades. Oh, and in about two weeks answering a lot of the questions and also sharing with you guys So if you're interested in that leave them in the comments below All right, let's make this quick. So a lot of you guys brought to my attention that this Noctua fan even on Teaching Tech's he has a pinned comment recommending So here it is. The biggest downside with the direct drive you end up having a very heavy head So decided to replace the stock with a much lighter pancake motor. This one's about half the size the weight. I had to recalibrate the E steps after, And keep in mind, a smaller motor compared to the original. So this might not be for everyone, but now that I have tuned So I do recommend this for people You see how one side of the X gantry That's because one side has the support and the other side does not. I honestly didn't think But recently, when I was printing larger parts I found that on one side adhesion then elephant's feet So here's the dual It comes in black, but that can be fixed. It comes with this bracket to make room for the motor. And I also reprinted these spacers that So they match. I then also replaced the coupler that came with the kit just because they're a bit more forgiving Then there are these holders They keep them in place while Lastly, They replace the stock ones, to control both motors simultaneously using these coasters I leveled the X gantry with my BL Touch So I noticed my monitor cable would sometimes rub against the It also sometimes get there are a lot of different designs they can be pretty effective. I don't know why I didn't do this sooner, I decided to also clean up to the side of the printer. I ended up drilling a hole here to feed it through. Way cleaner! So as much as I love the glass bed for its durability, it's So I decided to try the Garrolite or G10 You can find these cut to size stock sheets that come in more colors These thin 0.03 inch sheets are super in a well-ventilated area with a mask and eye protection. Then I sanded it with some water to reduce the dust. Now the old bed clips They're too loose. I think they're for picture frames so they can work with both the glass bed So now I can use them interchangeably. They do have some sharp edges though, covered them with some electrical tape I then decided to run a bed adhesion Yeah, that's pretty good, right? It's almost as satisfying as: Browsing the Internet securely. That's right. You can do just that. With this channel's first sponsor ever, Atlas VPN. Atlas VPN is a simple tool that location when using the Internet. This is especially important when once installed onto your computer, tablet, or phone. You can pick from one of hundreds of high And when connected, without compromising your internet speed. See, even Google thinks I'm in Japan right now. (wow) For Black Friday, they're offering an amazing You can get a three year subscription of plus 6 months extra, with a They offer a lot of amazing I didn't know was possible. But my favorite is this trying it out, I keyed in it turns out I had so many old accounts on websites my email, personal Good thing I'm not a big YouTuber So yeah, it's an amazing tool at just I hope you guys check it out before the deal ends. Huge thanks to Atlas And let's get back to the upgrades. So I've mentioned before that I use my 3D and the other day I accidentally had it Obviously this is bad because and that's actually where the main board's So I found these silicone speaker pads. They're usually used as feet they're perfect for the job the printer's now elevated, vibrations which can slightly reduce noise So when I was reassembling the printer, for the frame to become skewed for print quality. So now that I have the printer that way. It comes in black, but with light in the way I had to mount it a bit differently. And on this side with the power as well. So I honestly don't know how effective but they're very rigid and All right. Next is the one we've all been waiting Now, before I get into it. Lasers are super dangerous. They can actually make you blind So please educate yourself on the safety before you even consider this upgrade. A good place to start I'd on &quot;are cheap laser cutters safe&quot; They are not safe. &quot;Would you like to go blind instantly?&quot; And even though a lot of people online were able to easily and get really decent results, Okay, let's start with the kit. The magnets on this module allow them to just attach But since mine is 3D printed, So of course, your eye protection must also be on. is pretty decent. It seems to block out but for about $30 more Just make sure you get ones These ones look way cooler and they also so I'm assuming these are probably better? Anyway, I followed the instructions and turned on the laser I then focused the laser and then for some reason After a lot of research I came to the conclusion that the fan's mosfet on the main And that's why I can no longer turn off So yeah, now my part cooling fans are uncontrollable It acts as a great reminder for all of us risks with tinkering and modding This could have ended way worse. I'm honestly pretty grateful It's just a minor fan issue, so I might But for now, you know what's way Just a regular pen. Let's make a plotter I manually adjusted the Z height until the pen was making some clear markings Now in Cura, you can actually just Then in the marketplace, which when enabled I can key in the and then it's ready to go My 3D printer's first self-portrait. All right, so, like I said, coming in a few weeks. But while we wait for that, I know a lot of you guys like the music and the guy who makes them, Cameron Luck, Not only does but he also makes these very short how he creates his music, I've got a new couch at IKEA. I got it captured on cue, but now a simple kick and a snare I got a couch from Ikea They're so fun, so definitely check that out. Also, there's been a few other YouTubers and their awesome. 3D Printer Guy has an awesome one on the Ender 3 S1 Pro I'm definitely considering I'll leave some links below, as always. There's also Adam Beedle. He also has a video And it's just sweet. All of his videos, actually, well edited, creative, and funny, Oh, there's honestly so many. Maybe I'll make a playlist of my favorite because I don't know about you guys, I love seeing everyone's And then there's the Facebook group. I love to 3D Print, It's a great source for help I highly recommend it. And lastly, a shout-out to my donators. This time we got Cian Dowd Thank you again It means a lot. Drew, thank you so much. Nagendra Chamalla, I went to design school with this guy. I hope you're doing well, Stefan Stopko from Austria. Thank you for the kind Thank you. And Tyler McKnight. Thank you all thanks for watching.