Bonjour! And welcome back to another week with us. It's been a busy one. After six weeks of excavating, the hill behind the barn has As the work progresses, we're starting Even though there's still at least Philip, pushed forward, before the rain returned to Belgium I'm just going to give you a quick rundown from when we got it I bought this, I think, three years ago of moving to France and, that was going to be overgrown So we would need, a 4x4 just to So I bought an old Land Rover Discovery, because it was, rusty, very rusty as, So, the school from a friend of me who is a teacher there, took it now because it's not a discovery, in the sense it has been chopped halfway. They made a pick up out of it. we got, a new chassis because the chassis So we got the chassis from in a field which was actually in a good condition. We got it galvanized, and then, the school year was out before so we still got some electrical work and there to do, we'll be able to use it the farm, homestead, the camping, and, they can leave the car they can take the Landrover It's, going to be a cool vehicle. It's going to help us a lot. It's going to do a lot of stuff. I'm happy with it. But for now, we'll have to put it away Just has to be on the backburner. I'm going to look at what the rain did to the excavation works. Doesn't look too bad. There's already Some puddles at the back. Going to have a little view Doesn't look that bad, if I'm going to start driving machine The excavator is in a dry place, so that's good. Okay. I'm not going to start working on it I'm going to try to let it dry out. See what the weather does, Give it a few days. If not, if it's going to stay like this. I have some concrete sheeting. I'm going to call it left from on. I took down the the bunny boxes. So if it's going to stay rainy again, then I'm going to look, So I can at least drive, make a road the digging, The good thing is, we got a lot of thunderstorms. Just before I left Friday evening The electricity went out, and apparently in the village, mo dems and stuff like that. So we didn't get that. We just had the electricity going out. have three breakers before it goes into our house And so maybe that saved us from But anyways, I'm happy I can see through the trench, so, The hunters who, delivered this wood told me to only cover up the top part, so. And the rest are gonna be wind drying it. We do have a lot of wood, because it was all overgrown. And now we will, with the dumper We will be able to get our own wood. Done! I don't know but I think I'm just in time for, another good shower. This is a wacker plate that I can use for my neighbor Mike. I'm going to clean it up. And then, start it I will be needing it at, That's why I want to get it ready now. So once I need it, and be done with it. And it is raining today, so, I don't feel like digging that much, so this is a welcome change. First up. Empty. The old fuel out. There we go. So the gas tank is clean. Now I'm going to check the air filter. not too bad, gonna leave it on. There is no shortage of oil, I'm just going to try to fire it up. Okay, so it won't start. It hasn't been started in a few years So what is probably happening is is going to be all gunked up after a few years inside of your carburetor. To at least get this off. Okay. It's perfect. Okay. Oh, yeah. Oh, this is very dirty. This is very, very dirty. This is what a dirty carburetor I'll need to take it apart. Clean it, I just went to Claude, and we cleaned it together. It was blocked, like I thought. We cleaned out all the crud, I'm going to call it That was blocked as well. And then this. The fuel pipe going to the little faucet So there was loads blocked. But it is normal when it has been standing So the thing to take away is, I've always been bad at it too, If you put away machinery for a long time, use the expensive stabilized fuel like with this one, you can, empty the, and feed the reservoir The next time, you just put fresh fuel in Okay. Now, to put this back together. this was sitting on here like this. Good morning. We had a load of rain passed by, so I think I hope for the next few days So we're going to start working, get some oil on this machine. we put all those concrete pads. So today I'm going to test it out so we can continue working. Because if you have to stop for 2 or 3 days, I'm not going to get there. Okay, it's Working. Actually, the most difficult part is I didn't dump it on the ride. Then the biggest dump But I got stuck there. And luckily, if I go sideways, I don't do it. Tip over on the big downhill. We have to be a lot more careful. I'm getting the vibes from last year. Especially there. It's starting to get a nice and muddy, but we're still able to drive through it. I don't have to move to excavator that much. And I still have my driving mats. So as long as the dumper can still make it without me tipping over or sliding away, then I will keep on going. It's one of those days where you do a million different things, but you feel like you have done nothing. But actually you've done a lot. So. Rain came down and followed the paths that I made And there's a big ravine And here as well. And the soil has been sliding away. So I'm going to straighten this up. I tried to build it up a little bit again. So I had safe road with the dumper It's But we're talking. 4 or 5m around here untill ground level It is quite high. This is the other damn leg. I'm going to call it. You have the right one over there. The house is there, This left one. I'm going to straighten as well. Because I was stuck in here when it's wet or it has been raining, because it's a lot lower on the sides. If something goes wrong, it's, okay. And I couldn't get myself If I tip there, then it's, bon voyage to the dumper, This is a different perspective. When I'm standing on the hill of what still has to be dug out. So it's a lot. This still has to go. And it's, pretty high I can touch the roof edge. So this gives you a little bit I'm digging to make sure the water can't reach the barns anymore I've still got some ways to go. It was time for a little break and to head down to our little town It's, Sunday. Time to do some little tasks. One of those tasks I'm starting And after a while, the battery So, change it out. And then I charge the battery that's empty on my charger inside. Fresh battery. Okay. Let's see if it wants to fire up. That's been having some more trouble I don't know if it's Because we were half September now, a lot. It is sunny, and it's But there is a lot of wind. And at night, I don't know. Four degrees, five degrees. I know there was one battery And I'll go get another one. But, I think this one is done. Done. Done. Done. Heavy. Heavy. Heavy. All right. Excuse the mess a little bit. This is the dead battery. It's on my charger. Now, I hang, I put my charger always being displaced and everything So this is quite easy. It doesn't say it's bad. It is charging it, so we'll follow it up. But it is weird. It wasn't cranking it The third battery. It was perfect to us. You guys heard Very good. I'll give this one another go. But if it's dead, it's dead. And I'm just gonna give it to Claude because, he collects them, and once he has enough, the metal guy is going to come around his house Before you worry, rest assured that the shape Philippe is digging He's purposefully shaping the hill rather than a straight cut, Once we plant different shrubs We hope it'll blend seamlessly rather than giving it