Is Yin Tian here? Who are you I asked you if Yin Tian was here. Who are you? Mingjiao is second to none and above ten thousand people Left Envoy of Light Yang Xiao Long time no see Yang Zuoshi still has the same elegance No one cares about others White-browed Eagle King You are one of the four Dharma protectors of the Ming Cult. Privately establishing a new religion is against the law Do you know your sin? Since Yang Jiaozhu disappeared Leaderless Yang Zuoshi seized power This caused the brothers in the church to fight openly and secretly. Mutual Attack I am Yin Tianzheng I don't want to stay in the church and get involved in this mess. What is the crime? Mingjiao has rules Once you join the religion, you will never leave it. Do you still remember The canon also says Brothers in the church should not fight among themselves Yang Zuo Shi You Do you remember yes The Ming Cult has been in constant conflict for many years. No time to deal with the Eagle King's affairs But now the situation is somewhat stable Yang's first priority Just clean up the house Restore the authority of the Ming Cult Come here today Just ask the Eagle King to dissolve the Eagle Cult Return to Bright Summit Don't even think about it The Pope Senior Yang Xiao My father already had internal injuries. You're not winning by force. You are young Either you come you Yang Xiao We will fight again some other day Eagle King I miss you, my brother. Please remember The Sky Eagle Religion will be abolished within three days. Otherwise, don't blame Yang for being ruthless. Master Bai of the Quick Knife Hall Cao Gang Leader Zhu Madam Wan from Wanjiabao Master These are all from my visit to Mount Emei last year. Birthday Wishes to You, Seniors Why can't the master's acupuncture points be unblocked? Yang Xiao Master please Master Beware of Fraud There is a fraud Courage He is indeed a master of his generation. It seems that I have the qualifications Come and have a drink with me. Master Lai please That's quite cruel. Revenge for your husband? You wouldn't have forgotten that you and your senior brother Gu Hongzi's romantic affairs Tell your disciples. You should tell them It's all because of me If it weren't for me How can you have the chance to leave home? He also became the head I am your noble You need to thank me Master Yang Xiao She is my master's most beloved disciple. If she loses a hair We all turned into evil spirits in Emei I won't forgive you. My beloved disciple Do you want to let your beloved Same fate as your husband. you You damn nun The Dragon Slaying Sword is in Bai Guishou's possession Bai Guishou is hiding from the world in Huangshipo First come first served friends Go fast quick Now you have two choices Or I will kill you today. Either you go find your dragon slaying sword You choose Master, the Dragon Slaying Sword is important. Don't be complacent, Mr. Yang My master will definitely come to rescue me Your Master If your master really has that ability Can you still be here? Your Master Your master is always so pretentious. Taking saving the world as one's own responsibility Where are the people? Crucial moment Aren't you still heading for the Dragon Slaying Sword? you I don't care whether you live or die you What am I My master is a man of loyalty and righteousness. Don't slander her. You just saw Although your master's martial arts skills are much worse than mine But she can save you. But she chose to sacrifice you Such a master Shame You Ming Cult have committed many evil deeds. If you sacrifice me If you can let the master enforce justice I'm willing to die Silly girl sacrifice you The person who knows your master best in the world There is no one except me, Yang Xiao Why hate Mingjiao for saving the common people? That's all bullshit. She's doing it for her own face. You are talking nonsense The greatest purpose of our Emei Sect is It means to first eliminate the evil spirits and then drive out the barbarians. It has nothing to do with personal gains and losses Don't judge others by your own standards. Our purpose Isn't it also about eliminating evil and promoting good? What about benefiting the world and helping the people? But we never advertise ourselves Not like your master And those so-called noble and upright people Always talk about your beliefs Deceiving the world and stealing reputation Rape the woman Is this also considered benefiting the world and the people? I am Yang Xiao Never force it I believe one day You will follow me voluntarily Who knows? You are dreaming The surname Yang How long are you going to lock me up? Who knows? The surname Yang Let me out I will not be a human being until I eliminate the evil sect. Master Junior Sister Ji is kind-hearted and has accumulated a lot of merits I believe she will escape this. Xiaofu fell into the hands of that rapist today Innocent With Xiaofu's strong personality She will steal her life. What do you want? The time has come I'll take you to do what you should do. Let's go Why should I go with you? Much quieter you Yang Zuo's envoy Yan'er is here The geese are coming Good Goose Start now You have anything This big sister Tell her to do it Don't worry, little sister Sister will take care of you you she She can't hear Start now Your job is to take good care of her. Someone will come to pick her up in a month. By then You want to go I won't stop you pain you Yang Xiao Stop here. You don't even spare a child. Are you still a person? Even if you have any grudge against her family But children are innocent Aren't you afraid of being struck by lightning if you do this? Let God punish me. You just take good care of her. What are you doing I'm going to take her away joke The whole world except Mingjiao She has nowhere to go You've killed everyone. Can you be so confident? Because she is from the Ming Cult What did you say Her parents I was in Mingjiao before I died. The most trusted assistant I put them Sent to other sects as secret envoys Later his identity was revealed A few of you nine sects and seven gangs Join forces to capture the murderer They are so cruel Not even a child was spared Just to make me show up A well-known and upright family Those few sanctimonious and upright people First, she was deafened. And beat her up. If I hadn't arrived in time She's dead. This is Jianghu Change clothes I can't stand this look. I made some food Do you want to eat together? The beloved disciple of the great leader of Emei Come cook for me personally It's a bit unbearable Unless you ask me Didn't you say you couldn't afford it? Why are we eating together again? I'm hungry too. Also a human Have a drink Come Disciples of this sect No alcohol Your master is not here. Besides, I have a grudge against her. I can't tell her bring it on no When I was little My dad once gave me half a glass of wine I get a rash all over my body after drinking it So the doctor warned me Absolutely no alcohol Otherwise, your life will be in danger. That can't be drunk. Don't drink 7 Save No drinking in life What a joy missing. pity Bitter taste It will also make people lose their morals What's a pity? This is your ignorance Not knowing the benefits of wine appreciation Confucius Day Poetry can inspire Can watch Can group Yes Wine is like this, you can watch Happy Hour Celebration Sadness Can praise life You can also mourn Drinking Alone No incompatibility Unexpectedly Do you still read Confucius? Is it among you guys? In the eyes of the famous and upright We, the evil demons In addition to killing and doing evil Nothing else That's not what I meant. Sister will catch it for you Lai Yaner Xiaofu Ask you a question What is your biggest wish in life? Chuangshansu Series if you can I hope to be my master's disciple for life. Help her get back the Yitian Sword and find the Dragon Slaying Sword Shine my beauty Woman's delicate hands In fact, there are many uses But the most important thing is to only know Swordplay all day or Either you come back with me to Guangmingding Do Be my person What is your person? If you dare to touch me I'll fight you. Yang Xiao You are really lucky. This won't kill you. Sekeri To rebel You are just Yang Zuoshi Not Yang Jiaowang It's not your turn to talk about rebellion. You are the leader of the Thunder Gate. Not fulfilling one's duty Instigating the disciples to commit crimes In the Ming Cult's rules, it is a capital crime. Yang Zuoshi is such an arrogant person I ask you Four doors of this religion I want to fight with the Five Elements Flag Five Scattered People reconcile But what about you? Not only did you not mean And they are always confronting each other So that our two gangs The grudge is getting deeper and deeper What's your peace of mind? That's because they Only caring about personal interests and abandoning the Ming Cult Why should I be so humble? Ask them to come over Because you are afraid What am I afraid of? You are afraid that you can't be the leader If you hadn't been in the position of leader for a long time Why are they reluctant to elect a new leader? Because none of you are qualified Do you, Yang Xiao, have the qualifications? Why the Ming Cult Fragmented You Yang Xiao is hard to get rid of To save your illegitimate daughter Ignoring our lives How should you calculate this account? My elder brother was murdered by several sects last month You didn't seek justice for him. At this time, public and private are not distinguished. Send out private elites Go save your daughter They were attacked and seriously injured. My Big Brother He devoted his whole life to the Ming Cult. What did you get in return? So today I will do it for Mingjiao Except you, the evil one Just because of you bunch of shameful things Yang Xiao On Martial Arts I know I can't compare to you So in the wine you drink I downloaded the Western Region Soul-breaking Powder You Yang Xiao can't imagine There will be a day when you kneel down to me. Yang Xiao kill My Western Region Soul-breaking Powder I was forced to retreat by you. This is my fate today. You led the believers to rebel It's a capital crime But I miss you and your heart is in Mingjiao Everything we do is to restore the reputation of Mingjiao I'll spare your life Yan'er is Jiang Bowei's daughter You may not know Jiang Bowei and his wife once swore brotherhood with your elder brother They are my secret envoys sent to other sects. They didn't apostatize at all Just a month ago Their identities revealed Being hunted Ah Neng, they are at their wits' end. I went to your brother to tell him everything. And ask your elder brother to hide Yan'er In the end, all three of them were murdered. And the geese The only bloodline of the Jiang family I, Yang Xiao, will do my best Protect the geese for life But your elder brother's revenge I already have a comprehensive plan It won't be because of your betrayal this time. Cancel the plan I wrongly blamed Yang Zuoshi My subordinates deserve death I deserve to die. Let's go back to Guangmingding We went home too. Walk Good Goose Not afraid I'm here, what are you afraid of? Look, I just Knocked them down in one go. Right? Tell you a good news Your grandmother has received the news. I'll pick you up soon. Take you to your mother's hometown Then you will live there forever Stay away from this evil world Yang Xiao Did you sleep? Yang Xiao What's wrong with you? The Western Region Soul-breaking Powder Come Wasn't it fine before? Haven't you already forced the poison out of your body? Why now? you Are you okay? I'll be fine in a moment. fine Get started I thought you had forgotten I almost forgot You and I are on different paths This is your only chance to kill me. Get started Otherwise you will regret it Shut up I'm going to kill you Revenge for my master This Longquan Sword It was once owned by the poet Li Bai. I can die under this sword It's not in vain bring it on Hurry up Senior Sister Master Report to Master Disciple has been going up to the sky and down to the underworld for days Still can't find Xie Xun's whereabouts Many days later I'm afraid it's hard to detect. That means you are not doing your job well. You all listen Only when you have the Dragon Slaying Sword and the Heavenly Sword These two treasures The Emei Sect is a leader among the heroes Support the Han Dynasty Fulfill the ancestor's last wish The spirit of Emei is to face challenges head on For all people Shattered No matter how hard it takes Shattered No matter how hard it takes Good Goose After returning to my home You must listen to your grandma. Do you know Wild Goose Come on, let's go Yan'er has been picked up by her grandmother I also gave the banknote to her grandmother. Hard Why don't you come and say goodbye? Because I don't like saying goodbye Your injury Are you feeling better? Thanks for your help Much better Plus these two days I use my own Qi and inner strength Almost recovered This leg may still A bit tired But it doesn't matter That's good I'm going to make something to eat Why didn't you kill me that day? All right Thanks I have no idea Why did Master say that you are endangering the martial arts world? I said it all Your master and I It's because of your master, Uncle Gu Hongzi Between you and my uncle What happened? You must kill him. Back then, your master, Uncle Gu Hongzi You have to challenge me to a duel I had enough, so I took up the challenge As a result, he asked his junior sister That is your master now. Borrowed the Sword Maybe he is a martial arts expert in your eyes. But it's really far from me. The sword of Heavenly Sword has not even been unsheathed yet, but it has already been defeated How to play Then why did you kill him? I Didn't kill him He can't afford to lose. On the way back to Emei, I was so angry that I died But your master is convinced that I killed Gu Hongzi I also lost the Heavenly Sword. She hates me to the core I understand I don't blame her You took the Heavenly Sword In my eyes, Yang Xiao, the Sword of Heaven It's just a piece of broken copper and iron Later the Mongols The Mongols stole it. Not from me. If I could replace my master If you take back the Heavenly Sword I will really die without regrets. Xiaofu Heavenly Sword Is it really important to you? certainly In this case Why don't you go find my master? Explain clearly? My master is a reasonable person. As long as you talk to her nicely She might forgive you. Your Master I told you that you don't understand your teacher. Because you are always so arrogant Ignore people That's why you easily make enemies with others. If you continue to be so conceited And I don't care to defend myself You will be hounded by this all your life. Constantly being hunted by that Even if you can escape today I may not be able to avoid it next time. you Are you really not afraid of death? There is a scripture in our Mingjiao. What joy is there in calling life Why die? Joy and Sorrow All Return to Dust No one is born with the intention of returning alive. Why fear death? Is it possible that in this world Is there really nothing you miss? The one you want Tossing and turning Should be the only It used to be wine Now it's people It's you you Stop kidding me Your legs Thanks to you. Then why are you pretending to be sick? If I don't pretend, how can you stay and take care of me? childish Where are you going? Why pack your bags? Yan'er has gone with her grandmother. I should go back to Emei. no You promised me As long as Yan'er leaves with her grandmother You won't stop me wherever I go. you You can't go back on your word like this I changed my mind Yang Xiao I can't send you back to Emei That's like sending you to your death. Silly girl The world calls me a big devil You were kidnapped by a big monster. More than a month Returned alive and unharmed What do your master and fellow disciples think of you? Have you ever thought about it? Not to mention Emei and even the entire martial arts world Who can think you are innocent? you tell me Your master hates me to the core If she thinks there's something between you and me What will she do? She'll kill you. I can't send you to die. No As long as I explain it to my master She will believe me. As for the others I can't do anything about what they think. I just want to have a clear conscience. Follow me back to Guangmingding Be my wife Okay? What did you say My life of Yang Xiao I've never been attracted to any woman. You, Ji Xiaofu, are the only one Be my wife I will make you The happiest woman in the world Believe me You better give up on this idea. Me and Yin Liuxia of Wudang Already engaged I like him Yin Liuxia This is the first time I've heard it from you in such a long time. Hearing the words Yin Liuxia When I first kidnapped you Is he the one you want to rescue you? You think of your master. When we were being hunted by the leader of the Leimen Sect Who are you thinking of? Yin Liuxia? no How many times have you met him? Why do you want to spend your whole life Betrothed to him? I When I was poisoned In that room, dying and fainting on the ground My mind was full of I'm thinking of you Even if you stab me to death with a sword Enough This is called like Then why do you think I will like you Please answer me with your conscience. Don't you like me? Answer me Once a word is spoken, it cannot be taken back I already have an engagement with Yin Liuxia. I can't do that because of me And let Wudang and Emei be ashamed You obviously like me But I want to marry a man I have never met Why For Wudang and Emei Are you going to give up your life's happiness? Is it worth it? Don't say anything I have made up my mind I won't be with you Xiaofu Don't come over here If you force me like this again I'll die now for you to see You let go sorry Are you okay? I didn't mean it. Reverse those clips This life is a dream that will never change My Yang Xiao life As long as you, Ji Xiaofu, are a woman Enough My hand falls on your brow This life will not change for you Even if I let down the years Old and young Only you are deeply missed Xiaofu My Yang Xiao life Never kneeled before any woman I just want to tell you I do Take care of you for life Give you happiness If not for death Never leave Still need to go If you insist on leaving This is the Iron Flame Order of the Ming Cult. Seeing you is like seeing me If one day you change your mind Or Any time you need help As long as you speak I, Yang Xiao, will give everything for you in this life At any cost The gate of Zuowang Peak is always open for you So No matter what I say You will promise me Will you not go back on your word? Never break your promise good I want you to promise me After I left You're not allowed to come to me again You are not allowed to inquire about my news good Xiaofu Don't forget You promised me Come and see Someone come quickly What's going on? What's going on? How could it be lost? yes Why are you here? yes What are you arguing about so early in the morning? Master, look Master I just saw someone passing by. Leave this sword Disciple incompetence I didn't see what he looked like. Thank you for your blessing I don't know which expert Recover the Sword Return Emei to Me I, the Emei sect, am extremely grateful. Is Xiaofu's Sword really important to you? If I can get the Heavenly Sword back for my master, I will really die without regrets. Wuji Keep up Dad, wait for me Keep up Dad, wait for me. mother We are back mother Back Slower How about having fun today? happy I saw wild deer and pheasants It's fun Just be happy Are you hungry? Eat something good Are you tired, brother? Drink some water Wuji Eat slowly Why are you eating so fast? Slow down. Wuji Big Brother Stepfather It hurts. It hurts. Wuji Don't mess around with your stepfather child No problem Pinch, pinch, pinch Wuji Today was a great day It's time to practice. Fifth Brother You guys practice Wudang Changquan one day earlier and one day later. They're all the same Big Brother You're spoiling your child by doing this. The child also Just to be pampered Wuji Let's go fishing, shall we? OK Wuji Fifth Brother Stepfather Otherwise Can I practice after I catch the fish? That's good. Can One hour Thank you, Dad Godfather, let's go. good Walk Let's go fishing Two hours Let's go fishing I have to go to a place with lots of fish later. I'm hungry Do it yourself Can Stepfather Godfather, are you thinking about this knife again? yes This sword It took me ten years to figure it out. My godfather is really worried. Wuji father Give this to your mother. OK Cooking Fifth brother The eight characters of the martial arts supreme sword slaying dragon I haven't figured it out for so long. On the Jianghu There are many absurd things With my brother's knowledge and experience Is it still about the Dragon Slaying Sword? Can't forget it? There is a monk from Shaolin Temple His name is Master Kongjian He mentioned this to me. I believe he won't lie to me. Master Kongjian I heard that he is the head of Shaolin Temple. Master Kongwen's senior brother But he died a long time ago. yes He is dead I was beaten to death Beaten to death by you When I was ten years old A chance coincidence I met a martial arts master I worship him as my teacher Master favors me What he learned in his life Sharing everything I know The relationship between me and my master is like that between father and son When I was twenty-three Bidding farewell to the master and venturing into the world later Marry and have children The family is happy together When I was twenty-eight Suddenly my master came to visit The whole family was very happy and warmly entertained 1 But I didn't expect This is the master with a beastly heart. On the fifteenth day of July After he had his fill He raped my wife My wife yelled My father heard Push the door in And my master Seeing things exposed I beat my father to death with one blow Then my mother My wife was also beaten to death Even my son Wuji, who just turned one month old He was thrown to death by him. Falling bloody How can I not avenge such a blood feud? What a pity Unfortunately, I am not as skilled as others. It's revenge It's more like self-humiliation One day I got the news Talk about pie There is a boxing manual for the Seven Injury Fist that is very powerful. I will give you the Seven Injury Fist Manual Stolen it Seven Injury Fist Hurt yourself first and then hurt others Every time you practice, your internal organs will be affected Causes one damage Big Brother This set of boxing cannot be practiced What if I get hurt for revenge? If it wasn't for practicing the Seven Injury Fist It hurts my heart I won't Sometimes, he gets violent Uncontrollable Big Brother You are so stupid. Fifth Sister As long as I avenge my family What if you hurt my life? Two years later My boxing skills If my master hadn't had a chance encounter He is definitely not my opponent. therefore I went to see him for the third time But he disappeared without a trace No matter how I find him Can't find his whereabouts In a rage I commit crimes everywhere Murder and arson Do all kinds of evil Also on site Leave my master's name Is your master Hunyuan Thunderbolt Hand Cheng Kun good In the arena I used his name to commit the crime. Even if he doesn't come out There will be hundreds of people helping me find him. This method is good But there are so many innocent lives Death in your hands Even in the underworld, he became a confused ghost It's too pitiful. Fifth Sister My whole family died at his hands. Aren't they innocent? Later I met your brother. Song Yuanqiao Do you want to kill my senior brother too? At first I thought I must be in the arena Do something earth-shattering That Day Near Qingxu Temple, Luoyang I saw your senior brother Song Yuanqiao staying at the inn Want to kill him donor Put down the butcher knife and become a Buddha Get out Amitabha, thank you, lay Buddhist Shaolin Temple's Divine Monk Kongjian I dare not take it as Lao Ne Please ask the layman What do you want to do when you enter the inn tonight? What I do is none of your business Do you want to go in and kill Song Yuanqiao from the Wudang Sect? Do you want to do another earth-shattering case? Forced the Hunyuan Luli Hand Cheng Kun to show up To avenge him for killing your whole family This matter I never told anyone How do you know Cheng Kun's actions were indeed a grave sin. But you're angry Killed many martial arts figures This is a sin. Cheng Kun killed thirteen members of my family This account should be put on his head I know you have a lot of resentment. Nowhere to vent But you don't know Your skills are far inferior to his. Although you practiced the Seven Injury Fist But it still can't hurt him How do you know? Cheng Kun told me How does he know Cheng Kun has been by your side all these years. Even the Seven Injury Fist Manual that you took away He is also helping you secretly. I don't believe it Cheng Kun loses his moral integrity after drinking I feel so guilty That's why you sought revenge on him twice. He didn't hurt your life. He knows he has sinned deeply. Your master has no face to see you He only hopes You think of your master-disciple relationship. Give a break no I'm afraid you won't be able to fulfill your wish. Then I'll keep killing Kill until Cheng Kun appears Kill me until I die Good, good. Xie Layman The master will kill thirteen members of your family I always ask you to hit me thirteen times He killed thirteen members of my family. How can I resist with thirteen punches? If you can hurt Lao Na with these thirteen punches I've always let this matter slide. Then Cheng Kun will come out to meet you. Otherwise this blood debt Write it off Let's stop here Stinky Monk Who do you think you are? This is a cycle of revenge When is it? I intervened in this matter I will never look at you again Continue to kill innocent fellow martial artists good If I hurt you You will ask my master to come out, right? Amitabha Donor please I can't avenge this I can survive in the world stop I used all my strength in this punch If he doesn't stop me Then I will break my own skull and die. Since I can't avenge my family What's wrong with dying? Did your master Cheng Kun come in the end? Divine Monk You said I hurt you. My master will appear. Where are the people? Woolen cloth I'm sorry, old man. He lied to me Cheng Kun broke his promise I'm sorry, old man. Divine Monk My master deserved to die. Why should you suffer for him? No one is immune to death in this world If Lao Ne died Can resolve this situation Not in vain Don't worry I promise you From now on I will no longer kill innocent people I will use my abilities Find my master No matter where he goes I must find him too. This family feud You are no match for him. unless Unless something Unless you find the Dragon Slayer Find out What Find the knife secret dense Divine Monk Where is the Dragon Slaying Sword? What secrets are there? Divine Monk Dragon Sword Stepfather Master Kongjian is a good person Why do you kill good people? Wuji My stepfather is wrong. Don't cry anymore. From now on My godfather will not kill people indiscriminately anymore. Fifth Sister Fifth Brother Do you still remember On the boat Why didn't I kill you? That's because I remembered Master Kongjian's last words I'm on this deserted island Lived for ten years I didn't even understand the secret of this dragon-slaying sword. I'm afraid this blood feud It's impossible to report it. Wuji, look Front leg arch Palms forward Big Brother What are you thinking about? I'm watching the wind direction wind direction In a few months The north wind will blow By that time We can go back to Middle-earth. Return to Middle-earth Over the years I watch the wind direction every day. Water Flow There is a time of year when the nights are long During those months, the north wind blows. We made the raft Wait for the north wind to rise Down the river If nothing unexpected happens We may return to Middle-earth. Really? Bro? We have hope of returning. Where are we going back to? Wuji come over Have you memorized all the formulas your foster father taught you? Remember Recite it to your godfather The mind does not wander No gas leaks God Returns to No Cave Kanli Kanli has been handed over Vigorous improvement The Ultimate Void Keep quiet, it's okay Why can't you remember the formula I taught you? You must remember this mantra carefully Never forget it, okay? Does it hurt? The stepfather who doesn't hurt Recite it to your adoptive father The mind does not wander No gas leaks God Returns to No Cave Kanli has been handed over Vigorous improvement The Ultimate Void Keeping Quiet good stand up How many times have I taught you this trick? Why can't I learn well? Turn around Put your hands up Long-lasting memory long Turn around Do you hate your stepfather? No hate The foster father was afraid of hurting Wuji That's why I picked the place with more meat. I know you don't want to fight Wuji did a bad job. You beat Wuji because you want him to become a talent. Keep practicing I don't know what happened to you recently. Always beat and scold Wuji Maybe the eldest brother wants to improve his martial arts skills as soon as possible. Teach Wuji So be strict with him. But Wuji is only ten years old No foundation for inner strength How could it be possible in a short time? I have learned the martial arts of my elder brother. mother My godfather didn't ask me to practice martial arts. He just wanted me to keep it in mind. Hey, why are you up? My godfather wants me to be good. The harder he hits me, the better I remember it. Wuji good Rest early and go to bed quickly Fifth Brother Fifth Sister Stepfather The north wind is blowing Big Brother Wuji You can follow your parents back to Middle-earth. What my godfather is telling you now I'm afraid there are some things you don't understand yet. Because you are small But you have to remember In addition to parents In this world Anyone could harm you. So after returning to Middle-earth Don't easily believe what anyone says Do you know Fifth brother The fifth sister is a woman Maybe no one will hurt her. As for Wuji? He is open-minded Very smooth in dealing with things Just You Makes me a little worried Because you are kindhearted Could have been blessed with boundless only When the distinction between right and wrong, good and evil You are a little stubborn Fifth Brother You have lived on this deserted island for years. Have a home I also have a wife and children But after returning to Middle-earth You must think about them when something happens. Think twice before you act Do you know Big Brother Thanks for your reminder But you are by my side What else should I worry about? Big Brother Then we'll set off tomorrow Stepfather Wuji After returning to Middle-earth, your last name is no longer Xie Thank you for these three words forever Always keep it in your heart Don't keep it in your mouth Don't let anyone know You used to be called Xie Wuji Start now My name is Zhang Wuji Say it again loudly My name is Zhang Wuji Big Brother Packed up It's time to go Come on Get on board Back to Middle-earth Be careful mother You guys go Take care of yourself Big Brother What are you doing Didn't we agree to go together? Big Brother Didn't we agree to go together? I've thought it through It's the best arrangement for me to stay here Why Why stay? What's so good about this deserted island? My heart is made up You guys go Big Brother I know Are you afraid that after returning to Middle-earth You have too many enemies Involve us Big Brother We are sworn brothers Never give up We share the hardship and happiness At worst, after I go back Let's find a quiet place to escape from the world Can we live in peace if it is different? Yes, big brother The world is so big There is always a place for us I return to Middle-earth A lifetime of seclusion Isn't it better to stay here? Big Brother We are a family Don't come over Big Brother, Godfather Am I committing suicide? Can you leave without worries? Brother, what are you doing? Brother, don't Stepfather If you don't leave I will die in front of you Big Brother Stepfather Don't go If my stepfather wants to die, I won't live either. Stepfather Wuji Don't mess around Go back to Middle-earth with your parents. That is your vast world. There is your own world I won't leave Fifth Brother I won't leave Fifth Sister Raise Wuji well Letting go I won't let go I won't leave Big Brother Big Brother I don't want to go Stepfather Let's go Let's go Stepfather Let's go good Let's go Stepfather I don't want to go good You insist on doing this Then let's say goodbye SuSu Stepfather The mind does not wander No gas leaks God Returns to No Cave Vigorous improvement Stepfather The Ultimate Void Keeping Quiet Stepfather