Dry 3D printing filament can be essential appealing parts. I recently bought myself after a minute of evacuation. I thought that without the need for heating and potentially worked, I investigated different drying methods against a normal food dehydrator and also to see how much moisture they can remove and I also tested how filament behaves in a box Guten Tag everybody, I'm Stefan and welcome This video is sponsored in part by Audible for you at the end. that I want to use for degassing resin and be a great new method to dry my filaments Well, turn's out, it, unfortunately, isn't Usually, we distinguish between surface and if you, for example, get a roll of material garage on a humid day. Moisture condenses non-hygroscopic material. This moisture, if quickly evaporate in normal ambient air and on the other hand is moisture in the material concerned about because to get rid of it, evaporate there. We assist evaporation usually humidity of it. We can only dry until we reach medium and the moist medium, which is the air can remove more moisture than cooler air. The lower the drier and the better it will probably also increase the diffusion speed to the outside of the material. water and might, therefore, help when trying easier for the moisture to get out of the it's totally common that the plastic pellets material is essential to ensure process stability, product. In our 3D printers, we also melt is a factor that can often decide whether that factor because at first glance, common to be affected that much. More technical materials when not properly conditioned and will bubble But also our common materials are affected Moist or just not ideally dry material strings example can lead to severe hydrolysis where polymer chains to break up which causes the store your materials, and what effects have your materials properly? Let us know and leave I also store many of my materials simply on the time. I only store my really hygroscopic desiccant on the inside to keep it dry. Since can cause moisture pickup and degrade the box out of which I can directly print. If check out the video I made it. of these generic single stage vacuum pumps and an acrylic lid. Not the cheapest but definitely, well suitable for degassing resin and some the future. One of the things I just had to to a boil and it's able to do that in around I can get water to boil at room temperature, boil out, without the need to heat it. A food process as well, but not only do they both heat can also damage the filament itself. example, above the glass transition temperature, or as some others have already experienced spooled on to. Even though you might have damage the material and over-dry it. This make the material less brittle, can be damaged can even oxidize. When that happens is hard but the less exposure to heat the materials and if you like my video and learned something, bell! TPU, ASA and ABS filament, ran the vacuum valves and let it sit. I wasn't able to overheat. Though after 15 minutes, the vacuum didn't move anymore. I regularly removed precise scale that I calibrated before each I measured in shorter intervals, later they measurements for 10 days. Looking at the results, a higher amount of moisture from the materials sitting in the chamber with regular evacuation, any significant amount of moisture anymore. Once, just the weight itself, but depending moisture can be siginifant or also not. The in percent and nicely shows when nothing is one to two grams of moisture from every roll, to 0.2%, which isn't a lot. Out of curiosity, PETG. Still, I couldn't really see a significant question if the vacuum was able to remove the materials outside to re-hydrate and also the moisture uptake is again high at first or less constant level after five days. Almost drying seems to be back in the material which dry, you also need to store it properly. heat drying in a food dehydrator that I've This test should give us an indication of and if it can remove more moisture in comparison that ASA was on the bottom and PLA was on a little more because the heat comes out of 65degC for the ASA and around 55degC for the materials but to be high enough to dry them a couple of degrees below the glass transition can usually find that value in the technical because that should be especially critical in my office unprotected for a year now. We that is removed is high and slowly decreases any change any more. In the past, I usually my usual procedure. Still, if you really want materials with your setup, I'd strongly During drying, weight the rolls from time anymore measurable. Comparing the two methods way of drying, but also it removes more moisture one of these generic single stage vacuum pumps, using warm and dry air. Maybe combining vacuum though I wasn't able to try that yet. What couple of materials in the chamber with additional moisture, which also reduces the increase This circumstance probably helped to get a it still wasn't as effective as heat drying. this method for storing demanding materials Next, I wanted to work on the question if outside than on the inside due to the lack winding spools. For this reason, I stored dry-boxes and under vacuum for a week. The might equalize again within the spool. I then time. The interesting thing that I was able up, and some seem to lose a small amount of from the atmosphere within the drying container, in ambient air while weighing. Even though of magnitude lower than what we lost during again removes only a tiny amount of weight in the range of what they gained during storing. amount again. Since this spool was very loosely unequal drying in the first run, but this hygroscopic materials might require more conditioning tiny amounts of moisture, I think we can assume half a day equally removes moisture from the Even just 4 to 6 hours usually does the trick of curiosity, I also threw two rolls of undried those lost quite a significant amount of moisture dehydrator only removed a little more. So in it, which I for example buy by the kilo keep your less demanding filaments in a good desiccant with indicator anymore and rather soon as the level goes above 10% regenerate Since we've seen that the Carbon Fiber reinforced properly, I tossed that roll, together with reinforced Nylon into my kitchen circulation of the dehydrator to find out how much more and in what time-frame. I opened the door air out to improve drying. The results show the elevated temperatures were able to remove and even after almost a whole day, I was still me conclude that if you work with higher technical drying solution and check the weight to see successfully been using food dehydrators for sufficient for some of my more demanding filaments. and times, also don't hesitate to contact So let's quickly summarize the results: is too often overlooked! If you have problems dry! efficient and effective as drying with heat. a little. materials like PLA, PETG and ABS though struggles Weigh your material regularly to determine Storing material with sufficient amounts of dry but even removes some moisture. dessicant is even suitable for highly demanding All of these tests took me several months up and down in my house, turing on and off the data points. Audible, who is today's this always in my pocket to keep me educated to an unbeatable selection of audiobooks, memoirs, and more. I've been listening to which story is set in a dystopian world in an Easter Egg hunt in a virtual reality world of the 80s. After buying myself a virtual that the virtual reality life that the whole not be as far fetched as I thought before. in diving into that world, go and listen to to it totally free by visiting audible.com/cnckitchen to 500 500. Start your free Audible trial audiobook to an unlimited number of exclusive anywhere else. No risk involved, and you can you, at some point, decide to cancel the service. or by texting cnckitchen to 500 500! Thank Thanks for watching everyone, I hope you're than leave a like, share it with the community more. If you want to support my work, head use the affiliate links in the description. have more time than usual and want to educate I hope to see you in the next one!