This is a Cat Translator, and this is just plain weird. my cats Ralph and Bella are gonna and see what it's like to live in the future. a scratching post. Other than being a lot taller than this looks pretty normal at first glance. Yep, The idea is to create a moving sort of like the dot from a laser pen, I'm not gonna lie, I kinda wanna chase it myself. and though he immediately seemed to like it, he was far more interested whilst Bella sat next to Eventually Ralph couldn't resist a before going full-on zoomie-mode. and then this happened. You're supposed to be scratching She soon made her way over, ferociously head-butted it. That's one very happy Bella. she had a little roll around. pre-scented with catnip or something, Finally! aside from just sitting and staring. on the cat's initial reactions, camera to see if they used it overnight, and Ralph creepily staring a lot, So let's see if we can get some a robot camera. It's essentially a tiny remote control really useful for checking on your Bella was unsurprisingly curious, checking it out. she didn't seem to mind it as But with Ralph, even showed it to him that he wouldn't like it, and as predicted he scampered off upstairs. the picture quality is far from amazing, name like a Pokemon. It also kept driving around unprompted, Luckily this next camera isn't for the house, it's a camera bird feeder. hour long bird videos on YouTube, up a notch by creating my own. I mean how spectacular is this footage. plus this giant round pigeon belly. It's hard to say really. the birds for real from the catio, less impressive in comparison. [Ralph meows] Bella was certainly curious, [chirps and chatters] You're very hard to impress today Bella. they've literally jumped up and swiped at the TV, he could find the birds for real. or perhaps this piece of tech But how about we try a different animal, a Remote Control mouse. and the remote is even shaped It caught Bella's attention straight away, when it scuttled towards her paws. and quickly came to investigate, He followed it around a little, exploring closer, and watching from the safety of the stairs. this time deciding that friendship Ah, you've knocked it over bud. So let's try one last toy, It's basically whack-a-mole, move around, and occasionally stop to tease the cat. before comically backing away unimpressed. so she retreated to a safe And then the beast was awakened. The counterattack was short lived, but it gave her a few minutes Now some of these so far have just but not particularly useful, First is an automatic cat feeder, cereal for myself in the Breakfast Train video. then you can either use a or set it to automatically It's great for if you're or can't get home from work It does admittedly terrify Ralph, the food falls he's fine. That said, we no longer use it, These are microchip feeders. and holds both dry and wet food, each programmed to a different cat. it opens and dinner is served. closes again. it's really important since both cats and it stops them from stealing each other's food. Also, I love the idea that Ralph and Bella so probably think they can Now all that eating is thirsty work, a water fountain. and is something of a water connoisseur. how futuristic is that?! the old fountain just needed replacing. Anyway, I set up the motion-sensored feeling like a nature documentarian filming Bella discovered it first, But before long the water and demonstrated exactly how he earnt that name. clips over a 15-minute period, Ok, after all that eating and drinking, a robot litter tray. This is a brand new and therefore but we've been using this When one of the cats has been to the toilet, and shortly afterwards this scooping their business into the end compartment. ready for the next time. it needs to emptied about every two weeks, and both the crystal litter Alright, let's talk about something more fun now, my favourite, This is a mobile app that claims to use Now conveniently Ralph has already [Ralph meows] so let's go back and decipher what he was saying. [Ralph meows] although if I turn the [Ralph purrs] Next this... supposedly means "hello", And finally this... allegedly means, and this is the weirdest one yet, That's a very strange thing for a cat to say. so this is the only one I [Bella meows] I am so glad you are here. However, was my favourite thing in this video, I've made my own, If I hold this near Ralph when he's meowing, I call it: Translator And Language Knower. [Ralph meows] [Ralph meows] Hmmn, So there we go, Probably not, make my life a whole lot easier. Why are you so hairy,