- Ryan. - Wow. - It's good to see you, buddy. - It's been a while. - Do you know how long it's been since we've sat down - Hit me. - Nine years. - That sounds about right. [Laughing] - Is that what you were - - I was gonna say eight and a half. - I'll see you in nine years. It's honestly great to see you, man. This movie's awesome. So I'm gonna be un-ironic with you, I'm gonna be legitimate for a change. - Oh. - I know, it's off-putting, isn't it? - Oh, they didn't tell me that. - It's the new Josh, I've changed. - You should warn people about that. - Sorry. - I'm getting a different Josh. - No. Do you want the old Is that what you want? - Yes. [Laughing] - Is that what you signed up for? - Yeah. - No, no. I'm gonna be sweet at the start. - Oh no, serious Josh? - Serious Josh. - OK. - You have great taste in film. You are selective, but when you choose, you choose well. That's not a backhanded compliment. I could see what you just did there. - Do you want another take on that? - No. [Laughing] - 'Cause you can, you can - It's the closest I come to a compliment. Here's my question. How do you choose? Has it evolved over the years? Are you more or less selective? Is it more or less gut? Like what's changed in how - I have kids now, Josh. I know, like, why I'm doing it now and who I'm doing it for. So that changes things. I mean, before I was doing it for you. - That's where the bad choices were. Now the good choices. - This one's for Horowitz. And then I'd, I'd take a swing. - Without naming names, how many films in the Like, I think you're batting Do you agree or are you self-critical about the stuff you've - There's some bogies. - OK. - You know. - I mean, you can names - I'd rather not. They're obvious. - OK. - You know what they are. - I do. We'll talk off-camera. [Laughing] Take me back to little Ryan. You ready? - OK. - Yeah, little Ryan. - Did your parents let you see R-rated action films? - My first film in a - Wow. Van Damme. - I was too young to see that film. - Need to be like 25 to see 'Bloodsport.' - Yeah, I was young. But it made an impact, you know. - A double impact? - A double impact. - Can you do the splits? Have you practiced your Van Damme splits? - No, but my cousin, who I had a splits machine. - What is that? [Laughing] - I would try it, I but like. - Are you OK again? - It's like a homemade splits machine and it was very Van Damme-inspired, but it was homemade and very scary. And I got stuck in it a few times and then they had to take it away from me. - Wow. So was Van Damme your guy? Like who was, if I had talked to 12-year-old Ryan? You'd be like, - 12-year-old Ryan, take off the headband. [Laughing] - Stop dancing in front of - - The muscles aren't gonna come. - Oh, I see. - Just chill out. - Yeah. - I think, look, [Sylvester] Stallone. Stallone. - Stallone. - Stallone. He's such a good actor. - He is, for sure, yeah. - You know, he's such a good - so you got action, but you've got these at the center of it. - Yeah. It was just like, it was I miss those days. - You know, not to peg you, but like, in films, you've - Mm. - Men of few words. And this character somewhat - Mm. - Most actors want more dialogue. I feel like you want less. - I went to the Marie [Laughing] Some people went Adler. - Yeah. - You know? - Yeah. Yeah. You're economical. - I didn't. I was like, does this line spark joy? [Laughing] If it doesn't, I cut it. - Do you know when a line Like over the years, certain lines of yours - Right. - have resonated. When you say, 'If you are a bird,' are you like, oh wait, this is going in the cannon. I'm gonna be quoted this line back for the next 20 years of my life? - That line I did not It didn't spark joy in me. [Laughing] I said it and somehow, you know, but it did. It did. - Do people ever? - You don't know. You think - Yeah. - If I came up to you and in the wild and I said, - Yeah. - Would you respond or - I would call security. - Yeah. No, I get that. It makes sense. [Laughing] OK. So this film is ginormous, as the Russos do. A usual action movie has - Right. - This has, by their count, nine. - Nine. - Is there a moment that stands out, where you're in the middle of one of these crazy what the hell have I gotten myself into? Or is it all sparking joy, - There's a sequence in Prague that is, you know, pretty epic. And it ends with me, running on top of these - Right. - falling away, as I jump from car to car. And it did sort of sum up - Like this is exciting but. - It did feel like this is - Right. - Has felt like. [Laughing] It's just, you know, barely making it from sequence to sequence. Just barely making it And they saved it 'til - Suspect. - It's the last thing we shot and it did make me think, do they think this might be Is that why this is tucked into the end? - What a tribute though. Yeah. - Does the F-word, and by F-word, I mean franchise, scare you a little bit? Because you really haven't - Right. - Over the years. I mean, when you've been in, a quote-unquote franchise movie, spoiler alert, you often die at the end. - I know. [Laughing] I didn't think that through. I was like, wait a second. - Or is it that getting the You get to be in 'Blade Runner' but you don't have to, like, know you're doing six more You're not tied down. - Yeah. This one is tough because there are nine books, as I think there are. - Right. - And I will be a gray [Laughing] - It's great marketing, actually. [Laughing] Ryan Gosling is the gray - The actual gray man. Yeah. But I really like this character. I always wanted to make an action film. I grew up loving them. They're probably what made me love movies in the first place. But as you know, there's - Yes. - And so finding, the right character and what could you add to it, if anything, was not easy. - Yeah. - Obviously working with the Russos, they've been doing this - Yep. - They're the guys to do it with. They've worked at this You think you love action movies. You don't love them as much as they do. - Right. Right. - But you know, the character was really, I just really liked him. You know, I thought this idea of a spy who doesn't want to be a spy, who'd rather be at home watching Netflix, like the rest of us. - Right. - Who has no romantic notions - Right. - He's pulled outta jail and his options are you can die in jail or you can die as a spy. Either one is a death sentence. - Yep. - So he takes the latter because it's like a way before he dies. - Right. - And so it made it interesting because every time, you know, he's eating dinner and It's like he's on the job but these are his only - Right. - I don't know. I thought that's somebody that I wanted to see what happened next for them. You know? - Yeah. - It's about what they want, these characters. And I think, you know, what he wants - a lot of action heroes want revenge or they want power or they want justice and he just wants freedom. - Right. - So it's easy to root for and it's something that I'd like to see him get. So it was something where I thought, well, I would actually - Part of the fun of getting to see you and Did you guys cross paths in terms of going up for the same roles? Like when he got Captain America, were you outside and waiting Have you guys ever crossed - I was waiting for the - It still could come. - It still could come. [Laughing] - How many superhero - It doesn't matter. - It doesn't. Oh. - I wasn't right for them, you know? But I would, I'd love to do it. I just, what's the one? - Well, the word on the street. - What do your think? - The word on the - I don't know anything about Nova, if that's what you gonna ask me about. You're asking me about Nova? - You make me feel this small sometimes. - Why? - Because you're like, I get it. Yeah, he's gonna talk about Nova. Yeah. - Josh, you're not the first [Laughing] - So you don't know about Nova? - I'm sorry. - Okay. But Captain Canada or bust. - I'm just saying, I don't know anything about the character. Is it - - Got a gold helmet. That's all you need, like a cool helmet. - OK. Right. - Are you a Nova fan? - I can't claim to be a superfan. No. - OK. But you want me to play him. - I didn't say that. I want you to explore. I want you to find your joy. - I do, too. - Since it's been I have some questions I've in the last few years. So let's catch up quickly here. - Here we go. - Where's your MTV Movie Award? What happened? Literally, your hand is shaking. I can see it. - Well I've had a lot of [Laughing] - It's like vibrating. - This is coffee-related. - OK. - This is not. - Mm. Do you know where it is? - Maybe my mom's house. - OK. You love Disneyland as far as I know. What are some go-to tips for doing Disney, having been a Disneyland - When it's hot, you - OK. - It's a great place to cool off. They got pineapple ice cream. - Sold. - I think that's a good tip. - Are you happy that the new 'Avatar' film has abandoned Papyrus as a font? - I am happy to see that although I don't think it's changed - - Enough. Yeah, it's pretty close. - That much. - Donald - - It's still Papyrus-adjacent. - Adjacent. - Donald Glover says Season 3 of 'Atlanta.' True? Are you a fan? - Yes. - Any other show that we 'Euphoria'? 'Is It Cake'? What do you want in on? - I like '90 Day Fiance,' but I don't see how I get into that. [Laughing] - There's always a way. - Yeah. [Laughing] Yeah, I don't see it. - This is a personal one. - Oh. - When someone says, &quot;Hey girl,&quot; to you, do you curse me under - You were the head of - Did you blame me? - Did you secretly make that meme? - No, I didn't. - Because you know, I never said it. But now, when I walk on the street, people just yell, &quot;Hey girl,&quot; at me. - Do you blame me a little bit? Like, 'cause I have felt we haven't talked for many years. And I just want, this is the personal, we're going deep now. - This is deep. [Laughing] - I don't know. Should I? I mean, what do you feel I don't know. - I feel like you had a great or it wasn't even a sketch, it was a conversation many years ago. - Yeah. - And if it lingered I blame myself and I feel badly. - But do you think you or do you - - It was already a big thing. - I feel like this is more about, now I'm getting personal. [Laughing] - It was already a big thing. - I think you have some regret about this. - I only regret that we haven't OK, last thing. You've got this lovely new hair. You're filming this amazing - Thank you. Greta Gerwig. Margot Robbie. - Just talk to me about friends and family receiving this new look. Are they supportive? How are you feeling on set when you're in the costume? Put me in your headspace - It's been cathartic. - Yeah. - Because there's always It's the role I was born to play. - Yeah. - I've had this Ken-ergy, if you will. - Don't. No, that's beneath you. - And the Ken-ergy is, is alive in me now. - You're better than that. - I feel a Ken in you. - Really? - It's buried very deep. - You don't think so? - No. - You'll see. - OK. Next summer. - Wait 'til the film comes out. You'll see. You'll feel seen. - Oh, I can't wait.