[Music] Today we're going to teach our AI how about reinforcement learning it's about this. to the brim with soft things? Like where is the the inflatable Barry? Well the answer to this is are pretty hard. Programming them is anything but engines is the opposite of working with with work with. They are unbending unbreaking and rigid whereas these soft pliable things are always they're supposed to be doing. What I'm trying to go from rigid bodies to soft bodies in one motion call it Shane there isn't really anything special a rigid body, something that's been implemented here has a friend let's call them Natasha. they get too close they will push away from each together which sounds like a toxic relationship of this as a force that is proportional to the This is also known as the Spring Force Formula by applying a force that directly opposes any commonly referred to as dampening. Together, these Damper Model most games just call this a Spring idea and extend it to include a whole family of corners of a cube and give them each three spring This structure already gives us promising the most obvious one being that this structure unless you happen to touch the corners. But this can take this concept even further by creating a to their neighbors. There are still gaps in the when it comes to making games there is Mr quality to keep them both happy. Right now you might be is to it, this is a fully functional soft cube! soon. You didn't really think it was going to be Why did the whole thing just collapse on itself as shearing, but what is shearing? Shearing is is cut off the person who removes th- wait what when two surfaces slide in opposite directions to spring joints don't really care if the structure distance at wants in many configurations. The best Naturally, these new springs will be longer than away from the original shape of the soft body This improved structure already looks incredibly staircase. We can also play with the strength and different characteristics depending on what we we can resize the grid to any dimension we like what happens if you shrink a cube down to Now this is some pretty cool stuff but you may to before these objects look a little... way too excited about Lisa's pearl necklace We need a way to dress these structures up know what a mesh, is it's basically that form triangles that form a solid 3D structure bad at modeling. One way we could use a mesh is but we can do way better than that. Instead to generate the perfect soft body structure but for the sake of simplicity I'm going to use a we will take every unique vertex and promote it to ones as we don't want to create two particles be pretty complicated, and there are cases where Once these particles alive their corresponding mesh's shape with the movement of the particles. and create particles on the inside this is done by each potential spot to see if it's inside it implies 'collision detection with meshes' most experienced programmers. For me, my pain and a game that completely relied on meshed collisions Binary trees are essentially a way of recursively let's take the number 5. 5 is an interesting two and roughly half the size of 11 now let's add that if it's smaller, then we add it to the left a number already has an occupant where we want try again. This simple set of rules causes a tree have to be applied to numbers either, we could Binary trees work as long as you have two mutually or smaller or bigger, or writing a joke yourself we can take a certain triangles plane and test or behind it. Then like before, we can each [Burp] will generate the same tree structure we saw happens to be a bit imbalanced. Some of you may those of you who didn't, when I said a triangle I was lying. What happens if a triangle happens to actually five different outcomes here. Luckily original two again with some special routines for be exactly in line with another, then they can be to the tree since its plane is already being happens to be perfectly on the plane of another, into two. These two sub-triangles can then be binary tree normally. The last case is the most If the triangle happens to be on both sides of then three sub triangles are going to be created. be the exact cause of most of my pain implementing two sub triangles will be on one side one, will figure out which is the case. Alright this deal with these three special cases and reduce the making fully compatible with the binary tree we can simply generate a binary tree for it once original problem of testing if a point is inside the tree and work our way down by testing if the are at. Once we arrive at the end of the branch we the triangle, then we know it's inside the mesh if This test will guarantee that any new particles going to do is connect these particles together. going to go with a proximity based approach. If joint will attach them together. To me, this seems problem. You do have to figure out the right to customize the soft body further so I view that good. We can now take basically any mesh we like this by pre-processing the mesh, or simulating solution for now. To end this video, I'm going The first is the most obvious: squishy objects. or the letter T or even a gummy bear. We could wanted to. Here's another use for soft bodies: kitchens today, and they can be used to simulate a flag blowing in the wind, which if you do make I be honest this is like 99% of the reason game devs can use soft bodies. For example, you could spring joints to create all kinds of effects. You a man there's a one in five chance you've already create a balloon that inflates, or an inflatable one of these things... what are these is the name for these? Because we all know but no one has ever named one apparently. All is air-dancer so there you go. Now, soft bodies just virtual toys. If you would like to play out my brand new merch in the description. I actually made a website where you can send me Have a look, and i'll be sure If you want to learn more about this kind of Brilliant is a great place to learn many of the concepts you'll need to Whether it be the maths, the Brilliant has thousands of lessons that'll Learning from boring video lectures can designed to fix this easing you into topics with the content and keep you engaged. It's important of effort; it's a commitment, and you can make going through Brilliant's short lessons one bite the Creative Coding or Thinking In Code courses coding concepts and allow you to develop your can also try out some Maths. If you want to create Geometry and Calculus will teach you the more detail. Use brilliant.org/b2studios annual premium subscription you'll get