- Series X, six nanometer! Yes! We found it. Well, well, well, what do we have here, other than a brand-new, So, it has been four since Microsoft graced the world with the beautiful Xbox Series X. And today, I believe you've really seen a proper redesign with the brand-new Digital Edition. So thank you very much to Microsoft for sending us an early review So, there's a little bit of when it comes to the Xbox lineup. So at the very top, there is Honestly, it's actually kind of nice to have that kind of extra storage, but this one's expensive. This is going to come in at $600. The thing I think a lot of people are gonna be more excited about, though, is the all-digital Series X. At 450 bucks, it is as the PS5 Slim Digital Edition, right? Why are there two Xboxes? Did they send the Special Edition? Aw. - So we have our Robot White with... (controller clattering) slot for AA batteries because it's 2024 and Behold, my friends, the Oh, it's so much lighter. Whoa, whoa, whoa. Now my assumption is, is that we're gonna find there's because that's what they did with the Xbox One S all-digital. We're four years into the Xbox Series X, and my first impression I got to crack one open and look at it all the way back in 2020 was, &quot;Good Lord, this is an So obviously, no disk drive is gonna help, but I'm curious if there's that will actually be cheaper. Next up, let's unbox the Special Edition. Now this is, as far as I know, I don't know that there's like a specifically like super So, this is the Galaxy Black So, one of the big differences So, you see you've got a little It also has the sort of which I think looks really nice. Ooh. You still have that kinda so it's kind of black and then green. But from the front, it looks nice. Now, I will say since you know something got me, I was like, &quot;Oh, like it And then someone said it looks a little bit And as soon as I heard So, for context, this is The only thing that's really at least on paper, is the fact that this has not but also has a two-terabyte SSD inside. I have a bunch of questions So, first of all, how 'cause the Digital Edition compared to the big guys. So, to start, this is the of the Series X, which comes in at a total of 4.2 kilos. Now, if I swap on our it weighs a whopping... 4.1? I kind of just assumed that these were gonna be mostly the same. That's not a big difference, but that's enough of a difference that maybe there actually on the inside. I guess we need to take a closer look. But, before we move on too far, let's take a look to see what because it certainly And this one weighs 3.6. Obviously, I'm gonna spend but maybe, just maybe, we inside the digital and see what's up. (Austin laughing) Come on. Do you really think that a new console can possibly be released without me wanting to tear What is this, Linus (alarm blaring) Oof, let's start out with the disk drive. We'll just open this a little bit just to kind of see what the with the disk. And then we'll take a and go as far as we need to get And if you deserve answers like I do, then you should subscribe and ring-a-ling the ding-a-ling button. So if there's anything I should be able to peel up this sticker and this one to get access to the screws. Now, it should go without If you do, Mr. Microsoft about your warranty status. Now, I don't think these stickers don't... They don't really go which is probably by design. (Ken laughing) - Are you telling people - This does feel a little bit bad to do this to the Limited Edition version. Well, we'll put it back Why that little dude? Oh. Oh, I scratched, that's okay, just a little scratch, it's fine. I put my finger there Okay, you know what? That's fine. I was being too gentle with it, thank you. Yeah, you scratched the rest of it. And inside, we've got... Oh, my goodness, is that an Xbox Series X? I'll say that this looks You have the same little Easter eggs where you've got your little Master Chief right here on the fan grill. So, for context. This is the inside of And let's take a look to see what's inside the Digital Edition. I'm looking for a couple things. Obviously, I'm just curious about how they have designed which lives right here. But I'm also curious to see that's different on the inside. This is actually the white It has like a totally The other one peeled off no problem. This one's actually crumbling. I think the white sticker's thinner. (Austin laughing) It's just a hole. (Austin and Ken laughing) - It's just a big fat hole. Can you take the disk drive and make the all-digital - Maybe, or let me take a All right, my second Xbox plate, the big difference here is and this is a giant gap where I don't know that you could You would certainly have if you're going to We happen to have already which I think, I mean would Yeah. Now, the question would be more so if they still have the connector. I mean, it really does seem like you're just missing this disk drive. I'm not seeing anything All right, my friends, I'll be right back after I have thoroughly and scientifically dissected this Series X to see if there are any hidden gems inside or whether I'm gonna waste my afternoon looking for literally nothing. So this is the heat sink for the Xbox Series X Digital Edition, which, as far as I could tell, What you might notice is that we have some which you may also notice So, if you compare it with the heat sink from an original launch Series X, this does not use heat it uses a vapor chamber. Now, this is technically a but it's more expensive. It looks like this one actually would even bolt up to it, right? It's got all the same sort of screw holes. One could be so bold as to say that this cooling could be...worse. - [Ken] So dramatic. - I found something, I didn't think there was on the inside. - I'm getting some deja vu, dude. Like, you're gonna do this again, and then all the Xbox boys - I didn't say it's the worst yet. (Austin grunting) Well, oh, yeah, of course. 'Cause there's four screws holding in from the Sorry, I got a little excited. All right, so we have found So this is the daughter board and this is the Digital. So, while they're very similar, you can see that this has for the disk drive. The traces are there, but So even if you could retrofit you have to solder on new connectors. And I bet the firmware wouldn't work, but much more interestingly, if you look at the there are some pretty So for context, this is the motherboard A couple things to note. You've got this little shield, which is there to help kind And if you look on this side, you'll see that this underneath this little metal connector. Well, if you look at the new motherboard, you'll see it's very different. Not only is it a much more but they have redesigned this (tool clanging) motherboard, that was So you're missing the little bracket that went around it as well as the shield, so that's just not on there, as well as there's no The other thing that I'm a is that this is actually just a completely different motherboard. Even though it looks similar, almost every single has been simplified, shrunk Even though most things are in these sort of similar positions, I think it's safe to say But the question is: I just love doing the - [Ken] Oh, stop. Stop. - So in theory- - The stuff that the all-digital with the new chip and would probably be in - From the outside, the Special Edition model does So you can see the heat This looks like changes for 2024 and onward. Gonna carefully pick up the motherboard. Oh, that's so different. Oh. It's smaller. So, this is the original vapor chamber from a launch Series X. And this is the much less from the existing 2024 models. Instead of being copper, it looks like it's aluminum or steel? I'm not entirely sure. I guess I can't be 1,000% sure that there is not a vapor chamber here. Let's go ahead and pull out the scale and see what the weight And this comes in at 1... 804 grams, and then the 2024 cooler That's a huge part of our If you tally that, well, some of the smaller things like the newer Xbox Series X doesn't have this little That's it, my strong suspicion is they have swapped with a more traditional heat pipe cooler, which to be fair, is exactly what you will Let's take a closer look at this chip. Series X, six nanometer! Yes! We found it. So this is, confirmed, of the original Series X SoC. Basically, what this means is that this new Series X I would expect it's probably running at the exact same clock speeds, but it is using slightly less voltage to hit those clock speeds, which in turn means that they were able to save some money not only by having a but what it does enable them to do is to jettison the more in favor of a more traditional heat sink with a bunch of copper heat pipes instead. Now, we gotta confirm are also going to be but I would be shocked if they're not. And one of the things I wanna mention, 'cause I know that people is that when it came to the PS5, I kind of roasted it because what they did was from the original launch and they cut the heat and they called it a day, right, which is objectively a downgrade. But when the 1200 came around, while they also shrunk the heat sink more, when you go down to a smaller chip, that actually makes sense because a smaller chip is is going to need less I'll be right back with or concerning news about the I've tried to spin it the next couple of years God, this is so good. And so, my friends, we have some numbers, but the TL;DR is that the First and foremost, we ran on our digital Xbox Series X, which, of course, has been disassembled. We put it back together and So in addition to this, we also tested the unmodified And on top of that, we also ran a normal So, a completely original launch model that has been untouched. So when it comes to thermals, the exhaust in all three of 39, 40 degrees Celsius. And same thing goes for noise. Now, we were getting which is about 39 decibels in all three, but that's mostly because Putting my ear up to all you can't hear them. But the real difference is in power draw. Starting out with the In idle, we were getting about 61 watts. So that's just sitting on On the Xbox Series X we saw a reduction of about 10 watts. This was running at 51 watts, and the digital almost bizarrely It could just be it won the chip lottery and it has a very efficient Or maybe the fact that or even the fact that we maybe we put more on than I don't fully know. But what I will tell between the two, modified and unmodified, are consistent enough, especially when it comes to the thermals and especially the load when It's close enough that in these kind of numbers are just straight up That's a pretty substantial difference because you think about it, when you are letting and chill out, right? So it's either sitting on the menu, it's downloading updates, you are watching YouTube, The power draw is substantially lower on both of the newer consoles. The bigger difference, or at is going to be when you're We ran &quot;Forza Horizon 5,&quot; the exact same sort of stress test and the same sort of benchmark with the Porsche driving which we saw had the highest power draw. And again, the newer consoles are better. So starting out with, we have the original Series X. That came in about 167 watts on average driving through that section, the digital model came in 156 watts, and the two-terabyte came in at 151. So what you're seeing here is an 11 to 16-watt reduction in power for the same performance. Now, that might not sound but it is roughly in line with when we got the 1200 model of PS5, which is also a six-nanometer chip. So essentially, what you're which means a slightly lower power bill, but importantly, no real downsides for Basically, if you're gonna it is really like this. The brand new Xbox Series X, so whether it be the I'm assuming the future I can't confirm it, but my assumption is if with the newer style of box, it very likely is one of these consoles with a six-nanometer processor. All of these new Xbox Series Xs are using the new and the updated six-nanometer chip. And what you're getting here is essentially the exact same experience in every possible way, except that it is a bit more efficient. So, you're gonna be saving But as far as I can tell, to the admittedly cost savings which is really interesting. I have a bunch of Has the Series S seen any Because to my knowledge, it's But based on this, it's totally possible that Series S has also seen a similar kind of upgrade. But, if you'd like to learn more, definitely be sure to go we go much more in depth on the theory behind Xbox's strategy. And you also should make sure The PS5 Pro is right around and while this has been a really fun look at what Xbox has been cooking up, I have a feeling that the Sony gang have got something even more and we'll be doing all So subscribe, ring-a-ling and I'm going to go enjoy of power usage. - [Ken] It'll be cheaper - You're gonna save, Ken, - That's cheaper Game Pass in boy math.