Oh no... The crew consists of three humans. experience, Skipper. Admiral. Tara Wear, five days sailing Balearic Islands resting in the western from Barcelona Spain to Mallorca and You can't make yourself manifests itself and grips you. That's a forward by your interest. Welcome to See++ the vessel that'll take Greece to Spain actually from Spain to Greece, hopefully to Israel, this is Sea++. The deal was done for $10,000 and we were committed to the her beauty and all of her faults. As you can see, it's not like perfect condition. Egh it's ugh super thick. Just in case. The engine was taken out, disassembled completely. Tiny tiny oil leak, but it runs great. She was a little bit beaten down but the necessity, potential, and the vision were there. Now, it is time for action. Organize your local landscape. Schedule your time. Start taking control of yourself. See if you can stop saying things you know to be lies. Out here killing mold. This is a process of soul-searching. Bathroom time...you have to figure out what it is. What will work for you. Miscellaneous hardware, miscellaneous First time out! We got a ship coming in here. You get one shot at this gig right here. LIFE. So you have to go into the unknown and that's that's God's first command, go into the unknown. Gage doesn't work. We are going to Mallorca! Well, it's excitement at the moment. So yeah we'll see, it's an overnight sail... We're off! Woo! Raise the main. Raise the main sheet. Okay! We're sailing! Sea++ Sea++. Come in.This is Sea++ furling out the head sail. 13 to 15 knots of wind. Go ahead and enjoy! And the most important thing to learn is that we have so much to learn. We all do. And we can learn from school from life. It's a pretty tumultuous sea. Stop the pressings! Captain Matthias the captain of the cruise ship we were on helps settle the stomach, allegedly. In Trying to adjust just the out haul so that we don't get so much weather helm. Oops. We sailed for like four hours with a ugh not fully tensioned luff. So again I guess it's good we got it now. There was Braddock at a big table with a Braddock's and several people I did not know. The sea at night is unlike anything I've array of stars and planetary bodies between. With Mars as our heading, I began the first watch. Then ease the main sheet. What do you see, Cap? Land ho! Oh, where did that come from? Ouch. Some mysterious way we lost 60 according to plan until I gave it too little ding on the bow. *screeching* So we're gonna get hit with a fun because it's our first night on anchor. Make sure there's a couple wraps around the winch. Two head sails were coming unfurled. Our anchor is holding, that would totally blow if it wasn't, but thank the Lord it's totally working. Sailing Vessel Swift. This is Swift, copy. We just pickled the outboard engine. Ouch. Here we go. Here goes nothing. It's chilly. We had it locked onto the dinghy and then the ferry came by and we got hit with a giant wave the engine and so the dinghy went down and then down. You got it? Got it. I didn't cinch it though. Many boaters would certainly agree that one of the most character building situations in recreational boating is it's mount and needs recovery from the deep also known as pickling an engine. We need to go around the island down here to Ibiza which is this island down here and there's a little town of Ibiza. It should goes. Finally filling up with gasoline. Although it is diesel. So we're checking the wind here so we'll be headed right into the wind. We're gonna Goodbye Swift! Sea God's may you look upon us with have a problem. What you cooking down The engine is all wet. Is that where the waters gone? I would guess that was a coolant leak, but that leak is no idea and the engine is like 200 degrees. Oh, was it just this? Might have just been that popped off. That might be the culprit but not positive. It is quite rocky down here. Oh boy, oh Jesus. You feeling sick? Not yet... I think it's fine. Engine's spewing coolant all over the place and that changes all of our plans. Got issues. People call it Murphy's Law anything that can go wrong will go wrong. Don't necessarily believe Why am I using a flashlight? We've got...*turns lights on, laughter* That is not that funny but man... We're still having motor problems. 17:30 we're back at the place we anchored last where we anchored two nights ago. We're walking. I've almost got this thermostat off. Engine block is in the way. This here is a thermostat. The way you test this is you put it in a container of water and boil it. It would functioning. I don't know what the issue should carry us the full way from a beam right there you can see wind behind us pages and we got two jibe preventers. Stay on this point of sail and at this bearing for another six point six nautical miles. In order to get any oil out of a diesel It's working! It's totally working.