Regardless of how many watched Brendan Frazier blast you have no idea what ancient So it might surprise that everyday life in was pretty modern Today, we're exploring was like for ancient Egyptians. Education and medicine were and men and women under the law that in other societies But before we get started, to the Weird History channel. Now, let's go to Egypt. In addition to being the for crop irrigation the Nile River was basically Both the lower and upper in simple skiffs to get from place to place. It was also used to transport to build the pyramids, and to in elaborate But rather than having to and watch for state had to constantly be on guard attacks. The Pharaoh Menes was killed on the Nile, and that a hippo may have maimed leading to his premature death. Insert Hungry Hungry Beer making was first in ancient Egypt. Like my uncle Gilbert, Beer was considered is why both children and wages were paid That said, beer in like the stuff you order by It was more like a with a lower alcohol could have a bowl without getting into a drunken Despite what you ancient Egyptians of advanced medical dentistry, gynecology, Although, maybe that last one Medical procedures were a and religious restricted to the upper class. Health care was apparently including slaves. And hygiene was a big because the Egyptians had with a three inch layer of to your skin was a As a result, they using soap made from salt and and it was commonplace to completely shave off the hair on their heads. The Egyptians also Perfumes brewed and cardamom were may have even created using a mixture of We call that scent breakfast. Despite the undeniable the ancient Egyptians hadn't figured out everything They believed that the mind was and that all thought The heart was also thought to like love, sadness, shared by almost every culture. As for the brain, the didn't think much of it, thrown in the trash during Maybe they thought it The judicial system was split between two courts, Kenbet. The lower Kenbet basically while the Great Kenbet was like robbery and murder. Typically the pharaoh's with ultimate judgment coming But in especially the courts would defer to Or, since the oracles the statues of the oracles. In these cases, and the defense teams would on a slip of paper on opposite sides of the street. Whichever direction the statues was declared the winner, was judged accordingly. That is the most elaborately ever. As we mentioned was a medical field But much like the the ancient Egyptians hadn't yet. They knew that sex but they believed the to the alimentary carries the food from So in order to test whether a clove of garlic was inserted And if the garlic could it meant she was able If the garlic that meant there was some kind and kids were out While garlic is a fine we cannot recommend its Board games were a popular and easily the most popular Senate was played on an with each player sticks to move the pieces. Senate was so popular of Nefertari playing the on ancient temple walls. Archaeologists have yet of anyone playing Hungry Hungry close to home. In modern cultures, male infants But in ancient as more of a rite of and as such, it wasn't There are temple paintings the procedure on boys and in case you were wondering existed in ancient Egypt. History is unclear about of circumcision For instance, most but the procedure was also done slaves. Confusing. Makeup was ubiquitous Men were not afraid to dip catalog to wear some The eye makeup was made into a substance called kohl, lead paint. The makeup used by was high in nitric oxide, and helps fight off disease. So the eyeliner might of protecting the while hopefully balancing thing. Temples in ancient Egypt in that they acted both and as depositories for That meant for each temple was also a granary. Remember earlier when we said That's partially because but mostly because money Coinage didn't appear in which meant grain was the Administrators at each accordingly, to pay everyone's job bringing home about and two jugs of beer. Despite living next to rivers in the world, didn't eat much fish. In fact, they ate very The ancient Egyptian of wheat and barley, which the majority of your population Fruits and vegetables, such as and of course, garlic, And even though it was still occasionally Or if you were rich, you felt like having a steak. If you've ever lived or watched Miami you're familiar with the Linen is specifically because it's a thin, feels cool to the touch, made plenty of it. Linen was made by from the banks of the Nile and could be then woven into cloth. In addition to simply for the desert was also a symbol of and the lighter the color, we're in the social hierarchy In ancient Egypt both sexes as the law was concerned. Women could buy including both slaves also able to file lawsuits Additionally, the practice female indicates baby girls were This seems like the absolute until you consider common in other societies When the Greeks conquered they were surprised to find more independence and civil which we assume some when he tried to give an order. Education was a reserved for the children Students studied a that, more or less, resembled reading and writing, and medicine. The wealthiest kids, such and the sons of nobility, But scholarships did certain exceptional lower It's unclear whether was awarded in beer. Ancient Egypt was surprisingly allowing its citizens to unrecognizable from Would you like to live Let us know in the comments some of these other videos