The Roman legions are impressive for their stop to properly understand their How were they organized? What How large was their logistics train? Today let's explore the True Size Our team spends a lot of time producing video make our work easier today's sponsor filmora video editing app which includes a wide range of more to effortlessly create content in a fast your creativity for instance wondershare filmora speed ramping allows for smooth keyframe editing changing backgrounds easy in a single click and footage with music you can catch these and more filmora 11. Kimura go meanwhile brings this power the many features included are AR camera which some truly awesome effects so why wait right now for PC and filmora go for your mobile phone by The foundation for the Roman legion was the who were drawn from across the general meet certain criteria and pass a series of tests. rural man from a temperate climate who stood oath and undergoing 4 months of training they Whilst in service each soldier would known as the Contubernium. While there is some of 8 legionaries in addition to 1-2 military a millstone, and a standard A-frame that a legionary would spend most of his that the term contubernalis emerged in the When the legion encamped, each Contubernium For instance while the slaves pitched the sent to fetch fodder and firewood for Grinding the grain ration in particular was night. This grain was most often used for bread, for the average legionary's diet that was further wine, and olive oil. When not performing essential the most of their off time. This included When it came time to move, a Contubernium's Each soldier carried roughly 20 kg of arms and bedroll, rations, and personal items. The mill stone, and various other items Yet while the contubernium was self-sustaining military unit that could hold its own in battle. together into a Century for a combined total of 11 tents. In keeping with its battlefield role, The Centurion was the commanding officer, the was third in command and watchman, the Signifer was the trumpeter. These men in turn had their own The officers were critical as the means a part of the Roman legion as a whole. the commanding Centurion and his Optio proved through their use of disciplinary staves, When it came to performing duties the men for roll-call, review, and distributed the watchword and And finally when it came to fiscal management, while the Cornicularius was in charge of the soldier's pay and all of the deductions they that around 2/3rds of a legionary''s yearly salary On the march, a unit would be led by its the Optio and the Tesserarius likely brought In battle the same order appears to have leading from the front-right and his deputies the Signifer and Cornicularius is debated proximity to the Centurion for ease of back for reasons of safety and maintaining As the Romans of the Republic had found, while battle, its strategic uses were limited. Thus Centuries into a large group of men who could battlefield. In total a standard Cohort had 60-120 mules, and around 66 tents. There are some idiosyncrasies of the Cohort First cohort of every legion was made of 5 double Typically these were the veterans of a legion, its for the more junior soldiers of their fellow their Aquilifer to carry the Legionary Eagle into soul of the army, being kept in a dedicated shrine The Augustan reforms standardized the size, the Empire. Therefore it was actually in their entirety outside of major campaigns. sub-group which could be dispatched for might be sent out to reinforce key areas, build This group was largely self-sustaining, archaeological records - which are significantly When the need arose, one or more Cohorts were vexillationes, effectively a legion in miniature. Roman Empire. Often two cohorts would be sent a thousand men, which could effectively The largest and most iconic standard Roman force with a theoretical paper strength of end of our prior figures, these would 1400 slaves, 1400 mules, and around 660 tents. But a Legion had even more elements worth that during the early Principate each which epigraphic evidence suggests Likely these served as scouts and bodyguards at 120 troopers strong, which were likely In a parallel structure to the infantry century, two sub-officers, the Duplicarius and the the Signifer. These riders had 1-2 spare estimated 60 mules and drivers with the cavalrymen Furthermore, legions were assigned an artillery accepted that each century had one small scorpion Cohort was assigned a medium ballista for such as rams and large onagers were added as Crewing, maintaining, and transporting such gear No reliable records exist but we can 4-oxen carts laden with the components while the smaller scorpions were carried Tending to the artillery and all the other Fabri. These were the members of the Engineering have been counted at around 10 specialists, 1 per the work of general laborers. Another critical Once more we have no firm numbers and will with an additional 20 assistants, 10 2-horse And last but not least among the support staff will estimate at around 15 men with 15 these scribes were key to the They maintained the records of the force, to service logs, supply tallies, Beyond this a legion would have had all manner and other items in need of transport. Without have been carried by around 50 additional mules animals. That's almost 1 mule for every 5 men rises even higher when you consider the herds along an army as a ready source of food. We will Commanding this behemoth of a force the Legionary Legate, the Camp Prefect, 6 bearers. These along with the various sub-officers It will now be worth discussing We will begin with the Centurions, of which there But not all were created equal. A strict ranking traditions of the manipular armies from the this resulted in the following Centurion titles: who commanded the first and second centuries the princeps posterior who commanded the third and and the hastatus posterior commanded the 5th of the 1st Cohort were the most senior while It should also be noted that the prestige of the its 5 officers were known as the Primi Ordines, or first spear. This was a highly coveted post, be the crowning achievement of a long career down into fixed positions, the role of the Primus But beyond these career Centurions, most Legates selected from the Senatorial class. II Traiana which was commanded by an equestrian would have 6 Tribunes serving directly beneath been non-professionals drawn from the political angusticlavii or the Narrow Stripe Tribunes could In contrast the singular tribunus laticlavius a young man of the senatorial class who before returning to his political career. tactical command of a legion during wartime Let's now take a moment to step back and various forms. We can begin with a hypothetical Together they cover 25 square Of all the beings within this area 80% are 73% are infantry or cavalry, 4.5% are officers, But this sort of a deployment is quite a-historic. camp, on the march, or in battle. Let's take One of the most typical places to find a Legiononis. These permanent positions had begun to means to begin fortifying the Empire's various walls,and towers they were not intended to Rather their purpose was to serve as the were a place for the legions to muster, gather As such these bases were well from administrative buildings, to barracks, Overall their arrangement was quite regular For our example we assume a fort measuring about square meters or about 55 acres which is Based on our records it was actually quite rare Much of the time, soldiers would have or on all manner of other missions. entire legion be assembled. And, when the This would have been done in a disciplined deployed in the following order: the scouts, the the impedimenta or baggage train, and the get into but this description For this depiction we have modeled our with a maximum of 6 men abreast. This assumption measure around 6 meters across. In this 7,200 men and 1,900 animals stretches out over it would take 23 minutes for a single At a gallop, it would take a rider going the entire length of the column. But this were narrow and progress delayed for any reason, stretching well over 3.8 km, taking 45 minutes to front. It's no wonder an army in such a formation But assuming no attack took place, a legion across the lands. In this way it would When battle was eventually to be joined, While armies of the Republic tended to those of the Empire were far more flexible. deployed would depend on the situation Almost universally however they would troops being deployed to the center, the For this example we have assumed that in a vacuum triplex acies. Here the 2,000 soldiers of Cohorts soldiers of Cohorts 4 through 6 form the second 3 with the cavalry form the third line to defend Zooming in, I will note that most scholars side to side and 2 meters front to back. ranks of 10 men it occupies a space of 16 by 13.5 centuries maintain 2 or 3 meters of separation we are left with a total formation whose frontage To contextualize this, we can state that it would across the front and a rider about half a An archer with an upper bow range of of the legion's frontage. For someone a human sized figure on the other end would implications of all this are certainly relevant to And yet we must also keep in mind that era involved far more than a single legion at least 30. Thus you must take all the figures many times over to even begin to wrap your For now though, I hope that this explanation of the subject and the value of putting such Stay tuned for additional videos our past and let us know what topics You can head on over to our Patreon to and get HD downloads of all our art. We owe a the channel and to our researchers, episode possible. We couldn't have done Be sure to like and subscribe for more content See you in the next one.