CHRIS BRENNAN: Hey, my name is Chris Brennan, Joining me today is astrologer Nick Dagan Best, the first house in astrology and especially an idea of what it means when different planets So hey, Nick. Thanks for joining me. CB: Yeah, this is a big topic. I've been meaning full series a few years ago on the meaning of each that up with a year-long series on the meaning gonna be doing this as the first episode in a new each of the 12 houses in astrology, and we're which is the first house itself. So thanks but it's one that's probably one of the most are so crucial to birth chart interpretation. confounding part of horoscopic astrology, I'd say, was designed by people as opposed to, you know, an observation of nature. So their origin is logic to them, but at the same time, they're to understand them fully. So yeah, they require and contemplation I think for that very reason. bit conceptually about what the first house means of those inherited meanings. But then we're also because it's really when you start looking at individuals and seeing how their life has played really understand what that house is all about. So be empirical by looking at chart examples. And the 12 houses, a two-part series on the houses of The Astrology Podcast where I outlined some the houses. But here I'm gonna focus on different of the Ascendant, or planets sometimes aspecting showing activations of those first house themes. attack for how we're gonna understand the first angles to eventually get a more well-rounded NDB: Right. So let's jump into it. So first things first, of the houses. And the first house is the the body, the character, and the appearance. The house that's associated with Mercury, which we'll starting point. And I wanted to start by talking So astronomically, the first house is the rising of the zodiac that was rising over the eastern the eastern horizon is where the Sun rises and each morning. And in a way, the reborn each day when it rises over that eastern also emerge over the eastern horizon, and they So in the same way that the Sun emerges and is that you were born emerged into the world at that was separate from your mother, basically. And the first house and the rising sign is that notion the thing that was born in that moment when you're and sense of self and other things surrounding the first house and the rising sign. CB: Yeah. So the first house is also associated between the sky and the earth. And so part of is always above the earth in the area that has the first whole sign house is always below the manifestation of the individual. So this division house between the sky and the earth and the coming that the degree of the Ascendant is especially of power in the chart that is one of the most was born at that specific moment in time. And it's moves - it changes every few minutes and moves the Ascendant moves into a new sign of the zodiac. having a birth time, is so important because the rising sign, and then you know that So that sets up the most personal point in the moving the most quickly and changing the most compared to the planets, which take a lot NDB: Yeah. And the Ascendant is very - it's local space. So it really has to do, it ties the born, because you could be born in the exact and your rising sign would be completely a completely different chart and ostensibly be the Ascendant are both points in astrology that think of the Sun being more fundamental. The part because it is so reliant on the local environment to do with who you are because of, you know, to some degree in a broad sense, I would think nature versus nurture element to what makes a just who you are regardless of where you turned nurture. You know, were you loved? Were you not not educated? Any of those things that contribute growth. So that's one way that I think of the do both apply to the self, to the individual. a really good point that it takes into account - but also the location of birth on earth. So it time, but also in terms of place. So taking into what's important about the moment of birth, and Ascendant degree and establishing the rising house in the whole sign house system, which is of 12 houses was originally based on probably So that's what we'll be using for the purpose the exact degrees of the houses as particularly instance within the context of the first house. some of the significations of the first house core meanings of the first house is it represents it's like, when you read that on paper or you hear kind of abstract. But what I mean by that is it that's important is because when you look at the they often refer to different people in your parents. The 7th house can signify relationships. children. The 3rd house is siblings. The first you in the chart. So that's why it's important, oftentimes with the first house, this becomes the eclipses to the first house and the 7th house - native and their sense of self and who they are personal, one-on relationships in their life. And what's important to them and for their sense NDB: Yeah, exactly. Very fine line with that. How would you expand on that? the individual - I mean, it translates not just to of astrology where it's just sort of the essential You know, I mean, it's not just the first house... the central house of the chart, around which the connected to it; it's the fundamental house. NDB: Yeah. And therefore, you know, and the 7th that view of the horizon, the first and the 7th. of, you know, be it a relationship or any kind each other in love, in combat, in discourse, me and the other. Whatever the context is. that aspect of the opposition between the first you know, that everybody probably has as but - you know, they say that babies go through recognizing themself and then recognizing initially, like, the parents, for example, NDB: Right. house also represents things that you control and that's the other area that's really important of self is that there's some things in our life as a result of external circumstances. But there a result of our own personal actions and choices arise from within us. And that becomes a really is the first house really represents that which life as opposed to that which happens in your including people or events or other things like and it sounds very basic, but it allows us to birth chart, such as, you know, does this event the chart - is this gonna come up as a result this something that the native, a circumstance result of their own actions? And being able very powerful in terms of predictive astrology. that was used for the Ascendant is that it's the you know, the ship of life, if you will. So the individual steers their course through life. second. The last thing is that it signifies the environment as opposed to... Actually, I'm we'll come back to that. So -- CB: -- self is one of the fundamental like, astrology, like Paulus Alexandrinus in the 4th the basis and foundation of the chart because You have to establish the rising sign established in terms of the other houses. other core meanings of the first house is that and physical vitality of the native or the owner that moment in time. So part of this is that under the earth, which is associated with And above the Ascendant is associated with the so that the Ascendant and the first house are the spirit and the body come together and form being who is born at that specific moment in time character things that are associated with us. So things that happen to the body are indicated by the first house can indicate health issues body and the physical constitution. Whereas indicate healthiness or having good health or part of the distinction that we'll get into in like, is there a positive placement with respect to that signification? If there's something challenging with respect to that. constitution is a major thing. And one of the signification, our third signification of is that the first house has to do with a person's manifestation of the body. Like, how your body So especially if there's something distinctive often show up in the first house or will show up indiciates with this can indicate that there's a person's physical appearance. Like people that beautiful for some reason or physically attractive indications can indicate things like scars, somehow affect the appearance or that the native either their appearance or their physical body. said, that merging of body and spirit - how one mean, that's where those two points merge. You're aware of its place in this greater space and of if you're very attractive, they respond in one in ways that you would expect. So yeah. It's where sort of parts of living experience merge and meet. that impacts people. Like, sometimes for in some instances - let's say a person is as beautiful. Sometimes that means that people NDB: Yeah. good way. It can give them certain advantages might not come about for others. Whereas sometimes as well. Similarly, like, if there's some sort of that causes challenges for the person in their NDB: Yeah, exactly. It gives us an idea of You know, let's say someone is born particularly commenting on that, and the person grows up their physical appearance. And it shapes, again - the Sun being these two factors of an individual. connected to that physical appearance; it's who that particular body. Whereas the Ascendant has body and how they feel about it and how people their ability to maneuver in the world. Right? I it's the steering wheel of the ship of life. anything and nobody gets in its way, or are people the way of life that have to do with whatever the CB: Yeah. comes back to that nature/nurture thing. of this guy that went viral, and his whole Tik and how that impacts his life. So to like, kind of that's the other side of the spectrum. And you distinctive about them that makes them stand out chart and often indicated in the first house. so you may not have planets there, so that may a major distinctive feature in your life. But attention to when planets are in the first house Alright -- CB: So the body, the appearance. The other thing that in the scheme of planetary joys, where each assigned to one of the houses, basically. Here's In the planetary joys scheme, the first house is is said to have its joy there. And this is because straddles the line between two things, and if things, then it's like, it has a bit of both house, because like I said, because the Ascendant anything below the Ascendant is under the earth, So in whole sign houses, the first house then part is above the earth in the realm of the sky, and the earth. So the realm below the earth is like, body. But the realm in the sky is associated the first house is also associated with the their life breath, and in some ways the animating is probably part of the source of the notion of being important and potentially being connected breath of life was seen as like, animating So we have to think about this as the area where spirit unites with the body. So as a result of incarnation of the native, but it also has to the first house has to do with the native's associated with the character. Go ahead. thing about Mercury rejoicing in the first that so there's almost something Darwinian or the first house, because it's the ability it's having the steering wheel of your or it can become a helicopter if it needs to or a there's more room to move with Mercury in the that, you know, would be an obstacle for others, or you can sort of, yeah, twist things around, another element to that that really works. character and the way that that can mold and that arise both from within us as well as external the character of the native is a core their mind and body form a unique unit NDB: Yeah. It's manifest. Like, it's almost that would be you even if you didn't have you know, is where it's manifest, is where the is brought to life in an actual body. in terms of character traits, the rising sign, the at the moment of birth, has a major impact on the planet that rules the Ascendant or the degree of the Ascendant, especially close influencing character traits that are gonna be All right so that leads me to my next in ancient astrology, as Nick already referred to the helm, which is like, the steering wheel of house is kind of like the driver's seat of a car. the entire birth chart in some sense. The first result of that, planets in the first house kind for better or worse. So one of the questions is your ship, are they steering the car well, or are there can be different types of drivers, or maybe they're better or worse at driving or in terms of driving in some ways and making it be otherwise. Like, let's say you're trying and you need to wear glasses in order to like, So planets in the first really help to steer the first house - because it's called the life direction. And especially the ruler the rising sign will steer a course towards a for some reason in terms of the native's life. So is the ruler of the Ascendant placed in, and with that house are going to be much more overall life direction and focus than other aside. So as a result of that, the ruler of the life focus to some extent, where their attention be directed towards at certain points. to choices, which is another way of talking wheel. If you're driving your vehicle, your body, to this or that school? Do I wanna date this or we steer our ship through life as we make a series Door B, or Door C, whatever the case may be. NDB: That's where these - I was different analogies merge, yeah. Sorry, go ahead. from within you as well, because sometimes it's one person who sort of like, grew up interested in foreign country, and that was just something that fascination with foreign cultures, and they had sometimes it's just like, that thing that arises inherent traits that either you're born with or cause you to put your attention more towards of the ruler of the Ascendant and its power your overall life direction since it's sort of NDB: Exactly. of that. You know, I did a more extended take earlier this year that people can check out, the Ascendant too much because I wanted to deal the first house. So we'll go into some examples So the very last thing in terms of this initial and I've already stated this one but I just wanna first house has to do with is that which arises your life and things that arise from you in times inadvertently. So you know, we've talked gave - that would be something that in some ways striving towards a specific topic so that they as a result of a desire to. But sometimes those inadvertently. Like, so we talked about physical but they don't necessarily have control over. it's still something that's coming from them life. And any time you have a distinction like NDB: Yeah. Exactly. about just based on who you are and also it's character traits. Like, how do you approach the of your character is one of the questions Yeah. So I think that's it for like, just and a lot of that sounds like, very abstract. about especially planets in the first and then it will start to become more clear what means in very concrete terms in terms of how it preliminary things, or is that good? CB: All right. Awesome. we're gonna talk about especially planets located really important because this sets up a signature a person has a planet in the first house. And get activated repeatedly at different points in one of the reasons why we look at placements only are they sometimes gonna indicate inborn certain periods in the life when certain transits there'll be certain circumstances that will different ways, either due to internal things around it and causing that to become awakened. to this is that major themes in a person's life we're gonna be looking at planets in the first that arise in a person's life. But there are often the same or similar or overlapping themes. So even this thing in the person's life arose as a result in some of the most distinctive examples, there's or give you additional information about why just wanted to make that distinction clear as we there's like, other stuff going on as well. in this kind of exercise, because you know, of factors contributing to a unique outcome. So about one feature of a horoscope that you can isolation of that one factor, whereas of course contributes to a given, you know, astrological unique individual that it does. NDB: Yeah. the Moon in the first house placements and let's house. One of the ones I wanted to started with just going through our chart files was the theme the Moon in the first house, and how sometimes a distinctive, not just almost like physical trait but also sometimes it becomes tied in with So the first one that we found for this actually his chart up. CB: Why - you wanna introduce this one? of mine when I was a young teenager. I mean, certainly memory is a huge factor in which is an account of a sort of a long United States in the early 1950s about his circle of friends and what they were up to. astrology has these like, significations NDB: Yeah. Ascendant is at 15 degrees of Virgo and the Moon and he was actually born just a day before a NDB: Yeah. So it's a very powerful Moon. And he would hitchhike across the country. he has a sort of romantic notion about it, but he here and there. Works as a brakeman on railroads. fields of food or something. You know, a very sort as he roams the country and makes observations he wrote On the Road. The other thing about him consciousness style. The original draft of On the you know, the kind of thing that they use for this wouldn't mean very much; you could open up a longer than the original On the Road. But in the quite a feat. You know, he basically fit this just wrote this very long stream of consciousness was more sort of edited and pared down, although been released. I actually just read it not long of lunar thing. It's not just memory, or maybe is part of what allowed him to channel his yeah, uninterrupted and unfiltered and raw and looking for a kind of truth that's almost sort of it's like he was - or around the country, rather, really exist or only existed in his imagination. because a lot of his work has to do with memory, know, we have that idea of when we're recalling reflecting on our past experiences and having because the Moon itself doesn't generate light; receiving an impression, and in the same impressions that we receive that leave an imprint physical experiences, but it can also be memories. in some ways like, we associate with the mind a physical trait where there's some people that they can just retain and remember like, everything their memory might be more fuzzy. So -- CB: -- Kerouac was one who memory and the work, and his writing often delves into personal capturing the essence of specific moments and also memories into vivid and evocative prose, often because that subjective element was a little bit the central figures of the Beat generation, NDB: Yeah, exactly. And interestingly, like, On the Road was published in September of 1957 its ingress to Virgo. I tend to think of On the in Virgo and everything that would follow. the artists that followed in the '60s. In fact, or 13 was because I read that Jim Morrison loved if Jim Morrison liked him, then I should read fact that On the Road is published when it is - it second novel. He had published one a few years Yeah, it channels the zeitgeist. It touches in America at the time. And yeah, I think it's into Virgo and everything that followed. Even you know, what would follow in the '60s. just there's also a theme of like, nostalgia and sort of a sense of nostalgia and a longing for his friendships, past loves, exploring the of time. So we'll see -- CB: -- a little bit of that again NDB: The other thing I was gonna say is it to me - Kerouac spent the last few years of his basically like, roommates and friends. He had an so his work is very much haunted by the ghost of part of his close connection to his mother. tell this as a little aside -- NDB: Oh, okay. Alright. NDB: It's very -- NDB: Yeah, yeah. It's hugely relevant. Kerouac's four years old. Years later, his friend and helped him get On the Road published - that Kerouac's brother Gerard had died in June connection between his dead brother and then this you know, a known writer, a celebrated writer. this is relevant, but in ancient astrology they associated the first house with siblings. house with siblings more, but some of the early house with siblings probably because of Mercury but just gonna mention that in passing. And a lot of other -- CB: -- examples to go through. CB: All right. So next example is Garry Kasparov. Sagittarius with the Moon conjunct the Ascendant chess champion with the ruler of the Ascendant in like, the world master at what is essentially that game in the world for a point of time. And ruler of the Ascendant placement and how the ruler a specific topic or a specific area in life that for you in some way. So for him, it became part But for him, one of the things that's cool is memory, particularly in the context of chess and strategies is considered to be legendary within example of how memory can become really core and ways, it's like, an inborn bodily trait. But then choices and volition also tried to cultivate that himself by studying the games of like, lots of NDB: Yeah. I mean, it's a Garry Kasparov is the chess player, of they had to find an adversary who was his so it's some indication of yeah, he's that good. it's like, it's ruling the 8th house in his chart that other people had played in order to learn context with the Moon ruling the 8th house. Sagittarius rising and the Moon in Sagittarius the Ascendant is Jupiter in the 8th house of other American investor. He's one of the most famous that's distinctive about him is that he also is particularly when it comes to numbers and to recall financial figures like company revenues, past. So he attributes this to his extensive but I think there's also another indication here like, this inborn trait that he has that he NDB: Yeah. I don't know as much about Warren him is that he's supposed to have that, ability to track where everything's been CB: Yeah. what's allowed him to stand out from the crowd. of Moon in the first house, and then we'll a famous actor, who is especially known for his and he in that film went through like, a radical to achieve this emaciated look in order to Holocaust. So this notion of like, going through the first house, and we'll see that a lot. In his and his weight can kind of like, wax and wane and like, another role for Predators, for example, interesting seeing the ability to have that NDB: Yeah. And I think there's also something sort of... I mean, obviously, any good actor can actors - but he's got a kind of a special pathos and the way he can convey sadness is, you of sad faces of cinema. So yeah, I think of him and what have you. It's a very special look. And he also like, uses his body expressively gestures and movements to convey his character's part of it as well. Like, the physicality depth and nuance to his acting. CB: So that's one. My last example of a first know who is a healer who has Cancer rising and ayurvedic medicine clinic, as well as an ashram. as a doctor, but then at one point decided to seek methods using ancient Indian medicine, which is and takes care of people at the place that she focuses not just on medicine, but also things and your overall diet and things like that as thought that was a really good example of just especially when it's in its own domicile in Cancer that you get a lot of those themes. CB: So I also have the Moon in the first house in off as a little distant. But I also sometimes to take care of people that I know or take care recognize that as part of, you know, my own kind of like, a personal that's deeply affected that way because I also have Saturn square the And then also with the Moon in the first house, Jack Kerouac, you talked about his mother being prominent in my life since I was raised by, like, some of the basic significations of the planet basic significations are, if that planet's those significations manifest in striking literal we're gonna be demonstrating repeatedly as we NDB: Yeah. the first house. So this is one I struggled with made sense, but some of the themes that we found people who are not changed by their environment. was like, people who are what they are. You NDB: Yeah. of the things that the Sun does, is the Sun just we learned especially in the zodiac series about people who just radiate whatever their light are who they are. So we saw -- placement. I am who I am, yeah. And you have the Sun in the first house, right? and I am what I am. Yeah, absolutely. And yeah, astrology, it made it more complicated to have the had to find different ways to learn what the particular chart. But aside from that, I certainly examples we're gonna be talking about today of I recognize the same theme that I see in myself, environment. You know, you are who you are, and put in an entirely different sort of setting. ties back, actually - there's a theme in the last when the Moon is in the first, becomes - the body in the person's life and directing their life than in other lives. I've had that with the the body is more sensitive to things. So for like, medicines or drugs or other things or have more recently dealt with health issues more, house in my chart. So it's sort of like, importing being even more important in the first house and though, it's people whose personality drives where their spirit and what they radiate from that direct their life in different ways so that NDB: Right. Now I mean, this is the minute ago about how Mercury in the first house house is really sort of the reverse of that. a square peg in a round hole if that's how, you is some people have both the Sun and Mercury and so you know, there can be some weird sort principles. But yeah, the Sun on its own in the counterweight to Mercury in the first house. you know, whether it's in the right place or not. in the chart examples were like, leaders, people want to be or are unique in some way. People for the uniqueness of their personality like, lead or become central in some ways. Like people center through which other things revolve in the So some of the ones that I saw as I was there were leading filmmakers like George trend for... We'll come back to George Lucas first house. But George Lucas sort of setting Star Wars and special effects and things like leading actors, like Val Kilmer was one with the the first house Sun in Sagittarius conjunct like Dave Chappelle is somebody with the Sun in There's leading musicians, like Dave Grohl, Doja the Sun conjunct the Ascendant. examples here that we gotta talk about. Elon Musk for example has the Sun in the first of just like, people that stand out fields in some way or people that stand out NDB: Yeah. there's anything else you wanna saw about those. charts? Or did you just -- NDB: Okay. I thought we were, but all right, say then if we're not looking at their charts Miles Davis - people who started off being sort of but sort of outlived them and in some ways sort careers that are far longer and more successful of course, started off in Nirvana as Kurt he started his own band and he's been going had a career of just a few years. And Miles Davis also, you know, as important to jazz you might say sort of similar story - he played with Charlie on to have a career of some four or five decades, successful jazz musician ever. So yeah, there's that you sort of, you outshine, you outlive, playing for these other really outstanding musical But the light shines so brightly that they're you know, brought them their first success. around eight degrees of Gemini and the Sun around over the eastern horizon. And maybe then that because the Sun is just like, emerging - point. So maybe part of the symbolism of the of like, starting out with humble origins NDB: Right. but then eventually as life progresses, like, your own central authority that stands out or NDB: Yeah. And it's funny about Miles, because you we've been talking about like, I mean, typically saying like, this is someone who isn't a but on his own terms. And it was always him. Like, career that spanned that many decades, he always and he always had - his trumpet always sounded the him that was updated. So it's an interesting sort he was so much adaptable. It's just that he sort himself, he sort of changed music four or five CB: Yeah. CB: Well, I mean, it's Gemini, which is a adaptability in that inherently -- CB: As opposed to like, let's it is more a little bit less adaptability. he made that in some ways, you know, you could became say, like, for instance, dance music, of it, but he really sort of - he changed things all the music that you hear today in some way CB: Yeah. He was constantly pushing the boundaries his career. Like, some of the different styles jazz fusion, and funk - so he definitely wasn't which I think has a lot to do with the rising occasionally as we go through things that the really imports a lot of its own significations a lot of his adaptability, his willingness is a large part of that. And yeah, with the his own right, whatever new style he was trying. that's the thing. You know, he might have a piano in the '50s, but his trumpet always something fundamentally unchangeable CB: Definitely. CB: All right. Cool. Well, I think that's good and then we'll transition -- CB: -- into the other planets. wanna go into more depth with some of the concepts out my Hellenistic astrology course, which is an perfect for beginning and intermediate students through intermediate and advanced techniques for of video lectures, where I go into much greater go through different concepts like the 12 houses the ruler of different houses in other So there's also a monthly webinar where I read how the concepts work in practice. You can find All right, we're back from break. Let's the first house. So one of the things that was for this is there was a string of unique especially ones conjunct the Ascendant closely some ways. So one of the first ones we started who was born with Cancer rising. He has 19 degrees conjunct the degree of the Ascendant at 18 in the first house at 26 degrees of Cancer. So and Mercury in the first house, and both of in terms of the Mercury placement, the main accent. So he -- CB: Austrian, not Australia. That NDB: G'day, mate! NDB: I'll be back, ay. he was a bodybuilder from Austria, and then and then he got into acting. And he had didn't speak at all, like, in Conan he didn't -- CB: He didn't really have any speaking - and but then he had eventually like, because he saw in a documentary not long ago that he could get rid of the accent, but then he ended up because his Austrian accent started becoming American film and media and everything else. I mean, talk about adaptability! Because yeah, he played Conan. And then he's the Terminator, a really big name. I mean, if he had only forgotten commodity within a few years. But he says a few - he says, "I'll be back." You know? catch line. Like, literally -- CB: -- everyone, that there was like, from an iconic sentence that just becomes NDB: Yeah, exactly, even though he, you know, CB: Right. you know, he couldn't just keep playing the movies like Predator or, you know, all the other And he had this seemingly awkward Austrian accent wisdom at the time would have been well, that's a American GI if you've got this seemingly clumsy it didn't matter. He was just, you know, he had accent, you know, might have been a liability for him. So yeah, whether he would have had it in his it's more - we think of it more even than the he first came on the scene, it was the body, the CB: The Venus. it was why he was hired to star in the movies okay, he still had the body, you know, largely. him. So it's, yeah, it really is something. for later, but maybe we might as well just NDB: Sure. is that Venus. And you know, his initial thing this physique that I don't know how to describe body is very symmetrical when he like, worked on bodybuilding competitions like, early in his kept winning like, over and over again. And -- CB: Yeah. And I think that's so interesting as a first house having to do with the body and that his early success in life was having a physical so some of it was like, outside of his But then also that he put an incredible developing his body further and then sort of or having success in his life that resulted it in different ways. And then later, of course, Venus in the first in associating the first you have positive placements in the first house, as attractive or physically appealing in like, charismatic leading man, that also to become a leading man in Hollywood. how having more than one planet in the play in how the individual turns out. that's our first example. So other examples always been one of my favorite examples, NDB: Darth Vader, man. Yeah. generation Mufasa. So another -- CB: -- iconic voice, but for him, he has Saturn, and the Sun in the first house. So is actually stationary in his chart. And this is so that Saturn placement in the first house is element of there's some challenging things that because it's a Saturn-Mercury conjunction, communication in some way. So he actually had NDB: Right, right. Yeah, I've heard that. I've not an uncommon story that someone has like, a of that nature, and they take, you know, courses them into acting. NDB: I've heard that story a few times, yeah. a child, and the stutter was so debilitating that years of his life, only speaking to his family and silence with the help of a high school teacher So this practice of speaking out loud, even with a and eventually overcome his speech impediment he did some of the most iconic voice acting all time. First he was the voice - he wasn't NDB: Right. NDB: David Prowse, yeah, who CB: Right. But then James Earl Jones Vader had this like, deep kind of powerful NDB: What a voice! NDB: Yeah, I mean, it's deep, bassy resonance background with the breathing, but I mean, more sort of identifiable and iconic than Darth and it might be literally the only voice top Arnold Schwarzenegger in terms of that so memorable. Yeah. Darth Vader's terrifying. the voice of Mufasa, who was like, the father lion in the 1990s, which was one of the most successful and he gave the voice. And again, this was more a positive character instead of like, a he had this like, deep, rich voice that was just we have Mercury and Saturn, and so we can see how obstacles and some difficulties in terms of his born with a stutter that was hampering his ability struggles but eventually was able to overcome source of strength and a source of power. you can see him in his younger years, he he's all over the place. He's a fine, fine actor. think of him in Field of Dreams; that was my But for the audio listeners, his Ascendant is at six degrees of Capricorn. So his Mercury is like, I meant to mention that any planet in the rising and is gonna lend some of its significations significations of the first house. But planets degrees of the actual Ascendant will be even more person's life. CB: All right. So that was another one. And then NDB: Yeah, there you go. Mercury conjunct the Ascendant at 23 Sagittarius Sag, but his Mercury interestingly at 23 Sag is house and squaring Saturn at 18 degrees of Virgo his Mercury, and it's also partially in the that he is a musician and a singer who's raspy singing voice that's super distinctive. I remember back in the '80s, I think it was used a Tom Waits sound-alike for one of their voice is so unique and identifiable that he was an imitator was imitating him specifically. really do have a distinctive voice. And he's an he's got the Sun and Mercury in the first he's very much also a Sun in the first house guy him. You know, like, he's - you're not gonna be of authentic to who he is. You know, he's got a to Jack Keruoac, I sort of, I don't want - what's sort of a vagrant persona as a performing you know, like, some sleazy bar down the alley there's supposed to be something underworld about you know, a tuxedo and have him performing at CB: Sure. that across. But that's a real sort of Sun in CB: Yeah. which is just yeah, a very distinctive voice. that Heath Ledger later, for his Waits's voice, and there's some videos you can -- CB: Yeah. So if anybody watches - what was directed? The like, iconic one? CB: The Dark Knight. Yeah. The Dark Knight. CB: Heath Ledger's Joker has this and there's some comparisons you can watch -- sing-song quality to it. Yeah. NDB: And Tom Waits is actually - he's acted in great Jim Jarmusch movie. He's good at acting CB: Okay. CB: Yeah. CB: So anyways, so that was another one. And smoking and drinking so it actually NDB: Right. NDB: Exactly. Mercury in the first house ones that are like, but we don't have to keep on that. There's I have like, keywords for some of them. Johnny in Scorpio on the Ascendant. He was the talk show a radio personality with his voice, but The Tonight Show basically. CB: Other Mercury conjunct Ascendant people - in Gemini with Mars and the Sun rising there ones - Donald Glover, who has Virgo rising and talented in like, many different areas. He's as well as an actor. And I like his because it Gemini rising - with mutable signs, especially do, you know, can be good at lots of different great versatility. CB: Others are Steve Wozniak, who has Virgo rising house, and he was the tech whiz. So he was one of and Steve Wozniak programmed and the first personal computers. CB: So with Virgo, you get this NDB: Yeah. Chuck Berry, who is Scorpio rising with Mercury and songwriter who pioneered rock'n'roll. songwriting - I mean, he's a great storyteller. When you think that he was writing pop songs for but very economic. Like, it's funny that it's verbose or really elaborate, but just telling Listen to the song that he has in Pulp Fiction and it's so well told and everything rhymes, CB: And then the last one I had was Jimi in Sagittarius, and he was like, the guitarist. he's got those three planets there, so you do have the first house, but also he is who he is with the he's, you know, he's an African-American guy from he just like, literally he's discovered in some He's brought to England and becomes a rockstar Like, even though you drop him off in a different stuff, and within weeks, he runs the place. that are ruling England at the time, be it Eric he moves to England in 1966 and he just, you you know, being who he is. And certainly, incredibly appealing. I mean, you know, one of the and just a phenomenal musician, a great writer CB: Totally. All right. So we'll come back to but we'll see other examples combined with other expression of some Mercury significations that NDB: Yeah. about Venus in the first house. So one of the think of for Venus in the first house is Angelina conjunct the degree of the Ascendant in Cancer. those listening to the audio version, we see see Venus right on top of the Ascendant at 28 first house can represent the physical body and traits or inborn traits that arise from you. And she would frequently appear on lists of like, the world or, you know, sexiest people in the things like that, and was just widely regarded whatever that was exactly that, you know, people at the time. Like, that was it at the time. in French. Jolie. So it's even -- NDB: It's even there in the name. hers, though, is that it's not just Venus. Like, cite her Venus right on the Ascendant because it's in the 2000s just like, remembers that period people in Hollywood. But she also has Saturn also expect there to be some challenges when it of the native. And for her, that manifested in announced her decision to undergo a preventative a gene mutation which significantly increased her her mother had actually died of ovarian cancer at died of cancer. So she was very much like, children after genetic testing revealed that she So her decision to go public with her experience and sparked a global conversation about genetic were inspired by her bravery and her openness, preventative surgeries themselves after hearing known as the Angelina Jolie effect. CB: So I wanted to mention that, because you know, oftentimes, you know, sometimes they impact you know, James Earl Jones - Mercury-Saturn was having shorter or more concise songs -- CB: So it's like, Saturn was limiting or But sometimes what happens is you also can have person's life somewhat independently. So in her at that point, and -- CB: -- she was, you know, going through that. things. Like, it's almost too literal to, you know, be believed. parts is associated with the breast and the chest? that her father, Jon Voight, also was born sometimes see - this is, you know, an aside, family heritage, that parent and children so that's something there as well. that she was like, she was thinking of cancer as well as her grandmother so that, you there may have been some thoughts of like, the and in that instance like, the inheritance to this that was influencing, you know, part So you know, sometimes we're gonna be but oftentimes there's a whole set of factors that are really the reason why the specific get into all those details. CB: Yeah. All right. So that was one. Venus in the first house is the actor Paul exactly conjunct the degree of the Ascendant There we go. So he had 13 degrees of Capricorn conjunct the Ascendant within a degree. And as Jolie was in the 2000s Paul Newman was in, what, Hollywood who was just regarded as being really striking blue eyes were often commented NDB: Yeah, he was, you know, a serious actor, taken seriously. He wasn't simply regarded as a appeal in a huge, huge way, and he's absolutely '60s, and I would even say '70s because even as CB: Yeah. movies were in the '70s, so. NDB: Yeah, he did get better with age in a way. come to Jupiter, and he's a good example of you know, famously handsome kind of like, Ascendant are people like Ben Affleck, Cameron and Venus in Gemini. Arnold Schwarzenegger, and so on and so forth. So that's one aspect of you know, that element of thing in terms of a way as being particularly beautiful. CB: Other examples of Venus in the first house - of Star Wars. George Lucas has Taurus rising with first house. So his is interesting because one of his focus on visuals as a director, and especially Star Wars, George Lucas founded his own digital pioneering and really paving the way for digital especially the Star Wars ones and setting a new artistically in terms of big Hollywood movies. Wars series, but his effects house, for instance, Jurassic Park. I mean, you mentioned digital part of his special effects house was doing stop Harryhausen type of filmmaking. But then he had filmmaking and it was in the making of Jurassic done using stop action animation that they wound it was that very moment where everything took he started just so he could make Star Wars. sometimes Venus in the first can have good orientation in terms of the person and in different ways, so -- CB: Yeah, so that's one of the ones that comes out ability to create things that are Venusian and it just being some trait, you know, of the body. very strong square from the Moon in the 10th, and sort of fact that his Venus is emphasized more in not trying to disparage George Lucas, but he's that's not the way that Venus works. But that the Venus is all sort of, it's coming out out of his imagination; it's something CB: Yeah, well, that's a good point because he watched so many films and television shows did later on was remixing and reimagining NDB: Yeah, Akira Kurosawa CB: Yeah. So alright, and then the last thing and he's not just a director but also like, Wars movies. So you get that element as well. house, and yet again, you know, he made Star Wars Wars in England, like, he's very much the stubborn you know, with a British crew, rather. Like, you know, they're heavily unionized and so they difficult to adapt to that. He was very much you know, we do things the way I wanna do them. working with on that movie because of that. he eventually became just this central leading and everything else for many decades. CB: All right, so that's good for Venus. I one which is like, Judith Butler, actually, house. And Mars, the ruler of the Ascendant, is philosophy. So this one was interesting but Judith Butler is an American philosopher influential of fields of feminist theory, queer of the things they're known for is they're best outlined in their groundbreaking book Gender that gender is not an inherent or fixed identity, through repeated acts and behaviors over time. of gender and sexuality and has been highly So I wanted to mention that because with Venus more prominent is issues related to Venus. So things related to women; like, Venus is said to a general significator, so sometimes women or the life if Venus is prominent in some way, such that with the ruler of the Ascendant in the 9th philosophizing and like, thinking about ethics NDB: Sure. And the Venus is in Aries, too, flipping things. You know, taking a conventional have been conventional wisdom and flipping it presenting a new sort of position. NDB: With regard to Venus. You know, it's you know, "Diamonds are a Girl's Best you know, what is this? What are you trying it's a very distinct Venus when it's in Aries. Butler used to go by she/her pronouns but so I meant to correct that -- CB: -- that should be they/them, and I forgot and again that ties in how there's often in the first house and what the ruler there's this important interchange between them. other example, but I'll save it. Why don't we NDB: Yeah. tricky because the first house has to do with the you have Mars in the first house, it can relate also relate to the physical body and vitality. has to do with things like war and violence and when you import Mars-related significations or accidents or cuts or other things related to accidents. One of the traditional things about the native has like, a scar or scars. But having some sort of cut or injury at some point. do we have for examples of that again? front of me, but I can put it up. here it is. So -- CB: Ernest Hemingway is one, because house in a day chart, and during the a series of different accidents and injuries the body. So here's his chart with let's say degrees of Virgo in a day chart. And so injuries during the course of his life, right? just in the last 10 years of his life. And then, he was badly injured in, and that wasn't even Earlier in his life, he had fallen through a he was prone to getting sort of, you know, bashed in the last decade of his life, which considering of cite that as something that contributed. that were external, but part of it was also a risk-taking personality, which is also something a person can be, you know, more adventurous. But that put themself in the potential harm's way more NDB: Yeah. I don't think the term "macho" was he was macho. Like, it was like, the man's man's prize fishing and all this stuff. So yeah, and you risky business. So yeah, he was into that, you CB: Got it. about Venus and women, then Mars has that sort of, Mars is gonna play into all of that stuff. NDB: Yeah. He was Mister Man of the 20th he's the first guy you think of from that century CB: Got it. Yeah. And that can manifest in like, what the term is for that, but whatever it's with that energy tends to come through with Mars actual gender is. CB: So some of the injuries he was an ambulance driver in Italy, and NDB: Right. his legs and leaving him with hundreds of shrapnel and his passion for hunting and fishing led to while participating in the running of the bulls in one that I see sometimes is Mars has to do with NDB: Right. stabbing things can become prominent. CB: He also suffered various injuries from fishing and a deep cut from a stingray barb. CB: Other things - I got a whole NDB: Okay. Geez. Hemingway and his wife survived two consecutive -- CB: -- plane crashes. CB: All right, hold on until - I wanna get it out. CB: The first crash caused serious injuries, and a concussion, while the second crash further health problems. So that one of burns is also and burns, and sometimes that can become So he also had car accidents. So he was involved often resulting in minor injuries. And struggles with physical and mental health also from chronic pain and depression, which he tried then eventually he ended up taking his own NDB: Yeah. His faculties had diminished and the vitality that he had had when he was slipping through his fingers, that he just didn't CB: That's a good point about NDB: Yeah. amount of like, energy and like, enthusiasm and a Mars in the first house signification. slipping away from him was too CB: Yeah. Okay. So that was one example. me look at my other more like, constructive one of them character-wise is our friend Alan first house. And he was an astrologer, but he was hard-talking former military veteran. twisty mustache even. You know, he really he wasn't what you think of when you think of ever known. But yeah, very sort of martial looking when he was teaching astrology, he would in terms of getting his points CB: Right. CB: He could be like, sometimes direct but also NDB: Yes. like, people that don't have like, a filter. and I can also sometimes be but not when I'm appearing on The CB: Never. no. Alan could be that. He was very funny. But that I cannot repeat here because they did in their own way despite their crassness. a lecture of his that he did on Hellenistic Podcast, so you can search for it. The title Alan White" on YouTube. It was towards the end but even despite - so he was not quite as like... but he's still there. He's still him. sense of it. So that's, you know, that brings up are very relevant, especially if it's also in its also in its own domicile in its own sign and it's expression of what that planet means, whereas if the manifestation is partially filtered through NDB: Yeah. His Mars was conjunct my Saturn. Mars at 25 Aries - Axel Harvey and Alan teachers on me and yeah, their natal Mars CB: Nice. CB: All right. So other ones - Agatha Christie let me show her chart. Actually, why is it or do I have that in the wrong section? Let me put her up here and see. Agatha had Saturn and the Sun in the first house. NDB: Okay. the data's changed from... That's what it was -- CB: -- the data changed from some old file NDB: Okay. a AA time of 2:14 PM, so that's what it is. corrections lately, and I will CB: All right. So here's her chart. So Agatha and Mars in Sagittarius at 24 degrees conjunct is Jupiter, which is located in Aquarius in this chart because Agatha Christie wrote detective and she wrote murder mystery books. So her Orient Express. Another one is Death on the Ackroyd. So she's often referred to as "the and her works have been adapted into numerous So I love this one because you get both and it's a with actors, where like, an actor will have a like, literally in the life or the body of the manifest that placement, and then that becomes kind of has something similar here, which like, and murder, conjunct the Ascendant, but the ruler and writing. And she would basically like, write you know, something directly impacting her. two detectives, that she used in her books. One a cover for her if you will - like, she's Hercule Poirot, the Belgian genius detective. and she gets this very like, peculiar solves mysteries kind of out of left field, if Sagittarius about that character. NDB: Yeah. a good example of that, both of the placement, you more symbolic ways in the life, but also another can direct a person towards certain topics. And in ruler of the Ascendant in the 3rd. CB: All right. Let's see. Other examples... So and people tending to be more direct and stuff. Like, for example, Archduke Franz Ferdinand had chart, and they were famously assassinated by World War One, basically. So -- CB: -- here's their chart. So we see Sagittarius the Sun at 25 Sagittarius, and Mars in the first And yeah, there was just that famous story of and that ending their life and then the entire world for a period of time. Sun is in the first house as well, and that's part sort of like, you know, it doesn't matter where are. He's an Austrian archduke; he's the heir to had ended his life a few decades earlier, and so not popular in the Austrian court, particularly social equal. So he was kind of an outsider to the throne. And he goes to Sarajevo on a day you know, for the Serbians. And so it was seen on this sort of military parade in Sarajevo on a himself, like, for better, for worse, you know, to do with him being shot as anything else. the Austrian court that his death itself they just felt they had to respond, you know, on what led to the war. So there really is like, you first house thing where... Yeah, it doesn't matter doesn't want you there. You're still gonna like, city and wave at everyone no matter what. examples - Edward Snowden is one where Edward the Ascendant, but also Mars and the Sun and the for this, it's like, I used the phrase earlier of ancient astrology sometimes they talk about like, that was part of, you know, what he had to do in for the NSA, and then he ended up becoming a States like, spying on people's internet traffic an element of that there with the Mercury-Mars NDB: Yeah, I mean, Mars can be the dissident, and know, the turncoat, or the, you know, to sort it's in the appropriate house like the first. like Mars especially in the first house, Mars are gonna be mad at or some people are gonna divisive. But I was thinking about this recently, just finished, and I saw somebody post something now because of many, many gay activists who were rights in like, the 1980s and 1990s and other I remember early in Obama's first term, when gay rights activists that would interupt to be more embracing of the issue of gay rights, he was officially supposedly against gay marriage. out in support of gay marriage and then eventually United States. But there was this period where the positive function of Mars is like, doing or people might be offended by or not wanna hear, silence in order to accomplish something. a dissident or someone who's not afraid to CB: That's the challenge, though, sometimes sometimes the question - it can be a fine line what everyone's thinking but not saying, and or are you the person who's like, saying the really offensive and unnecessary where you're you know, brusk or rude or other -- CB: -- things like that. gamut. When you're a hammer, everything's a nail. my next example, which is Rush Limbaugh had first house. He also had Venus there, but that out very prominently. So he was an influential commentator and radio talk show host, and he was for his inflammatory rhetoric, his bombastic liberals, and he faced accusations of racism, NDB: Yeah. was sort of like the iconic kind of like, how do NDB: Yeah. NDB: He's Alex Jones before Alex Jones, you know, he would have loved the world today. he wasn't happy in his own time, CB: Yeah. So that's like, the other today the contemporary sort of version of that is just Donald Trump has late Leo rising and very much part of his personality or that Mars in terms of similar things and in terms of let's good keyword that sometimes like, divisiveness divisiveness as I explained earlier with like, the divisiveness can be, you know, not necessary, arises from the person for different reasons. your opinion of the guy is, you can tell that just, you know, he says these things and doesn't definitely a direct lineage from Rush Limbaugh's approach. That sort of attack dog mentality. examples. So I think we'll keep moving; there's we could have gone through and different things demonstrated the point in terms of some just very the first house, either as a physical thing or sometimes at different points in the life, like, And depending on how Mars is situated, if it's configured to it, can make the manifestation much towards the more constructive end of the spectrum. CB: Yeah. All right. So I wanna take a little NDB: Yeah. The software we use to show birth charts in which is astrology software for the PC. It's that it can do in addition to calculating birth Solar Fire and save all of your files to it. And your entire database for charts that have certain So for me it was very useful to search my entire show me every birth chart I have that has Mercury that has Venus in the first house, and so on and doing astrological research and looking at charts. website alabe.com, and you can actually get a Mac users, we recommend the program called software for the Macintosh computer. It's and it includes many modern as well as traditional the promo code 'ASTROPODCAST15' when you All right, so we're back. Let's jump and let's start zooming through these examples So first example - I wanna go back to Paul Newman, first house and was like, strikingly attractive or as well as Mercury, and one of the things that became very much focused on philanthropic work. food company that produces a variety of products and lemonade. And the unique aspect of his company through a foundation he set up called Newman's Own millions of dollars for various causes, especially his foundation focuses on supporting children those with serious illnesses, and he provides free children with serious illnesses. And I think this were focused on so much is having to do in some also the ruler of his 5th house of children and is an even more perhaps important or enduring part through his contributions to helping out children. there's like, multiple different things coming NDB: Yeah. Yeah, Newman wasn't a square or he wasn't some sort of Hollywood you know, quite a stable guy. Quite a stable you know, glamorous, famous movie star. Really and obviously he had priorities that didn't CB: Yeah. So a lot of the biographies and stuff I of generosity and compassion, and this is really benefic and malefic - is benefic in ancient doing," whereas malefic means like, bad doers or first, you just see them doing good things, like things like that where they're like, helping or becomes core to their identity in some way. CB: So another example of that is actually Barack first house in Aquarius in the first whole sign in 2010, he passed the Affordable Care Act, which gave millions and millions of people who in the United States, it gave them access to from basically saying that the number of people cut in half within two years after it went into helped to cover 20 to 24 million people. And one companies could no longer deny people for health is really important just in terms of that aspect, things that he did in his presidency and would have died without health insurance prior to when I was a young, struggling, up-and-coming that was the only reason I was able to get covered I was making so little that I qualified for it. thinking about Newman and Obama, they're both men even though they're charismatic and attractive, necessarily humble, but sort of down-to-earth to blend in with the glamor and the charisma. You never give you the impression that they're trying or at least trying too hard. They might be -- NDB: -- working hard, but they're not trying CB: That's like the contrast then; I remember one versus Paul Newman was Cool Hand Luke. CB: So it's kind of -- CB: Kind of funny. CB: So going back to the healthcare thing, though, where transiting Jupiter was conjunct his natal Congress on healthcare, and then -- CB: So that was like, actually a crucial important not just through Aquarius but also directly on NDB: Right. And was he still 48 at that point? year, even. NDB: Trying to remember. Yeah. NDB: Yeah. so that shows the activation of that. Originally, of some of these placements which we didn't other examples later on. Because that's sometimes NDB: Yeah. NDB: Yeah. This is first level level element of the research as well. one - Martin Luther King, Junior was reportedly Taurus in the first whole sign house. So he was nonviolent resistance against racial segregation protests and marches. And it's just, when you keywords they use - it talks about, it says, and reconciliation to achieve social justice." Jupiter in the first house in some instances sort. And he was, of course, instrumental in as the Voting Rights Act of 1965 that outlawed sex, or national origin. And then eventually Jupiter are themes of like, justice, equality, and sometimes when it's in the first house, it part of the person's personality that's trying to NDB: Yeah, absolutely. And Jupiter was in Act was passed, which is arguably the more of the pinnacle of his achievement. After 1965, of course it ended tragically three years later. like, good-doing one that is kind of a random always tells a story of how she was like, in a hippie, and she went to her first astrology and felt very isolated because everyone was like, hippie, you know, getup. But there was this one struck up a conversation with her, and it was had just published one of the first ephemeris of one to Demetra as a gift. CB: As just like, an act of generosity. And career doing work in asteroids and becoming one of work on asteroids in the late 20th and early 21st Jupiter at 18 degrees of Libra. So sometimes those using like, big huge examples with some of those in the first, the little acts of generosity realize at the time, but it just comes from that. so in the late '60s, she's gotta be in her typically, you know, hippie-friendly, if you will. to just be that affable and easy-going. Again, that you see with the likes of Paul Newman CB: For sure. So another more recent example is in Cancer in the first whole sign house as well as the previous themes where I think for her, the to championing female-driven stories especially. in the film industry. And she ended up creating is eventually what led to her producing the Barbie 2023, but she also produced and basically like, ended up making it eventually it was like, highly film of 2023. It became the biggest release for a States as well as the largest global opening for a you know, part of it when it comes to her as or equality coming through in different ways. CB: Yeah. All right. There's a side note there, that was one that you had, right? generosity and more about sort of CB: Quick version. Tycho Brahe was a great astronomer and scientist, king of Denmark heard that Tycho was gonna leave monarch, and so the king in order to keep Tycho build his own observatory and laboratory, which for what was happening when that happened? put the chart. So -- CB: -- we should describe the chart, which with Venus at 18 Aquarius and then NDB: Right. So yeah, he was gifted this whole was the planet that was transiting through the natally with that Jupiter, Venus, and Pluto there. sort of like, while he did also have Jupiter in closest to the Ascendant, he's more the sort of as opposed to someone who offers it, if you will. Kepler - you know, one of the things I house as well as the 10th house. And Kepler NDB: Right. build on that observational work in order to craft moving in ellipses rather than in perfect circles. Kepler 24 years after he was gifted this island gifted the island in Denmark, transiting Mercury met Johannes Kepler, Mercury again was in Aquarius Kepler benefited greatly from Brahe's work, of it without permission. Brahe died, and I get the material back. And Kepler kept some of Mars and what have you, but yeah, one way even if it wasn't by Brahe's design. you had was King Charles I who had Virgo rising you said that he was having a transiting Jupiter his older brother died, and he suddenly -- CB: -- became heir to the throne? you know, over and over in royal history where who everyone is sure is gonna make a great king perfect personality, and then he died at 18, and spoiler alert - he's the king who would later be it's kind of like, this whole thing falls on him, for, and when he does get it, it ends in disaster. retrograde and conjoining his natal Ascendant during the English Civil War in 1649, right? was also Virgo rising. So they're having very Charles II - well, he's not called Charles II yet, execution and his father is executed. So that Mars applies to both of them in different ways. NDB: Yeah. NDB: So it's an interesting moment. this is showing, you know, the Jupiter and he's elevated to the kingship, basically, when But then when transiting Mars goes retrograde he's decapitated. So it's like, we get extremes of what the first house means by looking NDB: Exactly. So there's a few others, but did we kind of the only other one I had was like, Ram Dass had the Ascendant, and Jupiter ruling the 9th house and he traveled to India and then went through a and converted to Hinduism. So that's kind of -- CB: -- an interesting one. He was, you know, sort of Timothy Leary's going on at Harvard in the early '60s. But then, he traded in LSD for more natural, nonchemical with Leary in that regard, and you know, went his where he goes from this, you know, buttoned-up, to a few LSD experiences, he becomes this sort don't know what the correct term would be. Yeah, sort of proto hippie, if you will. You know, big matters. So but he goes through a tremendous CB: That's just a good example that sometimes the first house, there's something about that that of self and like, who they are in the world different things like that. And sometimes that you know, teach to somebody. But then when you especially for the person who's experiencing NDB: Yeah. Exactly. I think that's good for Jupiter, yeah? CB: All right. So let's transition into One of the themes that kept coming up in the just like with Mars, there can be health issues, that comes up is Saturn has to do with time, the themes that often comes up is issues having the person can appear older than they actually they actually are. Sean Connery, for example, who got his role relatively late in James Bond, but he kind of always appeared as if he he was commonly playing these different roles younger person. Another example is Shirley Temple who started acting at the age of three, right? interpretations - not merely mine, but whenever my first presumption is that this is someone of Saturn in the first house being, "Oh, you would have been sort of more serious, more obviously a sort of an exaggerated version of cinema performer of 1934, '35. A huge, huge small kid - preschool, elementary school age. at 18 degrees of Sagittarius in a night chart. CB: So -- CB: So she found great success as a child actor, roles because her childlike image was really and audiences had difficulty seeing career actually declined in her teens. Ford made her the ambassador to Ghana, I believe, while, she had a political career as well. career as a diplomat, as an ambassador under reinvented herself by making the transition and her story's really interesting because she Protocol of the United States, and that's responsible for advising the president on matters which I think is very Saturn-coded. Like, Saturn foreign countries. CB: So as well as just Sagittarius in general and she actually ended up becoming a diplomat for the herself later in life. Yeah. So that's a good one. to do with old things. So one example of that with Saturn in the first house by day. And the Renaissance. So for example, he translated the the entire works of the Corpus Hermeticum, which philosophies that helped to contribute to the on old or ancient things. CB: Which is another aspect of the time thing. the singer Lana Del Rey, whose Ascendant is at 15, first house. And her music and persona are very particularly of the 1950s and '60s. So her lyrics creating a sense of longing for a bygone timelessness as well as blurring the lines between referred to sometimes as having a reputation Saturn theme of like, melancholy or sometimes NDB: Yeah. sadness, heartbreak, loss, disillusionment. And slowness is a Saturn thing, which is opposite to All right, so that's one with her. There's more Similar to her with another musician whole sign conjunction in the first house. known for his distinctive melancholic also similarly explored themes of like, and he personally struggled with mental anxiety, and addiction throughout his life. And and then eventually he passed away - potentially, his life at a pretty young age of like, 34. that. I mean, it was, you know, he was stabbed is... Yeah, not an easy thing to do. I met Knitting Factory in New York City in 1995. He and it's sad that he went the way he did. one is kind of funny, but Al Gore first house. I thought it was interesting just there were so many jokes about Al Gore being and that's very like, connected with Saturn. his wife on stage at - it's cringeworthy. Anyway. NDB: Yeah. He was, that's accurate. parodying him. CB: All right. Other ones - this one's like James but the actor Christopher Lee had Libra rising this like, big, booming, deep voice. So he for example, towards the end of his career, and NDB: Well, he had also played Dracula, anyone else in The Lord of the Rings CB: Nice. Another one - Frank Lloyd Wright was an architect, with Scorpio rising and Saturn conjunct structures and completed 532 different works. Saturn has to do with like, structure of things. hung out was in one of his buildings. Remember CB: Oh yeah, that wild like -- that was his. Do you remember? that the NCGR had or something? that went places that you didn't CB: Right. All right. And then you had NDB: Yeah. Percy Shelley - I mean, this is he had Saturn rising. He's, you know, he's poets - Lord Byron, Yeats - Keats. Not Yeats. You know, just this circle of young poets. But he and then his body was cremated on the beach. and his heart had calcified, so his heart didn't author of Frankenstein, kept the heart with eventually died decades later. Very romantic. But when you've already got this huge corpus of work poetry. Yeah. That's something in and of itself. and he had lifelong health issues and then came back to that sign? CB: Yeah. That's pretty striking. All right, one I thought was good is Ralph Nader has Aquarius in Aquarius. And he has this lifelong career which is very Saturn-themed. The most important published this book titled Unsafe at Any raising public awareness about lack of safety And although seat belts were invented a long to highlight the automotive industry's resistance eventually, the publication of his book led to regulate automobile safety, eventually resulting Vehicle Safety Act of 1966, which mandated making them a standard feature and car-related fatalities. So I thought that rules and regulations and sometimes like, positive NDB: Yeah, absolutely. Safety first! on to Uranus in the first house. Two of the and the eccentric. So one of them is the actor and rebelliousness was kind of part of NDB: Yeah. famous movie was Rebel Without a Cause. that 1950s adolescent rebellion motif, or Brando did. You know, just the kid who's going against the grain he was kind of a wild card as well. Drove fast. too fast in his car - racing someone, I think. died at the age of 24 in a car accident, which year, so it would have been activating that Uranus this freak accident. CB: Yeah. So another sort of rebel who has Aries rising with Uranus conjunct sort of like, the revolutionary, basically. know? When he was a young man, he went on this - because Argentinians apparently they say "Che" when he's hanging with Mexicans and Cubans, differently than they do, and they call him Che Argentinian dialect and tics. But yeah, when he friend throughout South America and saw a lot of sort of global politics have played out in Latin was overthrown in 1954, so he saw first hand how American governments. So then a year later, revolutionaries who are sort of exiled from to overthrow the government once there and gotten on a boat in late 1956, the Granma, and begin the hills - he was a trained doctor, so when they over two years. And or yeah, just over two years not only was he in the jungle with the and getting shot at and having some of their but as a trained doctor, he was the guy who was them so that they could keep fighting. So -- NDB: -- yeah, he's -- NDB: -- quite the -- in the first house in Aries also. you know, the kind of guy who would sort to a thirsty person. And yeah, you know, but because of course he was Argentinian; all the were just trying to fix Cuba. But then once and he tried to fight in a revolution in he went back to South America and he tried to do he was sort of like, he was born to be a serious about it. You know, whatever side one really trying to do what he was trying to do. and then another one that's along similar lines in Libra. And you know, this one's interesting and one of his earliest, you know, things in NDB: Yeah. And I mean, the other thing is, you be German, much like, you know, Che's an if you will. There is an element of the outsider CB: Yeah, so -- he did try to orchestrate a coup, the famous Beer kind of what made him famous. It's what made his led to him having the political power he did. because it's like, usually we don't think of him was successful. But it was that he attempted gain power through more official means. But yeah, NDB: Yeah. So moving on to other examples. Another one in was a science fiction writer who had Aries rising NDB: Yeah, he's one of my all-time favorites. I've you know, he had an amazing imagination. He fiction didn't have much respect. So a lot of his who didn't see the value in his work. But even that way have some just fantastic ideas and yeah, Most people would be familiar with movies that The Man in the High Castle was a recent series speaking of Arnold Schwarzenegger, that was Runner is probably the most famous of things CB: Yeah. A Scanner Darkly was really great. Uranus is sometimes it's very forward-looking, place because they're living sort of in the be really good at anticipating things that are but it leaves them almost like, seemingly NDB: Yeah. And you know, he's another one of these in the sense that he's born in the '20s, culture of the '60s and '70s. You know, even old" for that, he's such a Uranian that he CB: Definitely. All right, moving to other areas - O'Brien is Virgo rising with Uranus and Pluto the eccentric comedian. But it's interesting often somewhat self-deprecating at the same time. you know, there was something revolutionary about kind of hard to fathom now. But he really, you would push the envelope a bit in terms of things he was definitely, you know, something of the Virgo rising that way. I mean, he's hilarious; in some way, and he plays it perfectly. come up is sometimes the character traits of negative ones becoming most prominent NDB: I agree. a good one. Another one is Franklin Roosevelt and for him, the main thing is that he was was vacationing with his family and suddenly fell polio. And the polio virus attacked his nervous and limited his mobility for the rest of his life. More recent things have suggested it might I believe is the condition. But anyway. He was were transiting over his Ascendant when he was Uranus. So it's almost like he was robbed of you know, walk on his own two feet. But he was American public into thinking that he could walk sons stand next to him so he could sort of hold to do things his own way. But it's another - like, see the transits of Jupiter and Saturn crossing when he loses power in his legs, it's a CB: Yeah. And I always use him as an example in the 6th house, and it was through that experience with polio. And as a result of that, polio patients but also to search for a cure. And and others, they were eventually able to find a pretty much eliminate that as a thing that was So I think that's one of the ways in which you directing him in some ways towards that area with meaning that his life had this greater impact and positively impacting many other people. CB: Yeah. All right. So that's a good one. but Nikola Tesla was probably born at midnight, in the rising sign. And I thought that was who worked with electricity having Uranus rising. time is the legend is that he was born at the it's at midnight sharp - there was this big So that even makes that Uranus rising even CB: Totally. he was a special, special, you know, it's all right there. I think that might be good for Uranus, yeah? examples for all of these, and obviously this episode manageable, but yeah. This episode was literally only made possible patrons who signed up to support my work through to release a four-hour essentially workshop on without putting it behind a paywall is that I have to donate a little bit of money each month to I'm able to produce four episodes of the podcast and through The Astrology Podcast website. So each of my patrons gets access to a bunch as a thank you for their contributions, including days before it was released to the public. recordings of different episodes, including the recording and chart reading session where I sat patrons about their first house placements, and I'll later release as an episode of The Astrology Electional Astrology Podcast where I select and month ahead. There's also an exclusive podcast only available to patrons, and some patrons each episode of The Astrology Podcast. So if you like to support my work and get access to some of page on Patreon at Patreon.com/AstrologyPodcast. in the first house. So one of my first examples who has Scorpio rising and Neptune conjunct the Ascendant's at 15 Scorpio, and Neptune is at 13 this is the shapeshifter, so -- CB: You know, he has all these different roles physical comedy, to completely like, a different person and to morph into NDB: Yeah, I mean, his facility with physical anyone else. He doesn't have any peers in And then another element to that whole Neptune contorting his body in all these strange ways, became Andy Kaufman. You know, like, method acting a very, very special kind of performer. I but I'm always impressed by the things he can do. like that in some of his early roles. he's gone through this whole "there is no saying these sort of like, obscure things about like that in interviews for a while. like a very Neptune rising kind of thing there's clearly a person there. But you know, CB: Right. He says, "And it pushed me towards here. There are only energies. There is no me." "Understanding suffering is the way to you have compassion, and the next thing you know, like, interviews like that -- CB: -- from a few years ago where he was going off keyword for at least the early part of his career NDB: Oh yeah. Dali had Cancer rising with Neptune in Cancer in NDB: Yeah. NDB: Yeah. Great painter. Everyone knows the called. Yeah, you know, really special vision and I mean, anyone who's seen him in film clips or unique personality and an incredible painter. stuff became almost part of his artistic persona. performer-like quality to him. When he first he did things like, I think he jumped he did stunts. He wasn't above stunts and doing was so great, it wouldn't really matter if you unnecessary, because he could walk the walk. one is Maya Angelou who had Ascendant in Leo NDB: Yeah. She, you know, really the her times. She writes - I mean, look at that when he was assassinated, Saturn was right the defining summary of the impact that had on you know, she's a poet, yes. But she's sort of And whenever I see her chart, I always think of to that Sun-Jupiter when Dr. King was murdered. kind of almost ties with Jim Carrey, but Kim conjunct the Ascendant in Sagittarius. And her body or her appearance over the years so that sometimes the way that she's changed or other people who then follow her style or things - like, setting trends, I guess. aware of her; I never watched her show, but I CB: Got it. All right. And then the last ones are theorist has Neptune -- CB: Yeah. I remember like, when I was like, a NDB: Nostradamus? into like, conspiracy theories and stuff like I was just like, this is just wild. Like, he's was actually one of the first things that really conspiracy theory things I was into and like, making stuff up sort of out of their imagination and just obviously illusionary they were. But he Saturn in Libra in the first house. So -- CB: Yeah, so I thought that was one, and it led I thought it was a good example because the books stuff were by an author named Dolores Cannon, time was out there. And she has Virgo rising with of like, a similar thing where her books were claimed that she was doing past life regression regression and through that, she met a student of began communicating with him and like, decoding it turned into this really wild thing, which as wow, this is amazing, and I was like, there's no make this up. But then it's like, as I got with a very active imagination that's putting probably not true. So I thought that was right on the Ascendant there. CB: So - and it's like, I don't know from the Neptune, sometimes when you're experiencing you may not be able to tell the difference between this ambiguity surrounding reality. I remember over my Ascendant at one point. And actually, from picking you up at the airport. And I was this Neptune transit is about, and then you burst were literally like, driving through fog at that NDB: I remember that! Yeah. NDB: That's really funny. I was like, see, CB: Yeah. So I think sometimes as a transit, or sometimes natal placements, but it can be and what's not. And sometimes you can use use Neptune constructively can create these where you can really experience it and it feels like those fantasy authors that construct like, but then on the downside, sometimes when Neptune it's not real, even though you think it is. you know, sometimes the best liars believe deceived themselves first. So yeah. Who knows of those permutations. But yeah, going back to Jim he, the way he creates characters is very doesn't always have to be channeling Nostradmus. with Neptune, yeah? CB: All right. So let's move onto Pluto in So one of the ones I wanted to bring up in the first house ones already, but one I So here's Alan Turing's chart. Gemini rising in Gemini. So Alan Turing - part of it is gets to the bottom of something or can like, War Two was involved in cracking the German that could code break, basically, and they German codes, which helped in the war effort. Winston Churchill, England probably owned Turing that hour. So it's considering what happened justice. But yeah, he did what was considered, you codes he had to crack, and he did it. negative side was that he, with Venus conjunct a gay man, and this was uncovered during the he ended up being persecuted for that, and they castrated as a result of that, I think, right? until 1967. Same for Canada, actually, ironically. I think, in 1953 as a result of that whole as happened in those days, he was caught, he was in the middle of something, and yeah, prosecuted up taking his own life, you know. This guy who had But you have a point; it's also there in that find their way around in those days were in these, like that. I mean, it was all very surreptitious, they had to be, you know, breaking the law being as discreet as possible. So yeah -- NDB: -- there is an element of Venus-Pluto there. with Pluto where it's like, it can be the but also there can be components of like, hidden. The illicit. But also themes of like, in the first when it's prominent in a chart as kind of tricky when going through some of my Pluto up where sometimes you had that element there. So let me pull up his chart. All right. So here's and he had Pluto at 19 degrees of Virgo conjunct So on the one hand, it's like, he's a good because he was very rebellious, he was very social convention and things that were wanna be like, held back by anything. pro-counterculture. Really ahead of his time, you of today in terms of his politics, you know. MTV Headbanger's Ball. So what Kurt did was he showed was not something that was done in those days, he was, you know, really, really special in that I think some of that was, you know, a put on. album like Nevermind by accident. But he didn't part of it. I think he was, you know, just very Pluto rising, and yeah, you know, he was someone who had been to dark places, and sang about being but you know, there's heavy duty topics on there, The first three songs on the album all mention eventually he used to leave us. So yeah, to have to even explain at this point. I mean, that CB: Yeah. in the '80s had. Not even - I mean, Madonna and but they hadn't really changed the culture in the their place and they kind of, you know, changed Nirvana kind of changed the music industry CB: And that's why I wanted - that's part of because he has those two outer planets which are when you have those slow-moving outer planets the angles, the person can become almost like the influencing like, an entire generation of people the spokesperson for that generation. And those two outer planets, those generational right on the degrees of his Ascendant. like, he felt familiar to all of us. Like, so. So many of the attitudes and tastes that I'd been thinking for a long time, you know. felt that. And I know a lot of my peers did too. it's like, his fame happened suddenly and one minute they're driving around like, and another minute, they're playing to like, NDB: August 25th, 1991 on a Sunday. I was at a were The Ramones, before them were The Pogues Before them were Sonic Youth. Before them was a during which show someone came out and sprayed him was in a second. Before that, it was Dinosaur opening band - this three-piece, Nirvana - who I who they were. And it was Kurt Cobain who later a fire extinguisher, so I saw him twice that three weeks before Nevermind comes out. And in the morning on a Sunday morning at a rock would just be the biggest thing on the planet. CB: And that's partially the Pluto component astrologer we mentioned earlier in the episode, things big and big things small. And it'll tend conjunct something in the chart, it'll magnifying that Uranus energy there that happens even bigger and causing this generational shift NDB: Yeah -- NDB: There's a whole school of musicians who, Nirvana. All these people who were selling a they were running things, they were crushed is just sort of like, destroy and bury as well there's a whole sort of generation of musicians them. You know, for me, it was a beautiful thing. the end of everything. So yeah, that's real created. It reconfigured. It did everything. in his music from early on, there were themes really difficult themes. And then at the end of that's one of the things that he was known for. CB: All right. Yeah. All right. So there's this one, but Ram Dass. We talked about, you sort of spiritual transformation, but it's also had Pluto right at the Ascendant, and going through some sort of transformation both how -- CB: -- you perceive yourself as well as theme of having Pluto in the first house. overcome. I don't know that much about him, you was Leary's accomplice in the whole Harvard gay and really struggling with it. I don't wanna but that's my recollection that that also played he's someone who sort of stripped his identity he did become a very different person, it seems. just in terms of like, transformations of the known sometimes as Eddie Izzard and sometimes has Virgo rising at 10 degrees of Virgo and the '90s and 2000s was known for being one of the And even though he was born as a man, he was of his identity. And then later in recent years, and is now known as Suzy Izzard, although they he/him pronouns and she/her or sometimes between with Virgo, you often get things that are fluid, once, especially in the Mercury-ruled aspect sometimes of the first house can NDB: He/She/They has one of my all time favorite which is, you know, something I'd be It's just pure genius. Amazing comedian. legendary from like -- CB: -- the early 2000s that was done in it was just an epic, like, standup set. and just, yeah, so many cuts CB: Yeah. And I had other people - sometimes. I had a listener on Twitter send in when Uranus passed over their Ascendant degree. placements involved, but that can be something a fundamental realization of having either a of the gender that one identifies as can sometimes first house transits. CB: Which also brings up -- don't you think? I mean, you know. having to do with the body, things having NDB: Identity, yeah. how you dress and how you present yourself to that can be a first house thing is a person will and they'll go through like, a makeover and or start dressing differently, whatever that be a huge shift for people to like, do something a major change. Other times, it can be like, a transit goes through a person's first house, they get sick and appear emaciated or like, tired or having to do with like, appearance can sometimes NDB: Absolutely. Other ones - in terms of transformations also there can be issues that happen which cause a self and autonomy. Christopher Reeve was a famous 22 degrees of Leo, and the ruler of the Ascendant short distance travel conjoining Saturn in a was famously in the like, 1970s played Superman, where he fell off a horse and it damaged his unable to move his limbs from like, the neck down. in 1978, and yeah, and he's apparently like, a had been college roommates, so they were best personalities, and apparently like, he's the real like, what a terrible thing to happen to him. NDB: Yeah, that's Pluto rising for sure. transformation. In his case, it was a challenging but it's also interesting that it's like, the Ascendant there. But his case reminds me of, the ruler of the Ascendant was in the 6th house then ended up founding, you know, an institute Christopher Reeves, similarly, you know, ended up help people who are quadriplegic or had similar being part of his legacy in the end was promoting many of these celebrity examples, that ends up you have their personal, subjective experience of then you also they end up leaving a legacy that with respect to that issue at the same time. CB: Yeah. come to think of it, he had even - when he got but they just liked him and his look, so they transformation just for him to play SUperman and everything that followed, so. Yeah, the theme came up a few times in his lifetime, it seems. example to end on, honestly, because on the one example, but then also that sometimes from tragedy they sometimes find a way to persevere and help other people with similar issues. And I of difficult placements when it's experienced is that sometimes a person can learn and grow situations to not experience that as bad or to very positive or optimistic about that. CB: Yeah. about going through the planets is, you know, you CB: For sure. Cohen would say, you want it darker. NDB: Yes. and speaking of Pluto and going to extremes, we the first house, my friend. Congratulations. CB: Good job. Oh, thank you. Likewise. think we've seen now at this point that the first signifies the self, the body, physical vitality, focus, and that which arises from you - I think we tangible and very specific manifestations based on what the rising sign actually is, and also in the chart and what house it's placed in. and we covered it all. There's nothing else anyone first house. This has been a thorough job. NDB: Case closed. So this is brilliant. Thank you for helping me to I'm gonna continue on with the other houses. I am because I've already recorded a workshop where with patrons of The Astrology Podcast who had where I actually talked with them in order to get first house means up close by hearing it directly focused on celebrity charts, which I like on the that you can point to where you can like, look available information so that there's like, agreed certain celebrities or what have you, which is there's another type of research that only happens chart, and that's what I'm gonna talk about in for early access to patrons of The Astrology then I realized I wanted to put together a more house, so that's what we did here today. CB: So I've also done other episodes. One is transits and eclipses. We did mention some into eclipses as much as we could have, and I do Because eclipses are important because when they're also happening in the 6th house. you'll see eclipses bounce back and forth between major beginnings and major endings when it comes person's chart. And sometimes during those of what the first house signifies. So I've done workshops where I shared examples and I talked transits. So you can search for that on The "Interpreting Solar and Lunar Eclipses in Your of "Eclipses as Transits in Astrology." There's in Astrology Workshop." And yeah, so check those that's something you focus on as well, right? a lot of research on them, and yeah. That's the but we actually put together a lot more material I was joking earlier about the whole case closed and there's some really great stuff we had those eclipses that can fall on the angles can you know, that's the kind of thing that you could but that's for some other day. NDB: In the meantime, check out CB: Yeah, check those out. So let's see - I'll continue this series, and those will be available available. If you'd like more on the ruler of the and its house placement with lots more examples the Hellenistic Astrology Course, which you have I think it's like, a whole 10-hour lecture show different manifestations of the ruler of just to get into much more detail about what the depending on what its condition is in the chart. have here in this talk, you'll like that in the on the significations of the houses as well as in the houses in my book titled Hellenistic if you wanna learn more about that, you can get a more about this topic. What about you, Nick? have coming up? And you actually do consultations, look at their chart -- CB: -- they could, right? but I've opened up my bookings for mid-August for on other projects. We're developing a software, an to have out in September. We've recently launched just sort of, you know, getting debugged as we be something exciting as we tune it up. And yeah, August for at least a month on a part-time basis. And yeah, I'm having a ball so far. NDB: Yeah. check out your website. I'll put a link to it NDB: Thank you. a lot for joining me for this. I've been putting like, a year ago, and I've been meaning to do for a year because it just seemed too big and it. But I'm glad that you and I ended up doing it treatment that it really deserves. So thanks a lot me on this research and put this episode together. with you on one of these episodes, I grow so it's an absolute pleasure. Thank you, Chris. buddy. Well, I guess that's it for this or listening to this episode of The Astrology [END CREDITS] the patrons that helped to support the production on Patreon.com. In particular, a shoutout to the Moe, Ariana Amour, Mandi Rae, Angelic Nambo, Issa DeLano, Sonny Bazbaz, and Kwatsi Alibaruho. to get an astrological consultation with, then website that we recommend for readings. Most readings, although some also offer synastry, questions and more. Find out more information If you'd like to learn more about my approach my book titled Hellenistic Astrology: The Study philosophy, and techniques of ancient up through intermediate and advanced And finally, thanks to our sponsors, including quarterly astrology magazine which you can read