(bright music) - Welcome to the a series where we take in the espresso making process. In the past, we've looked at Today, we're looking at the in my opinion, which is the grind setting. how fine or how coarse you and when you should use your grind setting to make an adjustment to taste. Espresso is a lot of fun, but it's also immensely frustrating, especially when you're starting out. And I would say, this variable is by far the most frustrating of And I'll give you the reasons why. And there's kind of three reasons. So let's say you make going a little bit finer. In doing so, you'll expose of the ground coffee. If you think about cutting there's not that much surface area, but if you diced it down into tiny pieces, you'd expose a lot more and the same is true with a coffee bean. And so far, that's good news. More surface area is very useful for extracting more coffee flavor. But when you change the surface area, you also change the way that the grounds interconnect with each other. And when you tamp them down the finer the pieces are, and the harder it is for the This will increase the contact time between the water and the coffee. So you have this one that impacts flow rate and that's a bit of a headache. And then for an extra twist, quite often, changing the grind setting is a little bit wasteful. Now, this isn't true of every but it's very true of many, people use for espresso. They don't perfectly push out all of the coffee that that you use them inside that houses the burrs as you'll often find some and that was ground at a setting maybe before you made a change. So when you make a change, you need to purge out some coffee, to push out to these old grounds that are sort of set at with some new ones. And that's frustrating because some grinders and others don't. But either way, that's coffee That's coffee that you waste. And so, changing the grind but it's necessary. Without grinding finely enough, you can't do the extraction to get all the good flavor out using only a little bit of water. And that's the kind of nature of espresso because you want to use to have a strong, gooey, sweet espresso at the end of it. Now just quickly, I wanna go back just through how we got to this point, a little bit of history. People worked out pretty early on that to brew faster that way this increased surface area meant that those flavors But quickly you get to the Finely ground coffee is And in the early years of espresso, different methods were found that the water was pushed Eventually, with compressed springs, we got to the kind of around nine bars of pressure. It's equivalent in but ultimately, it's nine And that is a lot of pressure. That causes problems in espresso brewing. Generally speaking, you expose as much surface area as you can, before you break the puck. Espresso brewing happens at and they are dependent on resistance coming from the coffee cake. But at some point, that very high pressured through which to run, an easier pathway. And what happens when an is that it begins to channel and more water begins to flow Channeling happens in most and to varying degrees. But as you go finer and finer and finer, you increase the likelihood because you created to the water pressure. Now the grind is not the only variable that dictates how good of creating even resistance Obviously, the depth of as does your puck preparation and how evenly the coffee is distributed before you tamp it down. Often people will talk when you grind a little bit too fine. I know I've done that too, and we associate that word coming through in your espresso. Generally speaking, the puck as a whole may not actually be over extracted. The puck as a whole maybe But the areas around the channels where water has flowed much they are extremely over extracted. So they've given up more and they've added that bitter but you'd argue that's than it is over extraction. Or just localized over extraction rather than total over extraction. Because again, if you're with refractometers, and looking at your total yields, you won't see a big that incredibly fine grained, And in the past, this to experiment with a much coarser grind than is typically used for espresso, in a paper that was published, and I made a video about that, so you should check when you're done watching this one. Now, I'm not gonna say you because you end up needing to get a more balanced shot. But you do get a more even extraction using these slightly coarser grounds than you do using rare but your end result does feel and taste and have kind of different So let's talk about using grind I would definitely use get my flow rate about right. Let's say I'm looking for in around 30 seconds. Well, I'm gonna use my grind setting to get me to that point. But once I'm there, I'm gonna taste it and chances are, the if the espresso is good, but not perfect, are gonna be two other If I'm still a long way, I say I'm still very sour, and see how that does, even if it's outside of my original spec. But if I get my grind setting then I'm gonna make those little tweaks with dose, with yield, potentially with temperature but primarily, I would and my coffee out. They're gonna let me fine tune Now the reason I like for the big changes, but maybe not as often when I'm tweaking is actually largely practical. If you're a beginner or intermediate in the world of espresso, then I think making less grind changes is probably an easier thing. There's waste from purging, there's just the general frustration around making those changes especially if you have a new grinder or you're just new to the process. So I think big changes And also if you have a stepped grinder where the steps between each then again, I would go probably even if that means dropping down my dose and that kind of stuff. 'cause I'm just more likely that way than being stuck that I might want. If I lived in a world unlimited time and resources, then I would use grind to really, really, really But that needs a very good grinder, a lot of patience and And I'm not sure that's great or recommendations. So I would say, you're more and the espresso making process if you're not throwing away So at the risk of repeating myself, use your grind to get close, If things are dominantly sour, you need to grind a little bit finer. If you're finding things are getting a little bit too bitter and harsh, or you're getting a lot of channeling, then maybe come back a little bit coarser. I'll summarize all this in a second. I'll give you some basic But first, I wanna talk about which is Skillshare. Skillshare is an online learning community full of thousands of classes for creative and curious And if you watch these videos, then you'll know that over the years Skillshare has been very useful for me to develop my filmmaking skills. But there's a lot more than Recently, I've been enjoying from Ali Abdaal. Now, I'm very curious to listen to someone who manages to be both and a doctor at the same time, because it lines up with my values, which is you can't just work more hours, you've got to work smarter. And his approach is really interesting. It's a great course full of And there's so much more inside Skillshare to feed your curiosity. And for less than $10 a month, you get unlimited access to every class and I think that is fantastic value. So if you're curious, if you're one of the first to click the link in the and sign up, and you can get a free Thanks to Skillshare for So to wrap up, I'll give to use when thinking about grind setting. So rule one, once again, use it to get in the ballpark of tasty. Fix your recipe, don't vary that, just use your grind setting and then tweak from there using your other variables in the recipe. Rule two. Generally speaking, push before you start to see Now channeling will be very obvious if you're using a naked portafilter and you'll start to see especially in the last but you can also see it in you'll just be looking for a as coffee starts to in the last third of the of the chart or potentially the last half if things have gone really wrong. Channelled espressos tend to taste a little bit weaker than They have this acidity that you get in the finish, this kind of harsh biting aftertaste. In the past I've even recommended grinding from some grinders into a or bucket or tin or something, shaking out any potential clumps and then dosing into your for this kind of a reason. Puck prep is really important, but going to fine will produce channeling, kind of no matter what. Rule three. Only change one flow If you're changing your grind, do not change the dose of coffee in your bucket the same time. You won't understand or of either one that way, and you won't know what's gone So if you're changing your grind, keep everything else the same, so you can understand that you've made. And rule four, purging is essential. And it's better to purge and than it is to waste the whole dose that you ground incorrectly, So if you are changing a grind five grams, 10 grams, it really depends on but just make sure, you're getting nothing that you wanna test, to see if it makes the espresso But now I'd like to hear from you. How do you feel about setting the grind? Does it freak you out? Does it stress you out to Does it feel like you make and then something happens later on or you just feel like you chase it around and and you never get where you wanna go? And I'd love to hear from you, Let me know which bit let me know what you want me to go into, in further depth, in the future. But for now, I'll say thank and I hope you have a great day.