All right, we're checking out is while using the toilet, This game's supposed to be but I'm gonna tell you I don't feel the pressure of blood Oh, that's interesting, I'm just two pairs of-- Tentacle, just opened up my stall. What I was trying to say while my stall is that was the cleanest stall definitely since I was in Boston. Oh, apparently we all have to vacate Honestly, if your toilet then it can survive I lost my magic marker. If there's one thing I love it's vandals Do I have a reflection? I think the thing that is that I'm so inept that I'm supposed That is the best-drawn water I love how the rest of is like straight out Ah, Dr. Shepper, a perfect blend of Now if you don't know, if you're ever is getting up amperage, you can always Here let me show you. Yeah, it's about right. &quot;I'm not that stupid to try that again.&quot; [laughs] You must not know who I am. &quot;You killed yourself. Now the mysteries Oh, there's 12 different Challenge accepted. Can I pick up the Dr. Shepper? I thought perhaps Who fixed it? I can't put my tongue back on it? &quot;Wash your hands, don't destroy the toilets, Define steal. There's something here Well, I think I just beat it downward I'm sure it's not that important. We care about our customers. It's a patriotic tentacle. It says four and a half stars, &quot;Have you seen this man? It looks like every stick if I could draw it slightly Stop with the F already. Try F. Okay. I don't-- I love that, oh, I can swing That's hot. is I have a- but I actually have Like someone threw away an entire &quot;Press C to cry.&quot; [cries] the door's wide open randomly crying. This is what I always wanted If you're waiting to hear me scream it's not going to happen but I won't forget to cry. Well, I guess I can't get murdered &quot;Chapter 1, hand.&quot; If the chapter was leg, [music] or is that something or is that something going on Hey, buddy, any chance That is an entire hand just right His hand is actually so far over That is very concerning. The sad part is I do actually but you're not getting it for free. You gotta work for this stuff, okay? Do you know how much I went Like first I had to pick the right stall, I kind of wonder if crying Like listen, I'm busy weeping, my calf muscles, please? He's like, &quot;I will wipe with one Did it say I can just leave? It definitely said I could just leave. But now I kind of want Like he tried to violate me. [door knock] Did it say destroy? More, more. I'm GrayStillPlays, how many times I'm prepared [music] I put an auto clicker on like 500 times [door knock] All right, The hand is still there. Can I jump on the hand? so I can get a better handle on the hand? There we go. I think I can actually Ready? Get me there. Yes, they're patent leather. Well, if I don't die, I feel like kind Maybe I can die out here. &quot;You left the restroom That's another ending. Attempt number 3. There's no reason two people All right. So do I have to give him Can I give him Do I have to be on the toilet Maybe I just click on him Ooh, oooh, ooooh. Whoop. [laughs] Yeah, just use the wide end. Well, let me see what else Hey, you like slope up? This side. Yes, everything that I'm giving you You're not getting this toilet paper. Actually, I need to move this. Now, I can finally grab &quot;I belong in the trash. I don't know why I would need Also, I have fantastic fingernails. I'm hoping that's ink and not just Actually, yay. Well, you-you didn't-- All right, or I guess I love how the game tells me that the toilet when all I was doing for their convenience How about this crushed can? All right, what we're gonna do That's hot. You could probably use this Is that what I think it is? You are really This guy is impossible to please. All right, now, just-just to try this, we're going to take the toilet paper, and I am going to give him Oh, yeah, there we go. Okay. What if I just throw it over? &quot;Sorry for interrupting your gameplay, but what you just did Please don't do that again.&quot; I'm GrayStillPlays. That looks delicious. I'm being crushed by the very thing over at [laughs] the Pad Thai &quot;You got crushed by a tentacle. Now the mysteries I feel like they absolutely Step number four. I forgot, I gotta give him [cries] There we go. All right, so what we're gonna do Here we go. for the first time ever. Am I gonna get-am gonna get violated? Oh, the clock is made Did he just vomit part Hey? You okay? No? Oh, it's like test Sweet. &quot;Don't show them, wet it.&quot; &quot;Okay, that's just a bad writing.&quot; No, saying that- [chuckles] saying Don't show them what? I'm assuming he means I hate to tell you good, to understand puzzles If I throw this at you, [grunts] Come on, baby, Oh, yep, sure does. I don't care. Oh, the door is gone. Waiting on you. and now all he has to do is just Now I have to get up, because I literally gave it to you Thanks. Do I have to go around to get the thing or can you just slide it Also, while-- I didn't even have I kind of knew what it meant. [laughs] Oh, GrayStillPlays. So what if-- I can't. [gasps] [laughs] Like it full-on crashed. This game is probably like, would have so much trouble Don't leave. So I already left, is that okay or--? &quot;Make him leave, telegram.&quot; I love how you can see but you can't actually I would give that to him, Can I take this off the-- Well, [sighs] whoops. [coughs] Yeah, don't you cough at me. What is this? No, you gotta-you gotta leave, man. Well, I mean, the administrator And I need a different Get out. Got another Oh, wow. You actually can just Hold on, let me try something. There you go. This is why I don't play basketball. There you go. Zero for two. Thanks. Hello? [door knock] I'm out of toilet paper. Hold on. Put that in the-put I'm just washing it off for you, okay? Wouldn't want you expose There you go. You're not even gonna take that? [music] [door knock] Oh, he actually did take the can. but now the can's not I'm just gonna give him You can have it all, Thanks. What are you doing with all these stuff? What the? Just the re-- [laughs] Look at it, it's moving by itself. It's the clock. [laughs] How about Come on, Take. Take. Hm? Take. Is this because I'm taking Look, man, I'm trying. Huh, I-I keep on thinking trying to kill me Oh, maybe I'm suppose Could try that I guess. Ah, all right. Uh, &quot;They watching.&quot; Oh, wow, they really are watching. [laughs] The sad part is what's in this polaroid Do you have something for me? Oh, I can actually That's fantastic. Oh, is that a grenade It is. It's a literal grenade. Hold on, and a stock Kill him. Right-click to pull the ring. So if I don't pull the ring Um, uh, is that what I think it is? If you're not gonna use that, Hey, hey, try blowing up that wall. Here. Which wall? Eh, I'm sure it's fine. Yeet. Pro-probably should've thrown I know someone out there &quot;Gray, was kidding Oh, really? allows me to find all the different All right, I'm gonna angle this down. Watch this. Oh, yeah. Oh, that's-- Hold on and boom. Maybe you'll be better Here you go. Come on, man. All right, let's see if I can be Oh, this thing Maybe now I can give it to him. Polaroid, you're always There we go. Hey. Oh. Just pretend that-- Just pretend that You got it. Oh, it does t-- I mean, can I go around in the void? Do I get to see the entire, Hey, is it safe out there? I was-I was kinda hoping to go to the-- Oh, I think I won. Hold on, we're-we're I do wanna blow that guy up. when murdering someone Oh, yeah. I'm just gonna keep giving it Like how much does Like what are you doing in there? I will give you every single piece I got one roll left brother. You've been wiping for like 35 minutes. All right, [music] Well. Yeah? I did, but I kinda screwed it up. Oh, thank God. [explosion noise] [party blower noise] Just the fact that while he was on the toilet It was nice to finally Anyway, folks, hope you enjoyed Until the next time,