Translator: Rhonda Jacobs So pathogens like this that killed humans for centuries. Until sanitation, vaccination and gave us long, healthy lives. But now, we spend nearly half of our life fighting with these kinds and for which there is no cure in sight. So today, I'll share with you of how to prevent, manage And the idea is based our near-24-hour rhythms. To adapt to the 24-hour light-dark cycle, almost every plant and animal that are controlled by These are actually encoded in our DNA. And this is so fundamental that if we move any animal or human that has identical conditions but has a day-night cycle then we cannot easily survive. In recognition of circadian clocks and health, this year's Nobel Prize to three scientific leaders in this field. And I'm really honored have directly inspired So how do we know For example, if you lock me with no clue about outside time, then my circadian clock around 10:00 at night. I'll go into deep sleep around 2:00, and anticipating waking up, my body will warm up As soon as I wake up and open my eyes, and my stress hormone My peak performance time for brain And my peak athletic performance As evening rolls in, the circadian clock to make me go to sleep again, and my body will cool down So this will continue every 24 hours, And these rhythms happen because turns on and off Every single hormone and brain chemical also rises and falls So to have these rhythms And when these rhythms break down, when we stay awake late into the night or taking care of a loved one, And if we continue abusing our clock then all these So it's very important, then, so that we can nurture them much better. So as you can imagine, just like in our brain we have a clock every day, the same brain clock sends But what is really surprising and even every single cell in our body What does that mean? It means that just like your brain clock at solving complex problems and also the brain every organ has its own at certain times of the day. And every organ needs to sleep, So all these clocks work together metabolism, mood But how are these clocks In fact, every morning as we wake up bright light goes through our eyes so that when daylight or when we move from light synchronizes all of our clocks But the property of light Almost 15 years ago, we discovered called melanopsin. It's present only in 5,000 squiggly And these light-sensing neurons are literally hard wired to the master circadian clock. But they have a very interesting property. They're less sensitive to light, So that means, in the evening, as we move around and find our way the melanopsin is not activated. It sends a signal to the brain so that the brain clock and we get a good night's sleep. And in the daytime as we wake up, go outside The daylight is very rich in blue light. It fully activates melanopsin. That synchronizes It reduces sleepiness and depression, But the problem is, we spend And at nighttime, bright screens it sends a confusing signal to the brain, so it produces less melatonin, The next day when we wake up, as we spend most of our time indoors, this indoor light so it again sends another and the brain thinks it's not day yet. So all the chemicals are actually not produced enough. So we kind of go back and forth and if it continues for weeks or months, And what is interesting is, this is particularly because their brain is still developing. And when children go through they are more prone So this new simple idea, that we need and less light, or darkness, at nighttime, is starting a new lighting revolution. And you are just getting a glimpse when your smart screen and computer screen But there is more to it. Just think about it: Circadian lighting will promote healthy brain development Circadian lighting at home, will promote alertness Circadian lighting at hospitals will promote health And in fact, right now, in our International Space Station and make them have better nights' sleep. So light is not the only factor In fact, just like light disturbs the brain clock and breaks food at the wrong time and break the metabolic and that will push us towards disease. Now, let's figure out how. So in the morning, with the right amount of hormones and even good gut microbiome So after we eat our first breakfast, a body absorbs enough carbohydrates At the same time, it saves As we continue at lunch and dinner, And after the last dinner, last bite, At the same time, the circadian clock And after a few hours, the clock turns into a reset That means that it turns on enzymes that will break down It also turns on mechanisms that we have damaged during the daytime. And a lot of cells that are damaged are also replaced with healthy new cells so that allergy-causing chemicals So after 12 to 16 hours of fasting, the cycle of nurture, But imagine if we delay So in this case, this daily rhythm There is not enough time to burn fat, and there is not enough time to break down the toxins, So, you can imagine that somebody might have a much better circadian rhythm, whereas somebody who eats To test this idea, and brought two identical groups of mice born to the same parents, And one group of mice to eat whenever they wanted. And then the second group was trained to eat the same number of calories but they had to eat everything within eight to 12 hours at nighttime And we measured the food every week for almost 18 weeks. At the end of 18 weeks, the first group of mice, where at the same time, they were really morbidly sick - where the second group were completely healthy. But what is more surprising is this: If we take those morbidly sick mice and give them the same diet, and they have to eat they become healthy. This was a really earth-shattering, because for the first time we found that when we eat is as important Well then, how do we The first thing we wanted to know is, To do that, we started a new study - and people usually sign up for the study and then, since people we asked them to take pictures of and we'd do the rest. So when the pictures come to our server, so that it's easy for us And they continue taking pictures So that we can take a nice snapshot during the weekdays and weekends. And you can see, he or she eats very randomly And if you look at the weekday those are also very random. And if you combine there is another interesting It appears as if the person and comes to the West coast which is also very bad Now, if we combine all of this data and plot it as if then you can see that this person He's not an outlier, actually. If we look at the first nearly 50 percent of adults eat for 15 hours or longer. So that means if they have their first bite the last bite or last sip of wine What is interesting is, and they eat for 15 hours or longer, then slowly they become overweight So that's why we wanted to ask We brought back people and were a little overweight, and asked them to eat whatever they want and we wanted to see what happens to them. So within three to four months, these people actually boosted up and they lost the excessive And over the last one year, we've had thousands of people who are signing up or doing this by themselves. They try to eat all of their food And when they do that, after a few weeks, they're truly amazed of the healing power of circadian rhythm. Almost all of them but as they continue, more energetic throughout the day. They sleep much better at night, and their mood is much better; And slowly, over months, they suffer less from different diseases diabetes and even So we're truly excited about this study, but at the same time, and let me share that with you. That is, circadian clock tunes the potency for almost every disease. So that means, the drug is more potent and can cure you, but at the wrong time of the day as if it's a poison. So this is really important. And the effect is at what time of the day at what time we schedule does matter. Even cancer patients who are going through chemotherapy it really matters whether in the morning or late in the afternoon. So this new knowledge is poised to start a new revolution Because the current idea by counting calories and counting steps And the same software and tools that our tech companies are using sleep less and eat around the clock We can have devices and sensors that can create a nice circadian Sensors can go on us to monitor and how it interacts Devices can prompt us to boost our circadian rhythm. And even there will be smart pills that can deliver the right medicine, even in the middle of our sleep, so that we can get cured much faster. So I truly believe that circadian rhythm to prevent, manage and cure many of the chronic diseases Thank you. (Applause) (Cheers) Thank you.