Hello, this is Supaco. This time, I would like to introduce cryopreservation techniques under the theme of cryopreservation. This is because while I was on vacation, I got certified as a Frozen Lifestyle Advisor, so I would like to share that information with you all.Here you go [Music] [Music] Freezing ant will increase the flavor content . It is recommended to buy them when they are cheap and freeze them.Wash the shellfish lightly and remove the sand with salt water. [Music] Next, put the ants in a Tupperware of a suitable size, add enough fresh water to cover the whole thing, and then put it in the freezer with Mizuko.Since the food does not come into direct contact with the air, it has the effect of preventing it from drying out and becoming dry.General With standard freezing method, it lasts for 23 weeks. It's in Japanese, but if you freeze it this way, it will last about 3 months.When cooking, put the ice in a pot and heat it up. Add some alcohol, add water, add miso, and the miso soup is ready. [Music] You might be surprised to know that tomatoes are frozen. This is so delicious that you'll be impressed. You can freeze the whole tomato just by taking care of the poor freezing method. [Applause] Frozen tomatoes become hard, but if you soak them in water, the skin will slip off . condition, so please package it It's easy to insert the fine teeth into it, so you can cut it into the size and shape you like.You can eat it by frying it or adding it to soup, but my favorite is tomato sorbet.Add sugar and lemon juice to a blender. I'm going to mix it up, but I 'm going to add a little sugar. I like to add a lot of it.A cold, crunchy sorbet is delicious in the hot summer.I also recommend adding frozen tomatoes to the noodle soup.I add frozen tomatoes instead of ice. Please try it with the soup and olive oil and pepper.It 's sure to get you hooked.And it's even easier to freeze cherry tomatoes, just remove the bottom with your hands and freeze. Just peel it off You can eat it in one bite. It's not that hard and has a crunchy texture that makes a cold snack. It's also delicious when mixed with a marinade mixed with olive oil or vinegar. Please give it a try [Music] Chilled dishes like this are generally made in a frying pan, but they can also be eaten deliciously by freezing or in the microwave. [Music] I also like that by freezing them together, I can easily eat vegetables even on tired days. Yo [music] [Music] [Music] Yes, the answer is about 5 minutes in the microwave. [Music] It's too convenient, so it'll disappear in no time . Please try making it. [Music] [Music] This jam has a surprisingly short expiration date when you open it. In such a case, let's divide it into one color. [Music] Also, I recommend freezing the red bean paste. Any leftover red bean jam. If you have any leftover, you can just put it in the freezer . It won't freeze hard, so if you have any leftover, please freeze it. [Music] [Music] It is also recommended to freeze butter. Once opened , it is best to eat it within two weeks regardless of the expiration date , but if this is difficult, please freeze it. [Music] When using it, bake it with toast. It will be easier to use, like jam and butter with red bean paste and butter. You can choose according to your mood that day, so this will get you excited.Also , warm jam Warm anko is delicious.Jam depends on the frozen soil, but like butter, it will last about half a year.Anko will last about a month. Let's use it up [music] [Music] Eggs can also be frozen as a whole.For raw eggs, wrap them gently in plastic wrap to prevent them from breaking, and then place them in a storage bag.The shells tend to break when frozen, so be sure to store them in a storage container.An interesting way to eat them is to make fried eggs. The simple way to eat it is to peel it under cold water and then cut it with a knife. The egg yolk and egg white will be exactly half each. If you fry them in a frying pan, you can make two mini fried eggs from what was originally one egg. Please try it. [Music] Garlic, a flavored vegetable, can be frozen. I recommend it.It is convenient to use it immediately if you chop it into pieces, so I like to chop it into pieces. I often store the minced garlic in a Ziploc bag, roll it out thinly, use chopsticks to make the amount I want to use at once, and store it in the freezer.When I use it, I use it for stir-fries and meat dishes. You can also use it to season pasta.You can also freeze the same flavored vegetable, ginger. It is recommended to freeze the ginger because it retains its flavor easily.I freeze the ginger in chunks.It's a little big, so just cut it into small pieces, wrap it in plastic wrap, and store it in a storage bag.When you use it, you can use as much as you want. Once you've grated it and finished using it, you can grade it again and put it back in the freezer [music] [music] When you open it, it's the last potato chip, but when you think you can't eat any more, there's a trick you can use to keep the opened potato chips crispy.That's freezing.Secure the bag tightly and put it in a chipotle and put it in the freezer. What to put in I recommend it. Potato chips themselves have almost no water content, so they won't harden even if you put them in the freezer . In fact, they will become crispier and more delicious . Freezing them will also reduce the amount of fat and oil involved, which is a good thing . music] Bananas deteriorate quickly, so it is recommended to freeze them to keep their deliciousness for a long time.It is also said that freezing increases the amount of polyphenols, so freezing them is a great way to make smoothies. When you add ice to a smoothie, it tastes a little bit better. Although it will be diluted, frozen bananas can also be used as a substitute for ice, so you can make a thick and thick smoothie.When freezing bananas, it is convenient to cut them and freeze them or crush them to make them thinner . [Music] It can be folded and used [Music] [Music] Introducing some recommended frozen smoothies [Music] Masu DET [Music] [Music] Freezing mushrooms increases their umami content, so freezing is the correct way to preserve them. However, if mushrooms are washed with water, they may lose their nutritional content and their aroma and texture will deteriorate, so it is best to freeze them without washing them. Recommendation: Always cook while frozen. Natural thawing will remove moisture. Be careful as it will melt and lose its texture.This time, I made a miso soup set for 5 days on weekdays.Soup is good because you can get all the nutrients . Set Tae Ohba cuts the ginger and puts it in the freezer.There is no harm in making a standard condiment set [Music] It's very convenient because you can freeze it in the pack. To thaw it, move it to the refrigerator the night before and thaw it, or if you want to use it immediately, pour lukewarm water over the tofu. Drain the water and thaw it in the microwave. I'm going [Music] I'm going to make tofu steak this time, and you can easily make tofu steak that looks like chicken by just adding potato starch and frying it in a frying pan.When you freeze street tofu, it has a chewy, meat-like texture. It's going to be silk beans When you freeze rotten eggplant, it becomes soft and fluffy, like layered with oil.You can enjoy a slightly different texture than usual. [Music] When you freeze raw eggplant, the fibers shrink tightly and you need to use oil when cooking. It will not absorb easily , so you can eat it in a very healthy way.After washing, remove the bottom and forehead and cut it into 2 pieces lengthwise.If you have decided on the recipe, you can also cut it into smaller pieces . Cover the surface tightly with plastic wrap I put them in a storage bag.Freezing onions also has the advantage of saving time.Just like mushrooms, the flavor and sweetness come out more easily.My recommended recipe is for curry.The onions are often stir-fried until they turn amber. You may have heard that it takes a lot of time and patience to stir-fry until it becomes a golden brown.Frozen onions are very convenient because they save time and gas costs, and you only need two chops with one stone. [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] Hey, [Music] How did you like [Music] ? What I'd like to recommend most this time is tomatoes. I 've never frozen them before, but they're really delicious when made into sorbet, so I hope you'll give them a try this summer. I would also like to introduce you to things around my kitchen, including freezing techniques , so I would be happy if you could join me again. In this way, on this channel, we usually introduce recommended products and special information on products and food combinations of Normal Ishimoto's spa recommended by Manager Normal Ishimoto and Kaldi Muji price, which can be purchased at supermarkets and department stores Depachika all over the country. I'm delivering it to you.If you found it even a little helpful, I'd appreciate it if you could like or comment and subscribe to the channel.The pot is on Instagram We also provide information on Yahoo Expert Boise, so please come and visit us if you'd like. That's all. Thank you. Bye bye again [Music]