We are now stranded on this deserted and we're going to be stranded here And that boat that just left - Why do we keep doing this? Despite its beauty, civilization has not been able to survive But for the next seven days, And we only have around 4 hours It's hot out here. We need to build a shelter I mean, why don't we just camp here? So I say we kick things off by us And you two... - We'll prep camp. Have fun with that. - How do we prep camp? And so we immediately got to work. But we had to be careful, because above you It contains poisonous tree sap Why are we still standing here? And meanwhile, I'd say it's a pretty good fire, Well, it's not a fire yet. Well, I'd say And Shawn started Are you sure Yeah. - I feel like Shawn's a survival dad. And while we came across Bro, Hey, wait! Stop running away. It wasn't long until I found out Hey, what are we doing over here? Wait. What is that? Oh, it's a knife. Were you going to try to kill - Please let me eat the chicken. Jimmy, what'd you eat for dinner Don't ask. We spent the rest which was pretty simple. I'm going to show This is the fire where we're going And this is where we sleep. That concludes the tour. We pulled over our survival crate, food, water and most importantly, And by the time the sun went down, Except for one thing Wait, hold up. Isn't sunscreen flammable? It's the end of day one. And I'm already starting I'm hoping to get some good sleep tonight. And I hope it doesn't Tomorrow we need to build a bigger shelter. And by we, I mean dad over there is - I got you. Jimmy, you're like mom, I'm just going to go to bed. I'll see you on day two. During the first night of sleep, And by we, I mean me. So it was a good thing The objective for day two is simple. We need to build a bigger We need more comfortable seats and we need a better fire pit. My butt also hurts. We're looking for very long, we can put across the top That way, when it rains instead of it it flows off the back. And while we were busy gathering Mack and Nolan we're busy - Do you see that? What's that orange thing? I mean, you could use it Dude, it's a buoy. Oh dude, there's a net. We could use a net to catch chickens. Oh, a lot of bugs, a lot of bugs. A lot of bugs. Jimmy, we found an ocean buoy. - Did you steal this? Did he steal it? It washed up on a beach. I guess that's not stealing. Oh, that is nice. For the rest of the day, Chandler, Shawn Keep going. Keep going. There's still sun in here, 90% of the time, While Mack and Nolan got coconuts. - All right. Coconut. That's good. And, of course, trying to catch Hey chickens, run, run, run away. What are you doing? All right. I saved them. Day two is coming to an end. How would you say it was? I'm tired, but I'm doing good. - Nolan? I think we can all agree we are doing way But little did I know. Later that night, things But for now, if you're wondering why Because it's We need our other water for cooking and you know, not dying of dehydration. You want to know what I noticed, What's that? We had ten carts of water, It's day two. I know. I'm going to be the adult here and just say it. Everyone needs to be more responsible I agree. Wait, what are we agreeing to? - Shawn, I agreed for you. It's also dark, we need to go to bed. In case you didn't piece it together. That guy Mack is the guy And this video. He's basically lost $1.5 million on It's a harsh way to introduce Even though we upgraded our shelter, the second night of sleep was worse We didn't know it, with bugs that ended up And for whatever reason, I got no sleep last night. Probably the most miserable thing Look how many bug bites Do you see that? And while we caught up you can probably guess what the boys Catch chickens. No, let's catch fish. So yesterday, over by that debris on the Today, the boys are going to help me The plan is basically tied to a string up there, and then catch a chicken. Let's go. Now, if I was awake to stop them, But given the fact that I felt like The boys were officially going rogue. That is a strong net. Is that? There we go. Over the next 30 minutes or so, the They then hoisted the rope up tied the rope to all four corners, That works. That's pretty nice. So after a quick reset it was time to catch a chicken. - What is this? - Can I see the rope? Is that what you guys are doing - Yeah. Thought you were doing I'll be honest. At first, this seemed because for the next 3 hours, But for some reason, Mack in particular And finally, after Yeah. Keep it tight, keep it tight. Keep it tight. Mack, what is that? Jimmy, I caught it. Oh, this chick is actually Yeah. This is the new Bryan You know what? With how nice you've been, I'm it'll continue to hang out with us. Put it down. Time to put Bryan down. Bryan, no, Bryan. What did you do to Bryan? I thought he was our friend. Well, And by the time Bryan had been caught it had gotten significantly which honestly gave all of us enough See that island behind me? - We're about to go to it Mack. Now I know what you're thinking. Why swim away from a perfectly good island And honestly, This feels really counterintuitive. I think this is a testament to just Feels like we're wasting Mack, what are you doing? Dude, there are so many fish down there. - Really? There's a stingray, look at all those fish. Those waves And they're coming right at us. Here comes a big one. Almost there. Look at the island over there And here we are. Look at this. We've got water splashing on both sides. These are extra slippery rocks. We are going up now? Oh gosh. Oh, this is crazy. This looks so cool. We did it. I don't know why we did it, How do we get off this? And then how do we get back Well, the fastest way off is jumping. I'm not jumping. During our last I felt a couple raindrops. We noticed the storm We got on the island. The forecast said There's monster clouds over there. We need to prep. Let's go boys. Nolan, fix it! Fix the hut. - Oh, no. Protect our stuff. Get as many palm leaves Chandler, more leaves. And once we ran out of daylight, we huddled up under our new and awaited a night of rain. The worst part about It's so dark. You can't even see how close Turns out we got extremely lucky. The storm ended up But what I can say is, later in this What do we do, it's raining? Dude, it's literally pouring, I just want to go home. Good morning, everybody. Let me try that again. Good morning, everybody. - Good morning. You guys got a case of the Mondays? After four days on the island, our morning routine First, we'd wake up and complain Sleeping last night was rough. And then we'd use the bathroom, I'm nervous peeing at the same time And then eat yet again, a bagged meal. We're a little tired of our bag we've got a solution. All right, - Oh, good. You have to go very, The fish aren't going to be in this, They're going to be in the dark This will be a really good idea, Probably a bad one. The plan was a little dangerous, as a human motorboat and drag Shawn and Nolan And Shawn being the expert survival is going to catch those fish and bring them back to shore for us to eat. You guys got the rope? I also brought around 500 feet So if at any point they need help, Right Chandler? Yeah. Is the rope still good? Yeah, you have plenty of rope. Mack, you doing okay? Is Mack literally just pulling them? We should just untie the rope Mack, because that's some dead weight. Hope you don't regret it. Now we have no rope, There's no way they're not getting Oh, look at that storm. - Is that a storm? - That's rain? Something tells me Oh, no. You know what we can do? We can start fishing. I wouldn't start fishing yet, - Guys! - You see any fish down there? None yet. We have the rope. - Oh, you got something? - We got a fish. - Yeah. - Fish! Fish! And after 2 hours of fishing and all they had Is this fine to eat? Yeah, of course. It literally tastes like fish I mean, you know where fish - Where? And even though this fish from it was time to eat something S'mores. S'mores. First off, you need to burn Oh, I didn't know that, actually. You seem like you've done s'mores before, Well, as a man who owns Oh, Mack. Oh, God. You take the Feastables chocolate, while it's still hot, Look at that. Make sure to try out People are actually liking it It's sold out in most stores. Don't worry. We're doing our best You've never had a s'more until you've had a s'more Like clockwork, we lay down Why is it that whenever we do it literally only rains I'd say - Yeah. You caught a chicken. I caught a fish. Here's Yeah. I just woke up, I have no idea what day it is. It's day... Five. I was about to say that. One of the reasons is there's very old houses or ruins, whatever And even though they're located I say today's the day - I agree. Now that we had all agree to go to the ruins, start this expedition And just as we were eating our bagged breakfast, appetizing down the beach. Over there on the shoreline. - What is it? No way, bro. There's a goat. - Mack, you cannot eat that. No. - Run away goat. Run away, goat. Get out of here. Yes. - Why would you do that? No, he's not is food. Once again, And after sparing it was time to adventure All right, let's do it. - We're almost out of water, guys. I'm gonna trying to fill these up - Let's go. Yeah. Keep going. And what they don't know is waiting for us It'll make sense in a little bit. That was kind of weird, how you just stayed back Yeah, kind of like how you lost $1.5 Oh, yeah. Follow me, gang. Jimmy, I believe in you. For a second, I thought Forgot, we haven't even reached And while we climb this mountain, I'm Wherever you are, Western Union to friends and family anywhere We'll be up here. Yeah, you keep talking about that Jim. Hey, wait up for me. We'll go all the way up there? Western Union also has a free website So even my Grandma can use it? Even your Grandma, Mack. And before I got here You got to be careful. Here, give me a second Western Union. I also use Western Union to pay the boat guy that dropped me off Because they had been I know my money got to them Look how far away Dude, is that a rainbow? Rainbow right there? - Oh yeah. That's awesome. I'm not going to be like a Debbie That giant cloud? That giant cloud with the rain coming up. You're being a Debbie Downer. Hey, you can see Shawn from here. Dude, he's building the shelter. Shawn's making us dinner. Shawn! I can see you. He heard us. Keep going. Wave if you're a nerd. Oh, he's waving. Is it going to be dark when Yeah. - How are we going to see? That's going to be unfortunate - Are you good? I'm alive. See that right over there? Come on over here. Welcome to the ruins. This is actually sick. Dude, why is there just a yellow box? Yeah, what is this thing? I'm glad you asked. I paid some guys with Western Union Really? Nolan, there's a crowbar in your backpack. - What do you think's in here? You knew that so you put extra water in this box. And while we're opening this. There's never been a better time to download Your first transaction is free. Just go to westernunion.com/mrbeast. I know I could have filled this crate but instead I brought something Mack, does this moment Hold this picture of you losing 800 grand. Now here's a picture of you Bro, why? - Why go through all... Now, I didn't do this to make Really? Because that's exactly I did this to say, that we're going to give you - No shot. You're going to give me a third shot. - Your final shot. If you look at the last video we did, every single comment was I hope you win. - That's another shot. There's some ruins over here. Look at them. Third shot baby. I'm not going This building is almost Imagine building this 100 years ago to explore it. This is wicked. Why is there a cactus up there? Does the cactus just crawl up there? or does someone put the cactus up there? The cactus does not crawl up there, Jimmy. It doesn't have legs. Oh, my God. Let's check out - There's some more ruins over there. Look how the tree is like wrap Would the gang say Because I got a third chance, All right, well he's biased. Would you two say it was worth it? - No. By this time day five sun And on our way back to camp, at the peak of the mountain There's no one. I'd rather scaled the side Thank you. Maybe Dwayne, the Rock, Johnson. That's fair. But outside of that, Boys, I'm going to be honest, - I'm going to remember this forever. I think this view made the journey Camp's cleaned up. It's been reinforced from the rain, Got a lot more water. I mean, you can't even see I don't know how they're going to make it to all these woods in the dark. This is way sketchier at night Cactus. - You good? But little did we know running into a cactus was actually We ended up hitting a dead end, which is a little intimidating Which direction is it? Is it this way or Wait, I can see three different things. Dude, there's this right here And then there's this one right here. This is a path too. Are you sure? - Or is that it? Guys, I will pick a random direction. Wait. No, no. I think it is to the left. - Oh, it is? Oh, it's raining. And we must have been extra because on top of being lost, Are you sure this is the right one? Jimmy, it's this way. - Which way are we...? - Wait, Chandler! Chandler, how sure are you? - I'm 10% sure it's this way. Are you 90%? Can we choose? It's pouring on the side Go. It's raining. Okay. Why do we choose it then unchoose? Oh, boys, this is bad. It is getting slick. I really don't think we came up I almost face planted. And if we couldn't be any more while we're lost, We've even got a third thing Above you If it rains, it will seep poison Watch out for the death apple sap - What are we supposed to do? Oh, that is 10,000% That means we're close. And regardless of we could tell - That's sand. - Thank God. Camp is right there. We have a rare opportunity to scare Are we going to take advantage - Yes. Okay. Oh, God. Oh, my God. You scared me. - We made it. I made you guys Oh, I appreciate it. Cheers, boys. Wow, it tastes like a coconut. After the hike, we ate, we showers, we took a second Because when you're it really feels like But unexpectedly, around the corner was something we've been fearing You feel that? Guys, bad news. There's a ton of water I just don't know if that's going Despite our efforts from earlier water was beginning to pool up All this water on top of us, is there a world that And even though all we wanted at we had to get up and deal with it. Oh, my God, we're absolutely screwed. I'm just getting destroyed And after 2 hours of rain, there is no chance any of us Raining on you at night, the worst experience I'm so tired. Hopefully it just passes over. And even though this was an all time low, I'm not going to lie. The rain I don't know that I've ever been ever. What do you want I don't know. Absolutely nothing. I just can't wait to get out of here. This place sucks a lot. I'm not going to lie. I'm sick and I'm tired, and I want to go at this point, the island was This is quickly turning And after six days our mental health There's only so much bagged food you can drink and before And I'm starting to feel terrible. I have a headache. It was clear that we were going if we were going to complete Looking for a peach cobbler. Wanna look for a peach cobbler? Oh, I found one. So, in an effort to turn things around, we treated ourselves Pretty good. How about it? For a can And with the help of this unorthodox Chandler happy. We were beginning to return back Nolan. Dude, you hit straight into the tree. And it became clear how exactly By having fun with each other. And I began to realize... even though we've all done Why'd we pick the heaviest seat This whole trip has been filled Cheers boys. And adventure. We did it. Moments like these are hard to find. And when I look back we probably won't remember as much as we will the good. It's kind of cool. And with day six of our challenge We're celebrating our final but it's kind of burning us all. - Yeah, I'm getting back. When we wake up tomorrow, And as the sun rose on day Go, get me out of here. We broke down camp Leaving this place And before we leave, thank you all for watching. All of you are the only reason videos and I really hope you all enjoyed it.