OK, VIP room on the 39th floor Others stop Very possible All right. I'll be right there. Bordeaux Best Cellar Wine Would you like to try it? OK Drug trick When I don't know Okay, I'll play with you. Who are you to dare barge here? Do you believe me? That's a lot. Take away Come with me! Practiced fur Come back Who are you? What about my own brother? Don't move. Hello boss Well, I've got it People are already with me now Who did you find? i Did you hit someone again? Apologize quickly We are a security company Doorkeeper 39th Floor, Imperial Capital Those who go there are all famous people in Yuncheng If you cause me trouble again Pack up tomorrow and get out Haosheng, I obviously didn't drink alcohol Is it those candles? Wrong door maybe Please continue. Hit someone and want to leave I'll wait. Jianghu rules I'll pay for this wine Not anymore. Feel sorry You delivered this yourself. Leave me alone. It's over, it's dead I went on a mission and got an oolong Now I'm sleeping again Run away I'm sorry. I'm so sorry. But I really can't take that responsibility anymore If my boss finds out I don't have enough to eat. 3,000? Never see you again Stupid is stupid That's true. Very different from the women who ingratiated themselves with me for past lives Kind of interesting. pick up Grandpa's phone number Old brat Why didn't anyone answer my call last night? Did you go out and fool around? Keep your voice down something to say It's okay, I'm hanging up. You listen to me I must bring my daughter-in-law back to me at the end of this month Otherwise, family succession Maybe it's the little white-eyed wolf of the clan politician Ok ok ok I got it Hang up Check it out for me. What's the origin of the woman who broke into my room last night? Getting married anyway It's better to pick one that looks good to the eye The other party asked you to go by name for this task The address and compensation are written in it. We must fully comply with their demands How afraid of death is this person? Don't even leave a name Did not understand Guaranteed to complete the task Why did you pick such a thing on a hot day? get out Decadent vertical screen male protagonist What a coincidence, you are here too, oh my god Good day, good day. Don't want to be responsible That's what it says. Isn't that just a matter of adult men and women? Besides, haven't I already apologized to you? What more do you want? get the certificate What! No. No matter what he says about this, I will suffer more. No problem, you need to compensate. Why are you still relying on me? We Master Xiao live in the Forbes 500 The king of new energy vehicles in France A true national husband Any girl chasing him could end up in the Seine Will rely on you crazy girl Hey stay away from me I'm allergic to rich people From today on, you are my personal bodyguard Ask you The boss should have told you. This mission must be fully compliant with their requirements Is the employer you? Everything is up to you Good idea. There's 5 million in this card Just treat it as if we return the contract money. Remember to come to the company tomorrow. Ok boss Let's go Just get a certificate I'm not at a loss After the mission is over Sister is still free Oh, dear. Do you know how to come back? Running around outside every day Don't take a penny home What a fart Whoops, what a big face Did you give birth to me or raise me? Why should I give you money? With your face Oh, Sue. Look at your daughter I serve you all day I'm really good at this I also You can stop touching porcelain Hit you I didn't spend a penny of your money when I married into the Su family However, I am the most When did you get sick and die? I still have the money to buy you a wreath How do you talk to your mother? Ah, hurry up and apologize to him. He's not my mom. This is the woman who killed my mother You don't just ignore They even married their mother and daughter What do you mean? You fuck It was an accident. Shanshan was also in the car at that time How could I even hurt my daughter? accident That was quite a coincidence. There were three people in the car My mom died. My boyfriend has amnesia He was the only one, Suzanne, unscathed. You are bloody Shanshan also stayed in the hospital for a long time before waking up Yeah, he's in the hospital. They all lived in my boyfriend's bed That's enough! Look at what you have become now NANA Your aunt found you a blind date I heard it's still worth millions. Remember, ask for more dowry then They all like money, right? This is my money for selling myself From then on, there will be no more sleepy customers with the Su family Where did you get so much money? You have no right to ask any more How can I talk to Zhao Mei? Ah! Lower Lao Su That warm No, you see you are busy outside all day Isn't Auntie worried about you? You said that all of a sudden I brought back so much money for my aunt and dad Honor us both This way, my aunt will be relieved. Can you tell Auntie where you work? Introduce it to your boss. Let Shanshan go for you too My job She can't do it Why can't you do it? If you do it, your sister can't do it. Or are you worried that your sister will compare you to you? Oops Lao Song The kid just got back. Don't worry Hurry up and get the durian out Nan Nan loves this the most Just looking at the two of you It's more disgusting than making me eat stinky shit Keep it for yourself Hello Song Zhenxiang Do you have staff quarters? I'll pick you up No wonder my mom said so much money It turned out to be an old man Ah, I'll do it myself This is the staff quarters you were talking about This is my house. You are my wife Is it okay to live here? It's not true. Call me so late Are you wronged at home? Zong Zhengxiang, you premiered in Yuncheng Could you please do me a favor? Three months ago. My mother was killed in a car accident. The appraisal said it was because of driving reluctance But I always feel that things are not so simple I hope you can check it for me. Why did my mom get into a car accident? Good idea. Leave this to me Sleep well tonight Oh, and Our relationship It's better to keep it a secret from outsiders for the time being It's also convenient for me to protect you. You go to the company to report starting tomorrow. Just be my personal secretary Hey wait I can't do the job of waiting for a personal secretary I can't sit still in that office either You made me a secretary? Why don't you let me do the cleaning? OK This man's brain was chopped off with a pig's butt Just say it casually Really let me be Wang Qiang Yeah. Isn't this my sister who was taken care of by a local tyrant? Suzanne, what are you doing here? Of course I came to work. It's not that I said sister, why is it still keeping up with the cleaning? Could it be that he was dumped? Sasha, this is the sister you always talk about You don't look that good Oh, you don't think much of it? Maybe people are in other ways Is there any extraordinary ability? I don't know yet You know that? Experienced Su Nuan, don't slander me What are you doing around here during working hours? noisy Be the head of this market This cleaner is dirty. Our new colleagues Global limited edition shoes still refuse to apologize He is the fiancee of the president's nephew How do you do things? Apologize quickly Without him, your 10 small cleaners are not enough to open It turns out that the world's top 500 companies are so bullying Bullying newcomers Okay, you called Zong Zhengxiao He said a word and I left immediately What about Zeng Zhongxiao? He is the president of our cloud group, Daxia The youngest and most promising national husband It doesn't matter who you are Dare to say that people are Xiao Yan Oops colleagues Come and have a look It was this little cleaner who said he knew Xiao Yan He also said that our president personally invited him here. Oh, my God. The president personally invited a small cleaner You're killing me. Hahahaha What a big breath Don't look at what kind of character Xiao Yan is It is. It is. This woman is crazy about her husband We Xiao Yan That's the dream girl of all the girls in the building. It's just that I've been in Yundian for 5 years and I haven't seen Xiao Yan He deserves it too Don't believe it, right? I'm going to call him now to cheer up, right? pack Then pretend to see how long you can play Hey uncle So many people watching I'm ashamed of you for you Just in a meeting The phone is silent. Did you call me for something? Zhong Shangxiang, your people are going to fire me Is that what you mean? Wait a minute. I'll send someone down to pick you up You go pick up the lady yes Okay, I don't know who's calling You can act anytime No, I said sister. It's a pity you don't go and squat at the door of the crew Hey, security, get this woman out of here I see who dares I was invited by Zong Zhengjiao If you want to fire me, he has to come Dare to say that you know Master Xiao You don't even know who you are Get to know Master Xiao Throw him out Touch me again and hit me back Let's see how you fight back Throw him out Stop Stupid who let you treat Miss 4 like this Su Nuan Is this the man who takes care of you? I say Li Tezhu How could you suddenly protect a little girl? It turned out to be your little lover who maintained it It's an eyeless thing What kind of snake root do you dare to chew? Do you know who you have offended? Miss Su is our Master Xiao's person Don't think that Arizawa always supports you You can do whatever you want here Master Xiao is not close to women Everyone knows You want to protect your little lover There's no need to move Master Xiao out to scare me When will Hong Chunxiao come? Master Xiao just finished the meeting It's wrapping up. Let me come pick you up first These two also played OK Go ahead. What are you still doing? Get him out of here I see who dares I'm so proud, where did you get the qualifications to call me Don't you want to fuck me? Li Sizhu's tone is so loud Director Li Chuanzhu abused his personal rights to protect his little lover Damage the company's reputation You have to call the shots for us. Mr. Xiao Yeze's people are also downstairs I'll take a look. I think it's you and your little lover who are leaving Director Zhang, be careful of disasters coming out of your mouth Can you afford to offend Master Xiao? Director, don't be deceived by him He just wants to protect his little lover That was the night. I clearly saw him carry Su Nuan into the car Your eyes are bad You should hurry up and go to the ophthalmology department. You are full of shit I saw it with my own eyes You dare to argue, don't you? Throw them out! I will bear all the consequences I'm afraid you can't afford the consequences. young master Throw this woman out for me Su Nuan, let me tell you It's not over I won't let you go. And you two Pack your things and leave immediately Xiao Yan I have no eyes You forgive me This time Xiao Yan Director Please! Please help me. Please help me intercede with Xiao Yan Director Zhang You are the one I paid for. But do things for others I think it's time to save this money You don't have to go to work tomorrow small eye Such a nice space An office for a brainless person Really blind What do you mean? Who has a good brain can't understand It means cleaning. So when I say cleaning, is it cleaning? I clearly rescued you just now. Shouldn't you be grateful to me now? You asked me to work in the company. In the end, we are half and half responsible for this What's there to be grateful for? Oh. I understand. Co-authored, I paid you and spent nonsense Su Nuan is a very warm woman Why is it so incompatible with you? No wonder you can't get married. That's me. You just hit Humph Ono South East Asia to him I'll arrange it. I'm talking to you, you're not going Are you not leaving? Come on, come on, get out of here You call me Does Azer remember? This restaurant is where we used to come often Your favorite seat is by the window. Remember that? Not really. Yo Sister is also here Aze Did you do it on purpose? You know the two of us have been Sister, what nonsense are you talking about? Ze and I are truly in love Ah Ze, don't you still remember? We met together three years ago I know you have everything on top And I'm just a dirty, illegitimate daughter I have nothing but Azi I beg you I beg you Just raise your hand and fulfill us It's a pity that Suzanne doesn't go to acting Sister, I didn't know you liked my boyfriend. If I had known earlier I will definitely give it to you. But now I'm pregnant. Zhe's child you You even have children Suzanne, you are as cheap as your mother That's enough! Even if you are Shanshan's sister And I forbid you to hurt her Shanshan and I are getting married soon I don't want to see anything like this happen again. Yes, sister. At that time Can't you please come to our wedding? Sorry. I don't have a penchant for watching other people's jokes I wish you all the best in advance What's your relationship with Zong Zhize? I didn't sell it to you. I have nothing to do with anyone It has nothing to do with you Lao Hu, your employees have a problem with their work attitude Can I complain? What kind of basket did Su Claw throw in again? I mean if I need anything Will he cooperate with all my actions? Don't worry. Supper is absolutely 100% cooperative If he has any questions, please tell me directly. Is there a problem now or no problem? So far, no problem. Hang up like this I don't care what your relationship is with him Anyway, during the execution of the task You are my wife I don't allow you to be confused with any man, OK? Wear something nice tomorrow Attend the wedding with me Master, I can see you My side I have a business I want to talk to you about. Take a step to speak OK Take the lady in first Ok ma'am please Hey, where is Nuannuan? So fraudulent I don't know. I am now the girlfriend of Yizong Zhengze's uncle His identity appeared at his wedding outrageous Wan Wan Just wait and see the show Ah, what do you mean? Madam, this is the location for supper. Just sit here and wait Yo Sister, I haven't seen you for a few days, and another man has changed. Go away. Sister, I know you are not reconciled that Aze chose me But you can't be hungry Follow any old man I didn't expect you to be so casual Can also eat I thought you just lost your memory I didn't expect you to lose your brain Can't you tell that's his white lotus quote? Anyway. I still want to thank my sister for enabling me and Azi No problem Anyway, what good thing can be taken away by you? I also want to thank you for helping me with the sword Oops, I suddenly remembered Aunt Mei used to like Ah Ze very much Now I married him for you It can be regarded as letting Aunt Mei die in peace You replace my mother Sister, how can you hit me? Su Nuan quickly apologized to Shanshan Facing a mistress who steals her sister's boyfriend What do I have to apologize for? Su Nuan, this is not a place where you can sit Where should I sit? The people sitting here are all Aze's elders What right do you have to sit here? security guard Blow me out of this unknown woman Who says he doesn't have the qualifications? Oops, second brother When did you arrive? Why didn't you notify me? So I can pick you up? Sister-in-law was delayed just now. It's late. Not too late It hasn't even started yet. There's been a little bit of an incident here. The woman's signature cannot find her position We're working on it now. Ah this is his position Uncle, do you know him? Of course. Is there a problem? Oops, second brother Are you mistaken? This woman is Shanshan's sister This is the main table seat How could she be sitting here? sister-in-law She's my wife. Where do you want to sit if you don't sit here? What second brother Ah! Are you in a hurry to get the inheritance of the Zongzheng family? Find any woman out there and get married, right? sister-in-law You think too much. I have a good relationship with Nuannuan Uh-huh. What's up? Take this opportunity to let everyone know about our relationship Just right to deceive people How about so many people? I'll tell you hurry up I never heard that Song Ruoxiang has a woman before. Now in front of so many people and the media public identity It seems serious They're so sweet! How many times more beautiful than the bride and groom This pair of CP I knocked bitch Obviously the protagonist of today's wedding is me The most glorious person should also be me You're making a splash here Sister, when did you get married? I don't know. Ah-ha. I forgot to tell you But now I'm officially informing you By the way, Aze Should you call me aunt now? Aze Should you call me aunt now? Su Nuan, wait a minute. After I get the inheritance I will definitely snatch you back from Zhong Zhongxiao's hands Aunt Good nephew Don't think the big red envelope given by my aunt is too small. Oh, dear. The marriage is about to begin. I took them to get ready Gone, gone What's wrong with one by one? After the sisters married into the same wealthy family There's lots of stories. However, Master Xiao is much more powerful than his nephew I don't know which of them will crush which one? Now his nephew is already married To the end Who is the head of the Zhongzheng family? Distinguished guests Below please The bride and groom step into our wedding hall Now we're on the big screen Playing the sweet memories of the two It was an honor to be with them. Remember this past romance and warmth How is it? Does the photo look good? Is it shocking? What photo? Look at the big screen criminal record What's going on here? Ze, what's wrong with you? Are you feeling unwell? It must be my sister's fault I knew it! He will never let us get married well I actually came up with such a photo Ruin our wedding Ah Ze, don't blame my sister. I know him. I just like you too much. Slander me he is slandering me It turned out that Su Nuan was abandoned by Zong Zongze Then I got Xiao Yan To do such a thing So shameless Not obviously scum Why did you put the hat on your sister's head in the middle of the trial? Mr. Zong Zhengde Excuse me, you still liked your sister two months ago. How can I have a child with my sister? Is it cheating? This picture is from p. Can't you see? Who allowed you to come in? Security kicked them all out Got it. I'll prove it to you. Ah-ha. It turns out that Su Shanshan, you have already hooked up with Zong Zhengze She was pregnant. You are talking nonsense, so you are not pregnant? Still didn't hook up with Jung Masazawa? You see clearly I just got pregnant a month ago The pregnancy test report is here Can it still be fake? Shanshan Shanshan Are you alright? Is Shanshan alright? Is she alright? Ah, exercise. Sorry, sorry. Excuse me? Don't shoot, don't shoot Okay, don't shoot, don't shoot, come, come Stop, I see you're not done. What kind of kindness did you become? To disrupt the wedding like this He lost his footing and fell. None of my business Anyway. Shanshan has Aze's child Although there was a little accident at the wedding But it's a way From now on Shanshan is the daughter-in-law of our Zongzheng family Friendly reminder during pregnancy If collided It is likely to affect a child's intellectual development I suggest you take him to check it out quickly Shanshan will take you to the hospital? No. Child if there is a problem I have feelings Could it be that he is fake pregnant? sister-in-law Nuannuan and I have something to do Excuse me. Prevent problems before they happen After all, if you really wait 10 months for the baby to be born It's too late to regret Yeah, that makes sense. No way. Shanshan Otherwise, let's go to the hospital to have a look. Mom, it's okay. I don't have to go to the hospital. I'm just a little tired I want to go back and rest now. Mom, since Shanshan doesn't want to go Don't make it difficult for her I'll take her home to rest first It's not too late to go to the party It's all my fault This wedding can't go well Ouch, what nonsense are you saying? You didn't mean to If you want me to see it, it's all your sister who doesn't know the basics. Just made this happen today That's true. You said that neither Ah Ze nor I invited reporters over. How could a reporter suddenly appear? I don't know who invited me Don't worry about that. Leave it to me and your dad Ah Ze quickly takes Shanshan back to have a good rest Don't be exhausted. Hello grandson Song Zhenxiang What are you shouting for? Look at you. Look at what you've done Hot search for husband and wife photos Isn't that nice? deception Also give us free publicity After the mission, if you don't want to leave Can continue to live here Let me tell you something. The mission is over, I'll leave right away I never wanted to make it real. Don't talk nonsense to me. I'm not talking nonsense. Is what they said They say it's not because you were at the wedding reception My day What's up? What's wrong with me? Miss Su Isn't this distance a bit too close? Tonight, I will sleep on the sofa and you will sleep in the bed. You sleep on the sofa and I sleep on the bed The woman I like in Song Zhongxiao will never run away Honey, we still have a long way to go Are you sure you want to buy me clothes? My dad will go back to China tomorrow. Must see his daughter-in-law Take your pick here. Count tooling Someone is following Don't look back Who the hell did you mess with? In broad daylight, people stare and say I go out to see What should I do if you go out? You are my bodyguard What are you responsible for? Then you go out with me I really can't run anymore. Take a break Your fitness is so poor Still have to follow I'll go back by myself after exercising Why don't you go back first? It's okay, calm down and let me Ok ok ok Oops, this is another loss. One more plate Water is afraid of water Hey grandpa They are obviously a scam to cheat money Liar Oops, you said I remembered I just encountered Pengci abroad I missed my grandson's wedding It's hard to come back now Encountered this scam again Ouch, fleeting years are not good. little sister Watch chess without a word, don't you understand? What are you watching chess without saying a word? I didn't give grandpa any advice I'm talking about your chess game Liar, are you deaf? I play chess openly The old man is happy to play I would like to accompany Who did I lie to? This is a dead end on the board. It's impossible to win It's not a lie Stinky bitch gets in the way of money Do you know what the consequences are? When I get scared Little girl, hurry up and call the police It's okay grandpa Just a few of them. Not moving enough muscles and bones Don't worry. Protect yourself little sister Young That's not small. Brothers Grandpa, are you alright? I'm fine. Hey little girl, I still have something to do I'll go first Ah grandpa you Oops, so like an old man Are you all right? I'm fine, you can ask them Mrs. Lin, long time no see. Oh, dear. Master, this is my wife You finally brought your new wife back Let me introduce you This is Mrs. Lin Watched me grow up Hello aunt Ok ok ok ok Come on in Let's go Eat fruit Second brother is back Yo Isn't this Sister Shanshan? Lin Ma Why does everyone eat these twenty-dollar apples? Lin Ma It's okay. You go down Hey, okay, okay, come on, come on. What about big brother dad? He's upstairs resting Brother and sister Old man I just want to meet my new wife. Don't be afraid. Although the old man has a strange temper But people are nice Big brother is about to return It's not a big deal to be idle at home. Ah, I wonder if he is The manager of the company After all, the group also has his share. Dad just got back What are you talking about? Why can't I say it? Now the second child and Ah Ze are already married. Shouldn't we bring up the issue of company shares? Be a bad professor for life Now even the cost of living at home is a problem Who among them saw it? What's the problem with expenses? This is outrageous. Why am I being unreasonable? I have been married to you for so many years I'll babysit you and take care of you I'll give you a baby Look at the clothes on me again That's what Shanshan bought for me Those precious international brands How much did you buy me? Enough? Oh, dear. I have been with you all these years for a lifetime Angry at me, you, you How dare you hit me! Oh, dear. Ok ok me I'll fight you Mom, what are you doing? Oops go You're finally back. Your dad is very capable He hit me Who am I for? I'm not all getting ahead for you Carry up the Zongzheng family business? Dad? You can't beat your mother no matter what. And Mom was right. I can also inherit the property of the Zhongzheng family Sister, why did you watch your mother get beaten? I know you have a cold heart But you can't watch a play here at this time, right? Which mountain is it? Which folk song do you sing? Now you should call me aunt Again That's not my mom. None of my business sir Let the two new daughters-in-law come upstairs to meet him You are good daughter-in-law Yes grandpa Who told you to call yourself grandpa? kneel down Ah! kneel down No no Grandpa me Did I do something wrong? To make you so angry Do you want me to say it a second time? Quite tolerant Aren't you going to sue me at Azhe? No matter what You should teach your granddaughter-in-law a lesson. I just don't know what I did. Make you unhappy But if kneeling makes grandpa happy I would like to kneel scheming Go and call the second daughter-in-law over Ok grandpa Will the lord scare them by doing this? If he is frightened by this little trick Then he is not worthy to be the daughter-in-law of the Zhongzheng family Grandpa calls you in Let's see how arrogant you can be I'll go in later and you'll look good. sir kneel down What! Why is this mystery so familiar? It's You Grandpa hahahaha It's you Hahaha Grandpa Oh, are you our daughter-in-law? It seems hahaha. Hey Xiao Wang Sweep the floor clean Don't hurt my daughter-in-law, haha. Grandpa, this is Oh, dear. I originally wanted to give this to my daughter-in-law who won't sleep next year It's dismal How do you know it's you, haha? Haha, hi. Grandpa, look Isn't this a coincidence? Haha. Call grandpa Hahaha dad, hahaha I should have known that you are the daughter-in-law of the second child. Why should I go to so much trouble? Hahaha hey Xiao Wang informed them to eat It's the master, we're looking for Hahaha Hey boss What does this Tai Chi look like? Hey, this hand is rubbed like this. Hey, your hand is wrong. Hey, are you going to try to let me hold a grandson? Dad, is that so? Dad, I have no plans to hold the baby so soon Well, that's okay. You and your second brother go to adopt one Come back and be your son I'll be back. Such a transfer of the inheritance ship When you want to be born Hou Sheng can still do this Why not? I mean adding to the Zongzheng family That doesn't mean you have to have money to live, right? I'm not cheating. You are so reasonable old man It's time to eat Don't starve my wife Hey Go and taste your mother's cooking Dear The second child has been around since my mother passed away Ah, Dad rarely talks to people so much Have you found a good wife? Hahaha, are you more boring than the other? It's annoying to watch It's still our house that suits my heart best Come to eat Eat more! Thanks dad It's not easy to have children if you're thin, right? Hey, leave the responsibility to me, you and Nuannuan? I still have grandchildren to hold OK I try my best Su Nuan, you are mine I'll take you back sooner or later Grandpa seems to like my sister very much But you won't be biased then, will you? Grandpa, you seem to like your aunt very much. What you say doesn't count, does it? Hey Oops haha How do you talk to grandpa? Are you deaf at your young age? I told you and your second uncle who will add to the Zhongzheng family first Who is the heir? I won't change a word of what I've said Grandpa Shanshan is already pregnant You are optimistic, and we will talk about it when you are born, hahaha. That's right, Aze, what's your hurry? Anyway, wait a few more months. He can only count when the child is born Ah, other people can't gossip, right? Does this child have something on his mind? Why don't you make a statement? Hey, Nuannuan, is everything okay in your house? Mom and Dad are fine Thank you grandpa for thinking What's your accent when I talk to Nuannuan? The family eats like this I'm full Madam, you can eat more and go back to rest, right? Okay, slow down. Don't eat Su Nuan, this bitch It was me who was obviously pregnant The protagonist should also be me He appeared in front of everyone like the stars holding the moon Make the old man even pay attention Don't look at me That's not easy. A wealthy family like Zongzheng There must be no room for a little bad reputation If Su Nuan did something to ruin the family atmosphere I see how arrogant he is, mom. What do you mean? Find two people to ruin his reputation Take a video and send it online. Will Zong Zhengxiao still want him? It's not solved Hum mom Or do you have a way Su Nuan, I see how you still show off your power in front of me The universe in my heart only wants to rely on two hands Uh, our car's here? Let's go first See you. Our car has arrived too There we go! Be careful. Send a message home Why haven't you come back yet? Li Dazhu on the back Yes, you can. I opened my first order at the age of 24 Catch up with you Sister, I'm so intimidating Hello What's going to happen? Sister, can you see if it works? My wife is in labor You go to the hospital You call me a chauffeur Ok ok I'm going to be a father soon The roof of my car is broken. brat Finally got my chance So handsome Hey yo Heh. It's for me look familiar something I'll take a video for you later, and you'll know. Just you little rascals Not enough for grandma to plug between her teeth Come and serve me sneak attack you Stinky bitch You kick me? I'll kill you. Xiao Yan, you better see who I am It's too late to roll now Don't trust him. I have offended Xiao Yan today Left and right are dead Go for it. Go for it. Brothers go Who says men can't faint of blood? Sorry. This time it's really because I got you hurt Whatever you say is right You still have a conscience It hurts a little. You bear with me Hey It hurts, it hurts, be honest. Be careful not to scar me Do you mind? Mind what? You are my wife I want to show you everything. Do you mind if I have scars? It's a mission between us After the mission, I left Who do you love to show to? Hey, hey, hey. Did I touch your wound? Sorry, sorry. Pain, pain, pain. Oops, don't move to you. That's all you need. Yes, you do. Take it easy Take it easy. Yeah, yeah, relax That's all. Ouch. Extremely tempting Are you done? Director Zhang said it was supported by Second Miss Su To teach the lady a lesson Suzanne Let's go Go see my good nephew Uncle, why are you free today? Come to me! Take care of your woman Next time, it won't be a group of people, Xiaoshu What exactly happened? Shanshan, what's wrong? Did you misunderstand him? Can you ask him yourself? I hope you keep in mind what I said Ah! Show off your power in front of me Zhong Zhengxiao is waiting for my child to be born Hmph, wait until I sit on the seat of the head of the family I see how you are still rampant in front of me If Ah Ze finds out that I lied to him about a fake pregnancy Then I'm dead You must find a way to hide it from the world Stupid can't do this little thing well Su Nuan You won't be so good next time What's that? Mom Now. Ah Zi put all the bets in my stomach still If he finds out I'm fake pregnant Then I'm dead Since this happened again, Su Nuan Then all the consequences will be borne by him What are you staring at me for? Don't let see do not allow It hurts, I'm lying to me Who lied to you? That Hurry up and do it! Big brother called just now and said Call us back to our hometown for dinner uncle Looks like I'm going to win this time You know No one can change the rules set by grandpa Congratulations in advance Your grandfather's rules are ridiculously lenient, okay? Are you all right? Okay, okay. Second brother, when are you going to marry Xian Xian? No hurry, let him get ready first What am I getting ready for? I don't need it. You are in such a hurry How about our class next week? I mean, I don't need a wedding Uncle, I toast you to this glass of wine Which dish is delicious? Try this. Aunt, your second uncle has to drive later. Sister is called aunt This drink was originally meant to be a toast to my uncle But he's driving. Then please bring it. I dare not drink your toast Humph Shanshan Let's see if the child is promising Shanshan Send to the hospital soon Yes, yes, yes. Hurry up hurry up elder sister I know you're jealous of the baby in my womb But it doesn't matter what you do to me. The child is innocent Why did you do this to my child? You Su Nuan If there is any problem with my child I won't let him go. I didn't touch him. Don't turn around, what's the use of being in a hurry? How is he? Say it The child was not saved Adults need to take good care of themselves Now send it to the ward first Doctor, are you mistaken? That Shanshan just fell Why would the child be gone? Please be quiet This is a hospital. A four-month-old fetus is inherently unstable There is a risk of miscarriage if you are not careful Not to mention a fall It's all you If it weren't for you Shanshan won't fall The baby won't fall off either You pay my grandson You pay, you pay my grandson You pay My grandson, you pay let go What time is it? You still protect him This woman caused our Zou Zheng family to disappear He should marry our ancestors Kneeling in front of the ranking Say something You are dead Oops all this time What's the use of saying that? Now hurry up and see how Shanshan is doing Go go go Shanshan Don't be too sad if the child is gone. You are still young Take care of yourself first Then the child will have another mother soon. It's all my fault What kind of wine do you think I'm going to toast? I'm really happy to see my uncle and sister back So you did it on purpose, right? You came back this time to abort my child Really? Chong Jin Ze, are you here to be funny? He insisted on coming to see me What does it have to do with me? Your sister, it was you who bumped into me So you are my sister. I don't blame you. But it's so chilling that you talk like that You poisonous woman Since they are all so sad Then go see the child The 8-week embryo has formed And I asked the doctor He was the only one who had an abortion last night I'll take a look. Hey don't I'll take a look, don't go Ah Ze, I heard the doctor in the operating room say It's pitiful for such a big child. I just can't bear to see it. Sister, how can you bear it? Aren't you unconscious in the operating room? How can I still hear the doctor? Oh, right. I forgot to tell you Although the fetus in Bazhou has taken shape But only as big as a grape and Doctors don't say those things in the operating room at all Are you dreaming? Still guilty I did pass out But you can still hear it in a daze Uh-huh. Uh-huh. My child Don't worry. I will never let your child go without knowing Don't think you can get away with it We're all watching. At that time, Shanshan toasted you with wine Tripped him over. What else do you have to quibble about? I didn't trip him at all. You didn't trip him. Did he fall on purpose while pregnant with the child? How could our Zongzheng family have a daughter-in-law like you? Leave quickly I never want to see you again Yurong, stop talking Good night Just bow your head and admit your mistake, okay? I believe you are careless Big Brother Who Tripped Shanshan Why apologize? Second uncle is even a family Right and wrong should always be figured out, okay? What about the evidence? Did Shanshan drop the child herself? Ah, you can't tell. Have you got the surveillance of Li Tezhu's old house? Have you got the surveillance of Li Tezhu's old house? Master Xiao's surveillance video has been sent to you. Okay. Take a look inside. You see? The two of them never touched What's going on? What a crowd! Why did Shanshan fall for no reason? Then ask him. Since we're not welcome here, let's go Tell me why I fell Husband, I don't know what's going on. He fell over. Then the child is gone Husband, don't blame me Ah! Uh-huh. Uncle, were you bought by Zhong Zhengqiang? I am your wife How could you do this to me? You give it to Shanshan? The baby is gone What's the use of blaming him? The most urgent task is to let Shanshan take good care of herself Have another child You have a chance to make a comeback That's right, Aze I'll be fine soon. We will have another child, Aze Never mind. I am Aze Aze Hello Mr. Mu I agree to cooperate with you. As long as you can help me bring down Zhong Yongxiao I promise you anything. Wish us a happy cooperation. Several partners in South East Asia Frequent contact with Song Zhengze The cooperation case for the next year has been delayed It is very likely that he poached Zong Zhengze Want to play Then have fun with him And our capital flow is limited All the money is invested in the new energy tram If we sign the large order of the Nordic subsidiary We can revive this capital flow Otherwise Master Xiao's Nordic evaluation representative has arrived in the conference room Do you want to go now? I heard about this European assessment mission Eliminate more than a dozen first-line enterprises And this lead judge is notoriously picky Go have a look Yes Ouch, take a look. Such a beautiful girl in such simple overalls It's just a violent thing come Tie it up for you Take a look. Does it look much better? Wow, you understand so well. Can you teach me? First show me what I fit into Pizza warm Do you work here? It's really you, oops. Who are you? Let me introduce my wife, Su Nuan God, he turned out to be Xiao Yan's wife No wonder my boss was so nice to me last time. I envy Su Nuan so much I also want to have a CEO husband Hmph, what's there to envy? Xiao Nuannuan, tell me quickly Are you kissing me or this stinky man? Hey, if I say I'm not close to Zong Zhengxiao Will he tell his boss that I'm not cooperating? All kiss one family Hahahaha Hum, little Nuannuan Buyi, you said you would protect me Look at this stinky man My mouth is about to eat me Oh, he won't. It's alright. This is a private matter for the company. After-hours processing Please go out Hey don't come These stinky men are dirty to death Stop, I'm here today for a business pickup What are you doing here? Everyone is waiting for you in the conference room Assistant Sun Is he the chief judge sent by the Nordics? Xiao Nuannuan, I'll come back to play with you later. I don't know what baby I found. Humph stupid man Master, there is a photo of the 4S store committee having something to do. This is Wei Ming She was the last person to touch Mrs. Su's car Send the photo to your phone Don't tell yes The second uncle was late for the first cooperation Do you think this cooperation is not important at all? Zongzheng family When is it your turn to speak first? Ouch. It turns out that the last competing seat is a family So what's there to talk about? Sir I'm representing my own Summit Company this time It doesn't represent our Zongzheng family. Is this a battle of uncles and nephews? I love watching people fight infighting This is our three-year partnership for the future. Planned case Please take a look. Your company's planning case Our cloud group will not cooperate with the Nordic Alliance Yo Handsome guy Giving up 50 billion project for your wife? There are no rules I can't give up OK But I just found out that you also have taste. Knowing that our warmth is a treasure So be it. I decide on the Scandinavian agency in Asia for the next three years Leave it to your cloud group How is the handsome guy? I do not We feel wrong That's not fair. You didn't do any tests Just hand over the contract to him based on personal relationships I don't agree with you. The clothes are so bad I don't like working with people who have no taste But Mr. Pitt You haven't read my plan yet. No need. Peter's preferences The unanimous vote of our Scandinavian fashion community Please don't entangle Mr. Ze anymore Okay, that's it. Oh, by the way, Zeng Zhengxiao is so good. Teach your nephew how to behave I don't even know what family is Huh? Hey Nuannuan baby remember to miss me Ah! Zhong Zhengxiao Play with me, right? Then I'll play with you to the end Hello You can start there. I want Zhong Zhengxiao to lose everything Nuannuan, remember to pick me up when I return home. I brought you something good. Okay, I got it. I got it. Who to chat with My best friend Lin Xiaxia Why do you want to chat with her? Lin Xiaxia You and she both graduated from St. Alice's College Are you investigating me? Who investigates you? Ate the ambitious leopard and flash Okay, I won't play with you anymore. What do you mean? Your other best friend, Mr. Peter Huang He told me when he was leaving I didn't expect that. You're still a chip genius You didn't ask me Besides, what does this have to do with me being a bodyguard? So it looks like this My new tram chip has landed Hey Stop! I haven't touched this thing in a long time Then I should ask your boss. This bodyguard has special skills But unwilling to serve the employer How should this account be settled? Hey, hey, hey. I only do early development You can handle the later Product Research &amp; Development yourself. OK My father, who could have exploited you? Here it comes. Mr. Sovereign How did your company achieve success in such a short period of time? Launched the most cutting-edge new energy vehicle chips Is there any accident? It certainly is. With the help of a top chip genius But all he wanted was a quiet life. Do not want to be identified Please respect his own opinion Thank you. Thank you. Wait, get off and wait for me. Hey, Mr. Su Don't worry, I will definitely need you for the money. I'll have someone wire the money to you in a minute. Did Ze have another nightmare? I see. It must be the kids that are stressing you out. Right, because I was pregnant As a result, we couldn't be together on our wedding night Today you will fulfill my wish, okay? All because of you As long as there is me Suzanne, don't think about it for a day Do you want to make more money? Hey, hurry up and say hello Sister, I'm Shanshan. Haven't seen you in a while I miss you so much It's okay to hang up I suddenly remembered your mother's car accident. Before I leave, I have a word to bring to you. I forgot. Why don't you go to your father's house and tell you in person? I'll be right there. Hurry up and get out of your gentle village If you don't come back, be careful, I'll catch you. Oh, got it. You are calling me When didn't it appear? Let's tease the little devil together, right? When I'm done, it will naturally appear. Anytime. i Shit It's the first time I've seen such a ruthless woman Oops, stop hitting, stop hitting Don't fight, don't fight Say Who sent you? Shanshan Shanshan Who told me to beat it? Suzanne is really good Harsh enough What's your relationship with this Suzanne? What deep hatred You wouldn't steal her husband, would you? Who are you? OK I saw through his fake rhyme and cheated the marriage. He took revenge on purpose This Soong Masazawa also lost his memory It's not stupid Don't you know to check the truth? Deserve to be deceived He is Masazawa's wife You do? Then I should discipline his wife for him all the more Alas alas alas what are you doing Call the police! Ugh When this happens Usually I will repay them in the same way Would you like to try it? What do you mean? This is in Yuncheng. I dare not say anything else The hospital's business is on me Just a phone call away. You're not going to let me brag, are you? Hahaha I have been Yiming in love for so many years What kind of woman have I never met? In the end, I treated them all obediently Just like him Let him show up immediately Hey. Hey Wait for me. Are you good at this? I have more to try Heroine forgive me Hey, hey. Hello Dean Sun Help me look up a miscarriage named Suzanne Inspection report Send it to me later. Ok sir Ah Ze, let's go eat Chongqing hot pot later. Suzanne How dare you ! What is this? Aze, where did you come from? You listen to me. Someone must be trying to frame me How could I lie to you? Azer still wants to quibble This was delivered to me by the hospital director himself He has fired the doctor you paid off Come in person Apologize to me. This can be fake Aze, listen to me I didn't mean to lie to you. I love you so much. Aze please You forgive me. Okay, Aze? Ah! How dare a bitch lie to me Did you know it took so long? The plan was all ruined by you Sam, I can't breathe. I can't breathe. Oh, dear. What are you doing? Let go of me! Finished Shanshan Oops, what are you making? Shanshan, are you alright? Why is Aze doing this to Shanshan? Mom I divorced her Divorce, you are too embarrassed to say it How long have you just been married Are you going to get a divorce? Our Zongzheng family has a strict family style from generation to generation How do you let outsiders see you? What do you think of our Zongzheng family? I don't care anymore. I can't stand this woman for a day Aze Have you forgotten your grandfather's promise? As long as you have children Then you can have a family business If you were divorced now Then the family business is handed over You are confused Mom This woman lied to us. She wasn't pregnant at all. Mom, I didn't mean to lie to you. I love Aze so much I want to continue the incense for him Mom I beg you You forgive me this time Ok mom That's it. You two hurry up and have a baby Fulfilling grandpa's conditions is the serious business But Mom, my favorite heroes are Su Nuan. It's not him, he's a small three-province How can you fit into the door of our Zongzheng family? Aze You got your memory back Don't worry about it. From Now On My business has nothing to do with you Let's go Do it with me now divorce Azawa Dad Stop Nuannuan is now your aunt Are you really going to disgrace the Zongzheng family? Ah! You fool around again Roll the wall and kneel Azesu Nuannuan has married Zong Zhengxiao And I don't like him either. Still Shanshan is obedient and sensible You need to know The most important thing now is to get the inheritance Not when you're messing around Suzanne, let's have a baby ASAP. After you give birth I'll give you some money. Then it immediately disappeared from my eyes Hey, hey, hey. What are you doing? Ruthless Anyway, I stayed with you for a few hours Besides, I'm a driver again After all, the two of us are friends Give me your phone number. Phone number phone number phone number Drift bottle communication? Madam you are back Great, I'll get you the elevator Be careful with your feet Madam, you are finally back I'll call the boss right now Why are these two so strange? I'm back! It's going well The meeting is over today. How about I get you some water? It's time for dinner Let's eat Boss you Take the file upside down Come here. Yo A medical miracle I cured a little mute Where did it go? So I went for a walk. What about the phone? Why can't I get through? Is it lost? lost Lost where? I want special assistance Dear, it's me. Uh that I'm hungry, I'm going to eat. return You have to tell me when you go out Why should I tell you? You are my wife Remember what I say, you must listen It's alright Let's go Take you to dinner Hi. Long time no see. Young Master Yan, long time no see inside please Hey Oh. Not the friend you said Is it this big butterfly? know Do not know But who knows the suave Yan Shaoyun City? When did it come? Just arrived this morning. So what? I just bumped into it. A very intense sister-to-sister battle I gave it a shot. As a result, they didn't appreciate it and came to you for dinner What a coincidence Hey It's a coincidence or not, it depends on what the parties say Hey When did you have a girlfriend by your side? Don't introduce yourself to me I didn't bring you here today Or I'll call you Call one he belongs to me Then you have to ask him if he agrees to cheat Young Master Yan, right? What about between us Don't know Introduce My name is Su Nuan I have a marriage certificate with this Mr. Zong Zhengxiao Oh. You are his wife true or false? It can't be a contract marriage for some purpose, can it? Hey, hey, hey. Oh, honey! It's funny when you're young OK Yes He's useless except for his cheap mouth Hey, hey, hey. This is not a child yet, and it starts to kill the enemy Love to laugh let me tell you When you called me today I'm hugging a supermodel under the waterfall As a result, your phone call disrupted my plan As a result, when I came here, the two of you still sang with each other How wronged I am If you don't want to eat You can go You two are faking marriage, right? Are you kidding? Humph This young master has read countless people I can still tell the difference between love and not love What is holding hands? The way you two make eye contact? Obviously strangers Still want to lie to me Yuan Shao, you are too confident Hum hum hum Then I'll prove it to you. Give us two bottles of XO. 4 bottles of Romany Conti This one? Even if it's my news blessing to you If you don't drink That means you are fake No, no, no. I should have vomited in a few more bites Good for you! The two wines are mixed together, hahaha. The Last Cup Hehe You are fake Is that okay? Here's your name. brother Your little daughter-in-law is so spicy Hope you can hold on Take this beautiful woman to the hotel next door Brother can only help you here You can handle the rest yourself If you are not satisfied, you will be tired. Tian Yiming, let me tell you You can't drink me at all Sister drinks eight You take turns back and forth I won't accompany you. Call me tomorrow morning to announce the good news What to report What does he say? Please come back. I, I, I didn't feed you. Whoever hugged me lost my earrings Did you trip me? I didn't trip you up. admit Sure it's you Admit it, right? It's not me Pack you up you Ah! Are you comfortable? It's you Well, my husband So pretty Why is it so hot? Do you have a fever? Did you not sleep? Hey. You're holding me down What to see good looking Don't look Hey no Hey no I'm going to bed This is my bed go away Where will I sleep? Whatever. Let me tell you something. Don't think I don't know You take that quilt away every day Still pressing me My arm is numb every morning. You know it hasn't responded yet Apparently obedient Submissive I'll tell you what. But I won't be here because of the mission I want to find out the truth about my mother's murder There must be something wrong I'll check it for you. warm Nuan Niang has returned to China Waiting for you to pick me up in prison? I've seen the news all over the country Did you and Zhong Zhenxiao develop so fast? What can I do with him? We are work I didn't get this award for outstanding journalism for free. You can't fool my eyes Hey, isn't that Zong Runze? The enemy's road is narrow Don't mention it to me Yo, this abhorrent energy You can't really like his uncle, can you? Nope. Say it again Nope. No means no. It's the toilet Nuannuan tells you Wait until I get our Zongzheng family's property You are my young grandmother of Zongzheng's family What else are you dissatisfied with? Zhe Shao, you drank too much I'll go back to the hotel next door to you to rest. Let's go Su Nuan When you were with me before, you were dead Don't bother to open a room Now I'm actually consulting with the president That old thing! Where am I worse than him? I planned everything well When Suzanne gives birth I'll come to you when I get the inheritance It's all messed up now It's Suzanne's fault That bitch How dare you! I, Suzanne It's all your fault You see clearly None of my business Not angry Keep Smiling Ok go go Let's go back to the hotel later Smile my ass Leave it to me. Who are you? Dead warm I am here. dare to deceive i I will kill you Who is it? Husband, who beat you up like this? He must pay actually I can't remember either. Drank too much I don't know who pulled it into the toilet There should be surveillance at that club, right? Let them call up the surveillance They are responsible for what happens to customers in their store I'll go to their boss right now. Mom I said it was in the toilet Where is the surveillance? Don't make a mess No, how can this be just let go? So what do you want? I think I'm going to bed. Leave me alone. Gone mom Book a flight to Hawaii now Must leave today I'll do it right away Do you want to come with the lady? I heard that Jung Masazawa was beaten But he hasn't settled the bill with the other party yet. Did you know about this? I don't know. Your Zongzheng family is in full swing in Yuncheng Someone dares to hit him Quanyun City can't find a few people who can cure him But let him suffer a little bit OK You let me go Why let go You came at me yourself Can't I ask for compensation yet? I jump I didn't mean to One more kiss and let go you Why did you suddenly bow your head? You took the initiative rogue madam What about Zhong Zhengxiao? Why are you idle all day long? Master Xiao is busy I might be back late tonight. He told you to go to sleep first I didn't wait for him. Who specifically waited for him? I'm watching TV It's been so many days. No one is seen all day long I don't know what I'm up to Little Nini's spice company is very suspicious I'm worried they're sniffing something. This has to be done very carefully. Dong Zong, don't worry. I will never let anyone who spies on death succeed What's the situation on my side recently? It will be changed for you in time. I'm relieved to hear that. I have been working with your old man for so many years Now I'm working with you again I just feel that Zongzheng's lineage really has a successor Mr. Tang, you have flattered me. Madam, you are back. You are here Hey Song Chuanxiao is inside? The boss is accompanying the customer. Why don't you go to the coffee shop downstairs and sit for a while? Eat something When the boss is over, he will naturally come to you. Drive me away Ouch. What kind of guest is this? Is it that important? Ah! Madam, you know Boss Ou's temper. If he doesn't get things done Will you never see you or But you see, I'm tired after shopping all day. Isn't that where I live? I think it's not too much to go in and rest for a while madam If I let you pass today The boss immediately told me to get out Hey For the sake of my loyalty to you as well Please be considerate of me. It's You Oh, ma'am, don't embarrass me. There is no place where I, Su Nuan, cannot enter Zhong Zhengxiang, I'll catch you now See what else you say Ok, I won't embarrass you. But look, I've been shopping around all day. Tired of carrying things Don't you help me carry it? No problem no problem Why did you suddenly open the door? You startled me. Are you a child? Also engage in sneak attacks What's your attitude? Do you think I want to be here? If you hadn't been secretive all day I don't know what I'm doing. I'm too lazy to be here It's making me sneak around. I feel like a thief Do you know What are you looking at me for? I have flowers on my face No flowers It's a fool What are you doing Zhong Zhengxiao, I am What are you looking for? Can't I take a tour? Are you jealous? Looking for a woman, right? Are you jealous? I was jealous. How is that possible? What are you doing? Master Incompetent subordinates Did not stop the lady I seem to be lazy again I have arranged what you ordered, sir. You look good Oh, I see. Can come over Change clothes and go out to play Didn't you say you've been busy all day? I can cancel if you don't want to go. Then we're in the room Ah, go out and play. Are you happy? How did you know it was my birthday? You are my wife I'm sure I know your birthday What wish you just made must have something to do with me Less narcissistic It has nothing to do with you Open it and see Here, take it You don't have to do that. We are just faking marriage Even if you don't do this I will still do my best to protect you So when are you going to let me hold the necklace? Let me declare first. This is something other than the agreement. I wouldn't recommend it. It doesn't matter if it exceeds. I'm going to order you. Make me your bodyguard Take whoever you are afraid of So beautiful that It's a nice necklace. I still look good Of course it is. joke By the way, there's a charity dinner in the country this weekend Donate education funds to children in mountainous areas Do you want to come with me? He's not as cold-blooded as he looks Ah sister This isn't your first time at an auction like this, is it? Dressed so shabby Also bring a Diamonds not diamonds Pearl not pearl necklace out It's our Su family that doesn't have the money to buy you jewelry. Or is the Zong family abusing you? How beautiful is my sister's dress? It can't hide the dirty heart of some people Then what this sister means is that All of us here today It's dirty inside Hey, how do you speak? You two are tit for tat What are you taking us with you? Yes! I like beautiful clothes. What's wrong? Could it be that you are still wearing such beggar clothes? I heard that Su Sheng just wanted to die He has finally made it through Married into the Zongzheng family Of course, wear gold and silver well Enjoy the treatment of the wealthy lady Originally, you hooked Jung Masazawa away It's nice to be your rich family But you have to come and provoke me Then I can only put you on the fig leaf I'll give you a tug. What do you mean? You make it clear to me I'm not sure. OK Then I'll do it in front of everyone today Make this matter clear Suzanne is a mistress Fake pregnancy self-designed abortion And blamed me One by one, this is something that humans can do. It's better to be clean Otherwise, no matter how beautiful the clothes are Can't hide your dirty heart elder sister I'm seriously hurt when you lie like this in front of everyone Am I not afraid of damaging the reputation of our Su family? I'm your sister. Everyone is gathered here Is there anything good? Is it any good that everyone is gathered here? Wow, Mrs. Yan actually came in person His background is unfathomable Even the four major families have to respect him three points You are Nuannuan Hello Mrs. Yuan I am Nuannuan Yiming whispered in my ear all day after returning home Your ears It's almost a cocoon See you today Really different You flatter me. Mrs. Yuan, do you still remember me? A little familiar Have we met? Mrs. Yuan, look at you When I married my brother Or did he invite you and Uncle Ning? You are so noble and forgetful It makes me feel so sad. Mrs. Yan, I'm sorry. I have something to do, so I'm leaving first Hey Sister, why do you have to leave when I come? Or do you not take Mrs. Yan seriously at all? You will die if you don't pick things up. I do think The most appropriate dress tonight is Su Nuan This necklace around her neck Looks ordinary Not a small history Wearing such an expensive necklace No pride, no pride, no publicity This is the cultivation that the eldest miss of the Su family should have Madam Yan, how much is this necklace worth? Market capitalization of at least 20 million 20 million supper Big deal. It seems that I really love Miss Su Mrs. Yan Why did you give me such an expensive necklace? Because you deserve it Su Nuan I must take you back Ono, can you dance with me? What to dance? Chen Zhirou You'd better give me your little tricks Otherwise I'm afraid I'm not careful. The bad things you did since you were a child It's all shaken out for you. What did Master Xiao say? Why don't I understand? If you don't believe me, try it. Master Xiao is joking How can I have the guts to disobey you? What you say is what you say You'd better remember that. Where did it go? Do you care? If I'm not here Wouldn't you have more fun? Who provoked you? Tell me dog You told me last second that you were going to make a deal. The next second, cuddle with another woman, right? he Hey, your dad has a sudden heartache Come to the second hospital What! I'll come now. Just you came. What did I do to him? Why did you suddenly faint? Your dad has been working too hard recently. Busy with company affairs all day I'm allergic after drinking a cup of black tea at home today The doctor said Your dad is drinking Black tea allergy Just passed out This is not a rescue Black tea allergy My dad has been drinking black tea for ten or twenty years It's all right Why did you suddenly have allergies? Ouch, look what you said Is this man old? A weakened immune system is normal Unlike young people like you I can't feel the pain of age Doctor, how is my dad? Is out of danger But he still needs to be hospitalized for two days for observation Thank you doctor Now that my dad is all right I don't have anything left What Li Lin said I don't believe a word of it. 8 Cloud Island incident suddenly I suspect there are still some clues in the house Not cleaned up I want to go home. Go to your house, Anmen Miss, you are back. Wu Man This is my husband. Uncle good aunt Miss, you and your uncle finally came back once Stay for dinner Auntie, we have something to do later. It won't take long I'm here this time Mainly to ask What happened when my dad passed out? Were you there? At that time, Mrs. and Mr. Su were upstairs As for what happened I don't know either. When I heard my wife's call for help The lord has passed out I'll take a look. Miss you are talking Mom, don't be busy. Mom Mu, what's wrong with your arm? Your injury, I hit it myself It's okay, it will be fine soon. Is it Li Lin, is it that vicious woman? Let's go we won't do it for him The eldest lady's wife is kind to me I'm going to stay and look after the lady's estate My mother Sorry. Li Lin Recently, I have often met with several vice presidents of the company at home I took the opportunity to bring tea into the study It's all blasted out She also threatened me I am not allowed to enter the study method The wound on my arm Just because of this Miss, you must be more careful Lingling often sees the vice president at home It seems that he is trying to control Susu's appetite, which is really not small Too bad my dad doesn't believe what I'm saying now I have to find a way to make him see the truth Miss, what can I do? Wu Ma You just need to take good care of yourself I'll send someone to set up surveillance tonight I'll take care of everything afterwards Don't worry. I will never let my mother's confidence fall on Li Lin In the hands of that woman What was stolen from Master Xiao's villa? Master, you are finally back. So what's going on? The police just left after understanding the situation Also left a phone number Say you can contact them if you have any situation. I roughly checked Nothing is lost outside. Out of your study Don't pass anyone in Got it. Let's go see Is something lost? Lost a document It's a huge piece of information, to be exact. Does it matter? Customers in here It is also working on a national new energy research project I've seen one of them in Hawaii before This customer information must not be disclosed to outsiders fine I saved a hand. That is to say The document they stole is a fake Someone followed us before that And you get bodyguards to protect yourself All because of this Not all. Zhong Zhengxiao How many other things are you hiding from me? What are you doing? I didn't want to hide it from you. I'm just worried that the more you know, the more dangerous it gets Stop coaxing me I am your bodyguard You worry about me? It's better to worry about yourself You are my wife Even if you risk your life I won't put you in any danger either We are just acting You don't have to be so affectionate It's this time Do you still think I'm acting? Then what? Could it be to have children? Your dad told me Adopting a child is also You can still inherit your family's property Not a violation Su Nuan I like you. I'm in love with you. Is that clear enough? meow I can't let you bully me person you like Gotta let me clean up Don't laugh happy Ono found the master who repaired Mrs. Su's car He's in a garage on Fairview Road. Go now Yes Weiming Hey My boss has something to ask you. I don't know you Do not know I don't know what are you running for? I have something to ask you. As long as you answer me honestly There's 100,000 in this card, all yours Okay, you let him go first i Go ahead. broken What about people? This kid is too cunning. Let him get away Let him run away again Where are we going? Where are we going? Ah, who are you? Say Did you do something to Mrs. Su's car? Joe? I don't know what you mean. I'm just a repairman Don't say today is your day of death You also know that the car accident was a dead person If you die, you will at most be charged with suicide Say or not Talk about Suzanne He let me do it He said if I didn't do it He keeps losing the job I am also old and young I also have to support my family Bitch is really him Come with me and turn yourself in I want him to know what will happen to me Hey. Go I'm not going I can't let you go I'm not going. i And so forth. Auntie's matter is clear Really? i Ah. Sit down Did you eat something bad? It's okay. It's okay. Xu's stomach is a little uncomfortable these two days I'll just eat it light. You go on to say Are you sure it's alright? If you don't walk, I'll take you to the hospital for a check-up. Go, I'm really fine. Tell me if you have any new clues I found the maintenance master who was scolded by my aunt at that time Too bad he got away Isn't this the same person who kidnapped me before? He said it was Suzanne who instructed him What's the matter with kidnapping? I don't know. Don't interrupt my train of thought I doubt it now Suzanne must have ordered him Did something to my mom's car If so It all makes sense Thank you, Prime Minister Hey Where are we going? Don't try to fool the past Tell me what the kidnapping is all about Even Yan Yiming was there You go ask him You are my wife You are not allowed to get that close to him in the future You must tell me in case of any danger Otherwise I will punish you Okay How about this time? This time How does it count this time? Oh, forget it this time Kiss and forgive you Uh uh uh I'll see how long you can hide Wow, this set looks good too. Each set looks good Auntie really can't buy it anymore I already have a lot of clothes at home Zhong Zhongxiao also bought it for me Oops, the account has been settled. Are you going shopping with me today? I'm very happy. Let's go shopping for something else Yo Sister, are you shopping here too? How can you be so affectionate with someone else's mother? If you don't know, I thought you were family Oh, where did the change of heart come from? So stinky aunt, let's go Don't smoke you Who told you to say mine? I said hello to you kindly, but you still scold me, right? You know, what about yourself? Oh, it's warm No I said you you This is my sister How can I have the same knowledge as my sister? You said you didn't even say hello when you saw your elders There are really no rules at all You are Nuannuan's stepmother, right? As the saying goes, parents are a child's best teachers You don't respect yourself How do you ask the child to respect you? What about Mrs. Yan? Nuannuan, let's go This bitch I'll have to deal with him sooner or later OK Oops baby How can you be familiar with such a person? Humph Mom, I've been feeling retching a lot recently. Wouldn't be pregnant Oh, it won't really exist, will it? If you are pregnant at this time That's just wonderful. Let's go to the hospital to have a look. Oh, great. I got pregnant. I got pregnant. This time, Shanshan suspects that she is really pregnant I'm really pregnant Let me see it. Now I see what else they have to say I want Zong Zhengze and Lin Yurong to take a good look at them If you want to raise your head in the Zong family, you still have to rely on me Aunt Su Then why don't I call Ah Ze now and tell Ah Ze No. I wanted to surprise him. come How about a taste? OK Mom, I don't want to drink this I want to eat cream cake Shanshan, look at how thin you are now And now she's pregnant. Then you should drink more black chicken soup to make up for it. I boiled this black chicken soup for a full 4 hours Wait a minute, Mom will get you the cake. Mom, it's not that I don't drink It's just that as soon as I smell this Ah, I feel like vomiting. No I don't want to eat this I'll just have the cream cake Mom What's that? I really thought I was pregnant with a child The Queen Mother Oops ok ok Isn't he pregnant now? Follow him Wouldn't it be nice to let him give birth to the child? Easy for him to say. That's 10 months away. Ever since he got pregnant, he's been using me like a babysitter I've lived so long and I haven't suffered this anger Hey no I know where Aze went Don't answer the phone Okay, you eat first, I'll get it Mom, I want to eat dragon fruit. What about in the refrigerator? Cut it yourself Just pregnant So that your hands are not hidden? Oh, dear. My Soul Suzanne, you did it on purpose. Really? My potted flowers were flown in from New Zealand This pot of flowers costs tens of thousands, do you know? Here comes the cake Here comes the cake Oh, Mom. How could you hit me? Ouch. My stomach hurts. My stomach hurts. She was pregnant. How could you hit her? I kneel down to you You don't know anything. You accuse me Suzanne, he's playing tricks on me Get out of here Go back to your Su family Mom, did I do something wrong? I No no I'm going to throw up get out of the way If you want to drive me away, I will not The humiliation I received in your clan before This time I'm going to give you a taste of what it's like Hey, okay, okay Come back. Come back. Hey, okay, okay, okay. If it's broken, it's broken. Buy another one tomorrow. She's pregnant. You let her have the baby smoothly Isn't it over? Isn't it just a child? And you want me to hold it in both hands serve her Humph I told you What kind of upbringing can a daughter of Xiaosan's family have? Full of thoughts about how to destroy people's relationships Full of bad water Honey, are you back? How dare a bitch stab me in the back Haha, I'd like to see it today. Is your heart black or red? Ah! Uh-huh. Mom! Mom! Oh, what happened? Oops, call an ambulance Why are you so impulsive? Ah, your wife is pregnant I'm at home with your dad Serve like an emperor You went drinking? Okay, I don't know what's going on yet. Where is the child's father and child? Do you think I'm willing to worry about it? Really. But your wife really should teach a lesson If something happens, kick your nose on your face Treat me like a nanny No one in my life has ever dared to do that to me Oops ok ok Please say less Here it is. See for yourself Aze immediately divorced this woman How can the Zongzheng family let a woman who is infertile Don't forget the old man's promise No kids. You lose your inheritance Forget it. Forget it. Wait until Shan Shan wakes up Besides, he is also responsible What is his responsibility? Men teach themselves how many times women shouldn't? Who made him less fortunate? I lost my baby as soon as I got pregnant I can't raise my own children. Can blame others I'm not getting a divorce. never leave Humph why When you married Ze Not pregnant at all You are cheating I'll go to court and sue you. You have to leave the head politician obediently Sue me. He just killed my child He's a murderer! If you sue Also catch him first Suzanne, you can't even give birth Still so crazy Our Zou Zhengjia You don't need a woman who can't lay eggs I'll call your mom later Take you back quickly general policy If it weren't for you How could I possibly lose my right to be a mother? And now I can't give birth. You just want to kick me away I'll tell you what. I won't let you get what you want. Then be careful with me I will torture you well Make your life worse than death I've lost my right to be a mother How can I live better than death? Su Nuan, all this All because of you Even if we die together Drag you to hell Wife Wake up little lazy pig Uh no I'm going to sleep a little longer. If you don't get up again, I will Hmm, let go of mom I'm not feeling too well today You go to the company by yourself Leave me alone. The little liar wants to lie to me again The annual meeting is coming soon I've got a lot on my plate. Hurry up and accompany me to the company What's wrong with you, Nannan? I can't breathe Can't get angry You lie down Don't be afraid. I'll call right away Hello my wife breathing difficulties Ziwei Garden elsewhere How about hurry up doctor Here are two inspection reports Congratulations in advance Mrs. Lee is pregnant Pregnant I'm going to be a dad I'm going to be a dad Wait and see Doctor, didn't you say there were two reports? What's an example? He also has occult heart disease Pregnancy can make the condition worse Bring risk Don't panic That's not very common. But just be careful Do not let the patient become emotional during pregnancy Don't overwork After the baby is born The disease will gradually subside Of course, you can also choose to have the child This is the safest way for adults Doctor Doctor us My child, I am in charge Doctor, I will listen to you. Stay in a good mood Not overworked And give birth to this child in good health If you feel unwell, come to the hospital for examination at any time. There has been a major homicide in the city recently The deceased Wei Ming died in an accident at an auto parts factory Cause of death unknown The police are still trying their best to investigate. Dead Zong Chengze You finally have a handle on me I heard on the news A man named Wei Ming died at the suburban auto parts factory Did you hear? Joe? I don't know what you mean. Really? But The date you went to the auto parts factory It seems to be the same day as Weiming's death What do you want? You are my husband What do I want? Don't you know best? Ah! Ah! Let go of me! You shouldn't know. Let go of what I shouldn't know If I die All the things you do Will be stabbed into the Public Security Bureau You won't be able to live either. Bitch husband I just want you to treat me well. Your love is my greatest wish As long as you treat me well Don't say a thing I'll do anything you want me to do Don't you forget. If my business is revealed Then you are not clear The car accident will also be found out You can't run away either Really? So that's it. We are still grasshoppers on a rope No one can live without anyone Right? We'll talk about it later. I also want to thank you for helping me solve the witness Right, honey? I want you to settle the auto parts factory murder for me If I get caught Your plan you can't carry out Masazawa You gave me a fake client list You still expect me to wipe your ass No way. How could it be fake? Something must be wrong. You wait for me. fir Why are you calling at this time? Scared me to death Tell you what? I'm opening the safe right now Your dad has doubts about me these days I want to change the documents inside to assets. The specialties of this profession You bitch Mom, what happened? Mom and husband said Where are the accounts in my husband's account? Do you want my Su family to completely change their name? No husband You misunderstood. Husband has bought some real estate outside during this time Did not report to you in time Do you think I'm a fool? Ah, I've turned a blind eye for so many years Even you and Shanshan were involved in the car accident that killed Xinyi I'm hiding it for you I thought of it, I didn't think of it. Now you've figured it out All my property Bitch, get out of here Ah! Ah husband Don't do this to me! I love you. Husband, I can't live without you Husband, don't abandon my husband Dad? What's going on? What happened to dad scram Design car accident kills Xinyi Now you want to swallow all my property I'm going to the police now. Tell the police The car accident was designed by you Dad? Do you have to see me in jail to be reconciled? Yes I designed the crash. I was also the one who killed Su Nuan's mother But have you ever wondered why? from childhood I was told by other little friends It's a wild breed without a father Said I was an illegitimate daughter When I see you with their mother and daughter Do you know how I feel? I just wish there was no one else around my dad Is it wrong to just stay with me and my mother? Dad? I would like to accompany you to one last meal Then I turned myself in with my mother All right? Dad? This is my new dish Try it, is it delicious? Hubby, try it Cheng Cheng, don't be so willful outside in the future As the saying goes, this girl is out From now on, the entire Su family will be mine What about first? Thank you for coming to the annual celebration of our Cloud Group As the planner of this event Very lucky Then please invite our president, Mr. Zhong Zhengxiao Summarize the history of the group And the brilliant achievements you have achieved, please Sister, they are all envious of you. It seems that you were right not to marry Aze That's more thanks to your care You chose that scum I'm really embarrassed. you And I'd like to invite my wife up. Cut the first cake of the day with me Wow, so happy. I'm so envious. It's an honor for me to cut into this first piece of cake. This cake is significant So I thought He should give it to the planner of this event Silence behind Supporting woman And my sister. Suzanne What are you up to? You'll find out later So let's start with this. I want to show you a video. I designed the car accident. I was also the one who killed Su Nuan's mother But have you ever wondered why? from childhood I was told by other little friends It's a wild breed without a father Su Nuan Since you want me to die Then don't think about living well Hey put the gun down Hey You put the knife down You let go of Nuannuan I can give you anything you want. What do you want? You ask me what I want Even my own husband likes others What do I want? I want you all dead, okay? Shanshan, let go of Nana I promise you. I will definitely treat you well. I'll take you on your honeymoon Can I take you on a trip? Su Nuan, Su Nuan Look at these men One or two towards you And I have nothing Do you think I should kill you? You killed my mother first Now you want to kill me again Aren't you afraid of legal punishment? Legal Masazawa He killed my child Killed Wei Ming again Why doesn't the law punish him? You killed Wei Ming Jianjun, you said to keep it a secret for me I'm just going to drag all of you to hell Ah! Ha ha. Security on security Send them in. heating and cooling heating and cooling Call fast Ah! How is my wife after giving birth to me? safe mother and child When will he come out? It'll be out soon. Thank you. Thank you. Wife You are awesome Do you feel uncomfortable there? I'm exhausted. This is more tiring than me fighting 10 people You have to make it up to me. OK compensate you