- Today we're gonna be making And by that, as you can probably guess I don't mean just getting and adding some hot water. We are going to make little granules, little from, well, whatever coffee we want. Now, why would we do this? I think the primary thing is because I wanna know If I'm in charge of the and the way that it gets brewed, and I can do a good job with can I make really tasty instant? Or, is instant inherently struggling with a kind of quality thing because the process itself is always gonna kind of damage the quality That's what we're gonna find out. So today I'll walk you the coffees we're gonna brew, how we're gonna prep them for this thing. And then we'll put them in this, and I'll talk you through how these work, because, frankly, freeze dryers are cool. To talk about why and how it's important to understand some of the kind of Now, when you are putting liquid it's gonna pull out all the water. And it does it in a cool way. But if you put in, say, a well, that's about 1.5% strength. And what you get out of that That's it. 'cause instant's about 1.4, 1.5% strength, something like that. If you put in espresso, well, that's about 8, 9, 10% strength. So your 1 liter might yield but it's still, well, it's still a lot of water in there however you sort of do it. So let's get to the brews. We brewed pretty traditional V60s here for the Kenyan coffee, nice yield, classic kind of tasty brews. And then we froze them for reasons I'll explain in a minute. With the espresso, we maybe a touch short, 18 grams of coffee in to about 42 grams of coffee A little bit of variance there 'cause we had to pull a for this whole thing. And then we froze them. Now there's two reasons to freeze them. One is that if you put frozen the whole process is quicker. But there's another I thought I was gonna be clever and find a little hack to this whole thing because of an idea called Now if you've ever you might know about the If you can get water to freeze if you imagine that sort of 3D thing, but if just the top was if water freezes directionally, then it tends to push down to the bottom and you get the kind of that sort of froze first. I thought if I put coffee it may directionally freeze it and then freeze concentrate it. These are your classic You have these kind of so that only the top experiences the cold that creates that directional freezing. That did not - (sigh) that did not work in this situation. I did check. And the coffee at the top of I hoped, you know, it might be sort of more That's not the case. With the espresso, we tried to buy the smallest one we could, which meant we have slightly (laughs) Yeah. So as you can see from these are skull ice We did filter the espresso, because there's a lot I didn't want in the finished instant. Obviously filtered coffee, If you look at what you get on an instant sort of filter paper, and you can just see on that just add bitterness This was definitely worth doing So this is the result. I thought I'd share. So now it's time to talk about the machine because we're not actually as they are into the machine. This was an experiment. Should you be looking to don't try and freeze Just freeze it. Right? Now you wanna freeze it before it goes in. But most people freeze it on the trays. And I will say if you wanna more professional approach I'll link to Roaster Kat's at the roastery, which she works. Super interesting video, Same freeze dryer, which I They freeze the coffee straight in the trays that Let me get one out. So here's our tray, which we're gonna be putting Now what we're gonna do If you read the literature, and thankfully with instant coffee, there's a lot of literature, well, they would freeze it or break it up into pellet form at least and freeze it like that rather So what I'm gonna do is subject our poor little and sort of do some crushed ice and sort of spread the We're not gonna fill it up because we're not trying We're just trying to get some nice results and see what it tastes like. And then with my filter coffee ice cubes, I'll then do the same thing. Blend them, smash them and put them onto a tray, and then they'll go into this thing. Now, if you don't know it's very cool. First thing that you do You put your stuff in. And The vacuum that they'll pull but it's very, very, very low pressures. Now at very low pressures, water boils at much, much, This is I think, whose law It's not Boyle's law. Whose law is it? So what you do is you you put it in this vacuum. We're gonna pull it down to, which is not a lot of millibars. So there's very little inside this sort of chamber here. And then if you gently the water in it sublimates. It goes straight from being There's not enough pressure And so it goes from the solid and then they can condense it around the outsides of the And then you've got dry It takes a while. It's not gonna take ages 'cause we're not gonna 'cause I'm not really that I just wanna know how it tastes. That's the plan. Okay. We went back and we double checked. It turns out the on the filter coffee. Look at this. Oh, it's all gooey and sticky. All really concentrated We got like an ice pick and a mallet. I could try and get just But I think that's, that's unlikely. But I'll have a go. But it's unlikely. Either way we'll break some of this up. We'll get it in the blender. We'll work it out. Now when I switch this machine There's a big pump that to make the vacuum, and then it's sort of freezer So I'm not gonna be able And once it's going, we've just gotta leave it And we'll do our best to kind of capture what's going on in there. It may not be very easy. And with instant, you You know, if you're trying to save time, what are you saving the time for? Where are you gonna spend it? And I thought maybe a good with this video sponsor, Now when it comes to meditation, most of us don't need convincing We've heard the benefits of or more focus. We know it's a good thing. The challenge has been of your daily life because when you do that, that's when you really And that's where Headspace comes in. Headspace is a service designed to help you build that habit. And they do it really cleverly. They do it in a whole because everyone's at a different stage on a different journey. You might be a beginner wanting just to understand You might be a little bit more advanced and want something more or to move meditation to a Do some walking meditations, let's say. Maybe you wanna make it part They actually have one, around making a cup of coffee You should check that one out. For me, I see the biggest benefits in terms of quieting my mind. I have a busy noisy mind. It is distracting itself constantly. When I build a habit around meditation, I find myself able to quiet the mind, pay attention, and focus, and be present. And that just makes life more enjoyable. If you wanna see how Headspace well, you can try it out All you have to do is click my link down in or you can use this QR code on screen. Thank you so much for Headspace All right, I think we're I'm gonna turn it off All right, so here are my trays of instant coffee! Confession: We actually took these out today, and this one, which is the filter coffee, had a little bit of And you can see that in terms of when we've one final drying, there's been some meltage here. So because it's 98.6% water, it seems like drying it is than something that's 90% But here it is, this funny little stuff. It's coffee! It instant coffee. Now, you know, commercial instant coffee, they do a thing where they into things that remind even though they're But they do that on purpose. It may not be as fluffy as this is. Yeah, they definitely do a thing to make it look the way it does. It's time to taste it. I'm gonna make four cups of coffee. I'm gonna make one cup I'm gonna make one cup of I'm gonna make a pour and then I'll make a cup of but then, you know, like a filter coffee. We haven't done a direct taste test. Texturally: delightful! Like little crystals that just go Mmm. Salty! Salty. I've always felt that overly strong espresso That's really weird. Quite bitter. Little bit of acidity in there. I will say a little bit. See how that flushes out. Let's try the espresso blend. Should have... maybe Doesn't leave me with Also salty, I suppose there. Do I have to do the instant Ooh, crunchier. If you have someone at what I'm talking about with the saltiness, that's available. Oh, powerfully bitter. Impressively bitter actually, woof. I'm gonna make 150 mls of coffee, working at about 1.4% strength. You can work out the you'll need to have in each cup, and then you make up the rest We'll probably do the pour of the first, weigh these out, have a taste. I'm gonna step out and Michael kindly is I'm sure it'll be a complete And then I'll give them a taste. For those that dislike slurping, there'll be a separate (slurps) That's tasty. (slurps) Texturally it's quite nice. There's a little body. You know, it's got a little sweetness, but it has this weird rubberiness that is very offputting. So it's not Nescafe. (slurps) So that's Nescafe. And then our two efforts have this weird, rubberness to them. If I had to guess, And that's the espresso blend. Really interesting that these Now, I would say I know and I would say with reasonable certainty that this ultimately just That's the problem. If you look at the literature they're really in the camp after extraction, the But this, I think, took too long. Maybe if you're brewing espresso, maybe there's a use for the the little, you know, frozen to trap more volatile aromatics. I'm not a huge proponent but it could be an interesting way to additionally kind of on the way to getting it These would've taken because not only was it I mean it was chilled to room temperature before it went to the freezer. But we were also trying to which would've slowed the So I think they just took And you've got this That's, you know, to have the same off-note indicates you've got a process problem So we'll try it. We'll try it, and we'll come back. And we'll see if we can Another day. We've made some more instant. So let's have a look. It looks quite different 'cause this wasn't ground like smushed into funny This was just frozen as a block. And as a reminder, the goal was to freeze And so it was shots pulled into frozen cups, then going onto a ice cold freezing tray, and then straight into the freezer. So from brewing to ice which is, in the world way too slow; in the world of domestic I would say reasonable. Texture of this just looks really weird. I'm quite excited to I'm gonna, oh, oh yeah. It smells both quite nice and like, I believe English beef drink Bovril. If you don't know Bovril, well done. If you do know Bovril, good times. Right? (laughs) I'm gonna brew them up. I We used a different coffee again here. This might horrify some people. We used a pink bourbon, which isn't a bourbon variety, but it's a whole other So this is a nice pink bourbon coffee. We pulled it as espresso. Let me get 2.1 grams of instant into here, 150 mls of water. See what happens. It's time for a slurp. (slurps) The first thing to note is the sort of absence of bad flavor. The rubberiness that was that kind of garden hose taste is gone. There's none of that And so texture-wise, it feels quite light. But that's kind of the coffee. I think it's relatively light roast. It's got sweetness. I wouldn't say a lot of acidity, but some. That's not a bad cup of instant. I would say that's a I think it would probably be better if it had been brewed as I'm still not sold on the idea as espresso as the route to this. But the challenge you of getting enough solubles into the tray, is such a big problem. Instant manufacturers, where they can break in instant coffee and then extract that too, It's not more flavor. And so they can get over 50%. You know, they need less beans to make 100 grams of that would taste really good wood. So there's a massive inefficiency extraction as well as And if you wanna know why instant that's a big reason why, right? We are capped at this sort of 25% range. I think for most instant you're not getting it that they would do in sort And then your coffee's way more expensive, your roasting's probably better, the brewing is much harder 'cause you're trying to not brew for maximum yield. So, you know, when I look at it doesn't seem outrageous This is surprisingly You know, I feel like it's possible. I just don't know if the economics will to make specialty instant But this is a surprising cup of coffee. This has been a super I'm gonna make a bit more and sort of see how it just to have a round as a fun &quot;Hey, here's some instant that I made. Would you like a cup?&quot; Ooh, thank you again to Headspace Don't forget the QR code is on screen. The link is in the description. Don't miss out on that 60-day free trial. Anyway, I would love to hear your thoughts down in the comments below. Is there something we should have tested? Is there a tweak, a hack when it comes to freeze drying coffee, that would've been interesting for us to know ahead of time? We could get another one in future. If there's a really good interesting idea, we can rent this again. So let us know down in the comments below. But for now, I will say thank And I hope you have a great day.