Translator: Queenie Lee What if I told you, you might not be What if I told you that your has been weaved into your mind over time? What if you don't agree I've always had an inquiring mind. I felt the need to get and never took anything at face value. This ever curious personality Let me tell you who I am. I'm a hypnotherapist, specializing I also do a lot of public speaking because I'm a third generation descendant, about trauma, and my favorite topic to speak about, because, holy moly, it's fascinating. I want to take you that will expose the connection who you think you are, So if you may, please follow along From conception until death. OK, so it won't be that morbid. We, all of us, are born as blank slates. We, all of us, are programmed to have certain beliefs about who we are, what we can achieve in life, From birth until six, we are essentially living life It's why we learn languages We are sponges just joyously absorbing At this precious age, that's right. What we learned from is essentially the patterns or programming and repeat again and again I want to tell you something people, we are patterns. I also want to relate sometimes our patterns do not serve us. Those patterns are called disease, and the list, unfortunately, OK, let's rewind for a minute. I want to rewind to a really I had what's called which later turned into fibromyalgia. Both are chronic illnesses and to put them into context I was 18 years old, and I would suddenly go of not being able to function. I was dead tired to a point where if I couldn't take a nap I felt as if my heart would give out. The fact that I was so young, I went to many doctors, many doctors, who all told me And I looked at them, and I said, Really, what do I have So for years, I did research and I became my own advocate. I began experimenting with diet, just to try to get a handle And I started to feel better, and I was able to really and to manage life really well. And when I finally I got severely knocked down again. And when I say knocked down, I mean almost killed T-boned, smashed, left hanging upside down in my car not sure if I was paralyzed or dead. Without going into the gory details, I knew that I was in I was handicapped for six months, and I developed what's called PTSD, And on top of that, In 30 seconds, I wasn't the same Danna anymore. I developed PTSD, and because I knew that I was one person I knew I had to see someone So I began to see this therapist, She would tell me things when you So I thought to myself, am I really paying you That I got. So eventually after six months I met a woman who survived cancer, and she said she would not were it not for this So I said, &quot;That's my woman.&quot; So I went, and the first appointment she looked at me, and she said, &quot;I'm a bit alternative. And I said, &quot;I'm desperate, She said, &quot;I do this thing I said, &quot;There is no way I was super skeptical, I had no idea what it was, and my only reference was show hypnosis, and hypnotherapy is not show hypnosis. So basically, after about six I decided that I liked her. She was smart, forward-thinking, &quot;What the heck! What can it hurt?&quot; So I walked into that session, I walked in feeling one way, I wasn't exactly sure what she did. I just felt better. Within six weeks, my PTSD was gone. The next month my depression, This woman saved my life. OK, so that's all interesting, and I want to tell you something So I mentioned to you earlier and later developed I view these two ailments Yet fibromyalgia is a serious muscular pain. Yet what's the interesting part is, I didn't develop this pain So here's the interesting part. When I was healing my trauma the pain in my legs began to dissipate. Bit by bit, little by little, the pain in my body was leaving. I thought to myself, So that brings us I want to walk you through the mechanics and how the mind and body are all interconnected. But first, let's jump into the science So, how exactly are trauma I want to mention to you that trauma doesn't have to be it doesn't have to be In my mind, the way I view trauma is if you viewed the world one way and now you view the world that can be a traumatic circumstance. So it doesn't have to be Have you ever heard OK. So, I used to hear that phrase Yet now, I see just how valid Physical and psychological stressors Inflammation is the keyword Reducing inflammation Are you with me this far? When events happen in life, when stressful events happen, And that creates a certain level which therefore sends distress signals which in turn will tell to increase adrenaline and cortisol, and while those levels are increased, The fact that we have is not a bad thing, yet the fact that our minds without ever letting them go. Every situation builds upon each other. So the real reason is for our own good, If you think of an animal, A mouse sees a cat, gets anxiety, Why? Because it needs to make Yet once the mouse runs away, that anxiety is gone. The mouse doesn't over-analyze how to feel about it now, No, that's only something humans do. Humans encounter a stressful situation, we instantaneously attach meaning to it, So the initial stress isn't bad, the continual attachment Follow me so far? Good, OK. So just to reiterate, when we experience stress there's a recording And enough of those recordings, over time, will cause havoc and which in turn will cause and a suppression of immune function. So, now the golden question: So there's a new study called psychoneuroimmunology. Psychoneuroimmunology, meaning the branch of medicine that deals with the influence and nervous system activity especially in relation to disease. So that's the textbook definition. In reality, the best way that I have found to take the study off of paper to intervene in the influence I have found is hypnotherapy. How? Let me tell you. So I do this fascinating therapy, Essentially what this means is I take my clients to the first time, that a stressful event or events For example, let's say I'll guide a client through their subconscious mind, it's very cool, and then through this visualization, I'll say something like this: the very first time you And so what happens is the subconscious mind then links up that are tied to that specific ailment. So it goes something like this: A client would describe something that happened &quot;I was two, my parents were fighting, I felt very upset, confused, So then I start asking them &quot;In that moment, how did you And then they would respond &quot;I needed to feel like a baby, So at this point, I would then direct them to feel they were filling their body with the resources that he or she In that moment, there is healing. You cannot change what has happened Instead, you're changing and the weight of the heavy feelings Then after resolving that memory, we would then proceed through other So what exactly is this doing? It is completely allowing to cope with things This reduces the recorded stress When the subconscious mind heals, When the nervous system relaxes, When there are less erratic signals, the endocrine system does not need to be therefore sending out inflammatory You see all this is all coming together? OK, I know I overloaded you So I want to finish up with this. A bit of an experience I had There's a woman, she came to see me, which many people do, many people come And I asked her: &quot;What's the issue? No motivation to get to the gym, what's going on?&quot; So she said, &quot;No, Yet every time I go, So I asked, &quot;Why are you in pain?&quot; I said, &quot;Oh, am I familiar?&quot; So I said to her, Instead of working on your we should work on your I asked her: &quot;Where do you feel She said in her neck. I said, okay, let's go for it. We did a regression session And the memory that came up her and her brother got into a fight. He pushed her down the stairs and she essentially and then it went away. Ten years later, it came back, and she told me that for 20 years We resolved that trauma - the trauma surrounding When we finished, and she went like this. For the first time in 20 years, My mouth dropped and so did hers. We carry our lives with us yet all over our body. Our bodies and minds There's so much more detail yet really, this is the takeaway The mind and body are resilient and have the innate ability Yet sometimes they just My wish for you is to be informed and to know that there are to help you feel like the best you. I was told, time and time again, I was told by many doctors that I'd have to be that there was no hope for me - this was the pathway of my life. Yet, in reality, I knew, and I was determined to get back to who I knew I was: that girl that existed And now, I speak about chronic illness behind me, no longer part of me. If there's someone you know please tell them that there is hope. If you can heal your mind, So here's to you, and here's to never give up Thank you very much. (Applause)