Hey everyone, as of late we've had some fun grandeur, as well as Billy Carson for his lazy Well there's some more of that to be had today, so Let's see what's new in their world, shall we? to the channel, a while back I decided to Rogan appearance where he proclaimed that 1 times Joe Rogan apperance just a bit later, where I that he stole from other grifters. Then I hit Eric Weinstein. Finally, Terry went on Billy's the opportunity to laugh at them together. Well because Bill and Terry are at it again with their use their super awesome quantum minds to decode contrary to popular belief, The Matrix is not you thought, but is actually the reality we I am of course referring to the pathetic who have convinced themselves they took the red than Neo himself. Those are the intellectual since so many of you have asked to be kept abreast these wannabe Wachowskis have to say these days. instead of this being a graphic for a production which of course is Terry's website featuring his collection. I hope someone got paid for this logo, This is gonna force science to rewrite wrap yourself in the key of that other galaxy. I hope you guys are entertained by this video Boxes. Boxes. I can not fit in the boxes. Stop These guys are really investing in themselves to the entire ridiculous theme song, but Billy Because that would imply that he has something Terrence Howard is a celebrated American in movies such as Hustle and Flow and Iron Illinois to Tyrone Howard and Anita Williams. that Billy spelled Terry's name incorrectly. as hilarious as it is that they didn't figure that face, it's nowhere near as funny as the fact the you that Billy can't spell "parents". Strap in. an actor. At first, he enrolled as at Pratt Institute in Brooklyn, New York. doing anything academic whatsoever, such that huh? It's almost like he never really Dropping out after just two years, he began including a part in the Cosby Thanks for jogging my memory about who starred in course there's no need to mention that never confront Terry on his serial wife beating. big break with more prominent roles. The first I have to apologize, in my first video on Terry out that I was wrong. I've seen Mr. Holland's one movie. Anyway, Billy goes through Terry's this is a full five minutes of clips from finally the grand introduction is over, so they are talking about the last time they spoke, Well as crazy as it was with the connection the people got a lot of knowledge out of People really seemed to enjoy just the back are coming from the same kind of place. I mean Honesty and integrity! No two words could honesty and integrity, am I right? Or intellectually bankrupt. Or charlatanry I only hang out with people that have before and they would cheat on their wives. how can I expect you to have any fidelity with a church in front of your family and her family, you will come to be, and you've promised to do I'm going to be a friend? No, we don't do that. breaking their marital vows by cheating on their version of "to love and to cherish" by beating That's much better than imaginary adultery, And so speaking of that, were you ever encourage you to explore science and invention? It said that god was suspending the circle of the when everyone considered the earth to be flat. Terry and Billy are a little confused. Circles are flat. Spheres are three-dimensional, people who wrote the bible probably did believe a flat shape which is not a sphere. Whoops. where god was the four, the four angels holding back the wind. And I'm like how have four corners? You know. So that ignited a Circles don't have corners. Neither do spheres. been interested in understanding geometry, less than that of the average eight year old. measurable it had to have four equal Yeah, exactly. has to have four equal and opposite dimensions? dumbest sentences ever spoken by any human Three-dimensional objects have length, width, and dimension. And the three we experience are neither directions are defining the same dimension. which would make him even dumber, because squares can be measured? Not triangles? Or this bullshit sundae is Billy chiming in with up his classic catch phrase "facts". Let's see Terry says something incomprehensibly stupid. Well you hear these stories about Einstein We can jump in right here. As you are all well physics. He's never learned any physics. That's why he's going to dive into some stories. they present are contradictory to each other. And of progress or attempting to assist progress Well they don't contradict each other. At all. And and technology, you're just admitting point blank since physicists had to invent a whole new behavior of quanta, and the fruits of inform the production of every single stitch of By the time I got 30 or 40, you know, all of would be proven, whether relativity was real or prize except for his work on the photoelectric Right. and no, Terry. Not right. The explanation of the to learn in 10th grade chemistry class, was it. They don't give Nobels to people for work they doesn't mean that relativity isn't true. It is. that relativity is consistent beyond reasonable predictions with the Eddington experiment, as to observations of gravitational lensing, to being programmed with correction factors to in competition with string theory, Terry. that only complete idiots try to disparage. Every that you know zero things about physics. that so I started looking into the people that Einstein's ideas in a sense. So I went into regarding the electron and the superpositioning Einstein and Lorentz were not "enemies", Terry. the precise opposite of the truth, since of relativity. When you calculate time dilation you are using Lorentz's equations, since he are related in different inertial reference special relativity. Do you see what happens when But his stuff was based off of Maxwell's an aether. Everyone believed that there was No, not a fabric of space. Relativity involves medium that permeates space, and it doesn't exist. an aether. Then the Michelson-Morley experiment special relativity on the basis of the speed of In the history of science, there are crucial universe. Everyone before a particular discovery happen again. Catch up 140 years, idiot. Keating's work and Viktor Schauberger's work. episode in Deep Space, a TV series I did years and and just like blew my mind. Oh my goodness. you're killing the force. This force is dead. know who that is and have studied something one What's not to believe? I mean you said something pseudoscientist, so those things go together. oh my goodness! We are killing the force! You've killed the water, how in the world do you that until what, the 80s? And Vikter Schauberger had been talking about Yeah, he was ahead of his time. I totally know about was so ahead of his time, that I also totally know about. Morons, and the gigantic fraud Masaru Emoto, who never even said water was alive. He pretended that which it doesn't, he just made it all up. to recreate his fake experiment under rigidly I wonder why. Anyone who references But I had to go in search of that. I went to for electrical engineering, but I was looking at with the universe, or their approach to it, and This is just like Chris Langan pretending he calculus teacher couldn't answer his dumb there's nothing antiquated about how or electrical engineering, or whatever field You're just too dumb and lazy to go to college. for 96% of the universe to be unknown. which is still unknown. Why the shit would an engineering course be genius? That's astrophysics. I really wish unknown crap as though it means anything. it doesn't lessen the significance of what we all around us, nor is dark matter "unknowable" figure out what it is so we can finally stop And the 4% that they have out there, the because light changes its speed depending on the speed of the human race. You know, black people than asians. Everything is going Holy hell what a seven layer dip of stupidity the speed of light? The 4% represents baryonic speed of light is neither light nor matter, it's constant. Light doesn't actually change speed as forced to interact with more or fewer particles composition and density of that substance. The kind of the entire basis of special relativity, he starts rambling about the speed of black like a complete lunatic, and Billy the empty shell "that's a fact". What is this reality? Well me, it was really interesting. science and chemistry, I was really good at it. to me because when I was in school I food AND french fries. But my favorite hobby was what chemistry is, and you're fooling nobody. for years. I studied aerospace technology since that I perceived to not be an airplane. as a child is the same thing as studying because I saw Bigfoot when I was ten, which It didn't have a cockpit, it didn't have wings, came back and stopped completely silent and just my mom, and she was like there was advanced about Machu Picchu. She said they used to live Yes, in this story that is totally real and not the awesome UFO, without batting an eyelash, she for no apparent reason, and the rest is history. for Billy's pathetic Ancient Aliens grift, which so we can stop hounding him about the fact Zechariah Sitchin to make money on the internet. for technology, just understanding ballistics and everything, I studied all that the science other than basic high school science. not even high school level science, and you You just have a fake space agency that is think it makes you look smart. It doesn't. understand science at a deeper level, and the deep diving into physics, a lot of the same studying them heavily. I actually went to Khan you have pay I think a minimal like 10-15 bucks an online university for quantum physics, so I and I was able to understand all this information. thing about any kind of physics, but much more Khan University. All you get is Khan Academy. He's pretending that watching YouTube videos is specifically for quantum physics. It's like physics at Professor Dave University. Seriously, thinks his viewers are. Hey Billy, why don't you you a piece of paper with my face on it that As a bonus incentive, I'll even stop making And I realized that the quantum physics the spiritual realm. In other words the understanding of spiritual energy and what's when you're focusing on things, when you're are really explained through quantum physics. and then a ball rolls across this sheet. That's the manifesting. It's so obvious, you guys. universe, they've received Nobel prizes and all that's changing the world, or the conditions or like, Solomon said, you're chasing after the wind. changed the world. Light bulbs, what a bunch of useless junk, am I right? that means I'm an artifact. That he just life into me. And they forgot to mention or of the Brownian effect, that that clay is not It's vibrating and polarizing from positive to is mating. Like when I mention wave conjugations it's like no you don't understand that The sex principle is a big part of everything, My god he is just completely manic. I don't know nonsense like a firehose, or Billy mindlessly word. Terry, there is no "Brownian effect". It's motion of particles suspended in a medium. It Clay is not alive. Nothing is polarizing from not mate. There is no sex principle, you're just that doesn't mean anything. I don't There all of this is an illusion and to consider the atmosphere the pressure the weight of the so it should be the returning magnetic wave are holding itself together, but if we, just go on. this is a great conversation. People are glad that we're here doing this in person, man. if they haven't gouged their eyeballs out yet. well how matter holds itself together, that would And I really think you have a magnificent Harvard, or MIT or whatever, it means That's funny. So why do you lie to people Billy? Did you think those "certificates" from seem smart by associating you with those Because who was the first quantum physicist? right? There's no degree, there's no of life, and he got his degree in nature. have been Max Planck, and he got his doctorate at Not the University of Life, Billy. That's not a And then they began to teach that created a university and then eventually A doctorate isn't a "certificate", you nitwit. All fake certificates mean anything. Physicists get online for six weeks. They first get a bachelor's study for five to seven additional years, where With equipment. Something you can't even wrap your entire universities offer studies in only one quantum physics had to first exist, and then a that offers degrees in only quantum physics. Holy but does he even know what a university is? Does what happens there? The ignorance is breathtaking. they've pedestalized all of the old inventors it is heretical to even question. It's a religion. just because you're too dumb and lazy to learn you first have to understand physics well enough you bozos are anywhere in the ballpark of being be an adult, crack a book open and catch up figured out with actual empirical science. I thought that inventing new forms of flight, being responsible for half of the AR/VR that's out Terry, we've been over this. You haven't You didn't invent anything. You paid people to is a rejected patent application. You're and is laughing at you, and it's not just If it took a half a billion sperm in order for a race against half a billion, I think getting if A is equal to B and B is equal to C then need to beat a dead horse, in trying to things. You know the material is out there, the We are challenging things, Terry. We're pointless buffoon and this cult you're trying to going to happen. Although the way Billy nervously think you have at least one person hostage. that's dark and immoral? How do you avoid the Epstein ultimate effect? Epstein effect? Is Terry asking for advice on trafficker in human history? Maybe Billy online course he can point you to, Terry. But I wanted what Jesus was trying to I wanted what he was trying to do. So when the messiah in my daily life. Yeah. loud. You're not the messiah, kiddo. liberating anyone. You're just some insecure I know that all of these plants have been praying conscious, they're praying in this hot California day when I'm giving them water, I'm an extension sometimes my wife is upset about the fact that I'm moves, it's what moves me in hopes that when I'm able to hear it. And if everybody is doing that. pretending to be the god of the plants. Most you take care of plants. Terry pretends by putting water on plants. How infantile. You are the savior you've been waiting on. And they are their own saviors versus taking outside source into a slave, this world will Yeah, did you hear that, victims of societal savior. Cosplay as a savior and all of Regular Tony Robbins over here. we have the ability to bring life or death to out of the sky if we want. So we are, we have Exactly. news to me. Go ahead and make Mars explode, Terry. give you a million dollars if you can make Mars you have to give me all of your hats. Sound good? when the sun, when the earth or a planet gets the earth will ultimately have to be pushed out to there has to be something that tears it down, you know, that which was put up. Maybe that is our do. We're very caustic. And I'm hoping that we can what Homo sapiens are. Homo sapiens. But I can sapien species when they are nothing like me. complete sociopath and you should be ashamed physically, you're not special, Terry. You're a us. So spare us this bullshit we've already which then slowly traverse outwards. I'm an actor because I wanted to win my mother's my brother to be an actor, and I wanted if I become an actor, I'll get her affection, I doing this, I had no like hey ma, look what you know being insecure about my affection with that have nothing to do with our calling or our been dead, you know, for damn near 20 years now. whole time. You did some acting this year. So or is this just your pathetic way of pretending grift you've been lobbing at us recently? run many companies. I built several big companies. huge call center, a 5,000 square foot call center the phones, two stories of this nice building, and gross revenue, doing pretty well, but I wasn't I wasn't living in my passion obviously. My something that I felt was my true mission here. He was making money, but he wasn't happy because but specifically by lying to black people on the until he found a way to defraud people at the same exact dream, being cult-leading frauds. I I walked into the office and went to my partners you mean? I said I have to really follow my stunned and shocked because I had set this and they said well how much do you want for keep my share, I'm starting from zero. And you know? And I just started from zero. of shit and obviously lying about all of that, but and now I totally believe him. Of course he gave for no reason whatsoever even though he had a Do you remember that book Who Oh no I don't know that one. it's a story of these four little creatures, two outside of this, this um... enigma. What do you call It's like a cave? Oh the mouse hole? Oh the maze? Funnier than Terry not remembering the word rectangular confines of something that a at it with "mouse hole". I would pay a thousand For me it's been the same thing of, good actor and make millions of millions What I wanted to do was to explore the truth No, you definitely wanted to be the most famous Terry. You wanted that really badly. That's fired from the Marvel Cinematic Universe. you're an insufferable maniac. So now you're you didn't care about acting, while continuing You have to use them and so I knew that, they They didn't have any facts behind them or these be constants and accepted things in there. constants? It goes without saying that Terry but the way he just pretends that is the most pathetic toddler take imaginable. pocket that you press to make everything without any science. Explain it to me without or electronics, or any of the "propaganda" you me off this much even when I already know what And I had the actual proof, I had simple proof and the things that they hold as important can't rely on. It's flawed. The foundation of your entire truth. And with proof. And I say it's the You bring the receipts. You're bringing the receipts Terry, that you don't know how to use a calculator math has been proven wrong to your face. And I but I would bet money that you stole it. or a constant but I guess it might be love, right? Which is a frequency. And if you they use the frequency for the light, and then No, love is not a frequency, that's meaningless. could just learn what the word frequency Billy. We've had it bad enough with the crap hear you pretend to know how the force works. The per unit time. Cycles of what? When you say the the oscillating or recurring thing that So if we go to my book, TCOTLC.com, this conjugations came about. I was told that our Who told you that, Terry? Give me a name. Tell that anything in science is somehow derived from I was like so where did the straight line come how did god come to be? You know, because god we wanna straighten something out, if there's any let's straighten this out, let's get kind of god. I was like let me look at this. wiggly in the entire universe? Don't you also admitting there is no god? Do you ever listen contradicting yourself every ten seconds? everything has an equal and opposite going to be curved. And based on the angular Man's equanimity? I would ask if you know Every reaction is going to be curved? dimension? Two pool balls strike each other energy and stop. Where's the curve there, straight line god, get me to the end of this. as the age of it is almost unknown. But each and are no straight lines there, but at a time when or the world was flat, guess what they circles overlapped. And I was like oh that's an Terry, you put the circles there, and then do that with any shape. This is not how the Platonic because they came from Plato, the clearly how they were derived in his dialogue, You're more full of shit than a septic tank. put them together, based on universal ratios, then met. And based on what Walter Russell had talked it's always seeking a higher pressure condition. they universal? And these aren't triangles. electricity is not "seeking a higher pressure it's a word that describes the flow of charged towards anything with higher pressure, entropy in space, moving towards lower pressure. This area right here is where electricity is going Now as the electricity, as each wave hits here, it gets pushed out to these vortices at the tip, and so it starts, because it has low so it starts spinning southwesternly, and Gotcha! Do you, Billy? Do you gotcha? Could you It's just barely even worth dissecting this, electricity? Where? What are you talking about? particles "spin", and how can spinning be done waveforms? That's the shape of a wave. It doesn't sense to say in the first place. Vortices? Where has no density so it becomes magnetism? Terry sentence can be, and he is always winning. one two three four, and there's five six seven But it only had six magnetic poles, so that meant a magnetic or repulsive potential. And I How the shit does any of that gibberish you're an idiot who thinks the nucleus is held they're not electric or magnetic anything, force, electromagnetism, which is both attractive do with the strong nuclear force that keeps the protons of like charge. You're dumber than rocks. take them into orbit around they're gonna naturally attract and the pressure and that accretion disk is gonna begin to spin If you bring flour and rocks into orbit they Billy? There's a lot of debris up in orbit little moon yet? Is it because you have no idea to reference is a protoplanetary disk, which is and that contradicts Terry's sun poop hypothesis, but Terry doesn't listen when you're And they create these natural icosahedrons when like this is the building blocks of the universe. you're talking about the fractal matrix. anything in the universe? Show me anything in One thing. And then of course Billy jumps in fit at all with these dumb shapes, and don't as humanly possible. Billy, this is a fractal. A that appears similar at different scales. This symbols. So enlighten me, Billy boy. What Watch this, this is us taking same simulator that they use at Princeton, it ultimately rebuilt the planet Saturn with its this is without animation. This is without any No, Terry. We went over this. This is visual effects, and motion graphics. This is Oxford or any other smart people place you simulations. This is indeed specifically off. That's why you don't actually show us parameters, you just have this one crappy movie. shape at the top of Saturn. Which has been a big question mark. Right. But it's through the natural formation, flower of life, the energy pattern that exists the accretion process of creating the planet, It's not a question mark at all, you're just too fellas. No flower of life needed. But keep it makes you sound super smart. it says the following model are gravity-free nor CGI graphics in the standard sense as No, they are not simulations, they are animations. and not simulation software. People caught responding to being called out for lying, actually showing anybody any kind You're talking about right now we're over type one and went straight to type two civilizations that could exist in the universe. about the Karshdev scale. No, Terry did did not create a civilization that has total This is what made me say man, this guy figured this is what should be on the mainstream that they've been feeding us. This is This is the fractal. Stop saying fractal. You could learn what a it. Although I do agree with Billy, if the propaganda and more time to mocking idiots like This is the four corners that existed that the in order for this to exist there's a sphere in sphere in here. And these four spheres interacting Right, right. Terry? What are you talking about? Are the spheres spheres that don't exist responsible for all the Do you mean a force of nature? I can't do this. we had our live months ago. But can you pull that I saw an application of the science. So it's but once you can see it being applied, it changes Here's four of them coming together. And but four of these will now come Terry, this is another animation. This isn't but it didn't innovate anything new. they just did it with your dumb shape. And made up shape doesn't in any way validate all the condition that. It's all still total gibberish. could this technology have It had to. some of these megalithic structures. Yeah. Because you can lift an incredible Uh oh, a Billy Terry crossover! Terry's dumb dumb Anunnaki stories! That should be fun. run in through one thimble of water, or you can send it outside of the solar system. for the lynchpins to be launched into space. have propellers. They push air. They air. A small child could understand this. The first one is faster than light communications. entangled communication, leveraging the Howard this FTL communication system could enable keeping the quantum state stable over vast dreams actually is to be involved in some kind of building a quantum communications device. light communication. Stop podcasting, go into I'll delete all my content mocking you, issue a This is your big dream, right Billy? So what are Be that brilliant innovator you want everyone The lynchpin or the Howard comma is able to keep particular object or particle will be and be able matter the speed at which it's traveling at, or It's able to predict all distribution of matter. I don't care what they've been doing in to this. I'mma throw modesty aside. throwing modesty aside, you've never had an bullshit now? You can predict where what particle isn't helping. What did you predict and where is you did something doesn't mean anything I didn't tell them what the true value of pi We already know the value of pi, Terry. And different letters which represent neither of you could define what they represent, golden ratio right here and failed miserably. I'm to copy and paste this from the adobe website, ratio actually represents, that being the ratio which is equal to the ratio of the larger value You know pi is a whole number. Pi is not pi. Pi is a whole number. No, pi is not a whole number. It is hoping that anyone would be impressed that you pi. If that wasn't the value of pi, you could go then measure the circumference, and show that you're pretending it is. But it won't be that, the single dumbest person in human history. solar systems expands out and the Oort cloud regenerated and then when four of them come they convert back into from magnetism Our solar system does what? It bumps into other when did that happen? Because no it fucking collide at the same time, at some random angle into electric charge? Four solar systems bump into flow of charged particles? What are we doing here? for a couple weeks and I lost 22 pounds. My body And you're all clear again. Just when you thought Billy couldn't get surprised that he lost weight by not eating and he didn't "reset", that doesn't mean anything. space travel, because one of the biggest problems, conventional rocketry, and we get ourselves all back with home base on earth. That's gonna They'll be bouncing it in their Jupiter is 34 to 52 light minutes away from would take for communications to travel between Billy. Use your brain. And no, Terry, they are sent linearly. From one point to We are producing lynchpin. We are producing resequencer as we speak. We have my people won't be a part of the future if you Yes, we all look forward to the big reveal talking about. We totally believe that you even though you obviously would be inundating if you were actually doing anything. tetrahedrons, and they found that if of a tetrahedron's shape, the plants grow more natural energy from the universe. and forth, that oscillatory thing. That's why you're not referencing any cartoon that doesn't even depict any plants. internet. So we have the worldwide web, right? So they say an interconnected web of by the Howard comma enabling near instant could be on Mars and instantaneously Apart from this being obvious bullshit, my what a planetary system means. Mars and Earth are solar system. Another system would be found around Anyway, there's still about another half I mean really the purest, most condensed of a human mouth. Nobody does it like Terry. But of these asshats pretending they've figured all this crazy sci-fi stuff, when they have YouTube videos full of stock footage. It's the with one more disgusting tirade from Terry. so many bad guys, I will take my time and will the fly while it's trying to land some place, even spread germs, I'm just calling it Terry. Because house and doesn't wanna get hit with this fly you know, come on Terry, just be still. And I put able to capture it and take it outside and you because they walk in there thinking that they don't know it's a death trap. they're just trying to cooperate and coexist with ant lives for 15 years on average. When you smash Yeah, ants don't live for 15 years, genius. live a few weeks or months. Why do you easily googleable things completely out of is the capital of America, everybody knows that! be to lie this consistently about literally course the far more egregious aspect of this rant, who can't even bring himself to hurt a fly, of every woman he's ever been with. This sociopaths use to ensnare their victims. For just picking on poor dumb Terry for no good guy really is. He is an absolute scumbag, and this mark my words. As for Billy, we already talked pretending to lift poor black people out of by discouraging them from pursuing actual so that they can send him their money for crappy don't do anything. It's not as bad as beating up You know when I go a lot of places because I'm six basketball? Did you play football? What do you do scientist. That's what I tell people. And you get, faces when you first tell them that. You're like This black guy just told me he's a scientist. You There's only one black You're not a scientist, Billy. On the list the most. And I hate to break it to both of you not just Neil, and all of them would So that's it for this installment of Bill and how they manage to keep getting even dumber, but soon, so we'll just have to wait and see what