Hey, everybody. Welcome back to Chip Stock Investor. Happy Monday. Hope you have a great week plans. We're going to start off this week by but before we jump into the earnings for that explain pretty much everything you Pretty much everything. And the reason why we think these two know well over two years ago we started premise that semiconductors would be And Yeah, here we are. You probably have noticed pretty about chips, NVIDIA, semiconductor Okay. So chart number one, we have the end down into four different segments. And AI infrastructure is absolutely And more broadly AI infrastructure, the media and a lot of that, probably AI, but really more broadly what this Accelerated computing sales for 2024 somewhere around $110 to $120 billion. Nvidia is 90 percent of that market, the rest of the pieces are being we'll talk about here in a moment. Broadcom and Google, they have that a lot of the IP for the Google some scraps for everybody else. So whether it's Nvidia, Broadcom, AMD, Azure, Amazon AWS, Google Cloud. Oracle, Meta. AI infrastructure, or more broadly force behind earning season right now. Anybody not talking about AI or kind of putting up some lackluster Those other end markets, consumer, be excluding accelerated computing. And then finally auto and out of that bear market just at the And it's not exactly coming Which leads us to slide number two. Everything you need to know What everybody wants to see is a sharp But really what we're seeing is much more of a straighter line. Yeah, we've heard some say, Nvidia has Maybe to an extent, yeah, and that a lot of capital expenditures are just especially on NVIDIA's hardware. Blackwell deliveries are going to months, we should get an update from But I don't know that I would say completely sucked out of the room. Some of those other end markets, that chart, the consumer market, This is kind of just how When you exclude new like NVIDIA, Broadcom, and what's Ocho, if you add in, Netflix, if gradual recovery coming out of a bear those secular growth leaders, and Before we get to AMD's earnings, let's talk about the new bond account com. A bond account. Seriously.? Yeah. As you probably know by now, interest The fed did that rate More rate cuts are on the way. That's fantastic if you're looking take out a mortgage on a home, buy a car any sort of financing product. That's great news. But if you're an investor, it means account is going to fall as well. You can lock in a six percent that bond account from public. com. This bond account that allows or higher yield with public. com will give you a diversified investment grade corporate bonds. You might want to act fast though, in until you open an account. Link in our description It's quick and easy to open com forward slash CSI. Okay. Now time to look at AMD's earnings. This is the guidance that AMD posed Revenue was poised to come in at $6. 7 billion at the midpoint Now let's take a look at Revenue came in at $6. 8 billion. So just above that midpoint of Gross margin came in at 50%. And we'll get into the operating margin But the reason we're covering AMD year, we've been talking about what we AMD for the last few years, especially of our position came from two sources. First, when AMD acquired Xilinx And then also when we were rebalancing a bunch more of AMD stock at that time expected from AMD, especially in the Nvidia in the accelerated optimize their profit margins. And that was the reason for the Xilinx embedded segment that you see here in Embedded revenue that came from had higher profit margins than AMD. And we really liked that pivot and that but highly profitable growth for AMD. We're going to discuss that, but we've time to trim or sell some of our AMD We'll talk about some of the issues two primary reasons that we're We already own NVIDIA, obviously at this moment. We have Broadcom in a All for the accelerated computing market. We also own Microchip and the embedded and FPGA market. So our bases are pretty much covered. And then second, we want around 5 Q1, 2025 and selling or trimming AMD might help us get there. Just to emphasize this point. The primary reason we might sell is just And so we'll kind of explain here issues we have with AMD and why we've to that cast position that we need. And just eliminate some redundancy from So we have basically two, two main issues We'll start with, some For a lot of investors might make sense in the Q3 earnings call, Lisa Su said again, more broadly, the accelerated over $5 billion for 2024 previously four And at the start of the year, they So nice continual upgrade to And this is really wild. Su continues to also hit on this accelerated computing sales, 60 percent Pretty wild expectations. But even if AMD kind of just hold steady percent market share of the accelerated a very large line of business for this outlook for 2028 holds true. Just to give you an idea of When we talk about AMD is This is the AMD Instinct. So currently AMD is on the M I 325. They expect the 350 will And then possibly maybe the M I 400 will Let's continue with some comments from think needs to continue to be addressed. Su continues that the early traction have been primarily with inference. So AMD's more profitable data center At this point, the MI series, as used for the inference work. That means that AMD accelerator own CPU business to some degree. Yeah, and we don't know to what extent is if you believe Nvidia and CEO, data center industry as it stands collectively worth roughly $1 trillion. They get refreshed every So $200 to $250 billion per year in possible refresh sales. All of that is primarily And NVIDIA believes pretty much all So the older CPU infrastructure gradually So this is the problem with a business update itself and cannibalize it's older, That means the Epyc CPUs, again, AMD's business could, run into some We'll come back to this momentarily. This problem with the accelerators work, which up until this point that This is the second issue that could An analyst asked specifically about with the market leader in NVIDIA. AMD basically admitted that up with NVIDIA's top products. They're in fact at least a year behind. When Su mentions that the market AMD is really just picking up Basically, after NVIDIA eats the crumbs that are left over. This is a problem that really kind of So these accelerator chips possibly certain extent, but as this market to accelerated computing, favoring NVIDIA begin shipping here these next few months. This means that AMD isn't able to business the same way NVIDIA is. NVIDIA, the technological leader on all of its new product. And because AMD is a year or profit margins just aren't there. And we're going to shift over Jean Hu, asked about gross margin AMD's overall corporate average. So the Epyc chips, the Xilinx chips, in early 2022, a much higher profit chips, a lower gross profit margin. Now this makes sense. these M I series accelerators are a This is ultimately a And whenever you're manufacturing a new are going to be lower at the beginning. It takes a couple of years to ramp up. And then start cranking out real profit. When you think of these accelerator chips, cannibalizing the more profitable CPU, becomes an issue because AMD is average a fabless chip designer of its size. These gross margins, 50 percent on adjusted non GAAP bases are already still under CEO Lisa Su now, are still below We see this as a major headwind for AMD And we promised we'd come back to that because we have some serious questions operating margin higher, given the Currently in Q3, 2024, you can see the On an adjusted basis, it was much higher. They met their guidance that they a GAAP basis, just 11 percent. That this is pretty low. And perhaps the above the average continue to help pull this higher There's that headwind of How much is it going to cannibalize sucks the wind out of the enterprise We're not sure that this is going to a lot of investors hope it will be. The upside to all of this is that does go to $10 billion or higher next year. But unfortunately that's What we really need to see You can see the profit margin progress Progress has been fantastic on a gross slowing down in the next couple of catch up or narrow the GAAP with Nvidia. And along the way, the adjusted It was, it's now 20 percent range. But you know, that's Free cashflow margin is still very, digits or low teens percentage basis, This company is just not cranking should, after making that Xilinx We were more than happy after the Xilinx merger And it's just not two and a half years into this, it's not panning out They've taken their eye off Yes, embedded, auto industrial, it is in a slump. It is taking longer to recover like we so, that is the big moneymaker for AMD. And suddenly all of this focus, shifted to let's keep up with NVIDIA. As we mentioned before, unfortunately, is already baked into the stock price. These are forward looking In purple, you see forward price and in green, forward price A bit of a premium price tag still. Okay. Let's go back to our two primary And let's talk about the So the first point is we already and are fully diversified in And for the embedded and FPGA market, Semiconductor in our portfolio. The second point we want around be in cash coming into Q1, 2025. So what does that mean for We might trim or sell. We want to see some more earnings updates. We haven't seen Microchip Of course, haven't seen NVIDIA or some opportunity here to cut out some in so doing also raise our cash and important component of any portfolio. We've been running it little to no the beginning of the bull market. As we explained in past videos, the bull So time to increase the cash. We have some issues with AMD, but might make this move isn't so much They very much could have a lot to It's more just it's us. It's not you. It's us. Exactly. Make sure you've subbed to the channel We have much more earnings coverage and we'll just keep them coming. Please check out our Semiconductor gets you access to a ton of benefits. We do earnings coverage on pretty here at Chip Stock Investor. It's a lot of companies. And we can't make a video for all of them. A lot of content over on Discord. That's where all of our content is now. And it's just five bucks a month, sessions to boot, check it out. I think you might enjoy it. We'll see you again soon