- [Marcus] Y'know whenever it just fills my heart me to play a fun video &quot;Doom&quot; is more than the fighting against the forces of hell. It's also got interdimensional travel with various debated alternate timelines! So, with &quot;Doom Eternal&quot; we did our best to lay out the whole story with the &quot;Doom&quot; timeline. We'll include all FPS releases that have been released over the years, but we're leaving out &quot;Doom&quot;, March 15, 2022. By the 2010s, humanity has already started colonizing nearby planets. The Union Aerospace Corporation on Mars and its two conducting sketchy with help from the military. They open a direct portal but soldiers sent through either disappear or become violent and insane. The portals continue to destabilize, quickly becoming a conduit In 2019, our unnamed Marine gets in trouble by assaulting after refusing to fire As punishment, he's sent to Fast forward to 2022 and from the orbiting Phobos. Apparently, the base is being The UACs messing with portals to have finally caught up with Doomguy and company and as the platoon storms the base, our hero secures the perimeter. Unfortunately, the forces of Hell pick off each of the other soldiers, or absorb them into their demonic ranks. Doomguy loses all contact As the last line of defense, it's up to Doomguy to Blasting through the hangar of Phobos, Doomguy is truly &quot;Knee Deep in the Dead&quot;. He fights deeper and taking down hordes of zombified soldiers and various Hellish monsters. The station is crawling erratic flaming skulls and ferocious charging pinky demons and their invisible spectre counterparts. Still, none of them stand a through the labs, nuclear cleaning up the mess his He finally arrives at the portal itself, the site of the Phobos Barons of Hell protecting Of course, Doomguy overwhelms them with his ever-increasing through the portal to the sister moon, only to be completely ambushed. Somehow, Doomguy survives and ends up on the very Shores of Hell. The Deimos moon base and corrupted by the With his trusty shotgun, plasma gun, chainsaw, and BFG9000, Doomguy proves this second moon is only a bit more He's introduced to the floating Cacodemon as he re-kills the undead through the Command Center and The adventure on Deimos draws to a close as Doomguy challenges his biggest foe yet: the rocket launching CyberDemon. After some circle-strafe dueling, this ultimate behemoth With both moons saved, the Well that's what Doomguy and saw that Deimos was Rather than retreat, Doomguy entering the Inferno and takes the battle to After tackling the Unholy and Slough of Despair, Doomguy finally confronts the literal brains behind The mastermind might be but isn't much tougher with Doomguy blasts it to through a portal straight to Earth. &quot;Thy Flesh Consumed&quot; - 2022. Unfortunately, when he sees that the Demons have Not only that, his pet bunny Daisy has been murdered and mutilated. Time for a little revenge. &quot;Thy Flesh Consumed&quot; was of &quot;Ultimate Doom&quot;, and tells the story of how Doomguy avenges Daisy and halts Hell's Taking notes from the Bible, Doomguy survives through and yes, even &quot;Perfect Hatred&quot; before taking down another Though this was just part &quot;Sigil&quot; - 2022. So turns out &quot;Thy Flesh Consumed&quot; on Earth but rather a purgatory of sorts linking the two realms. At least, that's the story fifth chapter of &quot;Doom&quot;, &quot;Sigil&quot;. Sure, some don't really consider it canon but it was by Bethesda, and hey, John Romero made it, so I'm not gonna argue Anyway, after defeating the Spiderdemon from &quot;Thy Flesh Consumed&quot;, to take the real portal back to Earth. But Baphomet, also known causes the teleporter to transporting Doomguy Doomguy knows the full invasion so he must act fast, defeat Hell made quite the its harbinger of destruction like Paths of Wretchedness Now fully seasoned, both a Cyberdemon and within the Halls of Perdition. However, the distraction was a success, and hordes of demons are already unleashed on our blue planet. &quot;Doom II: Hell on Earth&quot; - 2022. When Doomguy arrives back he sees that he's a bit late. Much of civilization lays in ruin, but a massive evacuation Using a singular starport, to the far reaches of space. Unfortunately, the demons and have sealed it with a forcefield, preventing any ships from evacuating. The military tried and so Doomguy is once again the final hope to prevent our extinction. And with five chapters under his belt, Doomguy has little problem This time, he's got a the greatest &quot;Doom&quot; weapon outside of the BFG9000: the super shotgun. Doomguy needs it too. The earth invasion has for him to contend with. Including: a new kind now equipped with a chaingun The Mancubus, a tank of to blast a barrage of fireballs. Think a gross, demonic Blastoise. Pain Elementals which spew and explode into individual lost souls. They're about as annoying as they sound. Revenants, skeleton dudes and shoot Doomguy seeking rockets. Hell Knights, basically Arachnotrons, mini spider Oh, and the Archvile. It can resurrect dead by simply keeping a line of sight on you. As he's tackling the Doomguy notices the port is by Hell and its demonic presence. He must act swiftly through before the base is completely lost. Sure enough Doomguy succeeds, of earth to safely escape to other worlds. He lays back to accept his will inevitably overwhelm him, The Hell portal to Earth within the heart of So, just like with Daisy, Doomguy battles through Downtown, Suburbs, an Industrial Zone and along with the entire planet. If he can completely stop the invasion, perhaps humanity doesn't have When Doomguy finds the portal to Hell, he sees no tangible way to destroy it from this side, at least. So, he takes a deep into the bowels of Hell. No stage can slow him not The Abandoned Mines, Okay maybe The Chasm a little bit. After opening blue door after blue door and jibbing archvile after archvile, Doomguy finally meets the The mastermind. But it isn't the SpiderMastermind, oh no. It's Baphomet aka The Gatekeeper aka The Icon of Sin itself. This glorified wall texture manufactures demons by the hoof full. Thankfully, when you with a conveniently placed elevator and a few well-timed the Icon of Sin is no more. &quot;No Rest for the Living&quot; - 2022. After returning from Hell, Doomguy still needs to take care of a few scattered handfuls of demons. They're still wreaking havoc, so it's up to Doomguy to destroy them in &quot;No Rest for the Living&quot; (an expansion released a decade and a half after &quot;Doom II&quot;). Doomguy fights through an yet again into a section of Hell where he meets a new Cyberdemon rebuilding Hell's army to use for himself. Scaling Hell Mountain, and baring the brunt of Doomguy slaughters this Hell on Earth has been prevented, so Doomguy shows off his skills with The Master Levels for some side cash. &quot;Final Doom: TNT:Evilution&quot; - 2022. After the little it's time for the UAC to go you know, the old guard got wiped out. Not that it makes much of a difference. The UAC sets up on Jupiter's moon Io, and immediately starts This time, they've got with whatever monsters appear Well, as cocky as they are they definitely aren't prepared when a giant demon attracted by this experimentation. Doomguy is commander of but he's out on a walk when the demons launch their invasion; he but at least he was After being attacked by an imp, he rushes to the base to enact revenge. Doomguy fights through then military base stronghold, and storage facility. He continues battling throughout the night in the Dead Zone and Deep Reaches. Before long, the moon is as seen in Mount Pain and confronts the mastermind of this invasion. It's something far more The Demon Spitter! With the uncanny ability it's just the Icon of Sin again. &quot;Final Doom: The Plutonia The Io experiments aren't they also create a marine-protected base in a jungle on Earth. Here, they try closing for once from a safe distance This is known as The Plutonia Experiment, the other half of &quot;Final Doom&quot;. Demons catch wind of this scheme and open up a portal deep within the base, but an accelerator swiftly closes it. Now wiser, the monsters open seven portals the following day. The humans are able to before getting overwhelmed and slaughtered but one remains open. Hordes of marines are called to the base, but Doomguy is the first one there. He realizes that if he he'll be too late, so to once again battle his Fighting through the jungles of Congo, an Aztec layout temple, filled with archviles, the quantum accelerator prototype. He goes further through a Hell-corrupted, demon-infested base, to a Demon Hive where It is being guarded by the most horrifying &quot;Doom&quot; boss imaginable. The Gatekeeper. Oh yes, The Gatekeeper, this monstrosity is just the Icon of Sin again again. Well, Doomguy blows it and Earth is saved once more. &quot;Doom 64&quot; - Post 2023. After the initial Hell outbreak, Mars' moons were put under quarantine. By that, I mean heavily for years to make sure nothing survived. Unfortunately something survives. What's worse is the survivor is none other than the Motherdemon, a dead demon carcasses to revive minions more powerful than before. This lone survivor rapidly and since all the radiation the earthlings are none the wiser. Once they finally find humanity turns to the one and demon slaying business like the back of his The mutated monsters are more grotesque (and detailed) than ever before. There's even a new into the darkness and Though the demons all the Motherdemon couldn't There's no Chaingun Zombie, no Revenant, no SpiderMastermind and no Archvile. Such a bummer. Well, at least Doomguy gets Dethroning the BFG9000, a laser gun that you can And collect them Doomguy through a corrupted base He breezes through The before diving into the underworld through the Altar of With his Unmaker the Motherdemon is mere cannon fodder to the battle-hardened marine. With another threat eradicated, Doomguy is at his breaking point. He simply can't handle the mental fatigue of demon invasion after demon invasion. A sane man would retire. Doomguy obliges by He decides to stay in the and keeping realities At last, he's found his own form of peace. &quot;Doom 3&quot; Separate Timeline Explanation. Okay so this is where things Like I said, there are multiple dimensions and realities within &quot;Doom&quot;. So, &quot;Doom 3&quot; and its expansions fit best in their own parallel, There actually is an that developers Tom Hall and This theory states that is the same character, to the &quot;Wolfenstein&quot; and I'm not one to argue that's a little bit of You'd have to assume that the UAC decided to completely forger experimentation and failures Doomguy lived in complete obscurity after saving humanity several times, only to be commissioned as a mere corporal on a So if you're able to suspend then you can slip all &quot;Doom 3&quot; games after &quot;The Plutonia Experiment&quot; when Doomguy stayed in Hell. But me? I'm gonna keep these titles quarantined in their In many ways, &quot;Doom 3&quot; is a reimagining of the original &quot;Doom&quot;. This time, the UAC has been into a habitable environment. But while constructing Mars City, they discover a Martian complete with a bevy of And so, the focus on The Martian civilization and even figured out UAC scientists begin opening portals to a dark realm. They flat-out ignore ancient about inevitable extinction, through the portal (leading Things start to get pretty spooky (flickering lights, the whole shebang). But of course, none of these scientists have ever seen any and they push forward with their research. &quot;Doom Resurrection&quot; - June 2145. One day, things reach a calamity point when an experiment leads to Marine divisions face varying throughout the base, but Bravo The whole team gets wiped out, With the guidance of Dr. Garret this marine battles his He even visits Hell along the proving his badassery. Sam sacrifices itself can close its doors, and this hero Marine successfully escapes. Yet somehow, research continues as normal in the following months. &quot;Doom 3&quot; - November 15th 2145. A few months later, Dr. Betruger, is drunk with power and hides The Doctor even enters the portal himself, coming back creepier than ever. Things are clearly so the UAC sends counselor Cambell to Mars for damage control. They're also accompanied aka Doomguy, but accordinh to so we'll refer to him as Doom Marine. Swann presses Betruger about but the creepy Dr. are about to go down. Master Sergeant Kelly assigns scientist Ishii in the Doom Marine tracks down but right on cue, Hell's gateway and transforming a vast majority After killing a zombified Ishii, Doom Marine is tasked with tracking down the surviving Bravo team (which must've been reformed and helping them send a distress Meanwhile, Swann and the communications facility So the UAC representatives want while the military upper brass wants to send out a distress signal? Yet Betruger is still boasting about his control over the situation. Sure. Doom Marine methodically makes his way through the Alpha Labs a new enemy that's half human half spider, kinda like Quake's Vore. In the EnPro Facility, Bravo but one brave marine the distress card to Doom However, Campbell beats absolutely destroying the console in the Communications Facility. Sergeant Kelly orders Plan B, for Doom Marine to call reinforcements at a nearby satellite tower, but Swann pleads with The backup would only get slaughtered and nobody knows what Here, the player has to make a choice. Doom Marine doesn't send the transmission (in my play through at least) to fight against the continually On the way, Doom Marine who reveals that he sent out signal himself anyway. See, he wants new ships to and attack Earth with the forces Doom Marine takes a monorail to Delta Labs and skypes who seems a bit off. They're set to meet up so the marine rebounds by meeting UAC scientist Ian McCormick. McCormick tells him about and unleashing the forces of he collected in the underworld When Doom Marine finally Betruger activates the void and unleashes two hulking Hell Knights a la Phobos Anomaly. Doom Marine blasts them to to beeline right to Hell to And so, Doom Marine grits his of occultish nightmares a Crocodilian protector of the Cube. After claiming the artifact Doom Marine has to endure Betruger bragging about a bigger, badder portal that still exists. Swann warns Doom Marine that Sarge is now completely corrupted Sarge cuts off Swann's but Doomguy takes action and kills his former commanding officer. Soon after, an archeologist more info about the may actually be descended from Martians. More importantly, he supplies Doom Marine with his security clearance, to dig sites containing of the ancient civilization. Fighting deeper and deeper Doom Marine discovers that has somehow crept into our reality. Here, Doom Marine discovers Hell Hole portal being guarded by none other than a hulking CyberDemon. Thankfully, this final that Doom Marine went to the Soul Cube. Sure enough, the Cyberdemon falls and the portal is permanently sealed. A week later, a recon team the lone survivor, while becoming the demon Maledict. &quot;Lost Mission&quot; - November 15th 2145. But it turns out Doom who survived this ordeal. The last member of Bravo and overwhelmed six A Dr. Meyers reaches out Meyers did some work in the Exis Labs, experimenting with long Some demons returned to Hell and now they intend to use its power to transport straight to Earth. It's up to this Marine to transport to Hell and save the planet. In Hell, he destroys another Guardian and destroys the teleportation device, returning to Mars just Dr. Meyers congratulates him the Doom Marine arrived &quot;Resurrection of Evil&quot; - March 17th 2147. Once the demonic dust settles a year after the Mars invasion, the UAC decides to continue after picking up an Fortunately, they put a whistleblower and enemy of Bertuger, in charge of the revamped base. A new batch of marines arrives as well, one of which is our new In March of 2147, McNeil leads the marines to an ancient chamber harboring When our marine touches the artifact, he unleashes a surge of and opens up yet another portal to Hell. Betruger (now the Maledict) a new invasion can begin. He tasks three Hell Knight the artifact which Dr. McNeil and the marine sought to protect. The marine collects a from a dying comrade, and once he learns the artifact like slowing time. This firepower comes in like mutated imps known as Vulgars, Hell Knight-Mancubus and throwback Lost Souls Our marine also recovers a from Sergeant Kelly's old office some extra oomph. Defeating another Hell Hunter the marine eventually reunites with McNeil at the Phobos Lab. Turns out the artifact is a weapon known as the Heart of Hell, in an ancient Martian war. Returning the artifact to the portal between the two realities. Once the last Invulnerability Dr. McNeil is able to into the sealed and where the portal still resides. At the iconic gateway, and uses his super demonic to anything that stands in his way. He reaches the Maledict, but about within its mouth. Bertruger's head pops out so the marine gladly gives it to him, he shoves it down the monster's gullet destroying the Maledict As for the ending, it's pretty ambiguous. Dr. McNeil mutters that they're home amidst a wash of white. Either the marine made it back as well and finds himself It's not like it really matters, because we're moving on to an or maybe it's a distant future where everyone forgot what happened? Look, the jury's still fits into all this, so &quot;DOOM (2016)&quot; - 2149. Once again, the UAC has a base on Mars and is researching This time though, they're using known as Argent, which is directly tapped from the might of Hell. They build a massive tower working towards solving all Naturally, Hell energy and UAC director Dr. Hayden and has to transfer his Tapping into Argent allows scientists to explore and study Hell itself. They bring home some captive but all this demonic influence is bringing some negative side effects. Hell is starting to particularly, Dr. Olivia Pierce. She begins a Hell worshipping and wants to open a and allow our reality to be consumed. Fortunately, Dr. Hayden has which leads to the discovery The Doom Slayer is a mystical warrior feared by all of demon-kind. He's been the arbiter of over time, and his soul is Sound familiar? Yeah, it's not officially confirmed that this is the same Doomguy but c'mon, this is totally the Doomguy we last saw in &quot;Doom 64&quot;. Dr. Hayden lugs the Doom Slayer's and it's a good thing he did. Dr. Pierce soon rips a portal wide open and welcomes a full-on demon invasion. The Doom Slayer awakens in the midst of the ensuing onslaught, has already been corrupted by Hell. Thankfully, the Doom Slayer this time around with the Doomguy can jump! Hell, even double jump. And now he can even rip enemies limb from limb with his bare hands. He's also equipped with a Gauss Cannon and a wealth of new A few new enemies join the fray, like new breeds of a laser gun-wielding Hell razer, and a now-computerized cyber-mancubus. Dr. Hayden guides the Doom with some help from the The marine is tasked with before heading towards the Argent Tower to thwart Dr. Pierce. Which, in his world, means kill her. She wants to permanently by overloading the Argent Tower using Argent energy accumulators. Dr. Hayden wants the Doom energy sources from his wrath, but Doomguy doesn't Instead, he destroys the of time and research. By the time the Doom Slayer catches up to Pierce atop the tower, She launches herself into the hell drill, accumulator in tow, ripping Hell wide open and sucking the Doom Slayer into the void. Now in Hell, we learn even more of the ultra powerful Doom Slayer, apparently, he's able to and time with power The Doom Slayer fights his way sends him on a quest to investigate Pierce's office and the Helix stone. While venturing through the Doom Slayer acquires a new iteration of the megaweapon BFG9000. After he finds the Helix is after the Crucible, a mysterious demonic key/sword/macguffin. But it's in Hell, and in The Doom Slayer needs Thankfully, a hulking by one in his chest and The Doom Slayer is now back in Hell, and wastes absolutely no time blasting through the Necropolis, toppling three Hell Guards Dr. Hayden transports him back to Mars, and Vega sacrifices his Argent lifeforce to send him straight to the the Hell Well. Well, the Hell Well is and the Crucible arrive on scene. Seeking vengeance, Dr. Pierce transforms into The Spiderdemon Mastermind. But before you have the Doom Slayer obliterates BFG9000 point blank shot Even though the Doom Slayer in his way, this story doesn't Dr. Hayden betrays him since it's a potent Potent enough to continue And so, the cycle continues locked away and out of reach of Hayden's continued research for now. Will &quot;Doom: Eternal&quot; answer about the timeline ambiguity? Maybe. Will &quot;Doom: Eternal&quot; kick a lot of ass? Absolutely yes. Will you subscribe to the &quot;Leaderboard&quot;? Man I hope so. My name is Marcus, and if let me know if you wanna From Indie to Triple-A we Thanks for watching!