(metal clanging) - Oh, my God. - This thing is disgusting. - [Jake] Ugh! - Looks like it was in a construction zone and an apocalypse, and Oh my God, it's a good thing 'cause there's just metal just sitting on the motherboard here. Look! Oh, I think it might short out, boys! Why are we even using this thing? - Well, we're not right - [Linus] Ugh! - Oh, no! - Ew! - Ugh! - Ugh, I don't even wanna touch this. (coughs) I got a mask on (metal clanging) - You gotta be wondering why when we have a shiny new right over here. This guy holds the backup for our main storage server, Whonnock, which has all the data, for all of our ongoing projects So thanks to this, if or even all of that say to drive failures or even we'd have a local copy of ready to go for our editors. But what if the worst Say there's an earthquake or a tsunami, and our whole building is destroyed, that is where our remote backup-- (coughs) Sorry! Our remote back up over 300 except for one small problem. For the past two years, it And unfortunately, we've from server manufacturers so we're gonna try to use We have no idea if it still (Jake chuckles) Good luck learning about KiwiCo ships out crates that for kids to help develop and problem solving skills. Learn more at the end of the (upbeat music) First order of business is let's get Auntie Dale server outta here so that it doesn't get corrupted. - Corrupted by the dust. you dust one server next to another server now you got two dusty servers (chuckles). - Oh, boy, this thing is-- Oh, my God! - [Linus] You want me to take that end? Well, I'm just asking. I'm just saying I play a I lift a lot of 80 gram weights over and over and over again. - This side's way nicer! Don't worry. - Oh, okay. scratch my back a little bit here. - You know, we're sort of in a hurry. - [Jake] Oh, yeah? - So let's just clean the Oh. - [Jake] There is wood in here. - Yeah, it might be sawdust of some sort. Okay, we're gonna need for the main event. - The cleaning bit. What is some of the stuff in here? What is that? (chuckles) What is that? It's plastic, too. - It's so dusty. - Those of you who have might actually recognize this that we ever rolled out. Got that silkscreen logo So those are ancient - These ones are different. I put these, okay, this was my test server like two years ago for two months. - Well, you took really good care of it. (Jake laughs) then it's just been actually two years. - Oh, you know what? That's probably why this thing's in here. A Vertex2! So I've had this Vertex2 I don't know why we circled this. (Jake laughs) - Oh, the motherbo-- I didn't even look in this thing properly. Holy! (chuckles) - Yeah, that's-- - [Linus] That's gonna be a problem. - [Jake] The PCIE slots and the RAM slots, are those even gonna work anymore? - [Linus] I hope so. So this is a triple redundant power supply. - Yeah, it's enormous. And it uses up like, I don't even think we can put a different power supply in here. That's another thing, too, to roll a server with because of concerns This is not efficient. Pretty sure this is a DDR3. - I think it's DD4. - No? 1.5? Whooee! Either way, we're not that 'cause we don't pay for at that data center. - Thanks, iTel! - Yeah, (chuckles) thanks, iTel. (laughs) Hey, the vertical parts aren't that bad. That's how you can tell - [Jake] Just a little - For those of you wondering part of it is that this for a couple of years, is that it was accidentally left in a rack that was inside a construction zone. Now the construction workers like, they actually built thinking that they were protecting the delicate equipment inside. I guess they didn't understand that having a big opening that the dust would go in. (chuckles) - [Jake] Anyways, whatever, we can fix it. Hopefully. The fact that we haven't powered it on with this dust is good, though. - Yeah. there's almost definitely in some of this dust. So this thing has 64 gigs of RAM. That's fine for an offsite backup. - I was thinking about adding more RAM but I really don't think we need it especially if we're gonna run Unraid. I think maybe we should - No, we can't vacuum it We can't suck, we have to blow. - Okay. - [Jake] I think this for reference here, let's just... (loud whirring) - All right, here we go. (loud whirring) (upbeat music) (loud whooshing) &quot;What is going on?&quot; (upbeat music) (loud whooshing) - It's like new, baby! - [Jake] Oh, wow! - Right? than getting an air (mumbles). I've had things like this before. - [Jake] Usually the but this one-- (chuckles) Complains about vacuum being too staticky, sticks Swiffer in. - [Linus] Look, we don't have - We're putting this in the video, 100%. Oh, oh, come on, are you kidding me? - [Linus] Well, I want (Jake groans) - [Jake] Do you at least have (Linus laughs) Wait, wait. How are you taking this The mounting hardware for And so I ghetto-found some and put some washers on there. It works. That cooler, what does We're up to 10,000 now. - Oh, wow. - Here's a little It's just sitting here like this. (Jake laughs loudly) - What is that even from? from this computer. How is this in here? Thanks, I hate it. I just need some paper towel. Who keeps moving the bloody paper towel from the PC build corner? I don't like Kimwipes! They don't have the absorbency of (beep). - Yo, you want some IPA, bro? Brandon brings the paper - Oh, well. Wait, so you found paper towel, but then you didn't actually-- - [Jake] You walked in 10 seconds after we found paper towel. - Do you have to make - I just wanna-- There we go. - You know, you're doing You're watching TV, you're playing a game, you're texting on your phone, you're fricking get it to land on its thing. Oh! - Wait, is this isopropyl? Should I (mumbles), no, it's not. - [Jake] Here, catch. - [Linus] What is this thing? What is this? - [Jake] Do you need some tweezers? - Oh, it's just like a little bit of wire. This isn't even a kind of wire we should be cutting in this office. It's not network or anything. - No, look at the color, it's weird. - No, no, no, this is, But also why is it in there? Like in the socket? You should blow that off. 'Cause this is dirty, you Here's a... - [Linus] Oh, yeah, that'll do. (loud spraying) - [Jake] Clean the CPU - Why do we have 200 - Sub to LTT! - [Linus] Huh, how much - Oh, okay. - [Jake] (laughs) Oh, yeah! (Jake laughs) Can I help you at all? Why don't you install some drives? That'd be helpful. (Jake grunts loudly) I mean, we don't even That might be good to know before I even bother with this, actually. I'm just gonna keep installing SAS cards while you do your thing, okay? Here I am installing not one, but two SAS cards while you're Look at this, I'm even before you get the cables in. - [Jake] I'm already done. - [Linus] Oh, you gotta put in this one. to shut up? - I can. - [Jake] I am God. Oh, redundant power - [Linus] Oh, well that's pretty good. - Yeah. You ever have a data center and it just won't shut up - Well, I thought that was the like being noisy. - [Jake] Yeah. - Oh, wasn't done! Wasn't done! - [Jake] Whatever, Linda. - [Linus] I thought you is totally working! Why would not you not tell me? - Remember Albion that died? - Okay, that's fair. I think it's fine. - That was a good posting sound-- - [Jake] It's good, it's good. - So we're using our but then-- And then these drives - Are you gonna let me talk or not, okay? these drives are from Auntie Dale? - So with a normal rate, you got the stripey stripes across the multiple drives, okay? With Unraid it actually on a single drive, so you're limited to single drive right speed. That's the biggest problem with it. For us though, it's not a problem because this is gonna be offsite with only a gigabit connection. For our purposes, this is It's day two and I've got We actually took out the Ironwolf Pros 'cause we realized Clover Server, was full of EXOS drives. So now we've got 22 of for our offsite backup of Whonnock plus snapshots of older versions of it so that in case something we can (makes clicking sound) go back and get it real quick styles. We also went and updated updated the bios on the board, updated the IPMI firmware. And this thing is hummin' so well, I'd say it's a pretty 'Cause it doesn't have the greatest power consumption characteristics - [Jake] Is it like an H1 or H2? - It' a hummer. Oh yeah, we also added a These are running in RAID 1 and they're not super high performance. They're just MX500 SATA but they're high enough performance that if we wanted to run a VM or something like that, then we could and realistically they're since it's a one gigabit Now all we gotta do is put the-- Where'd they go? Where the heck the, oh, yes. Ah, yes. The old 45Drive mechanism - [Jake] Did they update that? - Oh, it's so much better. - [Jake] I don't actually mind this one. - It's fine. These rods are really stupid. Ow, dammit, my finger. - [Jake] This thing is so cute. It actually looks pretty new. - I know, it doesn't even look that old and decrepit anymore! So you know where this - [Jake] No. - In the hallway at the Langley House. - Really? you would like trip over it in Now I can show you what that looks like in the Unraid software. We're doing a parity sync right now so you can actually see are reading at their maximum speed of about 200 megabytes a second. The reason it's doing that is because we did change out and so we need to rebuild the parity data. Unraid does still have parity protection, it's just written individually So we can lose up to two of without losing any data whatsoever. - [Jake] And look at that capacity! - [Linus] I was gonna say is it's got a nice easy to So you can see here, we've got 240 terabytes This is kinda fun. It's an older system but It's doing 3.9 gigabytes just reading all the - Those poor HVAs are just rippin'. - They're going, boys. You think if I wiggle wobble that read speed will go down? - [Jake] Seems like a bad idea. - (chuckles) It's all fine and good to have a bunch of storage but we're not gonna be so what are we doin'? - Backups are only good if You don't wanna rely on human error there especially us two. Unlike Whonnock server, which does a live file backup to (mumbles) which we built a few days ago. I guess you guys haven't really Anyways, sensible Jellyfish Fryer, we're calling it an Auntie Dale now. It's great, yeah. Because this thing is running Unraid and we don't really expect running a live file sync to it probably isn't the best So instead, we're gonna be doing snapshots and now because our backup we could do a set of fast snapshots but we actually are gonna use which is based on rsync. A file transfer software that's very ubiquitous The fantastic thing about rsnapshot as the name implies is but they're also de-duplicated so say we have our 30 terabytes and we add a terabyte a day, once it does that big backup and say, we're doing hourly backups so we'd have a whole day's worth of 'em, rather than just making it creates a new hard link that's pointing to those existing files that are already there. So that way, when we do it's only gonna add the say, 500 gigs from whatever ingest we just did and then it will just point - Now the question becomes, Well, that's fine, too, it'll take your new &quot;Oh, hey, that's not there anymore.&quot; So we're just going to throw that out but we're gonna leave it just in case you need it later. And then what'll happen within the software and say, okay, I wanna keep these snapshots for, let's say hourly for a week, - That's a lot. - Is that, okay. for 24 hours. - And then it takes, it recycles the oldest - So that's one of the so much more storage that it is backing up because it's actually gonna be backing up everything that was on Whonnock's server over the last probably month or two. - But when you think about it, say if we do one or two videos a day, realistically, we're not gonna pass a terabyte a day of new footage. - I dunno, David, can we? - Maybe a little bit more. Okay, whatever, doesn't matter. We'll say it's a terabyte a day. 30 days of that, that's 30 terabytes plus the 30-ish terabytes should be well within the 240 we have. - You give those guys a hundred terabytes, they fill it. - He's been doing pretty good so far. - The good news is, that Unraid allows easy so if we just ship a - [Jake] Here's some more Ironwolves! - We can take our and it'll be fine. - Now to show you guys what we've set up a test directory with a sort of 50 gig-ish project And we've started the And if we look in our backup thing here, we got this PDFs tech It's getting transferred. - [Linus] Yeah! - It's pretty slow 'cause it's gigabit, but it is at least going. I think Turbo Ride is on right now so it's like got all the drives spun up but we wouldn't leave that on in practice. - So there it is, in spite at the beginning of this project, our offsite backup server is ready to go. Meaning we have a 3-2-1 for the first time in (inhales loudly) years! (clears throat) Practicing what we preach just like I practice these segues. KiwiCo is our sponsor for today's video and they're a monthly subscription service to help make STEM topics fun and interactive for kids of all ages. They believe that if you they can turn into world So each month, you'll get a themed crate to learn specific topics. Each crate is designed by experts and contains everything which means you don't need to get extra supplies like The crate that we're showing here is at a Kiwi level that's that'll teach programming and robotics. Another one is the Eureka level that highlight basic KiwiCo is a great way to keep and you can check it out where you'll also get 50% off If you guys enjoyed this oh, maybe a lower capacity, but higher performance one. New, new Whonnock server. - Whonnock 3. The rollout for it, couldn't have gone any better, actually, and that thing is flippin' fast. We're gonna have a playlist where you can watch all the Can you make a playlist? but it's gonna be called the Whonnock 3 playlist. new, new Whonnock.