- Most people realize that a good answer to the tell me about yourself question sets the tone for the What some people miss will help you influence what In this video, I skip you might find in other tutorials and dive right into number one, how to structure a strong answer using the present, past Number two, how to use to influence the interviewer. And number three, leave if I were interviewing right now. Although there is no to the tell me about there is a strong answer structure that is universally applicable. So while I do provide a the main takeaway of this video should be the methods I use and how you can apply the same structure for your own use cases. Number one, using the present, past and future answer structure. Interviewers want to know who you are right now, how you got to be there, to the role you're interviewing for. Present, past and future. Starting with the present, this is a snapshot of yourself in your current professional capacity. It should be kept within one minute and include the following. What you do in your current role, the success metrics you and a recent achievement you If you're working professional, the present portion might I'm currently a management focus on Finance Shared My primary contributions organizing training adopting the new SAP system. And number two, putting through market research for future business A recent one I'd like to from a free trial of eMarketer on B2B marketing trends in my senior manager close a $500,000 deal. By stating your current you show the interviewer you are a professional. This will also help you stay away from going off topic into and therefore irrelevant. The town you grew up in, the Then mentioning your own success metrics shows that you are results oriented. You know exactly what It also shows you're confident because why else would you bring it up? Finally, the impactful achievement keeps the interviewer and plants follow up Wow, which eMarketing report was this? Why was the client sold on And we'll talk about a bit more later on. Although the example I gave just now was for working professional, if you're a current student, you can use the exact same structure. Simply start off by saying then dive immediately into internships, and leadership experiences. Don't worry about the but rather the qualities as you tell it. If you found this first tip helpful, drop a like and comment down below to help me with the YouTube Now on to the past portion of your answer. This is where you really get to show off and highlight key strengths or takeaways you want the interviewer to remember. This part should be Coming up with stories that Keeping them concise, relevant So here's what we wanna do. First identify two to three attributes you feel the role is looking for. If it's sales, this stakeholder management. If it's accounting, this strong analytical skills. Then scroll through your projects, internships, to the attributes that they're looking for. Finally, and this might select one key moment to serve as the highlight If you're a student interviewing your past portion might As the events coordinator I'm responsible for planning, executing and tracking our weekly workshops. Since this requires a lot of such as fiscal flyers I took the initiative such as Canva and MailChimp After other student bodies noticed our new marketing materials, they actually came asking for help. And so I conducted a small group training for 30 other event The training received a Some of you might be thinking right now, well, Jeff, her experience So that was an easy answer. I'm applying to a role I Okay, imagine the same candidate were applying for an accounting position. In that case, the same event coordinator should focus on how she managed the budget for the entire year and how she kept track of As you can see, the same experience can be and should be applicable for the different attributes Finally, the future portion, this is just a quick 30-second wrap up where you reinforce the reasons why you're such a good fit for the role. The objective here is that ever so slightly, how it makes such good sense Following the previous example, let's just say that our event coordinator is applying for the accounting position. Her future portion might As someone who has been managing for the past year, I'm glad to have been that I learned in my accounting classes in real life situations. This has further reinforced my interest in pursuing accounting My experiences combined by make me a strong asset to the Financial Advisory By the way, I have a Facebook group where I share weekly tips, consider joining if you haven't already, I'll link it down below. Number two, the highlight method. In a nutshell, the highlight method is where you take a small that you have already prepared for and only include that part in the tell me about yourself This helps you keep your answer concise while mentioning something impressive. If done right, the should trigger the interviewer that lead to your larger story. If you've been paying you've probably already noticed that we've been sprinkling in highlights throughout the present past For example, in the present that you helped close is the highlight and you should have the using the star format. All right, putting off that together. Here's a sample answer I'd give if I were interviewing right now. So Jeff, could you tell Sure, I'm currently a product marketer here at Google covering I mainly work on App campaigns, a Google product aimed at app developers. Specifically, I have two to reach as many new-to-Google And number two, increase product adoption among our existing app advertisers. My team and I achieve these goals through a mix of online offline events and content marketing. For example, one of the is called Start on Android China, where we leverage resources from our Play, Ads and AdMob teams to deliver a comprehensive for Greater China App Developers. The goal is to address their pain points at each stage of their app export journey. A notable achievement was from a three-day offline event format to a three-week online one. That actually resulted in eligible signups before marketing, I was a key account covering around 30 B2C Chinese exporters. Since that's quite a few clients for just one person to cover. I actually created YouTube my clients at scale. Funny story, you can still on YouTube right now. This in addition to the support for cross functional team members helped me achieve revenue attainment without missing targets Before joining Google, I with Ernst and Young for two years. One year based out of New York City and another out of Shanghai, I worked on a variety of projects ranging from supply chain management to shared service centers. Due to the nature of these projects, I would often find myself as the only consultant physically on site, and therefore I was really able and relationship management skills. Having spent the past six years in predominantly client-facing roles, I believe the communication combined with my international background, would make me a strong asset to your global business development team. (claps) And there you have on how to nail the tell me about yourself I sincerely believe this is the most important interview question to get right. Not only because it sets the tone for the rest of the interview, but also if you do get it right, it gives you a huge confidence I hope this video helped. Subscribe if you haven't already, and comment down below if See you on the next video have a great one. (soothing music)