My life completely changed with one tweet. This was back in 2015 when Twitter was mostly a place But then I saw it. A tweet by a scientist I deeply admire, Dr. Carolyn Porco. Wait, I thought nuclear energy was bad. Yet here is a scientist making it sound good. It sent me on a journey, I spent years reading papers, and I always asked them the same question: What do you think about nuclear power? Their responses were shockingly similar. It's good. We need it. People hate it. In the last seven years, I've seen climate change go to being a scary thing of the present. My wake-up call came after seeing in Australia and in my home country of Brazil. I decided I wanted to turn into something helpful and productive. So I had an unusual idea: I should be a nuclear energy influencer. I wanted to make nuclear energy cool. Inspired by internet culture, I created a digital version of me (Laughter) She's sassy, a little weird, but she always tells the truth. And here, you can see her in action. (Video) Hey, guys, a lot of you The most important thing because we want those pores as clean And the best way to get that stop shutting down nuclear plants, It's carbon-free, emission-free, Then I use this plant-based when a nuclear plant is shut down, That's bad. (Applause and cheers) Isodope is like a dealer of good memes. When I say meme, you probably think (Laughter) What I mean by it is a fixed belief that spreads from person to person For example, people should have equal rights. Birds aren't real. It's a thing. (Laughter) Nuclear energy is bad. When it comes to nuclear power, the world has been sold a bad meme. An outdated one. Let's go back in time. It all started with the anti-nuclear The movement was driven in large part by an understandable fear And I get it. It must have been terrifying fearing a nuclear attack. But here's the problem. Their logic was: nuclear bombs are bad, therefore nuclear energy is bad. Which, if you think about it, therefore electricity is bad. The case against nuclear power but the anti-nuclear meme was very catchy. In the decades that followed, aspiring engineers didn't choose Politicians got points even though it always led The meme even snuck into people's homes, every Sunday night at eight, (Laughter) I wish Homer had worked at a coal plant. (Laughter) In the last 10 years, we have spent trillions yet we only get eight percent Now, don't get me wrong, but to me, it's clear that we need more. We need a source of energy that's clean and works 24/7 to complement them. And it's been sitting right but we have ignored it because we're too blinded by the meme. Now most people today as much as they're "meh." Not passionately against it, They've seen images They have a vague feeling it's bad. And remember, that's where I used to be. Until I saw this chart. The only thing you need is that nuclear power of all energy sources, producing only three tons of CO2 And I could keep talking like this this is not changing minds So I do things a little bit differently. (Video) The reality is that nuclear is one The problem is that nuclear While fossil fuel damage is boring. I'm literally falling asleep Recent studies say that 8.7 million people This would be like having I'm just a humble influencer, but I think this means (Laughter) (Applause) Most people have a feeling because when a plane crashes, It's memorable. Of course, we know the opposite is true. Planes are significantly safer than cars, just like nuclear power In this next video, Isodope that we don't know (Video) I'm sure you don't know but there are people who spent They're called scientists. Finland is almost done building the world's first nuclear They're storing it deep underground Sweden is about to do the same. I know you're worried about what may (Loud buzzing) Again, just a humble influencer, but we might not make it that far (Applause) By the way, most think nuclear It actually looks like this. Fully contained in concrete casks I might do a photo shoot there. Now, a more modern objection is that it's too slow. It takes too long to build. Well, I'm sure Isodope has something (Video) (Isodope claps) Finally, an argument Unfortunately, it still sucks. In the '70s, France built More recently, Japan, China and Korea So this means BTS is blow-drying Even if it takes 10 years to build one, nuclear power plants can make clean for at least 80 years. This -- (Applause) This idea that it takes too long considering we're going You know, the best time was 10 years ago. The next best time is today. Now we've finally arrived at the most nuclear power is too expensive. I'm going to take that one. A little weird to say something to save the future of our species, but I get it, cost matters. Here's the thing. We know how to make clean energy cheaper. It's not rocket science. You build the same thing Solar, 10 years ago, was also but we decided it was cool Like magic, the costs One way to make nuclear cheaper China just finished building Poland will use a similar technology to convert their aging coal plants They'll use the same building, even retrain the same workers. But now making clean energy instead of buying dirty fuels Which leads me to a crazy idea. What if instead of viewing we view it as a force and even peace. What if this technology offers A future where wars aren't funded A future where energy is clean. A future where electricity to the 700 million people on Earth who still don't have access to it. The idea that nuclear power is bad And it's time to let go of it. I'm not asking you to build a reactor. I'm not asking you to rewrite (Laughter) I'm not even asking you to sign All I'm asking you is to please, Nuclear energy is cool. Thank you. (Cheers and applause)