If you've studied any physics you know that But why? It's as though this thing - electric charge as its mass. It just sort of ... exists. Well it turns out if you dig deep enough, in many things, including mass itself, Although many mysteries remain in physics, and magnetism seems pretty complete. The math that describes it - Maxwell's equations it up nicely. Except that all of electromagnetism is powered And neither Maxwell's equations nor QED is. It seems to just be a property that particles Like we've got to the exasperated end of But why?", where the only answer is: &quot;just The idea of "fundamental" feels like the But actually, in the case of electric charge with which we can annoy the universe. Today we're going to ask them, through the birth of Particle Physics, and, in fact, through the birth of the universe As with much of modern physics, this story birthed quantum mechanics. At some point, Heisenberg turned his remarkable He was suspicious of its similarity to the atomic nucleus, occurring with similar numbers difference being our mysterious friend - electric The neutron seemed like a chargeless, Heisenberg wondered if the two particles were particle which he called the nucleon. At this point we already knew of particles For example electrons have this thing called Spin can take on discrete values; in the electrons to the spin axis being aligned or anti-aligned call "up" and "down" states. And spin is conserved - flip an electron's by a photon. So if the protons and neutrons are just two that they may be differentiated by a property analogous to spin, governed Thus, in 1932 Heisenberg proposed a Isospin, a contraction of isotopic or isobaric spin, depending on In this theory the proton would be the "up" be the down state with isospin -1/2. By introducing this new conserved quantity, Heisenberg started to make between protons and neutrons. For example, with this choice of their relative to have roughly equal numbers of protons and predictions of the outcome of But for isospin to really do its job, it needed protons and neutrons - which is to say electric Charge would have to depend on isospin, which property after all. Fast forward a few decades. Our particle colliders advanced, leading to So many of them, in fact, that physicists particle zoo. But there were some clues. For example, some of these particles had very charges, which I hope reminds you of the proton So maybe each of these groups were really different isospins. The case for isospin was solidifying. But what exactly was the connection between Well that mystery was solved independently Peering into the depths of the particle zoo, There seemed to be a family of particles that Similar to how the electron and positron are electric charge. But these new particles weren't doing this known property. This suggested a brand new conserved In the same way that isospin followed the this new property seemed to obey the math They called it Hypercharge. Nishijima and Gell-Mann discovered an even Electric charge, isospin and hypercharge were In fact, it seemed that electric charge was To be pedantic, that's the z-component of aside for now. The conservation of fundamental properties which are impossible. Charge alone couldn't explain the patterns in the particle zoo. However hypercharge and isospin seemed to may in fact be more fundamental than charge. But there remained a mystery. Not every combination of isospin It was Murray Gell-Mann who first noticed Plotting particles according to their isospin patterns. For example some groups of eight particles formed a triangle. Except that the triangle was missing the bottom No big deal - Gell-Mann just hypothesized - with the right isospin and hypercharge to Sort of like how Mendeleev had used holes of unknown elements. And when the omega was Gell-Mann got his Nobel prize. Isospin and hypercharge seemed to be "deeper" But the geometric relationship between these even deeper physics yet; even more should be constrained in these ways. Again, it was Gell-Mann who figured this out. He recognized that these patterns were actually known as SU(3). Unfortunately we can't get into the gory but in short, Gell-Mann realized that he could themselves were not elementary particles, which he dubbed quarks. He showed that isospin and hypercharge were different types of quarks that make up one Starting with experiments at the Stanford of quarks quickly became conclusive. So after all this hard thinking it turns out mathematical abstractions as was electric charge. There must be something deeper - something other elementary particles - that governs and that also governs electric charge. The quark model for nucleons led to a description stuff to give us quantum chromodynamics. But that's a story for another time. It may seem like the strong force led us astray For one thing, the early approaches of Heisenberg we need - it's just that they were applied And it's by unraveling one of the forces of - but it's not the strong force, it's not The secrets of electric charge are actually forces - the weak force. It's also the weirdest force of all, and we need to consider two of First, the weak force can transform particles into Second, it only works on left-handed particles. That second really does sound weird, and it all of this back to quantum spin, which is One consequence of quantum spin is this thing of spin in the direction that a particle is It's more complicated, obviously, but that'll Particles can have right-handed chirality momentum vector and left-handed chirality Only particles with left-handed chirality For example, the electron has both a right- Only the left-handed component can emit one W boson - and in doing so transform into a Remember that Heisenberg imagined that the this new conserved quantity, isospin. We can play the same trick with the electron So it turns out that the new conserved quantity We're going to call it weak isospin. Only left-handed particles have it, and so spin. Weak isospin is effectively the charge of To fully explain weak interactions we need Z boson. It acts more like electric charge, so we'll And here's the weird thing: weak isospin and same way as Gell-Mann's versions of these Which is to say, electric charge equals weak And we know these weak versions of isospin they are properties of elementary particles Particles like the electron, the neutrino, That's right, quarks feel the weak force and It turns out that our old strong-force versions particles of the particle zoo emerge from by these more &quot;real&quot; weak-force quantities. Let me summarize where we've got to: the charge the charges that drive the weak force. So does that mean that electric charge is We need to question what fundamental really What we've learned is that electromagnetism Or, should I say, were connected. These two forces were once united in what were the same weak isospin and hypercharge Something happened to that force in the very take on a specific combination of values - the charge. That event - the breaking of electroweak symmetry as we know them today. So we now know that electric charge is a sort of the universe. Very soon we'll follow this thread deeper and how, in this process, the Higgs field Which, by the way, grants mass to elementary property". But is it any more fundamental that the And if mass isn't fundamental, then what is? We'll find out soon as we continue to unravel Just a couple of things before we go: FIrst we'd new documentary series from PBS that explores have had a major impact on the mainstream who is completely blind teach you about video How did anime become a 25 billion dollar industry? And why are these guys putting underwear on You can check it out over on PBS Voices, link that Space Time sent you. And the second think is just our thanks. Thanks for watching. Clicking that link helps the show grow. As does subscribing - just tap that little Of course if you're feeling extra extra We have a really great community - so come monthly Zoom chat. And if you're already a Patreon supporter We're hypercharged to have you with us. But today I want to give an extra special us at the big bang level. David, the swiss are famous for their chocolatiers Well, we arranged a collaboration and have hadron flavoured candy as My favorites are the fudge-filled hexaquarks, for dark matter. And the rho meson truffles .. but eat them But maybe just skip the chocolate-dipped Thank you David, as you can tell, you are