It's a never ending story. Every year during the rainy season, Indra, sends clouds The monsoon is a symbol of prosperity and Indra, the god of all gods, Torrential rain crashes down Far from the tourist traps, the roads and trails become impassable and many villages are cut off for several months at a time. Krishna is perhaps the most important man He's the only shopkeeper when he doesn't supply the goods, From now on, the roads and driving becomes extremely difficult. We don't have a petrol station here. So for every vehicle, engine and generator We go to Gurkha to fill the cans There you go, 1325 euros. Buy four cans of petrol By the time the driver gets back, 2000 litres of fuel will have been sold It must be said that the generators Even though the village has electricity, The 3000 inhabitants of Arkhet whilst Rama counts on his luck. The road is going to be sheer hell. Everyone taking it will get stuck Cars, tractors, buses, This route from Arkhet to Gurkha just 40 small kilometres through his sweat and exhaustion. Never complaining, They have a completely Come on guys, push! Buddha, their karma, and the invisible world around them When bad spirits pass through your body, Doctors call it a heart attack. On these Nepalese roads most of the time, Four hooves are much better but there's always a catch. In the face of danger, the animal can be The first time they take they're frightened to death. The monsoon devastates the country, And without it, a large part of Nepal We're not planting this rice to sell, I work hard just to survive, According to the Nepalese, Suffering or not, Rama, who is heading out prefers to wait an hour or two Just a few hours during monsoon season. This man carries the same name and he's not far off from a god He's one of the only bus drivers during this time of the year. Ganesh my brother, And he even makes a point They now know their ETA, however, This is Hanuma, he protects us. I burn incense in his honour We have around 40 kilometres to travel. If we're doing this journey During wet season, I never know But sometimes, if we leave in the morning But it's equally as possible The road leading to Gurkha in the country. Far away from many that attract thousands of tourists, the Nepalese government The locals have always maintained However this year The road is improving. It's been a year since the roadworks The army are building the roads, It is still unclear as After passing the first few kilometres, The rain creates ruts, The rain has completely Aside from the shovels and pickaxes he's missing one crucial element So when he finds it, Suresh! Over there, Shall we steal two bags? The bus can skid on uphill slopes, Stop chatting and hurry up, This petty theft For Buddhists good and bad actions Rama, the driver finds himself a few kilometres and he's keen on keeping his good karma. He therefore transports as they can't afford Good for his karma, perhaps, but not for the passengers. It's the first time on the back of a truck Even if this road scares us, We have to get around. All the roads are in this state We have to take this route The road is really falling apart. By the evening Sink back a bit, Watch your head! I'm going to hold on like this. Turn around to the other side Are you feeling a bit better now? Further down the road, Ganesh's bus is slowly pushing on. Despite the beautiful weather, the earth is hardly drying out. I've been a driver on this route before I was an assistant driver So, 14 years altogether. It was a friend that taught me, I would start by driving that's how I learned. I passed my driving test and one month later Every time he takes the wheel, Ganesh over and over again: &quot;Wise is the one who faces adversity On this journey, The bus is now stuck, the tyres It's really shaking. Luckily I've got a hold of it. Rama and his passengers A bit further down There are other vehicles stuck behind This emergency stop is neither to offend the passengers nor Rama, who has his own ideas Not so good for his karma. First, I observe the situation. I make sure he's trying There's no point trying to help, It's not looking good, congratulate one another from the side of the road. Even in Nepal, It's a burst tyre. The tyre's exploded. We need to get the spare tyre out All good? Okay, let's go. I'm going to park there It's our last spare time. Did you manage to detach it? There's a part that's torn here. It's not surprising given I must have rolled over a rock This often happens to us, The tyres are really worn. With new ones, we wouldn't be The puncher made this restaurant happy It's not cold at all. The passengers are greeted For a small sum, Ganesh rice, lentils in a very spicy sauce. In Nepal, it's traditional to eat I don't know how to eat with a spoon. It feels good to eat, I was hungry, As a bus driver, Ganesh and Suresh makes half of that. They barely have enough to live on, but according to them, there's no reason to complain. I started working when I was a child, I like my work, We get to see the country, meet people, In the evening we drink good beer, Making do with what one has. For Buddhists, one must accept that bad deeds Jetty and her mother an unrewarding, Their work is used My mother is very old, She's deaf, she always says to me: &quot;What is the point in talking Our life revolves around breaking rocks I dream of an easier life, It cuts my fingers. Fragments go into your eyes. It takes a long time! We have to collect them into a pile, and then smash them into tiny pieces. It's hard work, but we couldn't feed it took us a month to break up all A meager sum in comparison But it allows Jetty with her three children I love having my little cigarette break. Jetty and her family's life during monsoon season. When it rains, I can't work The rain is too heavy. I'm in a lot of pain, here, here An then I have a really bad headache. Sometimes I feel like I'm dead! The showers never last long, Ganesh's bus may no longer be new, Unlike this new 4x4, in the middle of the road. The car over there, I stopped to assess the situation, The driver just Ganesh suggests taking the wheel. We need to shake the car. Shake it on both sides. Nothing is happening. The two ton vehicle stays where it is, The sun is beating down. It's 40 degrees. Two hours later, No vehicle on this road drives Some even leave their trucks behind because the truck, that's supposed After 40 kilometres of effort Ganesh's bus arrives Its Maharaja unites to give birth to modern Nepal. However, for Ganesh and his passengers, Tomorrow we'll head back, and it will be the same as today. Fifteen minutes after the bus Everyone congratulates one another Thank you so much, my son, Unlike Ganesh, Rama The village is counting on him with the fuel for the generators. We're finishing up filling up then we'll head back to Arkhet. We need to be quick I feel like it's going to rain. Rama earns 30 euros per journey, a measly salary Rama arrived back in Arkhet His passengers They all headed to a small village This annual celebration for the rest of the year. Since the earthquake the Nepalese never miss I'm putting this sacred thread the one used to bind together and most generous of the Bali kings, Today we celebrate the &quot;Rakhi&quot; holiday to receive protection from the gods. You don't have a red thread? According to tradition The shaman celebration They only perform their sacred dance At the same time as the bracelet, in the middle of the forehead. It represents the third eye and symbolizes the rising sun. During the process, in order to feed the spirts. According to the shamans, as there has been an outbreak ever since the earthquake There are always visitors There are ghosts, And the doctors can do nothing about them, When bad spirits pass through the body, The doctors call it a heart attack. But if the bad spirits just brush past you In cases of serious illness, like cancer, then you must see a doctor. The villagers pay the shaman She has fever, she's coughing, If it's an illness caused ...there's a risk it will get worse You should always do at least one or two The people only see it as rice but as a Shaman I use this It's like I'm placing it directly Satisfied the bad spirits have flown away. The monsoon grows stronger with each day. In a short while, more than 300 litres of water A tidal wave from the sky. The villages on top of the mountain A journey is being planned Boss, the order. Where is it from? Oil, Corrugated iron, noodles, rice. Eggs, soap, cement. You're going to load all that. The sheets of iron are not very resistant to strong winds. The iron sheets give me a headache, Above all, they brighten up daily life cut off from the world. Go ahead slowly, At 18 years old, Maella is the youngest driver Pass the green boxes first. In my work you need to be strong, Strength isn't enough, when it's tough Sometimes I get frustrated I'm tired, I'm bored, Only five trucks are available A small distance many trucks in the past. So the villagers have called which so far has a 100% success rate. Every day, several trailers full of mules unite to take on the mountain. Tonight it's going to rain. I need to hurry up to transport the goods, Once the road is wet, it's really slippy and there's a risk the load In this bag there's bars of soap Over there are biscuits, The mules carry 30 kilos of sugar 600 kilograms to carry for 8 hours up steep paths. Many of the mules are uncooperative. Some even escape. For a few rupees, on the right track. How are you, my sister-in-law? Why are you running around at your age? Namaste my brother. I'm in a bit of a hurry, Where are you going? Right to the top. The race between the mules The route taken by the driver Maella isn't passing I take this road often, &quot;What will happen to us this time?&quot; Because of past experience, I listen to it carefully, how it behaves, I'm always thinking about I fear the rain the most. I'm scared we'll slip on the ground, There are also falling rocks Maella travels with Shubba, He's learning the trade, but he must put There's no time for slackers. Put rocks on it, Who told you to take out this rock? What changes if I leave it? If you remove it, there's a risk Don't stop, add more. Put some everywhere, Look at this work. It's hopeless! Come on, hurry up. I'm happy to work with Maella. We're from the same village He doesn't make me work too hard Shubba was staying at home all day I suggested he come and work with me, The first time I was in the truck I wondered why it was shaking so much. Now I'm used to it and I really like it. At the village entrance two truck drivers When there's a serious problem, the drivers trust his skill alone I'm waiting for Maella to come and tow me because my truck is The road is so bad While Maella is saving his friend on the other side of the mountain, Sucre and his mules It's the mule setting the pace The mule's endurance is only equal of the men of this region, The Gurkhas, Since the middle of the 19th century, recognised the value They created an elite unit To this day, on the trickiest missions. Sukkar is no longer but he's still fighting every day. Yes, it's hard work, I have three daughters, Buy school supplies, The soil in my village is poor With the money I earn I can feed Before each journey, that one of his mules Crossing the suspended bridge The first time they took they were frightened to death. But after two or three trips across it, Unfortunately it's not unusual for them Ever since the earthquake, with porters, for a lorry or mule. The mules carry cargo on their backs, cargo that enables the villagers The cupboard is too big to transport My house was destroyed When I ran out of the houses I was injured on my back and head. I stayed in hospital for 45 days Now I struggle to carry heavy things. Back with the truck drivers, who's broken down. After 5 hours, he still trundling painfully slowly. The wheel dances and slides Take out more sand. The broken down truck This lady seems to be enjoying all The show is far from over We drivers help each other out, Tomorrow I might find myself We give each other a hand The cable is broke, I went back down Maella has to abandon his friend. He must deliver his goods He'll come back to find him later if he himself There's still ten kilometres Sukkar and his tireless troupe of mules after five hours of walking. I work every day. I only give myself three or four days off It's important to resupply the villages. Today I earned 31 euros. Contrary to the villagers, might one day experience Maella arrives long after the mule driver. The village is now supplied Admir is the owner the only shop on this side So here, Over there I've got fancy dresses. There, stationary for students. Noodle, soda, biscuits, Do you everything in your store? Yes, sir, I've got everything. I need to go to Arkhet to get We only produce corn and wheat We don't have the right soil Without truck deliveries, To get there it takes me two days, Maella kept his word But this time he's brought This latest defeat leaves the men take out the stones, one by one, It will take them the whole evening back to the village. Maella doesn't really have The arrival of the monsoon or rather the paddy. The young driver has traded for the handles of the plough. It's a lot more tiring to work It's harder to manipulate The rice we're planting isn't to sell, I work hard just to survive, Uncle, auntie, brother, cousin. Nobody gets out of the family chores. Here I'm pulling out the rice plants. And then I'll give them to my mother You don't want to go and plant them? Why? I just don't want to, that's all. Maella's mother but when he was 16 she had to put him to work. I would have liked him to have a good job, Even though I didn't go to school, But just working the land, I would also like to study like a primary school teacher, She could leave here, The dream for Maella and his family to ensure prosperity in their next life.