At what point were you pretty certain that you were going to Southeast Asia, that you were going to a real fight? As soon as I saw order staff for phantoms, I knew that, and particularly since I was going to the West Coast, we knew that we would be taking part in the Vietnam conflict. It it wasn't a popular war, those of us that lived through it. At that period of time knew that the country was somewhat torn apart by it and it wasn't popular here in the U.S. but I had signed on to be a naval officer and when you sign on to be a naval officer, you're going to receive orders and you will follow those orders. And so it was something that I knew would most likely occur although. You kept thinking, well, Gee, maybe this war will be over soon. Maybe it'll be over right away. So I I wasn't necessarily going after it because I would get to fly in combat, although that was a very challenging form of flying and would develop you in many, many ways as a pilot, as an aviator. But I I knew there was a good chance that I'd wind up in Vietnam, and sure enough, I did. I think you said it was in troops for troop support in South Vietnam. So you weren't really expecting air defense problems or or mid problems. So what what do you remember about how that mission turned out or what was accomplished? Well, that was of course my first combat mission and the the airplane that I flew on that one was interesting because that was F-4B Bureau number 153019. Side number 201, so that's the skipper's airplane. In every in each squadron, the 00 side number would be the air wing commander's airplane. So that would have the wing commander's name on it. 2O1 was the commanding officer of the squadron's airplane. 2O2 was the executive officer, 2O3 would be the operations officer and so on and. Side number 201 153019 had been our airplane that shot down a MiG 17 on March something like March 6th or 8th of 1972. And so that happened to be the airplane that I drew for my very first combat sortie and it was troops in contact in South Vietnam and can we help them with some close air support and I remember I got to fly. When you're a new guy, you're going to fly with the more senior Rios, radar intercept officers, the back seaters. You're going to fly with a more senior Rio. So I flew with, I flew with Wingo Simonson was his name, and Wingo we we affectionately called him Black Cloud because it seemed like if somebody was getting shot at, it was him. And so I drew him for my first mission and I rolled in on my first bomb run. And I don't know what he saw. It looked fine to me. But he said no, no, no, no, abort, abort. You know, you're you're you're not lined up, but well, I've got the gun site, so, I mean, I could see the bomb site, I could see where I was aimed at. But anyway, I remember he made me go around again and come back, which wasn't really a big thing, I suppose in Viet, South Vietnam, where you didn't have quite the threat that you had in North Vietnam, you didn't make multiple runs in North Vietnam. So I do remember that. And so that had been my first mission, came back to the carrier and I was at the wrong altitude when I rolled out in the groove. And I thought I had the ball on the optic lens that we used to judge your glide slope when you're coming back in. But I didn't. It turned out I had a false ball that I saw in the mirror and so I was too low. And the landing signal officer, I remember said, come on, put it up in the middle where it's supposed to be. And that's when I realized, Oh my gosh, I must not. And so I brought it up. And sure enough, there's the ball. So I got a crummy grade for my very first carrier landing in the squadron. And the grades that you could get was Okay. And these are like grades in in college that was a 4.0. A fair was 3.0. No grade was what I got. That was a 2.0. A wave off is even worse. That's a1.0 or a really bad pass and and then below let's see wave off, there was a pass that was called cut, C-U-T, cut, a cut pass. I only ever saw one of those happen. It wasn't me fortunately, but. Anyway, so I remember all that from that very first mission. I was just wondering how many people could quickly come up with their own in number and you're remembering these every airplane you flew by the numbers. It's amazing. Well that that particular one in particular because it was our squadrons MiG killer and and in fact it's out there where it can be seen on a pole and my wife tells me that. That's called when you put a jet airplane on a pole. Now it becomes a jetsicle is what she refers to it as. That airplane is on the pole at Key West Naval Air Station, down on down on Key West. And so it's on the pole. So 153-019 201 one our MiG Killer is down there. Have you been down to see it? I haven't, no, I haven't been down there. If you just think about the the the Vietnam experience in in kind of totality, if there's any particular missions that you would like to mention or that that stood out for you. And then just kind of if it was a Rorschach test and I said Southeast Asia, just sort of your impression of the the whole duty you did over there. I guess I was fairly apprehensive the whole time that I was flying in combat. And and I guess there's good reason to feel that way because I'm there to cause a lot of damage and a lot of harm and therefore they would like to damage me. And so that's something that's that I guess is pretty apparent to you. And I was 25 years old at that time and I have a 26 year old daughter now and she is really amazed by the fact that I was flying combat missions and being shot at. Flying over Hanoi and Hai phong and Vin and Fan Wah and all of those places over there when I was just 25 years old. And one of the one of the things I'll never forget was when when we came home, that's another dad story. But when we flew home, we launched off all the flyable airplanes when we get about 300 miles off the California coast and then we'd fly to California coasted in at Big Sur and then flew down California to arrive back in San Diego at Miramar. And I'll never forget my dad was standing, you know, I got out of the airplane, Somebody handed me a bottle of champagne because we're home safe and alive. And my dad snapped a photo of me standing by my phantom with that bottle of champagne. And then he walked up to me and he gave me a big hug And he said you will never know how for the last six months, I wished I had never taught you how to fly. Another one of those moments about my dad that I just won't ever forget. So I was I was fairly apprehensive, I guess now, now we're as humans, we're usually pretty good at covering up our feelings and not letting it bother us too much. But I guess we're just adjusting and adapting to the situation. Because I remember on that flight I mentioned that we launched about 300 miles off the coast. I had a really crummy Phantom that it was flyable, but it didn't have much in the way of anything else. It didn't have a working radio, it didn't have a working tack in, which is like VORDME. I didn't have, so I didn't have navigation. So I was flying on another Phantom's wing and he was doing all the navigating and all the talking and when we got to Miramar we came into the break and he put me on the left side. So that then when we got overhead the runway, he kissed me off. Which means okay, break, come around and land, land, taxi, clear the runway and then wait for him and he'll lead me back in because I can't call ground control, obviously, or tower. And so flying towards California, I can't see anything but ocean and clouds and haze and all that kind of stuff. And then I caught my first glimpse of land. And I'll never forget, I remember I felt this cold shot in my heart. And then I said, oh wait, wait, that's California. So I think that was happening to me every time I launched off the carrier and had a combat mission because we were quite a ways offshore, 50 miles offshore. And when you first caught sight of land on your way in on a combat mission. I guess you had kind of a tense moment. Now it starts. And then now it starts. Your home was on the water. Yes. And I I'll never forget when I first saw land because I don't have navigation. I can't tell how close we are, anything like that. But when I when I saw California, it was oh, Oh no, it's okay, that's California. Have you been back to Southeast Asia for any any reason since you did a tour over there? Yes, I was a speaker on a cruise ship that went to Vietnam. And it was 40 years later. So that was 2012 that I was back there. And you know, it's, it's heartwarming to see that they don't hate us. They don't hate us over there. Of course, it's referred to over there as the American war. We call it the Vietnam War. They call it the American war. 80% of the population was born after the end of the war. So they have, they have adjusted, they've adapted, They have succeeded financially in a huge way, they have recovered very greatly from it and they don't, they don't resent us and that was that was nice to see. Were there any other particular missions that, oh, I meant to say, somewhere in one of your cruises you went to Miramar to Top Gun? How did that come about? Top Gun was really a thrill. And that happened after my first cruise. So I was a relatively junior fighter pilot. I just had half a cruise and there were golly, much more, much more senior guys than me in the squadron. But I mentioned Jim Ruliffson earlier. He had been one of the founders of Top Gun. They put together a cadre of Pilots and Rios backseaters that were the best of the best, and they formed up the Top Gun School. Well, he had been one of the founders of it and now he's our operations officer and he picked me to go to Top Gun out of that squadron. So I must have done well in actual combat because at the time I was just a Lieutenant junior grade, which is a a first Lieutenant in the Air Force. I was not a full Lieutenant in the Navy, which would be a captain in the Air Force. Top Gun actually had a guideline that says We will not take a Lieutenant junior grade pilot because he isn't experienced enough or advanced enough, but because Jim Ruliffson had been one of the founders and he sent me to Top Gun, they let me, they let me come to the school. And so I may have been the very first Lieutenant junior grade to go through Top Gun. And it was clearly. Overlooked your no grade. It was, yeah. It was forgiven for that no grade. I had a whole lot better carrier landing grades later on. But yeah, that first one was not a good start, but I surprised everyone on my first night landing. And of course, you know what they did is they made sure you got a a number of daytime landings and then it was going to be time for them to send you out at night. And so when was time for you to come back in in the dark, They'd bring up the camera, the TV in the ready room that lets you watch the landing approaches, and everyone in the squadron would be crowded around to see how that was going. And I had a pretty darn good pass and so I was pretty much centered up. There was another pilot that had joined the squadron right at the same time I did. He had a terrible night. He he he got waved off twice in a row and then on the third attempt. He got waved off again, but on the go around he over rotated and when you over rotate on a on a wave off you had to not rotate at all. You just added the power up and don't pull the nose up. Well he pulled the nose up. What does that do? It drops the hook down lower. He got what's called an inflight engagement. His hook grabbed a cable, slammed that airplane down on the carrier deck. So he had a really, really bad start on his on his night grades because he had two wave offs and then a cut pass for his trap when he actually got aboard. So... My no grade I guess look pretty good compared to compared to all of that. Did you ever ask why you were chosen as such a junior guy for For Top Gun, or did you have that discussion? I I never. Did, yeah. I never did and and I had not known about that guideline that they had where they said we will not take a Lieutenant junior grade pilot. I didn't know anything about it. It wasn't till years later that I found that out. I should ask Jim Ruliffson about it. He's still around. He's on the East Coast. But he picked me for Top Gun and because it was because he was the one that picked me, they let me come to the class and that was sure interesting. However, there was nobody that looked anything like Kelly Mcgillis there. (laughter) That's where I was going to go next. Everybody that's seen the movie thinks that you know what Top Gun is like, and I'll bet you you're going to tell us something different. Oh, Golly, yes it was. It was quite a bit different. Some of it was was similar to what they showed in the movie. But there were, you know, back in those days, we're talking 1972. The women were not as integrated into everything as they are nowadays, of course. So I don't believe there were any women at all at Top Gun, even even our young sailors, You know, we had female waves that that did a lot of things in the Navy. I I don't even remember seeing any of those there, but it was fascinating in my very first dogfight. Was against the Navy's MiF ace, Duke Cunningham. He had just come back. He had just come back from Vietnam, right about the same time my carrier did. He was on the Constellation. And of course he had just become the first MiG ace of the Vietnam War. He and Willie Driscoll in the back seat. He had just finished his instructor qualification to be a Top Gun teacher and he was flying one of the Super, we called it the Mongoose, he was flying the A-4 Skyhawk where they had boarded up the wing slats because those could cause the symmetries when you're pulling a lot of G's. They had boarded those up, They had stripped all the weight they could out of the airplane. They put a bigger engine in it and they called it the Mongoose instead of the Skyhawk. And he was in one of those. And that's a turning son of a gun for an airplane. And the Phantom is a known non Turner. It was a heavy wing loading, a really heavy wing lift. I remember right something like 75 pounds per square foot was our wing loading and so we could not turn with the MiGs. And so in this dog fight I'm not going to be able to turn with that airplane and so what you had to do, the Phantom had a much higher thrust to weight ratio than the MiGs did, so you'd fight a vertical fight and So what I had to do was while the Mongoose is flying a horizontal turning fight much tighter than I can turn. I'd have to use the vertical so swoop up high and then try to drop down on his six and then back up high again. Whatever you do, do not try to turn horizontally. Don't get slow with a MiG and don't get slow with it. I thought I had a really good outcome for that mission cuz I did not shoot Randy down, but he did not shoot me down. Which I considered basically a huge victory on my part to not get shot down by a Mongoose in my first sortie in Top Gun. So it was really, it was really fascinating to go through it all. And the way they describe it, it's described as a graduate course in fighter aviation, so certainly in dog fighting, but also in analysis of the threat. In our case we were, we were at that time worried about MiG 21s and MiG 17s in Vietnam. So what are their characteristics? How do we exploit them? How do we use our our advantages where we have them and minimize our disadvantages? And also, how did the various weapons work, how did the various missiles work, what's our success rate with them and all of that. So it was a really fascinating course and then the philosophy of it is. That person who has been through Top Gun is to go back to their squadron and impart all this great knowledge that I have now to the rest of the guys in the squadron. And you're still a junior guy, so they're just eager to hear whatever you have to say. I'm still kind of a junior guy, but the job they gave me in the squadron was a very much desired one and it was called weapons training officer. And so I could talk, talk dog fighting techniques, I could talk how... How we optimize everything, what the success rate is of the various missiles that we carry. Now, the Navy Phantoms never had guns. There was a a thing called the Mark 4 Gun Pod that I never carried, but it was so inaccurate that nobody used it. So we didn't have guns. So it was all the AIM 7 Sparrow missile and the AIM 9 Sidewinder. And of those two, the Navy didn't have really great success with the Sparrow. And I think it's because and that which is which is a radar guided missile and part of it may have been because we're banging it on and off the carrier all the time and so frequently they wouldn't even tune. You'd you had to tune the missile to your particular radar and you'd bring up the, the, the arm switch to try to tune the sparrows and half the time they wouldn't tune at all. And even if they did tune when they used them, they had a they had a minimum range that was far enough that they just weren't useful to us in a dogfight. The Sidewinder, on the other hand, was a heat seeker, infrared seeker on the nose of it that homed on the exhaust plume of the thing you were shooting at. We had great success with the Sidewinders, and so it was passing on all of that sort of information to the rest of the crews. How long did Top Gun last? How long is the course? Top Gun was basically one month, so four week course and half the day was in academics and the other half of the day was flying, so you flew every day. That was a great gig. And so when you went back to the fleet and went back to to the carrier, any anything more you'd like to recall from your Southeast Asia experience and Then we can move on. Well, the the second cruise that I made in that squadron in the F-4 Phantom Squadron was after the ceasefire had been signed. So there weren't any combat missions. We still did some photo escort missions. Anytime you'd send a photo bird out, it doesn't have any weapons at all. And so anytime we'd send out a photo reconnaissance, F-8 Crusader is what we had on the Coral Sea. We'd send a a Phantom escort. So we got to fly some of those and we were doing some photography, some photo reconnaissance, just to see what was going on in South Vietnam below the DMZ after the ceasefire. And there was plenty going on because they were getting ready to take South Vietnam. North Vietnam was going to take South Vietnam. I got back there one more time and that was I made the first cruise of the F-14 Tomcat. And we were the first two Tomcat squadrons, Fighter Squadron One and Fighter Squadron two. And we sailed aboard the Enterprise in September of 74' and went back to Southeast Asia. So we were offshore. We didn't fly any missions over land, but we were in the Tonkin Gulf and we could, we could kind of monitor what they were doing and we could see that the end was going to be coming and so. At the end of that cruise we were due to go home. I think the first part of April of 75'. Well, we got extended because South Vietnam was crumbling apart, the North had moved into the South and they were taking it all over. And so it turns out my last combat mission was April the 30th, 1975 and that was covering the evacuation of Saigon. And seeing those pictures of people on top of the embassy trial. Yeah, the helicopters landing at the embassy and landing on rooftops all over Saigon. I was overhead that day in a Tomcat, all armed up with missiles. And of course the Tomcat had a gun. We had the 20 millimeter Gatling gun, the M61 and all prepared for combat. There really wasn't any. It was, it was called the Combat mission. But I was overhead, Saigon, the very last day of the Vietnam conflict. So you you know what's going on and why you're there and you have a job to do. But did you have any particular emotions or you just focusing on on the airplane, you know, seeing, seeing those evacuations and and realizing what all this 10 years had come to? Is a very sad day. It was a very somber day because the thought kept occurring to you that, you know, look at, look at how many Americans died, Look at how many Vietnamese died. Look at how many people died over the 10 years of that conflict. My understanding is we just didn't have the political will to stop the second invasion or the second takeover of South Vietnam. It's all true. We. Do they just violate blatantly violated the ceasefire and we did nothing about it. Right, Right. And it was so unpopular here at home that everybody wanted us out of there, come whatever, come whatever. It was the sort of thing. And what did we do? We took it out on the Warriors. We didn't take it out on the politicians that got us there. We didn't take it out on on the leaders of the countries that were responsible for it. We took it out on the soldiers and I, I won't forget that when I came home, there weren't, there weren't any parades, there weren't any marching bands, there weren't any yellow ribbons or any of that sort of thing. And in fact, you were kind of reluctant. I remember one of my neighbors said, Oh my gosh, I haven't seen you for months. Where you been? You were reluctant to tell them because it was so unpopular and they made us the bad guys. We were the bad guys. Yeah, wait, I remember talking to Doc Clement, who was a cat killer over there and we talked about when he came home and he said, you know, all my friends, we would go out and they'd say tell us all about it and two minutes later they were shooting pool they they really didn't want to know about. It. Yeah, Yeah. I, you know, I I don't know what what you could tell somebody. I mean there's a beautiful country. The terrain was really interesting. The Karst ridges which are limestone ridges covered in jungle. It was really picturesque and most of the time you weren't enjoying the scenery, you were going as fast as you could and you were being shot at, you were being tracked by various radars and so there was a lot of apprehension every time you were flying over North Vietnam. Yeah, there was never really a war like that previous to to Vietnam. I mean, where geography or, you know, you take this hill tomorrow, give it up. Or take this hill today, give it up tomorrow. And it was, you know, we were keeping score by casualties and rather than who had what territory. Oh golly yeah. Well, what you know, you mentioned take this hill today and lose it tomorrow and that sort of thing. I remember one time we were directed to go bomb a particular bridge, which was actually our bridge, but it had been taken over by them. And so go ahead and bomb that bridge today. So you had some, you had some strange things that that happened. Yeah, hopefully we don't do that again. Well, yeah, hopefully lesson learned. Will There's there's been some interesting decisions since, but that's for another day. What happened next in your Navy career? Well I the way I got to the F-14 Tomcats was I had made those two cruises one and a half cruises for me in the F-4 Phantom. And the F-14 Tomcat was just coming into the fleet and I guess all of a sudden it was realized that we didn't have enough junior pilots in the squadron because everyone that had made their way into the F-14 Tomcats was so experienced and so senior that I think they looked around. They said, hey, you know what, we need some younger guys to stand all the duty watches and things like that and all the integrity watches and shore patrol and stuff like that. So it was decided they wanted to add three younger pilots to each Tomcat squadron and they asked all the commanding officers of the fighter squadrons, the F-4 Phantom squadrons and the F-8 Crusader squadrons recommend one pilot. And so they had a bunch of names off the West Coast and a bunch of names off the East Coast and they picked six pilots. To go right into the F-14 Tomcat. So normally a squadron tour would you'd go to a squadron to be there for two and a half or three years and then you would go to shore duty for two and a half or three years. So I had two and a half years of sea duty. But then I got sent to the Tomcat squadron so I had an extra long. I was one of the three that got picked off the West Coast to join the Tomcat squadrons. And then there were three off the East Coast and so I had an extra long first tour, first fleet tour and so then after that it would be time for me to go to shore duty. So when I finished the cruise in the F-14 tomcat, I wanted to go to test pilot school then, right then and there. And initially I failed the screen for test pilot school. And here I am, I've got fleet experience and two different types of fighters and an aeronautical engineering degree. And I had done well in my squadrons, so we couldn't understand why I didn't screen for test pilot school. Well, meanwhile, what had happened was the Navy had decided that F-14 Tomcat training is so valuable and so expensive that once you're into the Tomcat, we're not letting you out. So they had not made me available for the screening. So my Air Wing Commander was a big fan. He was a test pilot, school graduate, and he pulled some strings to get my name to the to the commanding officer at Test pilot school and he went up to Washington DC and put my application on the desk and said you're not letting us look at somebody like this. And so with all that help I got selected to go to test pilot school. You know, if you think back about it, you could have, could have been in the Air Force, but by chance you ended up in the Navy. You were an unlikely choice for Top Gun. You were maybe surprised when you got chosen for the F-14. How much of your career path has been luck? I mean, once you had the opportunities, obviously you're a great aviator and you capitalized on them, but how much luck was involved in? All of it. Sometimes I look at it and I say it was all luck but. I, you know, I certainly had the desire and I had the the zeal and I worked really hard on everything and I wanted to be the best I could possibly be. But the thing about the thing about so much of it is, you know, you can't pick yourself for all of these things. You have to get picked by somebody else to go to Top Gun, you have to get picked by somebody else to go to test pilot school and so on. You have to get picked by somebody else to to get to be an astronaut and so I think what it's done is it's helped me to realize how lucky I have been, how fortunate I have been that I got picked for all of those things. I've never had the inclination to sit back and say, well okay, yeah, we'll shoot. I'm so good. I got picked for all these things. No, I have just been, I have been so lucky my entire career.