and once again everyone, hello, good day to all viewers and subscribers of the channel Glory to Ukraine Glory to the heroes Well, friends, here we go, our first winter mushroom hunt is officially open, I went for a walk in the forest and at the same time to see if there are any of our winter mushrooms. together with you, we collected them. Well, what are we going to do? We are between two hills, one on one side and the other on the other side, and there is such a drop here, I don't know what kind of trees these are of course, they are incomprehensible to me, well, I haven't seen them yet, but we collected them last year, but I found the first flamolins. This is on such a fallen willow. Now I will show you in detail, and you sit down more comfortably, put your fingers up, subscribe to the channel and winter fishing we are starting to collect mushrooms, go ahead, friends, we are making our way, we are such a failure, here is such a huge willow, but in such thickets, you are probably already them you see how many there are on the tree, the truth is they are still so young, we will not kill them, we will leave them, they will grow up. At least I hope that they will grow up. Look at how many of them there are, there are several beautiful twigs, here is one such a beauty. The truth is that they have frozen a little, the truth is they are here but it's okay if there is no severe frost, it's a flu, waste and continues to grow. Well, down there, he's probably all over, but he says waste or disappears, it continues to grow, so what I think we'll pick it up, it 's not here, it's too small, we'll leave it, it can grow if it gets frosty. These are the young ones that are still crawling. Well, for now, I'm not going anymore. One mistina worked. If we find something else, we'll show it. We're moving on. We were lucky. beautiful, beautiful , look at how wonderful the winter beautiful girls are, that's how beauty comes to us, we came for these ones. Here you see, beauty, young, beautiful now we are cutting off here there are still small ones climbing here some more are climbing small ones now we will pluck more of these and leave less of them Well what are we going to do now I will take a few in my pocket because I do not have a basket Yes, literally a few steps we can see on the shoe what kind of Mushroom is this and we have it man's ear is also a winter mushroom, there is a mushroom here literally a few steps from the shop , it is already so old , so many old ones are already leaving, but there are still young ones on the side, let's come maybe in a couple of days we can pick them up like this. Well, just a few steps and we see this picture. You see, I'm a karst, and on the side, below the core, a few more things of beauty have hidden. Well, we're going on, so we continue to move through the forest, and I noticed I saw more mushrooms on a tree, a winter mushroom I'm such a beautiful big cramp. Now I'll take a closer look for you. Such a beauty comes to us. Look, it's true, they didn't have time to get to them. But they were cool, it's true. a few steps and we see again on the tree These are such beautiful flamolinas Such a beauty Friends there are cheeks and then we walk a few steps and we see this one Look what Wow you are a wonderful little boy, the class is true Super bombastic young man just what you need Well beauty friends what can I say the beauty of winter, they froze a little, covered with snow, I wanted to go away from here, it turns, and on the next tree there, look, what a beauty, and are they there at all slippers, and they have grown there in general, the truth is that they are already a little tired from the frost, they must have turned around, you can see how many of them have grown here, just a pipe of search, here and now, the cramp is huge, this is beautiful and delicate , such an obana. they are buzzing in the nearby forest, they are cutting firewood. You see. Such beauty falls on us, we continue our journey. so I walked literally 40 meters from the previous find and I noticed several things on the tree again, here they are growing, so beautiful, young and they are not alone, we literally moved away from them 10 15 steps and again and again Such beauty, here are such beautiful flamolina mushrooms on the tree - mine is still from the second side. Look at the mushrooms here, but the cool young beauties are still hiding here under the bark they are still hiding under the bark, I don't want to touch the taco anymore, look super, this is a bombshell find, I noticed it right away Friends on several trees, mushrooms, the first find is so small, so to speak, I will show everything in order, here is one find Cool truth let's get up, let's go further, it's not all yet. I noticed her here in several places at once, but here they are really young, so beautiful young ones grow, but I still see it, not everything. We walk literally a few steps and we have such beauty here, we have such beauty here . here you see them here, they are just deer here on the ground like this Oh, it shows closer, they froze, the truth is a little like this Oh, maybe it seems that everyone has been caught by the camera, but that is not all, friends, so I will show you from this on the side, a little bit, this way, this way , this side , demo, let's go on, we literally walk a few steps, here, on the stick, here, on the stick, I see again and again Look, what a beauty, and they're just a slipper, here's another snag above, and here's a crop, just say yes, and what do I see next it's just something with something, we go further, further, there's a guy looking in , you see, you can see him. I can see him from afar, I'm 30-40 meters from him , and he's looking in like that, I won't turn off the camera let's go live, I'll show you, let's go live here, right away to the basket, for sure, half exactly, half exactly baskets of mushrooms, wow, the first mushroom picker for this year , flamolina, and there are so many mushrooms, look what kind of mushrooms this is and how healthy you are. What about a bombshell find? What a joke. What about such finds? Our fisherman got 100% of them today. first winter fishing and we have such luck, friends Well, it's not always the case that the first time you go out for mushrooms and you get caught . I see further, go away from these, I rise, I turn around, and There is an even more powerful find on the tree And there is an even more powerful find Oh, and on the way we come across another find, look at the obana one mushroom, and again the man's ear is cool, this is also an edible mushroom, one of the three winter mushrooms, the iodine ear, flamolina and oyster mushrooms, here we go, I'll show you our find, so what is it with us, it's some kind of fruit trees, a bunch of everything is lying around, quince or something is incomprehensible right away three such trees fall on them, and it is simply impossible to express in words how many there are and what they are . strangers ts korchiska yo-moyo yomayo ooh It's simple It's just khan And why do you have to get it like this today And we're lucky you're seeing it all I'm filming live I'm showing you it's just something incredible is happening here Last year we gathered here of course Well but there was nothing like that here, and this year, in general, see them here again, again, here and again, here and there, and that's not all, let's move on, move on, move on we move forward a few steps and again and again Look again and again I love it You can see the beauty and emotions beyond the limit you can't convey and there is the next tree right away and again and again So now I will take a photo and show you further, so I just showed you this wonderful find, Ivy's class I know where to go, well, let's go first, somewhere closer , here the little ones are again on the tree. There they are again, here are how many , and here they are again, how much further, friends, and again a find, and again a find That's like that, that's the cash register, that's how many mushrooms and again a find, that's that, that 's it , again, a beautiful cat, Flamolina, Class, Class, and a few steps to the next tree, and again . I immediately noticed another one immediately on a nearby tree, a few steps and a few more steps and another one, see how steep it is. It has grown today, you can get a bag of them here and there I see it again, I don't even have to go far, I raised my head and immediately noticed I raised my head and immediately noticed a find, oh no, last year we were looking for them, they have already arrived and we immediately know where they are, look again, what a find and again such a huge pile of mushrooms, just not convey in words, and the next tree grew up there. Here they are again full and literally several meters, and again a find and again a find, look what Cool mushrooms are peeking under the bark , take them all together, you can see the beauty from afar, you can see it yourself a little On every tree, such beautiful winter flamolins grow they are already here , so whoever collects them can go stock up on them, the mushroom is medicinal and quite tasty, very, very many people collect them. You see, it is such a late hour, and in some places green leaves fall on the trees , here at the bottom, the forest is all bare, sleeping, and we there we see mushrooms again, it's a bit awkward to walk because everything looks like you're looking for mushrooms under your feet, but today, on the contrary, you have to walk them through the trees. Here it is again so beautiful you are just wonderful Look what a young beauty is a wonderful young snag oh and what a grace it is a pleasure to watch such a thing so he noticed on the other side another nice snag we need to go around it go around the tree now I'm showing you here it is there they are peeking Oh and in the grass at on the tree, these kind of winter mushrooms are growing, oh look, let's go further and literally walk a few steps and see it again on a tree, look again, this is such beauty Let's put another one under the tree and the little ones are still peeking in. Well , friends. Here comes our pickaxe today for the finals and it turned out pretty well for us. Here we are on the way out of this forest and we come across such a thicket again . the last time you see the flamolina, the winter snowdrop has already gone through the forests, here they are growing, beautiful, beautiful young ones, they were just playing in such huge groups in last season there were much less of them. Well, this year they are cool. Well, that's all. Take care of yourself. Take care of your loved ones. Everything will be fine. Ukraine. And you and I will meet, as always, at the next fishing trip, friends, fore