Team leader, did you say someone will come? Shhh, someone is coming. It 's an old woman. What is she doing here? It's better to grab her. Raise your hands and turn around. Who are you? Why are you here? I'm Granny Wang next door. Come and get it. Ordering something, how did you get in? From there, you are so old and can climb over the wall. Master Hu is not at home and the door is locked. I can't get in. Open it and see what's there. Get out of the way. Section Chief Shen's blacksmith shop. Come quickly. It turns out that you are the dragon slayer. Yes, the dragon slaying turned out to be an old woman. I have seen people with dragon slaying faces die. What happened? I smashed it open. Why is there no scar on this warrior? The dragon slaying came back and took away the things hidden here. Chase it, hurry, hurry, hurry, hurry. Click and follow. Stop. What's in the bag? Stop. What's in the bag? I'll see. Let's go. Let's go. There's a wise saying in slaying the dragon. The real master is not how to kill. It's an easy matter. The key is how to escape safely after committing the crime. So, Before taking action every time, she must pre-select an escape route and be prepared for any eventuality. Boss, please be gentle. Boss, Feimao, yes, yes, yes. Boss, I finally found you, take a step to speak. Feimao, why are you here? Little brother, these past few years Since we separated last time, I haven't done much business. Later, I was sold to a police chief with a bad look and was imprisoned. If it hadn't been for the Japanese bombing, I would have escaped in the chaos. I'm afraid I won't be able to see you if I die in prison. How did you know I was in Hushan? I heard that Hushan has been a bit chaotic recently, so I wanted to come here and take advantage of the opportunity to make a fortune. Who knew that when I got there, I found out that martial law was in place everywhere in and outside the town. It turned out that they were arresting people. I think the boss of a charlatan killer must be looking for you, so I found you and they caught me. How happy are you? You said, finding you is just like finding your own organization. I have food, drink and blessings. I don't have to worry anymore. Right, boss, as the saying goes, it's not profitable. There has been no big business for a long time. What are you doing in Hushan? What are you doing in Hushan? It's none of your business. I also heard that the Communist Party has imprisoned a wanted prisoner and people are trying every possible means to assassinate him. I think this business should be very profitable. Look, what on earth do you want to do? There are rules on the road. Hunting in the mountains means that everyone has a share. How dare you challenge me? How dare you? I'm already at the end of my rope and penniless. I do n't know where dinner will be tonight. I'm in a hurry. I have no choice but to take risks. Isn't it just asking for help? It's easy to talk about wealth. I'm working alone now and I need a helper. I'll give you a little helper. This matter must be kept secret. You said it, old lady. I've been following you for many years. I know you hide a knife in your smile. But I'm smarter than a monkey. Fei Maoxiu. Blame it on me, I'm ruthless and unjust. You can't ruin my important business. Boss, I can't beat you, but I can run faster than you. How can I call you Feimao? Today you are destined to die, boss. Since you are unkind, do n't blame me for being unjust. Boss, you are. You have to kill them all, right? I don't know about your stinky virtues. If I spare you, I don't know how much trouble you're going to cause. He's about to slip away. Stop, stop, don't move, catch the living ones. Stop, chase, stop. Stop, hurry up, you little bastard. Look where you are going, you bastard, you dare to betray me, you are unkind and I am unjust. We are even now. The fart festival has its own rules and regulations. I hate it when the government intervenes and kills with a borrowed knife. I have done everything. What can you do? Then I will do it today. I'll take your life. That guy, Chief Shen, has escaped. I've already found him. He's surrounding him in the alley. He 's the boss. They're chasing me. You can't kill me if we keep fighting. Why don't we fight next time? Just wait. Die, help me, Tulong is here, come and catch her, you bastard can run away. You can't run away until the fifteenth day of junior high. Chief Shen has his gun. He doesn't need any gun for whatever he wants to do. Chief Shen, where did he run? You lead people to outflank me. Go after me. I'm sorry. I'm using your car. What are you doing? After you get in, follow my orders and don't move. Don't alert the enemy. Hey, listen to me. The two people guarding the slaughterhouse are my brothers. I'll greet you. Don't harm me. Otherwise, they won't be able to find Dai Suichang. If you dare to threaten me, I will threaten you. If you want to kill Dai Suichang, you must listen to me. Otherwise, I will call for reinforcements to fight. No one will be left behind. Well, as long as you can eliminate Dai Suichang, I will listen to you. Who's going? Master Gou, I 'm Section Chief Shen. Don't move. Section Chief Shen, don't shoot. Section Chief Shen, Dapeng, don't be nervous. They are our own people. They are obviously Japs. Yes, they are real Japs. But I I have promised to cooperate with them to kill Dai Suichang. Cooperate with them and you are rebelling. You know best who I am. Let's just have fun with them. Stop giving me nonsense. Where is Dai Suichang? Miss Hezi told me that Dai Suichang is hiding in the cellar. Kailu Iwai has already entered. Everything is going well. A massacre is about to begin. I can already smell the smell of blood. Open the cellar. Chief Shen, listen to me. Open the cellar before letting the wind out. It suffocates me. Dai Suichang's death date has come. The situation of the Japanese is not right. Hurry up and pick up Iwai. That's not right. Stop and hide, Noda-kun. There's a problem. Yamamoto-kun, let's split up. Tsuruko Yoshino, let's go around that way. Officer Li. What happened to the slaughterhouse at the entrance of the town? The Japanese attacked the slaughterhouse. The Japanese attacked the slaughterhouse. Why don't you know? Ah, Lao Cai gathered the team. Xiao Song informed Captain Zhang to lead the team to follow. It 's Master Dapeng. Check if he has any grenades on him. 7 Master Gou, Master Gou, Master Gou. Master Gou is playing with flying knives. My butcher's knife can also fly. Brother Shen, please go quickly. Oh, I can't protect you. You take Dai Suichang away. I'll cover you. Go quickly. Only you can protect Dai Suichang. I don't have the ability. You go quickly. Don't miss your mother-in-law. You've missed something important. Go quickly. Dai Suichang, go this way, this way. Tojo-kun is blocking you. They are all careful, Iwai-kun, Iwai-kun, Noda-kun, Dai Suichang, kill him down there, Noda-kun, we have been fooled, it's not Dai Suichang, Shen Yingjie, I'm going to skin you alive, don't let them get away, hurry up, Noda-kun, it's your enemy. Reinforcements are coming, retreat quickly. Take the brothers away. Noda-kun, taking them to retreat will drag us down. Let's have a quick drink. Leader Noda is back. If he sees us drinking here, he will definitely get scolded again. Yes, Leader Noda has a lot of affection for us. I was convinced by Shigegi. He heard that Ms. Tsuruko used to be Noda's team leader's schoolmate. She really likes Noda-kun's Tsuruko. That woman has a good background. Noda-kun doesn't want to mess with her. I heard that she is Okamura Nakasa. My lover, Lieutenant General Okamura, has a bright future. He is very important to the Chinese military officers. You said that if such a beautiful woman could be held in his arms and slept together, he would be willing to be shot! Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, don't let me go. I blocked the tunnel. Noda-kun 's actions at the slaughterhouse were planned by Shen Yingjie a long time ago. It was to save his daughter, Cai Tenghu Lishan, in Hushan Town. When I first met Shen Yingjie, I had a hunch that he would be our strongest enemy. But everyone has a weakness. I believe that Shen Yingjie's weakness should be his adopted daughter Xiaomin. He has a very deep feeling for this girl, so as long as Once we have Xiao Min, we have the initiative to take action. But if we lose Xiao Min, the operation to eliminate Dai Suichang will inevitably fail. Go back to the mine and get there before Shen Yingjie. Ken Nakajima is also very famous in Fukuoka. I won the All-Japan Amateur Weightlifting Competition. The third runner-up is awesome. Nakajima-kun is awesome. Not to mention lifting a stone, he can lift the earth while standing on the moon. Your sarcasm, I'm Nakajima-kun. I'm sorry, Nakajima-kun. Dad, you are daddy. Come on, daddy, daddy, you are here to save you. Dad, you are here to save me. Mine? I'm not dreaming. Come to me. Nakajima-kun. We're drinking. Don't drink. The flower girl is working. Where is the flower girl? My flower girl. Your drinking flower girl. There are enemies. There are enemies. Come here. Hurry up, you two, hurry up and chase me, Xiao Min, dad, please let go of me. You are my father's daughter. How can your dad not care about you? Go over there and chase me. There are enemies. There are enemies. Come on. Come on, chase me this way. Dad, isn't this where we were just now? Let's go around again. Run, move away. I'm right. They should be right here. Quick, quick, quick. Chase seems to be very calm. There should be nothing wrong. Don't be careless. Chief Shen is here now. If you haven't come back, will you be killed by the little devil? Shut your crow mouth. Why is this man named Shen so desperate? It seems that it is not his turn to get rich because of women. If you understand this truth, You won't be a traitor. By the way, I see that Shen is always protecting you. You two are so flirtatious that you seem to be a perfect match. If you keep talking nonsense, be careful, I'll slap you. Dad has no choice. Get out of the way. Xiao Min, I'm sorry. I failed to protect you and let down your father's instructions. You are my father. Xiao Min is not afraid of dying as long as I am with you. With your words, my death is worth it. Don't let them escape and destroy them. Dad, there is a hole here and chase him quickly. Good chase, chase this car, we will definitely lead to the outside of the cave, get in the car, dad, dad, hide, don't show up, dad, you two, catch up, hurry up, catch up, your chase, I'll cover dad, dad, dad, dad, little girl, get off at the station. Let me go, let me go, let us go in and search. There are too many holes here. It 's impossible to search them one by one. Yo West, this traitor has tricked me again. Dai Suichang, stop. Dai Suichang, Wang Ying, Noda-kun, searched the perimeter. No trace of Shen Yingjie was found. One of his accomplices is hiding in the mine and will never escape. Everyone who enters the mine must eliminate Shen Yingjie. Go over there. Hey, he must be the one who lured the devil away. Dai Suichang is here. Guard. Hey, how did Shen Yingjie sneak in? I, I, I don't understand, you're drunk, Baga, you want to run away, where is Shen Yingjie, tell me, tell me, Baga, don't tell me, don't tell me, I'll chop you up, if you don't tell me, you're dead. Where is Chief Shen? Shoot her, I want to avenge Iwai-kun, Noda-kun, you are too impulsive, what can you do even if you kill her? This girl is the only bait in our hands. Only by using her can we lure out Shen Yingjie, Noda-kun, you must remember that we are the ones who destroy Dai Suichang. Our mission: Shen Yingjie is just an obstacle blocking us. Only killing Dai Suichang is the purpose of our actions. Thank you for your reminder, but we must first kill Shen Yingjie and remove the obstacles before we can eliminate Dai Suichang. I know you are brooding about the death of Hideo Iwai, but you must not Because he is out of his mind, because it will affect your judgment and affect our entire operation. I have my own decision. I don't need a woman to tell me what to do. I hope you don't forget the promise you made to Lieutenant Colonel Okamura. If you can't complete it. I know the consequences of the mission. Dai Suichang catches you. I will cut you into pieces with my own hands. Section Chief Shen, Dai Suichang, is still inside. Wang Ying, how did you get here? Dai Suichang found a hole. We came from there. Slow down. I told you to run away. I screamed. You run away. Wang Ying, please calm down, okay? Chief Shen, I'm sorry. I didn't watch him. It's normal. This guy is slipperier than a loach. Next time, you'll have experience. Why didn't you scold me? Why should I scold you, Snake? Viper, devil, devil, devil, wake up, wake up, wake up, you're safe, Chief Shen, you saved me again, I'm begging you, why are you escaping? You still think you didn't die fast enough? There were n't many Japanese there, but they were all top-notch masters. You were such a bear, and you didn't even know how you died. But I want to go to Chongqing to find Commissioner Fan. I've done so much for the secrets of the party and the state. I'm the hero, why don't you give up on this thing? What kind of [ __ ] hero, you are just a stinking traitor, let me tell you, since you don't want to stay here honestly, I won't be polite to you. It hurts, you still know it hurts. Ah, you have seen clearly that the roof of this cave may collapse at any time. It is all supported by these pillars. If you dare to move, I will crush you to death without negotiation. I am right, right? Yes, I don't dare. I don't dare. Section Chief Shen Xiao Min is still in the hands of the Japanese. What should we do next? I have to go back and rescue her. Wang Ying, this is the key to the handcuffs. Hide it behind the stone where Dai Suichang was sitting just now. Remember my words. In case I don't come back, you must We have to find a way to take him back and hand him over to Staff Officer Li. I understand Shen Yingjie. Shen Yingjie, I know you are here. Let's make a break today. Come out and see your daughter. Shen Yingjie. You are watching. As long as our Yoshino-kun's sharp hand moves slightly. The blade will cut the rope and your daughter will be instantly shattered to pieces. I warn you not to try to save her. We have set a dragnet here. If you dare to act rashly, you and your daughter will be dead. You have only one choice now, and that is to come out obediently. Surrender and hand over Dai Suichang. We, the Japanese Imperial Army, will forgive you. I will count to three now. If you don't come out again, we will destroy her. Nakajima-kun Shen Yingjie. I will count to three now. If you don't come out again, I will destroy her. Why hasn't her other leg, Shen Yingjie, shown up yet? Is it impossible for him to give up his daughter? He is a bloody man and will not give up his daughter even if he knows that he is going to die. We must calm down. Nakajima-kun, Shen Yingjie, you want to If you don't come out, your daughter will be cut into pieces by us, Yoshino-kun, please be careful, Hezi Hezi, Hezi Hezi, Hezi, I'm sorry I didn't protect you, Shen Yingjie, I must kill you, Hezi, I'm done avenging you. It's over. The beating outside was so fierce. The man named Shen must be dead. He had to show off his bravery to fight so many Japanese. Is n't this meat bun beating a dog? There is no return. You crow mouth, are you still finished? The beating outside is so fierce. It proves that Shen Section Chief is still alive and well. What's the difference between dying a few minutes earlier and dying a few minutes later? Anyway, I'll kill you with just one word. Why are you staring at me? Let's see if you can escape this time. How can I escape while I'm handcuffed to this pillar? It will collapse as soon as I move. You guys are so cruel when the roof collapses and you crush me to death. You just understand what you are doing. I'll go find Section Chief Shen. Just throw another meat bun and beat the brains of the dog and pig. Xiao Min, Xiao Min, Xiao Min, I'm here to save you. It's a Japanese trap. Yes, you fell into a trap. I knew you would fall for it before you died. It's just a pity that I didn't catch Shen Yingjie. Who is this little girl? She is the granddaughter of the old man who guards the mine. She died yesterday and it will come in handy. What about Xiao Min? Where is Xiao Min? Why are we willing to use her as bait? This bullet has no eyes. If she dies, this trump card will be useless. Chief Shen, please don't be fooled. Wang Ying, why is she so cute here? Japan wants to snipe me, let me go, let me go, Tsuruko, you are not dead. What happened to this woman? Did you arrest her after a long time? She is Shen Yingjie's woman. You are talking nonsense. You don't need to deny it anymore. We are all women. You can understand it at a glance. If you don't How can you be worried about a man if you love him and be willing to die for him? Thanks to Miss Tsuruko setting the trap this time, now we have another bargaining chip. Let's lock her up first and wait until Shen Yingjie comes. We won't be afraid that he won't hand it over. Dai Suichang, hey, let's go, I'm going by myself. Come on, let me go. Come on, let me go. His leg is injured. He can't escape. Catch him alive. He has no bullets. Rush forward. I want to blow him up. Don't blow it up. Dai Suichang is still in his hands, Noda Jun mine. The inside of the cave is like a maze. It is difficult to find a person hidden inside. I guess there are other exits in this mine. The man named Shen must have escaped from there. His two most important women are in my hands. I don't believe it. If he doesn't show up, please keep an eye on those two women. If anything goes wrong, I'll kill you all. Hey, Noda-kun. Xiao Min, Miss Hua, please wait carefully. Taijun will come to comfort you. Go away, Sister Xiao Min. Wang Ying. Why were you captured by them? Chief Shen and I came to save you. The Japanese set a trap for me. I fell into their trick. What about my father? Do n't worry, Chief Shen is fine. They couldn't catch him, Noda-kun. I didn't want to. Interfering with your actions, but I want to remind you that the purpose of our actions is to eliminate Dai Suichang. If you continue to pester Shen Yingjie like this, we will only fall into the trap of the enemy and miss a good opportunity. I must kill him with my own hands to avenge my brother Iwai. How can I get revenge ? Are you wasting your time here like this? I told you that I have both of his women in my hands. I'm not afraid that he won't show up. If he doesn't show up, Shen Yingjie is a very cunning person. He knows that we want to use him to get Dai Suichang, so we He won't kill those two women easily. If he doesn't show up in half an hour, bring those two women here and kill one first. I won't believe he doesn't show up. Okay, I'll give you another half hour, Chief Shen. Bullet, I beg you, please stay away from me and don't bother me. You should be more open-minded. Life and death are destined to be rich and honorable. Your daughter and Miss Wang really can't be saved. That's because they have short lives. No wonder you should be calmer. Why don't you calm down? I'm sorry. You have to rescue them even if you go out to save them. You don't even know where they are locked up. How can you save them? I just said that I would use you to exchange them for them. I don't dare to do this. People who don't dare to joke about this are scary to death. Who are you kidding me? This is the only way to make me anxious. Chief Shen, you are quite humorous. Why are you standing there? I am thirsty and want to find some water. Where did the water come from in this cave? I was alone just now. When I heard the sound of water, there was sound of water. Don't move. Oh, don't touch the flower girls. You, me, and us. Two flower girls, Xiao Min and Wang Ying, are next door to us. How could such a coincidence happen? Here are the miners' bones. It seems that there were dead people buried everywhere in the landslide before. You have so much courage and you still come to save me. Now that we are imprisoned here by the devils, we don't even know if we can get out alive. My father will definitely come to save us. He doesn't even know where we are. Why? Come and save us. Even if you die, I will never embarrass him. Good boy, what are you causing trouble? I want to smash this open. Are you helping me? You are harming me, okay? If you smash this, all the devils will be alerted. So what? What should I do? You, please stay here honestly. Even if it is the greatest support for my work, I can't stand around and watch. Okay, just stand here and watch. What are you doing? Little red guy, I'll give you ten more. If you don't show up in five minutes, your two women will be dead. Commissioner, in front of us is the Fengtouling mine. Everyone, please be careful and don't expose us. Our goal is to find Dai Suichang. Don't mess with the Japanese. Do you understand? But we won't mess with them. They, they will come to mess with us. You, a nerd, won't hide. Really, let's go, Chief Xiao. Fengtou Ridge is so big. How can we check? Let's go to the mine first. If the Japanese and the traitor Shen Yingjie are really hiding in Fengtou. Ling, then he is most likely to be hiding in the mine, but Section Chief Shen is very familiar with the terrain in this area. If he hides, we can't search. Shen Yingjie is no longer the section chief. I am the security section chief. Xiao is the chief. I know what to do if I encounter a Japanese when the section chief goes to the mine. What's wrong with Nakajima-kun? I can't hold back the flower girl's work. I can't stand it either. Please open the door quickly and let the two of us in and have fun for a while, Nakajima-kun Noda. You know you will lose your temper. I don't want to be beaten. Noda is accompanied by that Tsuruko woman. He doesn't know how uncomfortable our brothers are. Open the door for me. I'm so suffocated. My two pretty girls are so beautiful. It would be a pity to shoot them and not play. Nakajima-kun, you dare to resist, I don't dare, Nakajima-kun, don't dare, don't dare, just listen and lock the door for a while. If Noda-kun comes back, please give me a message, please, don't you all go to the flower girl's place, don't be nervous, Tai-kun is here to comfort you. You guys, you don't know what you want to do, get out of here, you will go to the West soon, let Taijun enjoy it while you are still alive, right? Shameless and dirty, this flower girl, I like you, hey, she is still a child, she is a child, so dig it Dig until the year of the monkey. Chief Shen's brain must be broken. What are you doing? Chief Shen, you can't leave me here. Chief Shen, why did you fall asleep just after sitting down? You haven't been here all day and night since you came to Hushan Town. I'm so sleepy after closing my eyes. Baga, Baga, don't move. What's wrong, kid? Come to me, let go of Sister Wang Ying. Sister Wang Ying, let go of me. Baga, let go of me. You guys, let her go. Let her go. Dad, Daddy. Xiao Min, turn around. Come on, Chief Shen, father, father, Chief Shen, are you okay? Chief Shen, father, Chief Shen, is having a woman and making such a big fuss? Come on, you can still lift. Let me see how long you can hold on. You're very good. I'll give you more weight. Baga, let's go. Baga, Noda- kun. It must be Shen Yingjie who got into the mine again and went to Nakajima. Jian, this useless guy, hurry up. Commissioner, there are gunshots in the mine. Why? If there are gunshots, it means we are in the right place. What should we do? Go around from the side. Don't run into the devils. Go to Xiao Guchang's mine. There seems to be gunshots. Go and see. Amitabha. God bless. God bless. Don't let it collapse. Don't let it collapse. Don't let the devils find out. Amitabha. God bless. Wang Ying. Find a way to pry the door open. I'll cover you. Pry it open. No, no, no. Chief Shen, I'll pry it open. If you don't use your cover, I'll walk quickly. The roof of the cave is about to collapse. In order to escape, Shen Yingjie blew up the barbed wire fence that closed the tunnel. He didn't expect that this was a mine that was on the verge of collapse. The strong explosion triggered a chain of landslides. He 's dead. It's not going to happen. It's caved in. Get out of here quickly. What's wrong? I'm getting my feet up. Come and walk. Come on. Come on. Come on. Dad, this is a dead hole. We can't get out. Chief Shen, can we go back? No, this hole is all sealed. If we can't get out, what should we do? We just escaped from the wolf's den and now we're in the living coffin again. Fortunately, we ran fast, otherwise we all would have been buried in it. Is Shen Yingjie buried? He and the two women are probably buried in it too. Baga, are you sure? Go in and search for me. I must find his body and cut it into pieces to relieve my deep hatred. Noda-kun. The situation in the cave is unknown now. It will be very dangerous for us to go down. Baga. The Japanese Imperial Army is not afraid of death. Hey Noda. Jun, now Shen Yingjie has been buried alive, why should we bother? It's better to go find Dai Suichang now. Commissioner, something seems to have happened in the mine. The more the Japanese are tossing, the more it means there is something going on inside. Let's go around the back mountain. Please bear with it a little longer. The pain will be gone after a while. Chief Shen, I'm sorry. You blame me for being involved. You are all revolutionary comrades. Why do n't you be involved? Oh, it doesn't matter if we die here. But what about Dai Suichang? He is handcuffed in this cell. Now I don't know whether he is dead or not. We have no way to save him, right? His hole must have collapsed. If he were buried underneath, he would be dead. I didn't expect that we have sacrificed so many comrades. This mission has not been completed yet. What's going on? Commissioner, there is a hole. Okay, you two go into the cave and take a look to see what's going on inside. Will Dai Suichang and Shen Yingjie be inside? What are you afraid of if I go? I'm here to look out for you and block the devils. You can go boldly. No, no, I can't, I, I. No, I'm afraid. If you don't listen to my orders, I'll kill you first. By the way, I told you that if you find something wrong, don't alert the snake. Okay, go, hurry up and listen to what's going on next door. Yamamoto-kun, he's here. Baga, this isn't Shen Yingjie. It's Mr. Nakajima, the Japs, go and report to the special commissioner. The cave is full of Japs. No one named Shen or Dai Suichang, this crow, isn't he looking for death? He must come here to find Dai Suichang. The crow goes away. Please be gentle and don't alarm the Japs. There are ghosts. I am Dai Suichang. Yes. Ghost, ghost, hurry up, ghost over there. What's wrong? Ghost, ghost, there's a ghost. The ghost is chasing me. Get out there. You two go search for others in the cave. Follow me, crow. I am Dai Suichang. Go in and take a look. There seems to be a sound inside. Go in and take a look. It's strange that there is nothing. Did you hear it wrong? Search Baga and open the way. No, no. The target is too big. Run separately. Run separately. It's better to chase Wang Ying. What are you thinking about? It's nothing. I just have some regrets. I remember when I was a student, I wanted to spill blood on the territory. But now we are You're such a coward to die in this hole. Dad, I'm so hungry. Dad knows you're hungry. Dad, I think I can't hold on anymore. I'm going to die. Please hug me, okay. Dad, won't I keep holding you? Dad won't let you die. Talk less and save your energy. Dad, what is this? Dad, what are you going to do? I'm going to see where it comes from. Be careful. Chief Shen, you have to be careful. If you can go out, come here. Xiao Min. Xiao Min, come here. Be careful, don't yell, don't be afraid. You are so brave in front of the devil. What are you afraid of? I, Pang Xiaomin, am not afraid of anything. I am only afraid of rats and snakes. I am also afraid of rats and snakes. I get goosebumps all over my body when I see rats and snakes. Now I know. If you two dare to cause trouble again, I will use these two things to treat you. There is no way out of the sky. I just said, my life has always been very hard. We are going out soon. What's wrong? Go quickly, you are afraid. Take your time. Can you see it crawling? It won't attack other people's handles. Come here quickly. Okay, let's go. Wang Ying, Wang Ying, Wang Ying, sister Wang Ying, what's wrong with you, Wang Ying, what's wrong with you, what's wrong with you, I, I was bitten by a poisonous snake, I beg you. Even if there are snakes, you will scare them away. Sister Wang is hitting you with a rock. We are about to go out and take a walk to kill Shen Yingjie. We actually paid such a heavy price. This is the shame of our Noda group. Noda Jun Shen Yingjie The body of the guy has not been found. It is not clear whether he is dead or alive. The bodies of the two women have not been found. I suspect that they are not dead. They have escaped from the mine. My Noda team has never failed no matter how difficult the mission is. Ca n't we eliminate one? Little Shen Yingjie? Search the ground for me and find everything. Hey, Noda-kun, I ask you to calm down and don't forget our mission. If you continue to tangle with Shen Yingjie, you will only be held back by him. You will miss the important thing and not kill him. If you kill Shen Yingjie, I, Noda Takeshi, will never give up. You are just angry. Even if you kill Shen Yingjie, it will only kill a Communist Party security section chief. Is that important? My dignified Noda group cannot kill even one Shen Yingjie. I still have one. Do you have the face to go back to Japan? You didn't kill Dai Suichang and didn't complete the mission. Even if you go back with Shen Yingjie's head, do you have the face to see Lieutenant Colonel Okamura? Shen Yingjie has no value to Lieutenant Commander Okamura. I, Takeshi Noda, don't need one for what I want to do. The woman came and pointed and stopped Noda Takeshi. Don't forget the secret order given to me by Lieutenant Commander Okamura. It is very important. I can take the command of the operation in your place. I now order you to give up the entanglement immediately. Shen Yingjie immediately retreated to the outside of Hushan Town and stood by until I contact Han Xing to confirm. The hunt for Dai Suichang. Takeshi Noda, you are a soldier of the Empire of Japan. I believe you know the consequences of disobeying military orders. Let's go back to Hushan Town. Hey, Xiaomin, don't be discouraged. Get up and go. Dad is still in a hurry to find Dai Suichang. Let's go, Teacher Yang. Yang Xingping, are you okay? Section Chief Wang Ying, Shen, I'm not dreaming. Teacher Yang, you fell into confusion. Yang Xingping, why are you here? I haven't seen you since I came to see you all day long. I'm worried about you. I heard there were guns here at Fengtouling. I took the risk and followed you. It's too dangerous here. Sister Wang, I risked my life to save you. I love you so much. Xiao Min, Xiao Min. Stop talking nonsense. Don't say more. Get out of the mine quickly or you will be attacked again. We ca n't escape if the Japs are blocking us. Chief Shen, don't worry. The Japs have all evacuated. What do you mean? Killing Dai Suichang and continuing to entangle with you has no value or value. Now I am the only one who knows the whereabouts of Dai Suichang. They are trying to trace it. That's not right. They said there is a man named Han Xing who also knows about Dai Suichang. Han Xing is the traitor we are tracing. I don't know. They didn't say anything further. Dad, the Japs are gone, and we are finally out of danger. Chief Shen and the others, once they leave, go to Hushan Town, and Dai Suichang will be safe. I'm worried about what other tricks the Japs will play. If Hushan is not careful, Staff Li will suffer a big loss. Damn, the situation is urgent. You three should go back to Hushan to report the news. I'll go find Dai Suichang. I understand. You have to be more careful. I'm safer without you here. Dad, if I don't leave, I will stay with you. Don't talk nonsense about Sister Wang's sprained ankle. Teacher Yang is an inexperienced scholar. Dad pointed at you and helped them along the way. Be obedient and go. Come on, Xiao Min, let's go. Be safe. There is no gunfire over there in the mine. The devils must have heard it there. Isn't that where we are going? Are you going to conduct reconnaissance? But we are walking too slowly. By the time we get there, the Japanese might have escaped long ago. You know what the heck? We are conducting reconnaissance, not reinforcements for Mingzi. Go, go, go. Dai Suichang, don't scare me, you [ __ ]. It doesn't matter if the traitor is dead, how can I explain to Commander Huang? Dai Suichang, Dai Suichang, Dai Suichang, I almost risked my life to save you, you [ __ ] traitor, are you a human or a ghost, Chief Shen, I'm here, you stinking traitor, you're still alive, right? I'm here to save you. Slow down. Sister Wang Ying, how are your legs? I'm fine. I'm fine. I'll carry you. No need. Just your small body. Let's take a break. The ancients say haste makes waste. Let's take it slow. Teacher Yang, you really feel sorry for me. Sister Wang, let me rub it for you. Xiao Min, don't be so talkative. You and Teacher Yang are really talented and in love with each other. Okay, stop making trouble. Come on, let's go. Wang Ying, Lao Xiao, Wang Ying, Lao Xiao, why are you here? Gunshots were heard from Fengtou Ridge. Staff Officer Li sent me to investigate. Why are you two here? Let's not talk about this. You came just in time. The Japanese were at Fengtouling Mine before and now they are rushing to attack Hushan Town. Section Chief Shen Shen asked me to come back and tell Staff Officer Li Shen Yingjie that he is hiding here. He was protecting Dai Suichang in the mine. Dai Suichang was also hiding here. He told Chief Shen that the most dangerous place was the safest place in the mine. The Japanese never expected that Dai Suichang would attack Chief Shen under their noses. It's so wise, Lao Xiao. Time is running out and we are too late. We have to go back to Hushan Town and kill all the Japs to ensure the safety of Section Chief Shen and Dai Suichang. Wang Ying, I think Section Chief Shen can't protect Dai Suichang alone. Why do n't you rush to Hushan? Go and report. I will go to the mine to reinforce him. That will be fine too. Having more manpower will give you more strength. Xiao Qiao, you are responsible for protecting the safety of Director Wang. Old Xiao, you should also pay attention to your own safety. Don't worry, I will pay attention. Let's go. Let's go. God help me, I also search in pairs. Come on, come with me. Chief Shen, what are you doing? After you handcuff me, you won't leave me alone again. Come on, let's go. There 's something going on over there with the handcuff key. Hey, Chief Shen, we're going the wrong way. You should go into the mountains. You know what the heck? Come on, Yamamoto- kun. What's going on? Shhh, Noda-kun. I found traces of Dai Suichang and two guys named Shen. They are here and search carefully for me. I can't let them go this time. Run away again. Hey, let's go. Chief Shen, you are still awesome. If you listen to me, we will die now. Oh, stop flattering me. You hid the handcuff keys. Do you still want to run away? Hand them over. I can't hand them over. I'm afraid of you. Handcuff me again in the mine, stinky traitor, hurry up, otherwise the Japanese will realize it soon. Where can we hide? We have to go back to the mine. We have to hide under their noses. Oh, we have to go back to the mine. This is not looking for death. Let's go, Special Dispatch. Will the members of the Japanese army pretend to retreat and quietly ambush us, waiting for us to trap us? How do the idiots know that we are here? Even if they know, they will deal with Shen Yingjie and Dai Suichang. We are taking advantage of the situation and you are taking advantage of it. Listen carefully. If you find Dai Suichang today, he will die. Everyone who is alive will be promoted to the second level and be rewarded with a hundred yuan in ocean. What kind of expression is too little? Come on, let's just hide in there and go away. I forgot that we are a bitter gourd on a vine and can't be broken open. Don't worry. I will definitely cooperate with you and promise to keep pace. One, two, three, go this way. It hurts me so much. This way, please be gentle, you idiot. Go quickly. Who can stop? I beg you. You are a stinking traitor who has failed to achieve anything but is prone to failure. You stinky traitor, you are doing me no favors. You want to beat me to death. You and I didn't mean it. Think about it. If I beat you to death, I will not die. Stop talking nonsense. Hurry up and take out the handcuff keys. What are you going to do? Open the handcuffs and cuff them together again. I must be killed by you. I want to open the handcuffs. What if you run away? You are afraid that I will run away. I am also afraid that you will run away. Then if you promise not to run away, I will open the handcuffs. Quickly, quickly, get the key. Bring it, hurry up, okay, okay, I listen to you, listen, what's wrong? The key is gone. I can't find it. I can't find it. Where is the key? It must have been lost on the way to escape. Let me go find it. I'll go find you. Go find it. What are you looking for? You're looking for death. You're not successful enough. Go, stop. What's going on ? Shen Yingjie is doing his old trick again. He's hiding under our noses. Hurry up and go back. The special commissioner fired the gun. What 's the matter? They're not Japanese. It seems they haven't evacuated. Let's go over and see if we stay far away from the devils. We can't shoot with guns. Maybe we can still get some bargains. Do n't you still dream about getting bargains? Get up and walk faster. I really can't run anymore. Don't lose your chain. Come on, get up, get down. Go by yourself, go, go, go, what's the matter, get up quickly, you useless thing, I'll get you stuck here and give it a try. So many people are looking for me now. I'm a baby now. Oh, stop talking nonsense. My life is almost gone. Why do you care about your crotch? Oh, come on, come on, wait a minute. What are you doing in this shitty place? I'm looking for something to eat. My life is almost gone. What else can I eat? Look at you. You should n't have called Dai Suichang at all. You should have called Zhu Suichang over here. What are you going to do? Can you please be gentle? Can you pry it open? Give me this eye and do it. Can you pry open one? One is too selfish. Get out of the way. It's dead. Shen Yingjie, I'm level 8 in swordsmanship. Play with me. You're dead. Sure enough, the person named Shen is here. If I guess correctly, Dai Suichang must be here too. The special commissioner is so talented. He can guess such difficult questions. Don't get close. Stay away and watch. You can't get burned. You understand. Do you know what [ __ ] he is stabbing him? If you are level 8 in swordsmanship, then I am level 9 with the sickle. Chief Shen, you are simply a great hero. You killed the little devil with just one sickle. This is amazing. Ouch, you are so flattering. Hurry up, let's go. Let's die. What should we do now? Think of a way. Is there anything I can do to fight the devils? If you fight, what should I do? It's up to you. I can't run away now. Yoshino, go down. What should I do? Go and fight. Chase and fight. Special Commissioner, I was shot. You kid is so unlucky that you were shot even while you were lying down. Special Commissioner, the devils are chasing me. Run! There seems to be an ambush in front of you. They must be the people who are cooperating with Shen Yingjie. Kill them all for me. Split up and take action. Hey, Section Chief Shen, what's wrong with you? You have to pee again. I can't run anymore. I can't run anymore. You are waiting here to die. Life and death are destiny and wealth depends on God. I admit defeat. No, you can't die. I won't let you die. Chief Shen, run away quickly. I can't do it anymore. I'm dragging you down. Thank you for protecting me for so long. Let's go. Dai Suichang. Are you okay ? It's okay. Just be okay. I'm begging you. You stinky traitor really knows how to find a place. Just hide here. This must be a mountain citizen. It's a trap used when hunting. Don't make a sound. Okay, I understand. I'll leave this to you. If you are exposed, just fight with the little devil. If you fight to the death, you will be a good one. Chief Shen, I will watch you fight with the devil. I feel so guilty. Don't worry. I know what to do. It 's good to know. Although you have become a traitor, I hope you don't go to see your ancestors under the name of a traitor. Chief Shen, I know what to do. Don't worry. Hey, what should you do? We can't let you. The Japs are chasing them like rabbits. Without your drag, I can let go and kill them one by one. You must be careful. I know. Close your eyes. Little Japs, I'm going over there. Because of the traitor's betrayal, Shen Yingjie and The Japs had another fierce fight. Wang Ying and others, who were rushing back to Hushan Town to report the news, also noticed that the situation had changed. Sister Wang's gunfire was fired again at the mine. I was also worried that the Japs were coming back to fight. What should we do? Fight back to the mine to support my father, no, no, it's too dangerous over there. The few of us who went to support us will only cause chaos and injure ourselves. We should hurry back to Hushan Town to find Staff Li and ask for troops to come over for reinforcements. At this time, the traitor Xiao Ziping is also here. He was chasing after him. He wanted to snipe Wang Ying and others to stop them from calling for help, but he felt unsure about killing them all. Wang Ying, Wang Ying, Lao Xiao, wait, I, Lao Xiao, didn't you support Section Chief Shen? Why are you back? What's the situation? I turned into a Japanese and rushed back to the mine. Have you seen Section Chief Shen? Without the Japs, I dare not act rashly alone. Oh no, Section Chief Shen and Dai Suichang must be in danger, so I rushed over to find you. You guys rush back to the mine with me to reinforce Section Chief Shen. Uncle Xiao is right when he says more people bring strength. Let's hurry up and reinforce. No, we can't do much if we rush there. We can't withstand the power of the Japanese. We can only hurry back and report to Staff Officer Li. The troops are coming. Wang Ying, you are too cowardly. As the acting section chief, I order you and me to rush back to the mine. Lao Xiao, this is not cowardice. Think about it, these devils are well-equipped and have such strong fighting power. We are just you and them. Even if we can fight, the disparity in strength is too great. We can't open our eyes and do stupid things. Right. Let's go back quickly to bring in reinforcements. That's right. Chief Xiao, only our troops can come over to destroy these devils. I don't agree with you all. Cowards, you are afraid of devils. I am not afraid of Uncle Xiao. I will go with you to save my father, Xiao Min. Stop fooling around. This is not a joke. Who is joking? You are obviously partial to Sister Wang. Where are you from? Hey, hey, stop making trouble. Wang Ying, if you don't listen to my orders, you will be fully responsible. If Staff Officer Li thinks I am wrong and wants to punish me, I will never complain. Time is urgent, let's go quickly. Xiao Ziping originally wanted to use the hands of the Japanese to eliminate Wang Ying and others, but he When he didn't succeed, he had to make other plans and look for opportunities to plot against them on the way. Hey, grandpa is chasing them here. Hey, hurry up and fight the special correspondent. Wait, I, you idiots, won't find a time to get injured. Now you are desperate to escape. You are injured. Can you blame me ? If you weren't taking advantage of the situation and looking for Dai Suichang, could I be hurt? You still dare to talk back to you. Special commissioner, don't expect to get an advantage. Let's go back to Hushan. Yes, let's not look for Dai Suichang. It's important to escape. We should go back to Hushan first. The devils are coming quickly. Run, Special Commissioner, Special Commissioner Dai Suichang, hurry up, chase me, chase me. Shen Yingjie once again led the chasing Japanese to the ravine where he had set an ambush. As long as the Japanese entered the trap, he was sure to eliminate them. He stopped and saw that the Japanese were about to fall into the urn. However, something unexpected happened. Fan Jian and others were being chased by the Japs. They were in a precarious situation. Shen Yingjie thought that he was one of his own who came to rescue him. He must not die without rescuing him. Don't get entangled with the Japs here. First, retreat to the mine. Hurry up. Hurry up. Hurry up. Hurry up and enter the mine. Enter the cave. It's blocked. Isn't that letting people catch turtles in a jar? If you don't enter the mine, you will die. Come on, you can't run away now. Kill them all for me to clear the way. Hey, let 's, are we on the wrong track? It seems that the man surnamed Shen has been here before. Where is the mountain that the collapsed mine leads to? How could I know that you were a noob who only had fat and didn't know the way? That's [ __ ]. I was walking quite well just now because you turned left, turned left, and gave me away. Why are you blaming me for being dizzy? Who are you blaming? Anyway, I'm lost now and can't get out. What do you think I should do? I was shot again. How do I know what to do? In fact, we really shouldn't have been with that guy just now. If the one named Shen leaves, we have to rely on him for life and death. Hurry up, hurry up, little devil, don't be fooled. This guy is really a ghost. It must be Tojo-kun and the others who are after the target named Shen. Let's eliminate the special commissioner. Let's go. We are on our way. Where to run? I don't know where to run. There 's a hole, hurry up, hurry up, bastard, why are you catching me? I didn't mean to do it. I can't control it. Let me go. I won't let you go until I die. If you don't let me go, I can't catch you. Let me go. Even if you beat me to death, I won't let you go. If we die together, I beg you to let me go. You are a [ __ ], and you flatter me and treat me with respect. You say that you will live through fire and water without hesitation. It turns out that this is the critical moment. How can you have so many thoughts about me? Do you blame me? Which of your subordinates doesn't do this? You're dead now. Why don't you want to die? If you don't want to die, please help us. Just tell me where Dai Suichang is. I don't know. I 'll save you. Dai Dai Suichang, I don't know. I really don't know. I don't know, help us, tell him quickly. Commissioner, I surrender, I surrender. Then tell me where he is hiding. I, I, I, I, I, I, I said, he is in a tree hole. There are so many tree holes in the Baga forest. Are you teasing me? I am not teasing. I am not teasing. You are really in the tree hole. In the tree hole, Baga, go to hell. I will take you there. I will take you to Noda-kun. I should just kill him. Humming cat and mouse game, slowly playing them to death. Am I in heaven? Why are there no angels to greet me? This is hell. I heard that the bull-headed horse noodles in the Palace of Hell receive red envelopes. You brought the money. Bring the money, I'll bring the [ __ ]. I'm not dead. I'm not dead. Commissioner Bodhisattva bless us. Bodhisattva bless us. Bodhisattva bless hush. Commissioner, there's a way. Well, there's no perfect way. Let's take Noda-kun. Look. There's a road over there. They run. Slow down and die. Tojo-kun, hurry up. Shen Yingjie knows that the sniper Tojo Tsuneji is the biggest threat at the moment. If he wants to fight with these devils, he must be eliminated first. However, Shen Yingjie There is only one bullet in the chamber of Yingjie's gun. There is only one chance. He must kill with one shot. He must be absolutely sure to shoot at the decisive moment. Shen Yingjie's gun misfired. Tojo Tsuneji immediately locked the opponent's position, but he did not know the opponent. Shen Yingjie was in a stalemate with Tojo Tsuneji. No one dared to expose themselves first. It was getting late. Other Japanese soldiers might arrive at any time. Shen Yingjie could come at any time. There are no bullets in the gun. We are in a dilemma. We must find a way to escape immediately. O I don't know if Tojo-kun chased the guy but he didn't leave. Let's go over and take a look at Baga Little Japan. Look clearly. This is your sniper rifle. How many Chinese soldiers have been killed by this gun? I'll let you reap the consequences today. Blood, blood, or sniper rifle. Tojo-kun's sniper rifle. He must have caught that guy. Damn it, Tojo-kun. Tojo-kun, you are a sharpshooter and you never miss a beat. How could this happen? He died like this, Mr. Yamamoto, look at this kid who was injured. He must not have escaped. Mr. Far East Jo, I will definitely avenge you and chase Dai Suichang. Hurry up and come out. The devils can't kill you because I'm here, Mr. Crow Fan, Mr. Jianfan, Crow, Crow, I'm here, Crow Fan. Sir, I finally meet you. Come out quickly. Don't play hide and seek with me. Where are you? Don't move. Stop. Dai Suichang. We finally meet again. You are obedient and naughty. You don't want me to take you back to Su City. The imperial army will treat you preferentially. I won't go back to Su City. City, I, I'm going to Chongqing, you die, die, Taijun, spare your life, die, die, don't die, die, don't, let's play a game, don't play a game, I don't know how, let's chat, let's chat, stand at attention and try my karate. Come again in Section 5. Spare your life, spare my life, spare my life, spare your life. Those who betrayed the Imperial Army of Japan will all die. Spare their lives. Leave it to you. Dai Suichang, run quickly. Just stay there and wait for death. Mr. Yamamoto must have discovered the target. Dai Suichang, you are crazy, Chief Shen. It's you, the kid wanted to kill me, and you saved my life. If it weren't for you, I would be dead now. Now you understand that working for the kid and becoming a traitor will only lead to death. Oh, I understand that it is unjust for the kid to kill the donkey. I beg you, tell me the little devil, you are sick in your brain, I am sick, I am sick, I asked you to hide under the big tree. Why did you run out? Did you want to run away again? I really didn't want to run away. Shen Section Chief, I'm afraid I'm going out to look for you. I brought me here. This house has such an obvious target. The Japanese will search it soon. So what do you say? What do you say? Of course, let's go. Come on, let's go. Dai Suichang Listen to my orders. When I count to three, you rush out and run into the woods as hard as you can. Do you understand? But Section Chief Shen doesn't have it. But if you're worried about missing the opportunity, no one can save you. Are you afraid? I'm brave. Just run for your life. Who can run faster? Don't be anxious. I'm still warming up. Warming up. Don't jump the gun. Don't jump the gun. Stop. Did n't you say I would run on the count of three? You can see for yourself that they are both in there. Youxi can't let it go this time. They ran away, little Japan came at the right time. There was only Yamamoto just now. If you run out, he will definitely show up to stop you. I shot him and we were out of danger. But now, the Japanese have surrounded us and we can't escape even if we have wings, Shen Ke. If you hadn't been running around, we would have been made dumplings by the Japanese. It's over, it's over, we're all dead. Noda-kun, this is our last chance. We must not make any more mistakes. Do n't kill those two bastards alive. Dai Suichang, lie there and pretend to be dead dogs, Chief Shen, are we going to die here? Even if I die, I have to hold two people on my back. We are so wronged. In ancient times, prisoners on death row were given delicious food and drinks when they went to the execution ground. We even had bowls. I haven't even drunk the water. Please, when are you still eating and drinking? Poor Dai Mou has been eating and drinking spicy food for a lifetime. It's not an ordinary enjoyment. In the end, he still hungry to meet the King of Hell. I'm warning you. We are all Chinese and we will die. You must die with dignity in front of the Japs. You must beg them in the woods like you just did. I will kill you with one shot. I won't. I will follow you. I will definitely not do it. Noda-kun, why is there no movement? This guy must be in there. I saw it with my own eyes. Hi, how are you, Section Chief Shen? Dai Suichang, we have so many enemies in front of us, and there is a cliff behind us. We ca n't escape. We can only fight to the death. I gave you the grenade. I forgot about the grenade. I still have such a good thing for you. What a waste. Blow up the back wall. Wait until I finish shooting the last bullet. Let's jump off the cliff. If you don't jump off the cliff, you're waiting for death. Okay. What's going on? It's a sniper rifle. A sniper rifle. How can he have Tojo-kun's Tojo- kun? You died for your country. How could this happen? Tojo-kun was a sharpshooter and had received strict sniper training. He had never missed a shot. How could he be killed so easily? I don't know. It seems that his eyeballs were blown out by this. Iron nail Shen Yingjie, I want to skin him alive. You, Noda-kun, calm down and let me go. I will fight with him. Noda-kun, as a commander, how can you always want to risk your life? Yamamoto-kun, you attack us from the side and attack us from the front. Now that he has been forced into a desperate situation by us, I want to see. How can he handle it with a gun? Come on, go, Dai Suichang, why are you dawdling? I don't know how to explode. How to explode? Make a crack in the wall, put the grenade in, pull the string, and it will explode. Oh, give me a good shot of braised lion's head soup shark's fin. Stewed shark's fin in thick soup. Dai Suichang is still talking about how to be brave. Hurry up! Crystal shrimp oil, stewed eel paste, chicken soup, dry shreds. Run down. You go down first. I will protect you. You commit suicide by jumping off a cliff. It's not jumping off a cliff and slipping down with a cane. Shen Section Chief, I'm afraid of heights. Then you wait here to die. God bless Amitabha. I'm afraid of heights. Amitabha. God bless Amitabha. Please don't kick me. I'm afraid of heights. Don't kick. Don't kick. Chief Shen, save me. Stop kicking. Help, I surrender. Help, Chief Shen, don't kick. Don't kick. Commissioner, what are they doing on the swing? Yeah, what's going on? Come on, you two, go down and save Yamamoto-kun. Yamamoto-kun. Yamamoto-kun, hurry up and find a way around. It's fun, Commissioner, they're not dead. Come on, come on, my fifth degree of karate, your little reptile, haha, come on, come on, get up, fight, get up, your cunning, cunning, this place is too slippery to be considered real, what [ __ ], fifth degree of karate. If you have the ability, keep fighting. I haven't had enough fun. Amitabha. Amitabha. This guy with the surname Shen is really awesome. Special Commissioner, if we want to snatch Dai Suichang from him, it will be harder than climbing to heaven. Yeah, bah, Amitabha is not allowed to grow up with other people. If your ambition destroys your own prestige, I am not a vegetarian. Then he will know how powerful I am.