- Part of this video was This is a US government warehouse that sells almost Blueberries, steel, cigarettes, and even some things you I also see you have domestic sludge there. (Dr.Place laughs) This is domestic sludge. - So, when you flush your toilet and it goes through the sewer and it goes into a the first step is to get rid We took that, dried it down, I wouldn't recommend smelling it. - What is the purpose of all this stuff? Why are they selling it Does it ever feel like you're or something? - [Dr. Choquette] You know, so I don't think it from that perspective, but I should say yes. - [Derek] The science is like there's someone - Yeah. - There's someone collecting that? It seems so fictional. Like why should a place like this exist? There are apple leaves and bars of zinc metal, carbon In these vats of liquid nitrogen, there are samples of marine animals. - Mussel samples, dolphin Birds as well, bird tissue And some human tissue as well. - [Derek] But perhaps the is something really mundane. Peanut butter. - It looks like a peanut butter. It is peanut butter. It's creamy. - [Derek] It's probably of peanut butter in the whole world. - Well, we essentially generic peanut butter. We might have 2000 jars And what we do is we then go through and measure the fats in these jars and figure out how much of And we actually then slap on a label and provide a certificate at the end. - Have you ever eaten some - All of these things are because I don't know if how old it is, but it's old enough that you probably don't want to eat it. - How much does it cost? - These are not sold at So, this jar of peanut This jar, I believe, is This is not something that to make your peanut butter - [Derek] An ordinary jar of peanut butter costs less than $5. And on the label you and the amounts of different nutrients like protein, fats, sugar, and sodium. Those values have been using different machines But how do you know those Well, this is where the government's standard jar of peanut butter comes in. It is mixed up so carefully and thoroughly that each jar contains - We take great pains at Make sure it's consistent. - [Derek] Then scientists at the National Institute of take years to painstakingly of all the different with specified uncertainties. This peanut butter is then known as a standard reference material or SRM. They sell these perfectly characterized SRM samples of peanut and manufacturers so they can Essentially, the buyer is working properly if, when they run the standard peanut butter, they get the values NIST - We've spent a lot of time to make sure that we're we can spend years studying and trying to figure out - [Derek] So what you're paying for is not really the peanut butter, it's the knowledge of exactly - And so this is what of a standard reference material is our ability to assert the truth. We produce what I call truth in a bottle. - You might think, why does it matter that the label on my But it is way more than that NIST measures. Peanut butter actually aflatoxins. They're are carcinogen and they're produced by So if your peanut butter is made from a bad batch of peanuts, to be able to accurately detect elevated levels of aflatoxins. And they're able to do that because the standard a known level of to calibrate their equipment. Will the FDA like sample peanut butters and look for aflatoxin? - A lot of times you actually that measure it in accordance to the FDA. The FDA may encourage them standard reference material, to make sure they're FDA may not be handling it themselves. - [Derek] There are different challenges to measuring the components Fine powder, for example, is easier to characterize So it's helpful to have that closely matches the target in composition and consistency, but it's also impossible every different type of food. - We're not gonna make a trout and a perch and salmon material, all these different, We're kind of grab an average So if you're measuring it in other fish, you can usually use it as a surrogate. - [Derek] So you have a standard trout? - [Dr. Place] Correct, yes. - [Derek] Tell me about Meat Homogenate. (Dr. Place laughs) - It is a mixed meat product been ground into a very fine particle, and packed into a very nice tin. - Why do you mix like chicken and pork? Why not just have like a pork reference? - We never do this by ourselves. We always work with these &quot;Hey what kind of mixes do you need?&quot; And then we request that kind - [Derek] For a reference It doesn't have to be the exact material a manufacturer wants to characterize. It just has to be close enough. NIST sells around 30 different food items that are spread around At the corners of the triangle are a 100% carbohydrate, a So, based on their mix of all foods fall somewhere on this triangle. And to characterize each the closest standard reference material. - If you're trying to do you know, a regulatory authority a food that's a kibble, but I'm measuring it they're gonna be saying, &quot;Well, that peanut butter has a wildly different fat content.&quot; So what we wanna give them is something, a matrix, that as what they're used to dealing with. - [Derek] They even have - This is called typical diet. Through surveys, they identified eats and they purchased it and then they freeze dried It's like a light gray all the nutritional components that an average American would consume. So it represents the sugar content, it represents the proteins any vitamins you might have, any fats you might have that we puree up. - [Derek] In total, NIST has nearly 1300 standard reference materials. - This is our warehouse. And so it's an approximately in which we store all of the SRMs. And so we are a business. And so, what excites me about this, being on the technical a 20 million business within We sell about 30,000 units a year. So each order is about three units. Half of them are sold domestically and half are sold to an - You can see all the So it's shop.nist.gov is for all these materials. You can search for whatever you want. You can search for peanut butter, you can search for meat homogenate. - [Derek] If I like would you sell that to me? - There is some control to who we sell to. - I feel like this is If I got a thousand bucks. NIST won't sell to just anyone, but there are plenty of websites that do. And this part of the video is The easiest way to set I have a shop where I called Snatoms. It's a molecular modeling kit where the atoms snap You know, when I came up with the first step was to snatoms.com was available. If you have a good idea, you as soon as you can. It's like claiming a social media handle. And Google Domains makes this easy. I moved snatoms.com over to Google Domains in just five minutes. If you're building an you can set up your whole website quickly using Google Domains No coding required. Now, with snatoms.com I never have to worry about reliability. It runs on Google Cloud's super So the domain resolves lightning fast, no matter where in the world, your users are. I also get peace of mind security features, like and two factor authentication. Plus it automatically connects to tools like Google Workspace or Google Analytics to help me understand So claim your own domain starting at just $12 a year. Go to domains.google/veritasium your first year. I will put that link So thanks to Google Domains for sponsoring this part of the video. But it's not just food - In the early 19 hundreds, like 1905, there was a huge issue that was being used in rail cars, both locomotives and on the tracks. It was that they knew in the alloys to make it work. It's just that all the had no way to compare their they were making to knew they should be making. And so Congress basically said to National Bureau of we need you to come up with so that everyone can be on the same page. And so what we did was we analyzed them for all so all the elements, the chrome, the iron, the hydrogen carbon and to the stakeholders, again the foundries, so that they can inter compare to a known source of steel. And those were our very first - [Derek] Steel is still SRMs at NIST. What's your best selling product? - Ah, those are called Charpies. - Charpies? Okay, let's go look at a Charpie. If you wanna test how strong your steel is what Professor Charpy, was a test where he set up a pendulum and at the end of a pendulum is a weight. And if you pull that pendulum you can calculate it's potential energy. At the bottom of the the arc, is a vice. And in the vice, is held called a Charpy. And this has a little V-notch in it. And so the idea is that and breaks this thing and then And from that you can then that it took to break this piece of steel. Every company in the internationally, now has against our Charpies annually because the kind of steels they're making are used in pipelines or they're you know, for tanks, for things So I have a joke. I love things that break or and they have to break So we sell a lot. - How many would you sell in a year? - We sell of those, of we sell about 8,000. - [Derek] Woah. - [Derek] NIST has been making these standard reference materials - This is what our very number one looks like. It is the real deal and it's We are still making limestone And it is still so popular that we sell 40 to 50 - [Derek] Huh. Very few companies are in some of their original products and we do. - [Derek] Most of the SRMs are used for calibration. But there's another class This means they're used to ensure consistency. An example is cigarettes. - Evidently, smoking in You know, people were And so there was a lot of regulation as to how materials in your or your bed clothes should And we produced some standard cigarettes that, essentially, along would help a manufacturer their furniture was or their - [Derek] And for those the fires must be started with a standardized NIST cigarette. (siren blaring) Fires started by smoking materials are the leading cause of in the US. - Products like this, but that were in place and just that went on have saved many, many lives. - [Derek] But they also you would never expect, - When a bullet is fired the rifling in the barrel - [Derek] Forensic labs these grooves to match the to others fired by the suspected weapon. But how do you know they are accurately measuring the grooves? - So this has standard marks on it. They replicated a bullet. Putting, I believe, essentially, So very, very fine marks and They weren't fired through a - [Derek] So, to validate their equipment, forensic labs can run the standard bullet at the same time as a so they know their The goal of every standard is to quantify something about the world, something important that's (vacuuming noise) - In the early nineties, we and we got vacuum bags. We went to hotels, went to motels, took all the vacuum bags that and houses and everything, so it's fully mixed, so every little jar has the same number of chemicals, has the same amount of material in it. And then we measured everything in there. And the reason why I is 'cause dust is, from an is a really good way and our house are being exposed to. - [Derek] Identifying is a big part of what these are for, which is why they have or water from a glacier in Greenland. - These are so rare that we of one unit per customer per three years. - Whoa. Or dirt From New Jersey and Montana. - We have a lot of soil samples. They had the permission a contaminated industrial and collect a bunch of rocks, and bring 'em back and crunch 'em up. And so these are certified, again, for things like toxic elements. - [Derek] Now the ultimate way to measure what contaminants we're exposed to is by what comes out of us. Which is why NIST sells domestic sludge. This is a record of what and down our sewers. Researchers can examine or heavy metals. Contaminants that many without knowing. It's really about And next year they're coming out with an actual human poop product. - It's been in the news health is related to And we're starting to your gut flora and what's in your stomach is hugely important to your just all sorts of things. Fecal matter is an incredibly and extract all the And what this material will do is support measurements of the metabolites. And it'll be distributed as a - Do you know how much they got? - A crap load. - [Derek] As our knowledge so too do the standard reference materials stored in this warehouse. NIST is preparing to launch its first living standard The living cells will that can produce monoclonal antibodies. Monoclonal antibodies now top selling drugs and in annual sales worldwide. When monkey pox started one issue with diagnosing the disease was that there were no to tell if someone was infected. NIST was able to create a of the monkey pox DNA in just 30 days. This warehouse is a very So many disparate pieces of our world carefully characterized, It's a reminder that behind the scenes, invisible to most of us, there are a group of to ensure that things are When we eat peanut butter the peanut butter contains When your blood test comes back you know it was calibrated And when you walk into you know the steel has and mechanical properties Our world works because, there is a small army of people diligently checking that what is out there aligns with the standards. Even our poop. (techno music)