This video is sponsored by Skillshare. Would you believe me if I told you that owning while also reminding you that Would you also believe me if is much easier to accomplish than one would think? There isn't a secret formula, a set number of possessions you must stick Well, maybe there are a few. However today I plan to share that you can start implementing Number one is Spend less. There is a linear correlation between how own. So if you're looking to own less then you You still have to be intentional This means setting goals, making meaningful or it could be as simple as writing a shopping Number two Want less. If you want to own less, then you have to is impossible to do until we fully understand and generalizing an explanation for this isn't We each have different stories and backgrounds makes us unique. And while these things and ideas I do believe that there's one thing we have in more that's separate from the idea of it being And that thing is Gratitude, or the lack thereof. regardless of how much or how little it A sense of dissatisfaction. Number three is Dump the guilt. Instead of feeling guilty because of something has been a part of your life. Just Think about it like this. Let's say of money on somethinging and the you alive because you feel like you're Well not to be the bearer of bad news but the what you spent on it if you sold it. But if you using it, repurposing it, or displaying it; given Then you're still paying for it. Just You're paying for it with your time. The time You're paying for it with your space. that could be used for something else you value. You're paying for it emotionally. Maybe your home look at it, but how much you spent keeps you Number four is Loosen your grip. I've learned that the first step to letting go is the money you spent to purchase and protect the like what we just talked about; be it with You'll start to recognize over time Of owning more. And when you discover Remember stuff and things don't to us. They're not emotionally attached to us. We're the one with the tight grip. We're Number five is Experiment. Now how much you own as a minimalist or mostly anyway. As long as what you and adds value because it supports what you value. In fact, I talked about this idea in titled *How Much Do You Really leave a link to it down below in case See experimenting is all about challenging need in order to live a luxurious life. Maybe of pants for one week, maybe two weeks. it's an experiment. It can only help Number six is Be your own gatekeeper. I've noticed through interacting with others, that something. But we don't carry that same energy So my challenge for you is to change the your own gatekeeper. If something then don't give it the Number seven is Learn to uncommit. Now, this idea has been expressed exquisitely titled Essentialism. And he breaks this down And rather than repeat what he says, he says in his Skillshare class titled *Simple There's a term for this particular kind of sunk The endowment effect is well established in the simply because we own it. It's a good principle own it. That's good, you take care of it more The endowment effect means that you just because it's yours. So how do you get out of this? You get out of it by asking, well really tricking And the question is: how much would I If I was starting right now, how much would I pay for this project? It helps you to evaluate from its current estimated, and not from overvaluing it Now there is something really How much would I invest now, into this project? Well, what if we replace See many of us are holding on to things for so much into it. So we're struggling of uncommitting, because of But if we asked ourselves, how much would or clothes, or furniture, what have you. So why not let it go. Now you should definitely check out the telling you. And in case you're not familiar community with thousands of inspiring classes learn new things and new skills from business But because you're a part of this community I'm Premium Membership to the first 1000 people I'll also leave a direct link to this without wasting any time. Number eight is Let go of duplicates, I say this because I'm a firm believer without and if your life, or circumstances or more than one of something then that's ok. Letting go of duplicates is a not a rule that defines your values. What I mean by that is whenever life ask yourself what are my intentions What purpose is this duplicate serving in my life? And if you can answer that with a But if you can't or if you just then I challenge you to challenge Number nine is Declutter as you live. It can be intimidating to think that every day and every week decluttering your available time doing that. I don't. There are that I want to make sure I have the time to do. Which is why I now declutter as I live and I Now yes if you're just starting out on your minimalism again then it might take you an focused and intentional decluttering But once that initial spark is lit and the ball through simply decluttering as you live. It second nature if you will. As you're getting dressed for example and in years. Don't hang it back up; don't stuff and don't lie to yourself Just donate it. You'll save yourself Number ten is Be more present in life. Many of us if we're being honest, are because we're distracted. Our focus is stuck that actually matter and things and moments See deep down we know what it means to be present to take over. To create roadblocks and hurdles Because only through self-awareness are and know ourselves. And when we it becomes easier to change our If you enjoyed this comment below and let me know which part of this conversation Also, I have a playlist here all about how to get Definitely check that out if you're interested. Keep growing on your journey and I'll see you in the next one. Peace!