The Mongols were known for unleashing a series from the catastrophic destruction of the Khwarezmian No shortage of Islamic authors over the thirteenth by God for their sins. Yet, many of the Mongols in the west of the converted to Islam, and in time some of the the yassa. In today's episode of our series on the to convert to Islam. The Mongols might have been religiously tolerant people who try to steal your data or limit of this video NordVPN is a perfect tool for NordVPN's 5500 super-fast servers located IP to avoid regional restrictions. Being geo-locked or missing a premiere or is no fun, and with NordVPN you will be able content out of your streaming subscriptions. Also, it is important to keep our browsing will do just that! You can use it even in countries where VPNs NordVPN never logs your data and protects double-data encryption! It works on Windows, Linux, iOs, and Android money-back guarantee! And most impressively, it is incredibly cheap, Join us and stop tolerating the theft of your options! Get 4 free months of premium VPN and Save or pressing the link in the description! Don't forget to use the coupon code KingsAndGenerals! The Mongolian interaction with Islam began brought valued goods such as textiles or metal At least two Muslims, Hasan and Ja'far Khoja, during his escape to lake Baljuna, where they As Chinggis Khan expanded the Mongol Empire, it. Muslim merchants continued to serve in prominent of the Khan, who rewarded them and encouraged When Chinggis Khan's great general Jebe their fleeing foe Kuchlug, he proclaimed that to worship as they chose. The region swiftly threw out Kuchlug's garrisons but liberators. The next stage of Mongol expansion was not The highly destructive conquest of the Khwarezmian across what is now Uzbekistan through eastern Though most of Iran submitted peacefully to with the arrival of Hulegu in the 1250s a in the sack of Baghdad in 1258 and death of psyche of the ummah. At the end of the 1250s, it seemed that soon the subject of the Grand Khan. The initial period after the Mongol conquest Claims of Mongol religious toleration have by our modern perception of the term. While it is true that the Mongols generally the Mongols did persecute specific beliefs the laws of Chinggis Khan, the great Yassa. These infractions, such as halal slaughter resulted in Mongol oppression. Both Chinggis Khan's son Chagatai in the halal slaughter on pain of death. A Khwarezmian refugee to the Delhi Sultanate sincere belief that Chagatai and other members of the Muslims. Why did Islam succeed in converting the Mongols It was a matter of proximity. The majority of the population in the major Chagatai Khanate were Muslims, ensuring that to the Mongol leadership, but also their military. Efforts by Buddhists or various Christian or Nestorian, lacked comparable resources, to attempting to convert the highest-ranking While this brought them some influence, in sources monarchs tended to convert once enough a sound decision for their legitimacy. More Mongols simply had closer proximity to or Buddhist, leading to a more thorough conversion Similar proximity prompted the slow sinicization The Mongols also found Muslims very useful. Islamic craftsmen, administrators, and healers accompanying every Khan and Noyan on campaigns In short order they commanded armies, often for the khans. The various Islamic peoples of Central Asia, of skills and manpower the Mongols lacked. By the reign of Ogedai, Muslims were many Mahmud Yalavach, his son Mas'ud Beg, and Secretariats the Mongols established to govern These men were answerable only to the Great The presence of many Islamic jurists in Chinggisid fiscal ability could be richly rewarded in princes. The Mongol search for skills they saw as useful in alchemy and astrology. The Khans of the Ilkhanate spent considerable to produce gold or prolong life, much to the Astrologists who could determine the future put great stock in this. The duties of Mongol shamans fell to influencing with the next level of existence. Thus, for the Mongols, it was useful to accumulate beyond what their own shamans could. It also explains why, once they did convert, which makes it difficult for many to accept As historians like Devin DeWeese or Peter the authenticity of any Mongol conversion the nature of our sources leaves us unable The Mongols actively selected aspects of sedentary therefore could choose to profess Islam while standard cultural actions. The conversions of the Mongols and their servants One of the first prominent figures to convert Ogedai's appointment to head the Secretariat One of the most powerful officials in the to Islam at the start of the 1240s marked government. According to Juvaini, Batu, while preparing at Mohi in 1241, ascended a hill to pray to in his army to pray for victory as well. It is unclear if they were Muslim troops raised converts. One of the main units in Mongol expansion force permanently stationed in a region made The Mongols in a tamma were forbidden to bring Separated from their homeland, families, and Muslims, these Mongols were thus removed from of their traditional religion and made them This can best be observed in the case of tammchi from the early 1240s until the 1260s. Over roughly twenty years he appears in a not only the presence of many Muslims in his but also the gradual conversion of his men. By the end of his life, Baiju became a Muslim fashion on his death. Perhaps the most famous convert was Berke Hulegu over the Caucasus. Conflicting accounts are given for his conversion: in the 1240s through the efforts of the Sufi Certainly, by the 1250s, Berke was a Muslim his adherence, though Mamluk embassies indicate hair in the distinctive Mongolian style rather While Berke's war with Hulegu is often portrayed it seems this was a secondary concern to him. His own letters to Sultan Baybars blame the Yassa by failing to send Berke loot from Baghdad The fact that war began three years after Jochid territory in northern Iran and the that Berke's immediate concerns were more Islam for the early converts like Berke was alongside their existing beliefs and incorporated Almost certainly Berke, like his Islamic successors, Yassa, yet never felt disloyal to the sharia. While Berke's conversion was accompanied was no immediate Islamization of the emerging Only at the start of the 1280s did both westernmost rulers: Tode-Mongke [r.1280-1287] in the the Ilkhanate. Once more, the sources hint that shaykhs and and continued to be held in great esteem in For the Ilkhan Teguder, who upon his enthronement a variety of sources that describe his commitment why many doubt the authenticity of the early In a letter Teguder sent to the Mamluk Sultan law in the Ilkhanate and that their shared submit to him. Cilician Armenian writers like Het'um of portray Teguder as a prosecutor of Christians. Yet at the same time, the Syriac churchman to Christians, an upholder of religious toleration Hebraeus to build a new church, while the Taking the throne in 1295, the Ilkhan Ghazan Ilkhan. For this reason, the Islam of two of his predecessors, accounts from his reign, predominately the Ghazan only came to Islam a few weeks before commander Nawruz Noyan and the Shaykh Sadr Ilkhan Baidu. While his biographer Rashid al-Din portrays and soldiers to follow suit, it seems almost and that by converting Ghazan hoped to gain which quickly happened. Upon becoming Ilkhan, on the instigation of the destruction of Christian, Jewish, Buddhist, his empire and imposed the jizya. However, these harsh measures were quickly though Buddhists did not return to the prominence Ghazan before the end of the 1290s donned Mamluks. Yet his efforts did not convince everyone. Outside of Damascus in 1300, the great Mamluk his vizier, the Jewish convert to Islam Rashid continued to worship Chinggis Khan in place The life of Ghazan's brother and successor prince's flexible approach to religion. His father Arghun had the young Oljeitu baptized Nicholas. As a teen, he converted to Buddhism, taking Under the influence of a wife, he converted First attached to the Sunni school of Hanafism, between them drove him back to Buddhism before A number of sources offer explanations for focusing on how advisers, scholars, and emirs In some accounts, Oljeitu converted back to Following Ghazan's reign [1295-1304] the with the majority of its army and upper echelons Horde and Chagatai Khanate. In the Golden Horde, it took until the reign have converted shortly after his accession within the Horde. In legendary accounts, Ozbeg was converted veracity of his religion by passing unscathed maille, while the shaman he challenged was However, Baba Tukles does not appear in sources likely he was influenced by Sufis and jurists To cement his reign and religion, Ozbeg ordered princes and noyans, larger than purges carried in the Ilkhanate and Tughluq Temur in the Ozbeg's violent efforts succeeded in permanently Still, in policy Ozbeg, Ghazan and Oljeitu taxation exemptions, favours, and other privileges though on a lesser scale than earlier in the Their successors, Ozbeg's son Janibeg and as even Christians found their privileges Janibeg ordered his men to dress in the fashion the protector of the Holy Cities of Mecca there for inexplicable reasons. Still, these monarchs showed themselves to of levirate marriage, marrying their father's Islam proved an aspect of these monarch's Iran for all elements of Mongol culture and in the steppes the process, it can be argued, house of Chinggis Khan. More videos on Mongol history are on the way, the bell button to see it. Please, consider liking, commenting, and sharing Our videos would be impossible without our whose ranks you can join via the links in early access to our videos, access our discord, This is the Kings and Generals channel, and