"Come on, everyone's doing it." These are the words the woman says while He's feeling nervous. His heart's harder than vodka at a party before, How bad could it be, he thinks. The woman's hot; is try it once, and he'll never do it again. The be cut with have gotta be exaggerated. Johnny swallows his worries and smiles. Not long after, he's convulsing on the of his mouth - Eyes wide, gasping like a him at the party just panic, nobody has any Johnny's become just another Drug overdose has always been a danger, technology has advanced, and new drugs have increased. Overdoses and poisonings are the adolescents 19 years old and younger. And heroin and cocaine causing these overdoses. The which led to a 7.5-fold increase in overdose opioid that is deadlier than the rest, Fentanyl is 100 times more potent than morphine, measurement of its dosage can be fatal. It can be but without an expert administering it, it can Washington Post analysis of 2021 death data from Fentanyl has become the leading cause of death other opioids, Fentanyl causes drowsiness they will lose consciousness and stop breathing. lack of oxygen could kill them in mere minutes. they might end up with it in their system anyway. many drug dealers have taken to using it to cut MDMA, and heroin. But more on that later. with the Fentanyl crisis, we need to take a look It may surprise you to learn that for quite some time. It was first developed by or pain-relieving drug. It was approved for use Fentanyl and other similar synthetic opioids began as substitutes for heroin, or mixed with street acquired Fentanyl were first reported in the early until the mid-2000s. Over a period from April deaths occurred across six states. Ever since, the going from 2628 to 5544 between 2012 and 2014. first-responder calls in a sample neighborhood of In 2016, Fentanyl was linked to nearly half of Between 2013 and 2017, more people in opioid-related overdoses than the number of U.S. Iraq, and Afghanistan wars combined. The Fentanyl. At the time of this increasing threat, general opioid crisis. As the deaths linked it quickly became apparent that the Derek Maltz, who was formerly in charge Special Operations Division, spoke with the respond as Fentanyl deaths began to spike in like we'd never seen before. A red light something brand new. What the hell is going But that urgency didn't come, at least not to a crossing the US border from Mexico and China. require electronic monitoring of international shipped from China to pass through undetected. In opioid crisis, requiring the Postal Service to already been done. New Hampshire's Governor Chris to recognize the severity of the problem, even Let's talk a bit more about those warning signs. nowhere. It's the fruit of a poison tree, one that up. Those roots can be traced to a variety of little drug manufacturer called Purdue Pharma, and the drug in 1996, and swiftly began to market that was also, somehow, non-addictive compared was one problem: it was addictive, incredibly, come out until after the drug had been marketed billions of dollars in sales for the company. In after its executives pleaded guilty to federal drug was less addictive than other painkillers. Following the scandal at Purdue, there was a and access became more difficult. The push of addicts who could no longer access their fix. Drug began to up their heroin sales, kicking off the came Fentanyl, more powerful than heroin, more traffickers quickly realized that Fentanyl was their product with the synthetic opioid could save China White, Dance Fever, Goodfella, Murder As these shifts were taking place in the illicit was about to hit. In the spring of 2013, the overdose deaths, and toxicology reports revealed the CDC pointed this out in its Morbidity and Concord, New Hampshire noticed the same pattern in deaths spreading across New England. At this focused on heroin, a focus only exacerbated Hoffman by overdose in March of 2014. Then, the attorney general, with a PowerPoint and the outbreak of overdoses in the Northeast specifically highlighted the dangers of Ten months later, Holder left his position the Fentanyl problem had spread to Massachusetts, Maryland, and Virginia. On March 18, 2015, the Administrator Michele M. Leonhart said, &quot;Drug are occurring at an alarming rate throughout the to public health and safety. Often laced produced in illicit clandestine labs are up 30-50 times more powerful than heroin. Fentanyl anyone else who may come into contact with it. directly attacking the drug trafficking networks have lost too many Americans to drug overdoses, teachers, local law enforcement, and mentors the dangers of drug abuse, and to seek immediate DEA Agents specifically highlighted that Fentanyl of cryptocurrency, ordered over the internet incorporating Fentanyl into counterfeit If Fentanyl is so deadly, why would drug dealers they wouldn't want to accidentally Fentanyl is not inherently a death sentence every safely in a medical context. The deadly nature but the unpredictable purity of its street the dose. Drug dealers often plan on measuring interviewed by ABC News have attested. Nabarun of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, who is studying business if you layer addiction into it.&quot; Eric agreed. He spoke about the ease that Fentanyl ten times the amount of opioid pills if he used Fentanyl may come with increased but many dealers are willing to accept that risk Falkowski elaborated further, &quot;I felt like I could manufacturing techniques...and that worked and Falkowski's pill manufacturing resulted in lack of quality control in street Fentanyl makes particularly when it is hiding in other and may not invite the same One issue that has emerged as the Fentanyl crisis chemical variations of the drug that chemically altered versions of Fentanyl with mimic the same effects on the body, as they are not technically Fentanyl. Federal constantly shifting landscape of the Fentanyl they pop up. But like the hydra in Greek more grow in its place, and as analogs With drugs like cocaine or heroin, authorities cultivated. Now, there are hundreds of precursor synthesize Fentanyl analogs, traveling in shipping mattresses, car parts, and so on, crossing the of these analogs are incredibly deadly. For has a lethal dose around the size of the head an odorless white powder, is 100 times and 10,000 times more potent than Morphine. when it was found cut into heroin and Over the course of three days, 35 overdoses only one of many analogs on the market, with We've discussed Fentanyl and its precursor through the US/Mexico border, but another country is through online vendors based in China. and highlighted the fact that, while China's Fentanyl and its variants in May 2019, online networks to sell Fentanyl analogs and directly to customers in the USA and Europe, substances are so new that they are not yet One way in which these vendors hide their corporate entities registered in remote companies use shipping methods developed to of areas where law enforcement is less or Shanghai. There has been a drop in Fentanyl but that does not mean the trade One vendor, known by the pseudonym Benjamin Shanghai Huilitongda Biological Technology as a pharmaceutical company. He then did business on Facebook of all places. He also and Vimeo. After the ban, Chen and others which are only a few steps away from being hands. Other vendors have been spotted China already has the infrastructure for this pharmaceutical and chemical manufacturing use the structures already in place to hide in companies or biotech firms. Hiding behind these labs out of office blocks and shopping The opioid epidemic has come in waves, and analogs has led to what experts in a report from Eric Dawson, vice president of clinical affairs at yet to see a peak.&quot; The report as a whole analyses urine samples collected between January 2013 addiction care. One notable, and troubling trend drugs. Nearly 93 percent of samples that tested additional substances. One of the substances most was methamphetamine. This is an 875 percent but that is not necessarily a cause for medicine specialist and assistant professor at stated that this change &quot;just says that Fentanyl pushed by our drug supply to the most dangerous continued, &quot;I think drug cartels are kind a 500-square-foot lab than it is to have 500 However, it's difficult to determine from these and Meth together on purpose, or if they are Fentanyl without their knowledge. Across the and Fentanyl has wormed its way into so Now that we've established the nature we should discuss the best ways to combat and what can you do, if anything, the signs and symptoms of a Fentanyl overdose. Safety Workgroup's instructions for California signs and symptoms of an opioid overdose, which breathing (or stopped entirely), constricted fatal loss of oxygen can occur in 5 minutes But what kind of response can help someone solution lies with Naloxone, also known as are campaigning to be made widely available to which means that it is able to bind to the opioid drugs such as heroin, morphine, oxycodone, but can buy the patient enough time On March 29, 2023, the Food and Drug to approve the first-ever over-the-counter ever naloxone product approved for use without a and those who need it most. FDA Commissioner decision: &quot;The FDA remains committed to addressing As part of this work, the agency has used its to naloxone by encouraging the development of and address the dire public health need. Today's improve access to naloxone, increase the number opioid overdose deaths throughout the country. We to the product a priority by making it available Narcan nasal spray has been on the market via prescription. Though the Fentanyl there are steps being taken to and to allow us all to keep Unfortunately, Fentanyl is currently a deadly the bag. There isn't a one-size-fits-all that doesn't mean no one should try to fix it. strategies for preventing opioid overdose in the of Naloxone in communities where it would be Criminal Justice settings, they have proposed Disorder. This treatment involves the use of buprenorphine, which can prevent opioid withdrawal Recommended CDC solutions also include academic providers by specially trained professionals, providers have up-to-date knowledge on assisting in addition to 911 Good Samaritan laws, which for those who call for help with an overdose, and of community-based services to those in need, Fentanyl test strips have also been made available recreational drug users to test their substances of accidental overdose. The CDC has thrown their announcing in April 2021 that federal funding Again, Fentanyl, and the opioid epidemic but we can do our best to arm with medication, and with knowledge. Now check out "What Happens To Your Body When