Uh, okay, that's fine, that's fine. I still out of me, but this is so good. I'm, I'm pretty this counts as close, so I'm just gonna stay in takes my shock because boos can only take items here we go. Stop everyone from taking the the shortcuts and nobody else can, except for okay, good, it didn't steal my star. Oh, let's so I pretty much executed the strategy perfectly. shock that whole time, but I knew that that just-- oh everything's right here. I didn't get That's so lucky. [laughs] I'm holding a bullet use this if a red shell comes for me. This through the shortcut. It's just, like, if the I'm going to not get to use it for long. But it. So I'm kind of conflicted what to do here. I Because you're kind of dodging a cannon anyway. even if I used it, it wouldn't get me that much. I'm just gonna use it as defense, or, like, if I'll just win with it. But, like, this is... to get-- stay away. Yup, I got-- I have a bullet before. I've smuggled the shock to first before I that shortcut. If someone takes it, I'll use this it. And we're gonna take all these shortcuts, What was that? I thought I got a trick. Like, whether or not you get a trick and like I thought Nintendo lied in their patch notes and PAX got me. Alright, there we go, there we go. Nice items. okay. Here we go. Single item box. Oh no, it You can take the shortcut with inside drift, you PAX. [laughs] I cannot believe I won that race. combos in the game. Alright, let's test out my Okay, um, I hope I don't get disconnected. I need to come back. Alright, let's go here. Oh, so my bit slower. And I actually chose all the parts but just to get Max handling and be different this. There's a blue shell, probably won't win do the bullet extension twice, and that's always I could definitely win this. I just have this golden mushroom's not gonna protect me, but well, let's win this. [Music] Come on, handle my skill! Another blue shell! Don't Nooo! [Music] Haha! Goodbye. That's what you get mad. Oh don't get whomped. That was, that was on that. What was that? My teammate has just been go, it's a frontrunning track. Sunshine Airport. want Sunshine Airport in ninth? That doesn't help AIRPORT!!! Yes, my teammate's happy. Okay, hope he even knows that this is a track that is good for this track no matter what. And I'm in first? What? try and catch up now. [Music] Oh no! Did their great, but they--oh, I have a mushroom. It's over. there's a blue shell, and I am loving this, right? red shell came at the same time, so I just took I have no item. This is really interesting got me. [laughs] I knew it, I knew it, I knew it. No, what's a random green shell? [Music] I'm at a loss for words right now. What Oh, yes, yes. Come on, get in a second. Yes, win. [laughs] Let's go! Mario rigged this race. gonna reach me, let's goo! Yeah! This handling can be like really weird to try and get coins. wait here for a sec, I'll use it at the next set. it. This is so risky. They see my shock. There's people I think it's the people who saw my shock. take a safe version of the shortcut. I don't think place. Yup. Oh no, I used that by accident! Okay, can't lose on his own circuit. I'm watching the wait a minute. Like, what is the VR of the people a single person take-- Okay, well, I mean, [laughs] No, nooo! Okay, I have a sizable lap three though, I didn't look in the I don't know the level of this room. Just no be worried about that boo but that's fine, I have this is the life I've lived, this is all I know, This is not going to help me being right here. My one final push, like I basically need good items. dodged too early. I was just trying to dodge a no way I can win this, right? First place needs to no. I need to accelerate. Oh, this was so bad. hit me. Mushrooms. Oh, it is over. Haha! Oh, was my second race. Okay, how do we do this? Like drift. Oh my, that was a rough ending. [Music] Oh, that was such a good snipe. I feel like I, I, I behind everybody here. [Music] Oh, ah yes [laughs] I hit the button, I hit the button. [Music] What? I gonna win? I have a mushroom in first and no an item. Uh, please don't get a red shell. I'm, taking the shortcut regardless. I think it's come on, get first, get first. Have you ever seen I'm in my first room after 20,000 VR, and I'm playing with. Wow, it's real, it's so real. I've No, everyone, everyone's using the same game design. [laughs] All right, I don't want good pull. Holy, okay, now I can use it. stadium win streak has been converted, and now it's Cheese Land luck streak. Let's see what all of these before the next item set. So, uh, good because after last time, like-- [laughs] You Okay, okay, this is still winnable. Never I still got first place. They could pull I don't see why they would choose to. It but it's regional, anything's gonna happen. No. at 2 a.m. All right, Kalimari Desert, I'm gonna to tell me to bag? Is it going to tell me to front okay, it's telling me to bag. I'm gonna bag. that would be sick. I'm gonna hold this mushroom. third place. Wow. Mushroom! Double item box, yes. come on, don't have two defenses. Yesss. And I deserved every win that I got. It felt like me to keep winning at Waluigi Stadium, and that's uh, we're, we're gonna see against really good oh, that's not good. Oh, I didn't, something hit I've never bagged on Waluigi-- [laughs] Wait a race. I missed a bunch of the coins, but I don't There's a blue shell going for someone. Actually, bullet here because, uh, this is a very curvy and a curve, it's very hard to go fast. Yeah, I just I'm considering chaining for red shells, but no, here to help me on this curve. What happened to I could fall off so easily. Okay, I'm holding did that. [Music] Okay, I need to use this. The I'm so sad. It feels so weird. Everyone's real standard combo in this game, and nothing standard about this. No one uses well then, let's just do what Mario All right, and we're gonna take this shortcut Mario Kart's just stupid sometimes. I'm already more mushrooms. That's good. Went into the grass. red shell's out of the way. [Music] Just have is stupid. We got Rosalina's Ice World again, and here to do the shortcut! All right, let's get and that's all I need. Nice, nice. I did it again. one this time. Let's do this again. [Music] Okay, That is so fun. People getting destroyed. Let's do so much faster. That is so, so worth it. I forgot shells, they couldn't reach me. Let's go. That How to do it properly. [Music] I, I don't know, I should have used it a bit later. What? I guess want to make sure I'm safe for the shortcut. Yes, I suck. Come on, please still win, please reds. Good luck. I'm not gonna be mean though. running ever again. Okay, front running only so we're gonna try and take out second place so the blue shell was gonna break my green shells. items, the blue shell will destroy it. So I had bomb the beginning of the shortcut. [Music] Master a bagging track with a blue shell coming to you. oh, wait, there's a Peachette in first. Shortdog there's another Peachette in this room, but this I mean, my race is kind of over, but I, I, okay, okay, I got a bullet. Okay, could maybe pass one I didn't see their name. [laughs] This is what comboed to last place. Take that, Shortdog. drop some bananas here. Oh, okay, yes, yes, the wall. Okay, I bloopers, bloopers and the wall, what? [laughs] Wait, how long? That was a crazy got hit three times there. I got hit once. Is that okay, that one didn't make a difference, that plus the crab, always manages to get me. Perfect, race. One thing I have never tried yet since Wave work? Will it not? I don't know. The chances of what? All things considered, this is a pretty good that far behind for Cheese Land. For Cheese Land, this is extremely far behind. I will be smuggling if bagging actually doesn't work as well in Cheese thinking about altering my strategy a bit on this so I don't expect this bullet to take me still doing a really good job. And an early blue that would be really good for my chances. this is great. Oh, I didn't mean to throw that we're in first. Let's go, let's go. Bagging such a good lead right now, this is great. I don't but this is really good. I'm going to get gonna take the biggest shortcut at the end, but 'Cause my lead is--as long as there's no red got an item. Oh, I didn't know you can mushroom I need to save this for the shortcut. Please. I thought they passed the line. Oh, this Birdo is shell. You thought it was safe to just go ahead but now you're not safe. Oh no, the moment I timing. Yes, oh, I can squish Shortbird. What? No, off the shortcut. I think I'll hold this bullet, hopefully dodge a shock with it. That is asking too early is not too beneficial for me. [Music] called it. Okay, I only used it in seventh so it but this is great. Okay, I'm going to save the are all working right now. There we go, make sure yep, it would have gotten stolen, that's so funny. on this track. Oh, someone dodged the shock. right? There's no way. There's no way! I actually save this mushroom for the final shortcut or for a a chaotic ending to this track. No, what? Are you happened. I went from a guaranteed win to ninth I need to get eighth place or better this so I'm not chaining this banana. No, I Oh. Huh? what? I got exactly eighth. Yes, yes, I too early. I don't win yet, anything can happen. I almost messed it up. That was actually race. Bagging works on this track. Oh, I'm right what? Let me fall. Let me--just... I was gonna wait a minute, we finally got a slippery track. bit of an advantage here, especially on this there's like two turns that are actually this section is notoriously slow, but because of I love this. I have a break away from doing we're all good here. Something happened to Liam. the shock. I've never not wanted to dodge a shock has another star. I'm just watching Liam. I go, go, go, go. Oh no, someone's in a bullet. just toss this away, like that. Oh no, is it gonna not a--Perfect. Perfect, nothing mattered. Okay, that's okay, one of us has to. I'm not gonna as if he can hear me. [laughs] I just said I messed it up. It's okay, it's okay. We have a good, this is really good. Okay, the blooper, have this turn. We're just gonna use this now. Yes, track and we did it. [laughs] What are you doing? no, get out of here. Why? I actually lost first line. Nice, nice. Okay, we're just going to have hit myself. [laughs] I was faster than my taking a shortcut doesn't even matter and I just up. I was, ugh--See, bagging track, we still got Longcat. I have no clue what was going on with the mind of Longcat. Let's just stay near Longcat what happens. Okay, got the bullet. I'm gonna have Longcat with the boomerang. Did I--Did you--[laughs] Here, let me try to donate a star to Longcat. star. Okay, I'm doing this and I'm being blessed everything that crosses his screen and is... than Longcat. I just dodged the shock. That's so for you to exit the bullet. Goodbye. [Music] And I got second place. So we're gonna see what this is not good. All right, well, you know comeback. I'm gonna wait here for ninth place. in ninth than eighth, just keep that in mind. ninth place, so if you're in twelfth, it doesn't use my star here. The best place to use a star on gonna save the bullet so I'll get one item here, You're invincible during these two shortcuts. It's now. I think I'll use the bullet through this it. [laughs] Wait, wait, someone's in a Boo at a racing. That's so funny. Now that they added Petey play as a piranha plant. I'm in first place. more shortcut and then we hold this for the blue unless there's another shock, it's very unlikely items. You know what? Longcat's been going I've been disrespecting. Am I gonna win this race? so I'm--Oh, there's the shock. Uh, you're probably late as possible. [Music] Are they not using it? here, you can see who's holding the shock, you I could lose this bullet. I... I don't know the it. All right, that's fine. Um, I wanted to want to front run for too much of this track, and first anyway, so that's totally fine losing I went a little too, too much. I got too ambitious a mushroom and red shell defense. There's a Yes! Yes!!! I actually did it. That was a complete more chances of attack items. Perfect. Ooh, let's I got someone. Let's go extend my lead. This is out. Oh well. I don't think I should banana snipe I was gonna say hopefully there's another blue defend against the blue shell, but that would I didn't. You lagged so bad. Japanese lag, what blue shell. Okay, at least my coin pop down in is so fun, though. Okay, I'll wait for their can trail someone with this, that's even better. son. So the correct play here is to hold this, are you serious? It's still going for me. That was second. Okay, we're just gonna use this. I need ShorterCat. Okay, they're gona toss their green than me. They're gonna wait till like this--it's a You, you are so good at this game. and I dodged that banana. Let's go. We're this race. No, don't have more of this, No. Okay, I don't know what to do. Okay, there's a Okay, nice. Got the super bounce this time. Hopefully get two defenses. I'm gonna risk it on and they're gonna have multiple red shells. Yes, won. Wow, ShorterCat even got second place. I had such a low weight stat. I'm feeling like I want to have to make a comeback so I can bump peop--Really? pick. So I'm gonna go wide for coins and, uh, track. I just need to take advantage of my speed know I have no acceleration. I can't--yeah, like I have mushrooms and let's get my coins up for my stat is actually really bad, and every turn on be like impossible to drive this track well. So, oh, look at that, worst shortcut of all time. Oh, I just activated that and the boo as well. This um, after the star is done, otherwise you don't mushroom and a super horn? I don't even know who's I don't know how close second is, 'cause the and stuff, but the person in second could pull a person behind me has a super horn. We're good. on Baby Park? I have such a big disadvantage they got outweighed. So I'm front running Oh, that didn't hit them somehow. Okay, I have two it the first time. It was not even smart. [Music] time. You know what? my lead's big enough. I don't Oh, I missed the mushroom. [Music] What? They're here they are. Let's red shell them. They don't because of the acceleration. Oh, red shell, red it. Yes, yes, I did it. There's the wall dodge. It but I got to save some coins. What makes this and that--Whoa whoa whoa. Come on [laughs] there's Freshly switched to GameCube controller. Also, video. Of course, took my item and then I messed track's a bagging track if you try hard enough, we're gonna stop right here. Uh, the distance make sure I have further distance. Yep, got some I'll star right here, see what everyone's got. also didn't see anyone, anyone with the shock, and just is no shock right now, so I'm just gonna use it in the shortcut. I love that floating Oh no, wow, it passed too many people. It's ramp. [Music] Okay, shortcut into first. No, not Ooh, red shell. Okay, I could chain this at the honestly, I'm in a pretty good spot here. Okay, if I got two red shells or--[laughs] I think I win. Rod. You almost got me. I'm going for star gap to activate it. Okay, okay, saved it. Yes, okay, made it. Okay, so the practice paid off. [laughs] like right here if I didn't mess up the star gap not risking it. I'm using a mushroom here. That gonna use it here. Um, I'm gonna save it for the okay, we're good, we're good. Can we get a shock, so funny. Okay, wait, I mean--[Music] Yes, yes! I Okay, what? King Boo failed the shortcut. now. [laughs] Perfect. If I didn't get hit by the and gotten it shocked out of me. Now I have a boo you always get a mushroom 'cause there's no item hold this because there's probably not going to against red shells and blue shells, and the best this. I'm only like 90% sure of this. You can't safe until the shock comes. Oh, messed up. Okay, I to use it. I'm going to be invincible for the rest this. [laughs] I just dodged the shock in first. what a great race. I only learned recently, that and I have no experience doing that, so I'm just to get an item at the same time, but I--Oh, okay, I just trying to treat this like a time trial and like, this might look risky, right? I'm going, I'm I could have gotten, and I got none of them, but yeah, if I get hit, I can just start bagging. wouldn't work anyway. You, you know, like, if if I wanted to run Cheese Land for some reason, at the start--Okay, I, I just keep missing the coin. I've only gotten the coin item, and there's so I can coin right back up and have protection Um, this person's trailing. [Music] Oh, did no way my banana sniped there. That doesn't even but yeah, we're back in first somehow. All dodge this. Yes! Okay, okay, so if they have If they have three, I can wall dodge them there's so many walls. Okay, we're gonna make it Yes, it blocks it. Okay, okay. Oh, that was so place is so confused. I just blocked four red