[shamisen music] I'm waiting for Yukako. She went to prepare There are so many practices, [in Japanese] [music] It's here that the geisha practice. Once the geisha puts on makeup, she enters the world of the artist [music] We're going with her to My name is Giuseppe and I have a mission: to travel the world, to meet the most extraordinary and to ask them a simple question: &quot;What does happiness mean to you?&quot; Welcome to Progetto Happiness. [music] Unbelievable, there must wearing kimonos here, Maybe for one day they the most important iconic figure which unfortunately is disappearing, leaving room for a In Japanese culture, the geisha She symbolizes elegance and Their training begins as teenagers, and hold refined conversations They are masters of a centuries-old when they entertained Today, enjoying the refined company In fact, only businessmen, spend astronomical amounts of money However, the concept is often misunderstood and which is far from the truth. Their art is a form of fine entertainment, an expression of grace and culture that has evolved through the centuries. In a rapidly changing world, Japan's last geishas connect the past to the present with elegance and dignity, continuing to enchant the We are about to meet one who guards the secrets Unless you are a customer, But thanks to my friend Yukako, in one of Tokyo's most As in every enclosed building in Japan we need to take off our shoes out We put on these slippers. I'm waiting for Yukako. She went to prepare the There are so many practices, And she has to respect Fortunately, Yukako will tell me I'm a little excited. It's my first time seeing a geisha. For me, too. Really? Excuse me, Miss Seiko. Thank you very much Hello. Come on in, Giuseppe. Ah, you can't sit here. Here you can't sit down. There it is okay. Sorry, thank you very much. How do you do, my name is Seiko. Nice to meet you. How do you do, I am Giuseppe. I'm Yukako. It is a pleasure. This is called senjafuda. It is a business card I normally deliver it to the customer Seiko just gave me a business card, And if you noticed I Because using just one hand Yukako had prepared me And so we accepted it with both hands. Why did you tell me before [in Spanish] So when you enter a house, One must pass without stepping on it. You can't step on the black line. No, you can't. So many things to get wrong, It is a pleasure to be here with you. Because it is my first time So, it is a real honor. I don't know how long I can It is in this very place that There is also an administration Normally the geisha prepares at her house or in the okiya and then goes to the restaurant. Today, however, I rented this hall where I will get ready, Perfect. Thank you. I'll start getting ready. Help me, Yukako, cause... Don't step here. I can barely move. The geisha's makeup is kind of her dress. Once the geisha puts on makeup, she gets into character, she enters the world of the artist that she becomes as a geisha. It's so important to her, It is the mask of the geisha, and with the makeup, she fully transforms. You can't see, but she's going by now. She would never be filmed like this because she is not a geisha right now. Meaning, without makeup. Let's go out. She asked us to step outside for a moment because she has to apply makeup I didn't know that. So she asked us for some privacy Listen. [patting noise] She's applying oshiroi, to make the whole face and [speaks Japanese] He says no, not yet. When I'm done, I'll call you. After she finishes her So at the moment no. When she wants us to come in. Yes. We'll wait. It is something very special. They normally do not let people see this. You know, many wrong things Exactly. Yes, many people see the Geisha is a well-known word. Because it is spelled geisha, &quot;gei&quot; means... Artist. Yes, art. What about the art of online security? And this is exactly where all the benefits of using NordVPN. NordVPN is my number one ally in keeping my internet connection secure and in the link in the description below you can have a 30-day I always keep it on, because when I connect to public WiFi, to allow criminals to hack in For me and for anyone And so I am always using That way I'm comfortable even In addition, my Internet traffic in total anonymity with By hiding the IP, the sites I visit And I will be able to like getting better deals on flights, watching Italian TV from catalogues of foreign streaming services. It is also a useful Christmas gift and to take cybersecurity seriously I'll leave you the link in and to finally navigate safely. But now we return to the geisha house. There is nothing sexual about it. No, I don't think so. I've applied the base makeup. Wow! She wants to wash her hands. Yes, that's fine. Thank you. We can enter. After you. A geisha's makeup ritual It represents a kind in which the woman and dons the dress of an artist with Oshiroi is the white foundation For her lips, a bright red which was originally obtained and then covered with crystallized The neck is the most sensual part since a portion of the skin is left bare, recalling the humanity of the geisha. Miss Seiko. You are very beautiful. Do I look like a different person? Beautiful before and beautiful now. Thank you. Does she like this part of her Because it's a lot of makeup. This is the time for me when I turn How do you feel when you Is it like a mask that Well, even if I change my appearance my spirit remains the same. Only from now on I will become as friendly and hospitable as possible Wearing a mask does just that. All the same, my feelings do not The gentleman who has just entered is the It is very complex. There are many bands This moment is most important because it is the dress that So she will go from here, to the restaurant where She must be as beautiful as possible. And she will change her kimono who she will be delighting [music] [shamisen music] [singing] I would like to know what My work takes place in where I meet clients and There I perform Japanese dance and arts. In addition, when the I serve them alcohol and have This is the main part of the work. Can you describe your daily life to me? Normally we geisha have Geisha who want to learn to dance will practice traditional Japanese dances and they learn ohayashi. Then there is a shamisen lesson There are also geisha who We take classes during the day to work and go to the restaurant. What is the part of your and what do you enjoy the least? Well... What I think, is that for me.. I think the most exciting part is who I would never have met had All geisha, including me, and so obviously we are So, I couldn't tell You are practically one of How does this make you feel? Mine is an art that I perform I want to do everything I find myself thinking, Although I think our culture needs us, and we will never disappear for real. Anyway, it's scary just What do you think is the secret to being happy in this world? I believe that, not only for there are many nuances of How can I put it... What we think is normal. Like the emotions we experience If you can help people in need, you are living for real. For example, in the ozashiki we play the drum and dance. Right there you create a When I perceive this synergy, I feel radiated with happiness. We're going with her to This is a very special occasion. Usually this never happens, This moment is very special from the geisha house where she will This passage is the only time goes out into the real world Surely someone will notice her. Someone will stop her to take pictures. I'm a little bit excited because we are going together so it's really the ultimate of Japanese culture and religion. We are in front of the oldest With a geisha. I don't think there is anything And I feel really lucky. Can you ask her how it makes her feel After all, we are professional We are not TV stars. Especially foreigners think it Or that seeing a geisha at In fact, I don't come here very often. But it still makes me happy In her fine art and the the geisha reminds us that true happiness often resides in the act of giving. In the social fabric of Japan, the geisha emerges as a gentle soul, a bridge between Offering not just a show of skill, but also a haven of joy Her ability to bring joy makes the figure of the geisha the which may be destined to remains a source of happiness forgets the importance of a touch ENGLISH SUBTITLES: