The hook is one of boxing's most devastating It is a punch that relies on speed, accuracy, does, it's no surprise that it has resulted history. Be sure to stick to the end of the video as Hooks. David Tua knocked out Mexican champion Saul 10-round heavyweight fight in August 2007. A devastating double left hook gave Tua an just two minutes into the first round. In June 2007, Wilson knocked out Emmanuel Wilson had Emmanuel badly shaken with a right spent the next minute pounding him around Somehow, Emmanuel managed to stay on his feet, by a lethal left hook. Dave Green was in the unfortunate position of sugar ray Leonard's remarkable career. Defending his WBC welterweight title Leonard Green from his senses. In May 1992 Tommy Morrison put his vicious in the second round. Morrison drove Tucker into the ropes with He was staggered but received a standing eight hook. David Price suffered a brutal knockout loss the fifth round. Price survived a knockdown in Round 3 and the bell to end the round, but it wasn't Alexander eventually caught up to him, and was left wide exposed for the crushing left the fight. At 20 years of age, Mike Tyson destroyed Trevor champion. In the second round, Tyson landed a thunderous to the head that sent Berbick to the canvas. Samuel Peter had predicted a 2nd round knockout to it. After a rather tight first round, Peter suddenly he landed a thunderous left hook that knocked Roy Jones was annoyed by the disqualification into the rematch with Griffin for justice. In less than five seconds, Griffin was stunned after, he was falling backward and had to Jones spent the next two minutes looking for in the round, he caught Griffin flush with back. On his way to defending his heavyweight title out his opponent in the fifth round. Pulev was dropped twice in the first round Pulev bravely made it to the fifth round however hook. Mikkel Kessler had a victorious debut as a Allan Green in the fourth round. Green stunned Kessler in the opening round punches. In the fourth round, however, Kessler delivered before his head hit the canvas. In 1995, Vincent Pettway fought against Simon in which he knocked Brown out in the sixth This was a wild, back-and-forth fight that Then the unexpected outcome happened, as Pettway only placed him on his back but also sent to throw punches up into the air while unconscious. In March 1996, David Tua became a cherished 19 seconds into the first round. Ruiz was rocked by Tua's trademark left In a rematch that shouldn't have happened, to win the unified titles In October 2012. Morales looked old, slow, and soft from the Garcia however had very little trouble with hook in the fourth round. It had all the appearance of a sad end for Tony sensationally knocked out Makabu in Round Tony, who was competing for a world title round by a left hand. Makabu however, was rocked by a left-right completed the job with a lethal left hook. Ruddock faced former heavyweight champion, After three exciting rounds in which both Dokes' lights out in simply devastating Three vicious left hands collided violently stunned and unable to stand. Amir Khan suffered his first professional by his Colombian opponent. Prescott dominated Khan in the opening seconds Khan off-balance before another sent him to Khan beat the count, but Prescott pushed ahead At the age of 20, Alvarez takes on former biggest fight of his young career. Baldomir was 39 years old and past his prime, However, after hammering away at the iron does the unexpected and drops him on his face Donaire knocked out his replacement opponent For the first five rounds, Donaire, chased a lot of his straight left hands. Finally, in the sixth round, Donaire caught him out cold. In February 1970, Joe Frazier met Jimmy Ellis the new heavyweight champion. Jimmy was known for having a good chin until his signature left hook. In July 1952 Rocky Marciano fought a leading youthful, fast, and boxed Marciano well for However late in the second, Rocky caught the score a spectacular knockout win. Thanks for watching, if you like the video channel so you won't miss any new video.