How to sing on pitch. Hi guys, my name is Ken Tamplin, welcome to this is a pretty expansive subject, because level, or you're just someone having fun pitch issues. Now, they may vary in the degrees of pitch, So if you're out there and you feel like we all work on this stuff, it's not, we weren't okay? But I want to cover a couple of things. The first thing is: We have to build this So, as I've said in many of my videos, if support, please go back and watch that first, blocks, the rudimentary and fundamentals of the this &quot;rudder&quot; of the ship that's going to abdomen, your diaphragmatic support, and the engine that's going to determine our destination areas. So we might blame pitch on something else was the engine that drives our car, which So, now that I've got that out of the way, or different color that people sing in. So, now not everyone is expected to sound the That's where were all diverse and we love However, a person that colors or darkens their or below the flatline of a specific note. They're going to sound under-pitch, compared right? Now, the brighter timbral sound, remember You really want that bright "It's the AHHH! AHHH! AHHHH! Bright sound. Because that bright sound, if we develop it we could have, in leaving us &quot;naked in December So if the sound is colored, or covered, or darkened, and you can't quite hear rrrrrrrrrr. You can't really tell the exactness or preciseness sound, you can. Now, I've also said this from day one of record yourself. And listen to yourself back, so you can hear to a chord or an instrument that you're Now, I want to discuss this idea of the coloring helpful hints on how to get to the pitch correctly. But if there's a guy that comes in and he's: Ohhh, Ohhhh, Ohh, Ohh, Ohhhhh... Right? There's a big difference in that guy compared Right? The guy that's bright is going to actually pitch, should be, or maybe even a little sharp. Now, I like to start there, because you can sound. Now, does that mean we always sing with a bright No, of course not. We can use color, and we can darken sounds But once we've developed that transparency able to hear that pitch, we can add all the So I recommend starting with a brighter tone. Now, when we go into these scales. I'm just going to do a simple triad. There's a tendency to have a diphthong, Lahh, Ahh, Ahh, Ahh, Ahh, Ahh, Ahhh. And that's just fish-tailing, creating a We really want to get the exactness of the AH, AH AH. And how I do it is by raising the soft palate AH! AH! And creating as much space as I can, I come the note instead of pushing up to the note, confidence, and to think of always pushing, always arduously going up to a note. No! I want to come in from behind the note. So, it's kind of funny, when I think of Have you ever taken a slinky, and you take is, it's kind of like a coil that the children Right? I think of taking a slinky and letting it Chhk! Chhk! Chhk! Down the stairs, as I'm letting this thing of myself coming down off the notes like that. In the same way, with the slinky when you slinky going upstairs, the slinky goes up and then it pops to the next stairs and it whips Well, I want you to think of that in the context instead of pushing behind the note and drop down on it, so... Lahhh, Ahhh, ahhh, ahhh, ahhh, ahhh, ahhh! Did you hear I'm not going Lah, ah, ah, I'm coming in from behind and dropping down. Lah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah... Lah, Ah, Ah, AH, AH, AH, Ahhh... Okay? Now! One more thing. It's really good to identify the notes that So if I'm going to go: Lah... Lah... Lah... Lah... Right? So again, get your recorder out and listen. Am I below the pitch? Lahhhh. Lahhh. Or above it? Lah... Lah... Or am I right in the center, right spot on Lah... Lah... Lah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ahhh... Lah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ahhhhh... And play some games with yourself to see how ah, uh, eh, uh, oo, uh... And see how many times you can successfully note, over and over again to get that pitch. Now I know too, that singing an a cappella in the mean average of pitch through a two-minute and a chorus of something... However we have to develop good pitch habits to get the muscle-memory first, and develop we can move on and develop even farther by songs and a cappella. So, hopefully you guys appreciate this. If you liked what you heard, please like and on your way!