He's one of history of the world. Emperor Franz Josef ruled over first Austria 68 years. Coming to the throne on the back of a revolution of the most-important events in European history. It was while Franz Josef was emperor that Germany was forged by blood and iron, and that would pave the way for WWI. Yet Franz Josef was more than just a mere Under his watch, Vienna became a cultural Schiele, and Wittgenstein. He oversaw the creation of one of the greatest lived long enough to sew the seeds of its A cipher to many, a semi-mythological figure Europe's last great emperor. Countdown to Revolution to 1830, you would find yourself in a very Back then, there was no such thing as Italy. Germany was 39 weak states locked into an But the biggest difference you'd see would middle of Europe. The blob covering not just northern Italy, Slovenia and Croatia, plus parts of Poland, Known as the Austrian Empire, it was this to rule. Born on August 18, 1830, Franz Josef couldn't His grandfather, Emperor Francis I, was nearing was far from clear. While Francis had two sons, the future emperor Charles, neither of them had so far produced So when young Franz Josef emerged, kicking Habsburg royal family gave a collective sigh They finally had their future emperor! Great though this was from a dynastic perspective, baby Franz Josef. From the moment he could talk, the young boy knowledge a ruler could possibly need. This meant mastering military strategy. European history. It meant becoming fluent in not just German, languages like Hungarian, Italian, Czech, Under the watchful eye of his ambitious mother, forced to spend nearly every waking moment by Austria's shadowy puppetmaster Metternich. As a result, the boy grew up to be both obsessed For his part, Metternich considered this a As far as he and Archduchess Sophie could be the God-fearing military man they wanted Little did they know that empire would soon Revolution! There's a game you can play when your job is to see how far you can get into the biography to mention 1848. That's because 1848 is the year Europe exploded. It started in February, when a French government pile of dynamite marked "Decades of Public The flames from the subsequent blast quickly of Austrian Resentment," which in turn ignited and another marked "Italian Resentment", It was a chain reaction of revolution. A series of wildfires that combined into a And it would nearly consume young Franz Josef. At the moment the sparks from France's 1848 a 17 year old lad, and his uncle Ferdinand The revolutionary fire that blew up on March That day, students excited by the news from liberal constitution. In panic, Metternich ordered cavalry to attack By 9pm that night, Austria's puppetmaster It was just the first in a series of shocks In Hungary, the largest and most important forced Ferdinand I to grant Hungary near total In Italy, they went one step further and actually The news caused such unrest in Vienna that But while most of the imperial family retreated He went to Italy. That summer, Franz Josef personally fought hero. This was in great contrast to Emperor Ferdinand, That fall, Ferdinand sent the imperial army The breathtaking bloodshed that resulted allowed it also left Ferdinand's reputation in ruins. With Hungary now also at war with Austria, go. In December, 1848, Franz Josef's mom, the known as Prince Felix zu Schwarzenberg staged They forced Ferdinand to step down, replacing For the 18-year old boy, it must've been Just six months earlier, he'd been a soldier, And now here he was, ruler of an empire that of fissile plutonium. It was up to him to put that empire back together Cracking Down initially treated with optimism by his subjects. He was a fresh-faced teenager. Surely he had to be more progressive than Oh boy, were these 19th Century dudes in for Franz Josef's main priority as emperor was But he didn't do this with negotiations. Instead, he called in the Russians. The Russian invasion both ensured that Hungary that the Hungarians would never trust Vienna It didn't help that Franz Josef followed for sedition, driven into exile or executed. When an unemployed tailor tried to assassinate emperor who ordinary Hungarians expressed Still, the crackdown Franz Josef launched Sophie and Prince Schwarzenberg - did have Come the end of 1849, the fires of revolution embers. In France, the years of chaos had seen the nephew, Napoleon III, seized power. In the German Confederation, the revolutionaries thing called "Germany", only to implode should be its leader. But their efforts had at least brought one time. Known as Otto von Bismarck, he and Franz Josef to reshape Europe. For now, though, no-one could tell just how to effect the future. In Austria, Franz Josef set about consolidating Egged on by Archduchess Sophie and Prince characterized by an absolute lack of freedom invasion of organized religion into every Yet even at this frankly autocratic stage, to do some good. Not long after taking power, he began dismantling Jews confined to ghettoes and locked out of The destruction of these discriminatory statutes Jewish culture in Vienna. But it's doubtful Franz Josef was thinking That's because 1853 was the year the emperor The Three Muses are three key figures. The first, obviously, was his mother, Archduchess The second we've already met. Otto von Bismarck would shape the emperor's or not. The third was an unassuming Bavarian girl But you likely know her by her nickname: Sisi. A girl of jaw-dropping beauty with brown hair sort of girl words like "radiant" are Franz Josef first met her in 1853, when he sister Helena. But the moment the 23 year old emperor got went out the window. Instead, Franz Josef proposed to the girl The marriage between Franz Josef and Sisi Back in Vienna, Archduchess Sophie was enraged Helena for some teenage tramp. But it was also controversial in Bavaria, Sisi didn't want to marry this boring emperor Nevertheless, Franz Josef and Sisi were married While the emperor really would spend the rest not be a happy marriage. But if you want to hear more about that, you'll Seriously, we've got a ton to get through While we are gonna hear more about Sisi, we to her story. However, we will mention one salient fact. Unlike her husband, the Hungarophile Sisi In fact, it's probably their marriage that Franz Josef's image. The rest of the 1850s passed in a blur of Blunders, because 1855 saw Franz Josef alienate to be his new BFFs, Britain and France, by War. And babies, because, well, Sisi had three The first, Sophie, sadly died during a family The second, Gisela, sadly - from Franz Josef's worthless in the ridiculous world of 19th The third, though, was when the emperor got On April 21, 1558, Sisi gave birth to Crown For Vienna, the arrival of the emperor's But while Franz Josef saw baby Rudolf as the have been aware of the darker truth. In just a few short decades, Crown Prince into deepest despair. Enter Bismarck Josef would think of himself as a soldier So it's ironic that the lowest point in skill. A year after Crown Prince Rudolf was born, French dictator, Napoleon III, and suggested To say the plot went to plan is to underestimate the trap. In response to Sardinian aggression, he personally to watch in horror as the French appeared him his mother was a hamster and his father The catastrophic loss of the 1859 war saw out. Back home, Franz Josef was forced to call for the empire, lest the war's outcome trigger Gone would be the secret police, and the iron In their place would be a new, cuddly Austria The trouble was, that was easier said than Franz Josef was under tremendous pressure that would mean giving concessions to the mean the Austrian right going into rebellion. It seemed all that nationalist feeling released Keeping it from tearing apart the empire would But not everyone thought nationalism was a While Franz Josef tried to keep the tide of von Bismarck was wily enough to know that it. The 39 German states wanted to unite? Fine, he'd help them do it. But it would be on his terms. And that meant ensuring Austria had no part And so we come to the Schleswig-Holstein Question. The details of what this actually was aren't Just know that Schleswig-Holstein were a pair a question, and that in 1864 Bismarck answered fist right through the exam paper. Importantly for our story, he convinced Franz For Franz Josef it appeared an easy win. The joint invasion allowed Austria to occupy But Bismarck was playing the long game, the Expense". As always, Bismarck played to win. In January, 1866, Bismarck accused Austria Before long, the Iron Chancellor had whipped was forced to declare war. The Seven Weeks War was as short and one-sided Devoid of allies, Franz Josef could do nothing steamrollered Austria. The defeat was so colossal that Prussia was Bismarck was now actively building. In fact, the only reason the Seven Weeks War is because Bismarck didn't want to deal But the damage had been done. Austria was now weak, and Franz Josef's It would take a miracle to hold everything A miracle... or a Compromise. The Dual Monarchy the Hungarians, watching Austria get kicked In late 1866, they basically told Vienna "look, In Vienna, panic descended. Some seriously counseled going to war with But Franz Josef was through being a loser. Ignoring his conservative advisors, he instead Hungarophile. With her support, and that of the court liberals get the hawks to abandon their war plans. In place of those plans, Vienna and Budapest The Austro-Hungarian Compromise of 1867 was It split the Austrian Empire into two separate and Hungary (also called Transleithania). They each had their own constitutions, their structures. The key was that the Austrian Emperor and same person: Franz Josef. Joint ministries would also govern defense, It was tiptoeing to the edges of independence, From this, the Austro-Hungarian Empire was For Franz Josef, this meant not just saving being crowned King of Hungary in a lavish Barely twenty years earlier, he'd been a Hungarians be hanged for treason. Now, here he was, sat alongside his Hungarophile partner in empire. To his credit, Franz Josef accepted the world That December, 1867, he gave Austria the constitution The new constitution laid out citizens' It established Austria's first supreme court. It guaranteed the independence of the judiciary. The message was clear. The Austro-Hungarian Empire was a different, However, we shouldn't kid ourselves that Although the new constitution placed great it maintained a veto that Franz Josef could And he did, a lot. There was also still the national question. When the Hungarians were elevated to equals, how come we don't get any of that action?". Over on the Hungarian side, things were even While the "Austro" part of Austro-Hungary the Hungarians were all about stuff being That meant Romanians, Slovenes and Serbs all Still, the new empire was broadly a success. As Bismarck forged the German Empire from instead from compromise. It was this iteration of the empire that would the secession movement of architecture; and Unfortunately for Franz Josef, this golden of his life. Goodbye, My Love we can see the storm clouds gathering over the good times. On the empire side, there's the occupation that sparked Serbian fury. There's also the treaty Franz Josef drew The one that stipulated the two states would war. But it was the personal side of things that It started in 1872, when his mother, Archduchess But it really took off in 1881, when young - finally married Princess Stephanie of You're probably thinking something like but sadly it was. Rudolf was an introverted, melancholy lad He took to having affairs, sliding deeper the outside world. It was in this state that he met Baroness A 17-year old romantic, Mary was drawn to The two began an affair in which they guided depression. Finally, on January 30, 1889, the pair retreated There they made a suicide pact before Rudolf And, just like that, Franz Josef's only The shock of the incident destroyed the imperial Never happy in Vienna, Sisi now fled the city, only to be reunited with her dead son. She got her wish just nine years later, when was out walking in Geneva. With her death, Franz Josef was suddenly alone. By now a man in his late 60s, the emperor subjects his younger self couldn't have In the imperial court, though, it was another With Rudolf gone, Franz Josef had been forced This was a problem, as Franz Ferdinand was Everyone who met him invariably wound up hating He was pompous, stuffy, awkward, angry, and Yet, there's an argument to be made that heir. Franz Ferdinand was a dick. But he was also shrewd. He could see that the empire's future lay That he could shore up support by elevating the Austrians and Hungarians. There's even a school of thought that, had and Franz Ferdinand taken his place, there But that's not what happened. For all his bright ideas, Franz Ferdinand saved the empire. Rather, he would go down in history as the The End of it All heartbreak had taken their toll on Franz Josef. The emperor had withdrawn from politics, settling This would've been great if he actually But he was an integral part of the system. Without Franz Josef's input, the empire as Fortwusteln. While culture continued to thrive in Vienna, before the 1910s was when Austria annexed nearly led to war. But while war was avoided in 1908, it wouldn't On June 28, 1914, the empire's heir, Franz province of Bosnia when a Bosnian-Serb terrorist The assassination sent shockwaves through When evidence emerged that the Serbian intelligence killing, Franz Josef was forced to act. At the advice of the hawks in his court, the was effectively impossible to follow. In response, Russia and France gleefully announced Austrian aggression. Which made Germany declare they'd defend Which made Britain... Well, you know the rest. On July 28, 1914, Franz Josef signed the decree It would be the last major act he'd undertake The declaration effectively started WWI, not on poor old Franz Josef. At hundreds of points, somebody in Serbia, could've blinked and averted catastrophe. That they didn't was a failing that went Although Franz Josef didn't live to see empire. In 1918, as the war drew to a close, the many break for it, shattering the empire for good. But, by this point, Franz Josef was no longer On November 21, 1916, the elderly emperor same palace he'd been born in. His funeral procession on November 30 would in unity. Even at the time, people felt it was the end Two years later, it would all be gone. From our vantage point of the 21st Century, While he instituted reforms that turned the of culture, he only did so when his hand was Equally, while he was a decent general, we with a great strategic mind like that of Otto What do we mean, then, when we call him the Well, there are different ways of defining For some, that means a person who is exceptional, But it can also mean someone who embodies Franz Josef grew up in a world where emperors subjects, neither the tyrants of yesterday By sheer dint of his long life, he became beloved figure who managed to unite multiple took an active hand in empire. He may have been unimaginative, obsessed with change. But Franz Josef was likely the last great With his death, an entire age was lost forever.