[MUSIC] You all are in an absolutely I know it's hard work and probably times you wonder whether this cost you time and money to come here. But I think when you look back the connections that you made, the things that you learn while you were that this was well worth the sacrifice Having said that. [COUGH] It also puts you it's why I choose to take Because contrary to most other times in If you choose to do it to on your career, MBA or any other graduate degree that And as you come out different you this opportunity to hit the reset Now there are some from where you've been You can do, you can go a little more difficulty, Stanford graduates, as we all know. But one of the things I want to try bit is what's easy, and what's hard. And then you can choose, where in that position yourself, and maybe we'll have And in the q&amp;a, fire away, I'll do the best I can to be dead honest need from anybody like me is something is going to be when it's hard. Or how something that you think you are probably won't work. And if that's the case, you can value the advice To get started, I thought I would This will be real quick but there's some things in here that I And maybe cause a question or Because I really want the bulk of the time And my experience has been your questions, the audience starts to play off each But let me run through this fairly quickly feel free to interrupt me. This is really informal and we're going to But I'd like to try to set the stage thoughts that I call launching or And there we go. So here's a here's a pretty And we'll start with an easy when grown on three legs of a three legged Those are the three things So what about these three things, ideas. Ideas are never in short supply. As I said there's almost an infinite technology in the world. And every time somebody makes a stupid this field is invented virtually. The next day somebody comes up and has everybody said yeah I never You need money to build businesses, but money is normally in In every business cycle, And in some of them, as we've seen over But good ideas can always So what's the shortage? Shortage is you. The shortage is talent. It's in limited supply. It's finite. At the leadership level it's not As baby boomers who have been the last 20 years, my generation. Getting out of these jobs and doing you who were taken over for There's only that many people And so, what that says is this leadership Is really good news for you. If you have a compelling story, the right way to the right people, if you don't tell it to And if you have a lousy story and that's not going to get So what about resumes? I'm asked a lot of times about resumes, I probably pay less attention You got to have one maybe, your LinkedIn profile most of the things that you've got to do. If you don't have a LinkedIn profile, Do that quick, make sure it's always accurate. Beyond a resume this is a document And it'll help you if you have a good So what makes a good story? Well, in my opinion, good choices, because you're going to have to be Because in your career, you're going to be going to be sitting down across the table. From somebody that you want to convince, they ought to do something positive for And they're probably, look at your resume and start asking you Why did you make that choice? Why did you go here instead of there? Why didn't you stay and If in fact you were doing as Company and people over product and I generally advise people to go work for And for If the products not right and great people that'll get fixed over time. If it's a greatest product in the world they'll find a way to mess it up and Venture capitalists I mean, one of the oldest sayings is A management team with a B product will And a B management team with an A product I mean, and that's how they invest. You look at their record, and Measurable accomplishments and promotions. If you can focus on anything when Focus on what you have accomplished that or at least partial credit for. And be clear which is which that's measurable with facts and figures ideally which got you promoted. Credible transitions and moves as I said, Over time to people who are not fluffy answers and So think about that before you certainly as you're making it, 15, 20 years down the road. Recognized mentors and references. As you're building a career, whether you like it or not the reputation If it's good, it helps you. If it's bad, it hurts you. And there's not a whole lot that you can your choices. And if you find that you're working for is likely to hurt you because Get away or get out and And finally, what makes a good story Is at the end of the day at the end of convince them that you can be successful they want done. Because if you can convince it isn't anything that they need to Or if they have something that you can't convince them It doesn't go anywhere. It's only when you put that telling your story to can do something positive with How do you tell it? we've touched on some of this clear I'm basically an advocate of a simple what you did, when you did it, who you what happened to you as a result. I mean, if you think about those things, I don't like a lot of fluffy explanations Facts are good if they're true. Promotions are better. Accurate facts and dates, Keep in mind that you want somebody who's your LinkedIn profile to look at something That fits here, that's interesting. Logical transitions, And a clear and We'll come back to that because we're going to cover that in the Q&amp;A. Because doesn't matter how good your you're having with somebody about Unless you can convince them fit something that they need to have done. Otherwise, it's a nice conversation. They probably like you and say, you've But, why are you telling be telling it to somebody who We talk a lot about networks. Most people don't have any idea how big Your networks are enormous. I mean, You start with everybody they know. You start with people that they know. You look at graduates of Stanford, the places that they've worked. Before you know it, literally as being hundreds Because anybody who can make a connection to help you, And you may not even know who they are. But they're part of your network and If you want to meet somebody, usually alumni, committee will you if you can figure out And the right way to ask that question. GSB alums will usually help. I'll make this point because that is almost anybody is I'd be willing to help you. Your classmates would be willing Alumni will be willing to help you, but very few of them are going to be And so an example, if you call me and say, Tom, I want to get into, Would you introduce me to What, that's a lazy question, okay? But if you said I've got two years I worked on a project that's Is a board member of I know you know, because I know you work Would you be willing to that I can have a conversation about this Okay, that now, that night and day those two questions the first one And I'm not going to go do out what you could have figured out and But the second one, if I believe that it takes me about 30 seconds to pop this is somebody I think They've specifically picked thousands of venture capital people. Because of your experience in this company they think they had some dad would you Specific on the one hand, they said pick specific targets And then if somebody does you a favor, reason to do it other than they After the thing is done, send them an email and Hey, I met with Josh, I'm not sure what's going to come out We're going to stay in touch. Thank you. Believe me, that will pay dividends later. First of all, it's just good common you that they didn't have to do to tell them what happened. Because they're probably curious. It also leaves that door open to go they've got a good feeling about you. This is somebody that it'd be willing to go do another Whereas, I've got a lot of people I won't who seems like every couple say, Tom, it's been so I really wanted to get back to you and Well, I'm doing fine. [LAUGH] How are you doing? Well, I you know, I'm getting work out. I was looking for a job. Well what happened with the last years ago that you never came back and And, maybe I'll be polite to him, somehow I'm out of town or And my EA just handles it, Stay connected to the people And my career was the executive search I think it was like 32, I spent 30 We were the largest search from the world much the most respected senior executive I did a lot of things with the firm before I retired from that as, We were a public company by then with some partners spread And, It's amazing to me that so executive search firms Don't have hardly and what it does, and what it doesn't do, Let me give you an example. There's thousands of my firm had about 500, But for any one particular thing, level where recruiters in every firm begin For somebody in this audience, there of the 500 recruiters that it would be And 495 who might like you, might help you in a different way, would never be in a position to have an Because maybe you're consumer and your next door neighbor is a partner recruiting firms, and does chief industrial companies, pretty much only and There is zero chance that that person you can be a candidate for. But that person knows those five firm that you ought to get to know. And the way to use them if you can get exactly either what kind of person or if very hard, what specific person in their And they'll probably do that for Recruiters work for clients, but we have this kind of odd It's completely unique in professional we get paid by one side of a transaction, balanced, and Lawyers don't get that. I mean, you got two companies company a has got a lawyer, The lawyers fight with each other, but They're not trying to be fair, They're advocates for their side. Marketing people, PR people, their clients and But the search profession is pretty odd, this line between loyalty to a client and because unless that they can put parties who are both smart and ideally not going to do something that's No transaction happens, no search gets and that person doesn't stay So you can make that work for it's not the recruiter's job to It's the recruiter's job to solve And if you can be the solution to that happy to bring you forward and If you're not the solution to that If you recognize it early on and raise what I'm really interested in is x. Let me try to help you with a suggestion this project. And would you remember me for something or introduce me to one of your colleagues That's a good interaction, What won't serve you well is either trying really at any level, that you're something that you're not Or that you are interested in something interested in because you're is the only asset they have and they don't appreciate it They know every set of interactions is not And you may go all the way to the end and the client may decide this isn't right, But as long as that was done with good But if it was done with bad faith, and I've experienced this as well. In which case I apologized try to make it right if I can. But nobody worries about is proceeding along Be specific, be special, try to be very clear when you're What is it you want? What you're willing to do? What you're not willing to do? And ask the kind of questions to try to put in front of you or called you about If it is, say so. Don't be cute, there would be plenty of time for If it isn't, pull out fast and Don't lie or embellish your resume. My colleagues and smell bullshit coming a mile away. I mean, a good recruiter will not let that isn't true, that's fluffy, you had a small part of and You don't need to do that, Just be honest and your skill set and Covered some of this other stuff. The second one though I as you think about what it is that you executive recruiters to play over And the key, I think for all of you, is it's probably no more than that If you go more broadly global, it's still not a big number. And I doubt for most of you, among the major search firms be really good career-long allies and I would be very surprised if that was That's a number of people that It's not hundreds, that's hard, but Particularly, if you identify who they are a positive way through introductions others who will help you. But get to know them in a positive way, the neck, but stay connected, and build Particularly the ones that are working two above where you are now. Because over time, they'll move up too, you'll be heading into their And those are the people you not the ones that are working at or below your next promotion, you've outgrown So you want to be aiming high. So what do companies want Companies in every cycle are hiring people they want to understand what your They're looking for skills and experience them and probably you can't do a whole lot This third one's really even the CEO, hiring somebody has And everybody else has a boss, maybe to hire you go explain to somebody Maybe you met him but maybe you didn't, why they want to And it's your job if you want them to explain to whoever they have to hire you as opposed to anybody So if you put yourself in that mindset and will they believe but that they can they're going to have to justify And so, the more likely they are to hire you, style that fits their culture, Some cultures are more comfortable for are more female friendly than others, Some are more open to different that We can all deplore that and you're looking for a job. And I mean if you if you go back to one my good friend Jim Collins, Jim probably is fond of saying is is look for He said so many people go through their trying to pound their way through It's possible, but maybe there's an open door with somebody Once in a while you may want to think go through that open door as opposed this one it's locked or locked to reasons that I find reprehensible. Yeah, you can decide if you want to you can say, I'll do that in my I want to go someplace where somebody And they like what I am as opposed should like what I am when they don't hassles, the more the easier The more likely it is that somebody is again to they going to explain this to start the first of next month, and that's a problem for them, particularly if as good as us willing to If you need a lot more compensation you have a whole lot of other deal with that's hard, so, Somebody said the difference between what to have focus on that make it easy to hire Sometimes you can push the boundaries Presentation I do on I don't think we're going to have if anybody has any questions about that, And once somebody hires you, they want you should want that too, but they want So we're in Silicon Valley, and many of how many of you have worked in start-ups? Not too many usually it's more okay, how many of you are thinking Okay, I mean, let me know if I got the in startups before or thinking about One, two three, okay, good so by the first time somebody It might have been John Doerr at if you're trying to figure out you're not which I always If you need structure, then nothing wrong with that big the good places to work, and Lots of big companies recruiting here lots for entire careers if you decide to go everybody but for the people in You're a special group of people you want to be focused on will you be at the table at the table the small group of people They're in a closed room with the door and bet the company are really If you're at that table, doesn't matter what your compensation is, really are or of if you're not at the table, Looking through the keyhole trying to when the key decisions are being made, the time, the risk reward ratio for That puts you in in the world of low reward box and I don't think that's a box that you ought That if the company is wildly successful, you weren't really part of the team if you're in the high risk, Can you handle the risk? What do you do if it fails? Some cultures, some geographies failures somebody said once how tell your mother that your company failed. If you grew up around big deal what are you going to do next? But there's some places in the country and in the world where that's going And if it is, and maybe that's not where you want to go. Are the leaders of the startup I put up a big red flag every time I see a get together because they I'll be the CEO and so you'd be the okay, engineering well, we got to have one That's a bad way to get if you get into a company where they wouldn't be picked for their talent This has a very high probability of coming you could imagine, which is you lose you probably lose your So I just say Massive caveats a bunch of your friends get together and Is the financing solid for Because you don't want to be coming least a year of runway there before because maybe it won't, and that's tough. As I said, if it's a tough choice, say no. We have like two slides left and I know you had do you have a question &gt;&gt; [INAUDIBLE] I recruited CEOs mostly for a living, and there's a popular wisdom that you really a CEO, and find somebody that's done And that's the spiel we gave to our They bought it most of the time, The fact of the matter is, most successful that you could identify did the job. They succeeded the first time they tried A few did, generally with less but it is very few successful, successive I say experience counts, but Here's where I say, and and it's contrary into the experience or you'll have a lot of jobs, you'll work Maybe fairly short, and they're getting I urge you each time that you think about get out of here, when you hit that I urge you to at least put some of your is the last change I'm ever going to make, I'm going to work for this company for I'm going to run it one day, and then I'm going to retire from it Chances are pretty good it won't happen, that mindset will serve It happened to me, wasn't my first time, I found something that I really liked, I ran it, I retired from it. So I admit my bias is characterized by my But don't go work for that you can't go home to your family and tell them what they do, and It's not on the slide, a company if you won't relocate to I can't tell you how many times obvious that I have to tell it. I was interviewing a guy some years ago, who was a extremely successful Great company, wonderful company, DC running the eastern region. And they wanted him to which is where the company And he didn't want to do that because and I asked him, I said, The only way that eventually you're not headquarters is if a, the company fails or And if you're not willing to why in the world that you spend the last generate this opportunity, Explain to me how that makes any sense? So think about that. Run something hard, to take a line job over a staff job, L responsibility, get hire and Get something where you've got things to manage that can be And do the best to avoid things measurable even if because you'll get some spin off from company. But it won't be as good as something good happened because The people part, I don't think anybody But sometimes people tend to think really good people because they might overshadow them or And I'll tell you that's failure because two things, This is if you're in a corporate job in You're not going to get promoted to the promote you thinks there's somebody over for you. And if you haven't got anybody, well, you'll either sit in that job over because you are perceived as You work for great people, they're going to pull you up behind them. You hire really good people, they'll new challenges. You'll give it to them, that reflects And the last thing is, there's nothing that I looked for. And when I scan resumes, and the first thing and the last thing, and looked at was, where and Because you get promoted when the people thought you did a good enough job, they give you a bigger one. And it's amazing, we'd see backgrounds of somebody that but they start out as a District And then a regional sales then a sales and And a VP of sales and marketing company E and Looks like a great progression of titles, So it makes you wonder, were they just get out of town And getting lucky to use their background would buy their story and When you look around, you'll see they're not the people For one thing, they're going to be take care of you because they're And you don't want to be one of If you're close, if you've got leaving and you're close to finishing getting a promotion, hard before you leave anywhere Because somebody like why did you leave just shorter when you Were are you going to get promoted? Why didn't you get promoted? Who got the job in that company Were they better than you? So maybe I should be talking to them. So a few final thoughts and The world is big, your world is bigger opportunities that most people don't have. You've earned them by being here, by making the sacrifice to come here. And so your opportunity set is large. Your networks, we talked on this, your imagination of how big they can be, People like to help. As I said before, make it easy for Don't make it hard, make it easy. They'll do it, And be nice to them, somebody said, be the corporate ladder, you may pass &gt;&gt; [LAUGH] &gt;&gt; Hope not, but you'll see them again. Success is measured in a lot of ways. We can talk about being the CEO maybe a couple of you in here will And that doesn't mean What matters is your success, or your classmates, or What matters is your success according And don't let anybody convince you that any more than your happiness in They've got their own issues, You should have yours and you should have every reason to Last comment is don't hit Life is long. Enjoy the journey. You've got a lot of great There's a lot of people who will help I can't, I wish I was out there. And there's an Irish comedian I wish I was out there in But, in some ways, the opportunities that you all have And all I can say is I wish we'll be tracking your progress. &gt;&gt; [APPLAUSE] there's something there that &gt;&gt; Can you talk a little bit about the search with a recruiter, starting five out of the 500 that are relevant. &gt;&gt; Yeah the question is, how do you you to begin making There's two or three ways, It starts by figuring out what And being as clear and then you get to people And there's five large ones, large, And then there's a dozen or so mid many of whom are founded and So the quality is just as good, You start asking people around you ask enough questions, Second way to do it is reverse If there's a job out there that would like to have the next time, You saw the announcement in the paper, chances are there was a recruiter Call up the company, call up I see you got this promotion or You can reach him on LinkedIn by the way. We'll come back to that. And say, I'm curious as to was there if so, who was it and were they good? Because if they were good for The one thing about the recruiting the reputation for The industry knows and they'll come back those projects. That's how they build specializations and the same thing happens I got a lot of calls because I was searches done. Almost never would I do them. So the question would be, And it's going to be the person in our those kinds of searches and And so, at that point, your goal is And try to get an opportunity And if they're willing to spend a little 20 minutes meeting you, and just saying, anything right now, but I'm a candidate And one of these days you're going to qualified for and interested in and And that line of discussion if your facts are right, and It's a waste of time if it's a random And just as it's pretty much a waste of don't bother, it's not worth the paper They get tens of thousands, most of including some of the very same people sourcing exercises later on a search They wouldn't have paid any attention to geared to do the scan and match. By the way, LinkedIn is an excellent way. I mean, LinkedIn didn't exist for most The search firms are using LinkedIn now, And so you need to make sure is current and is as good as it can be. And if you want to get to somebody that you don't know, and you If they have a LinkedIn account, you can send them a LinkedIn mail on It's the best way to reach somebody And so just sort of tuck that away, you can do that I think on the basic So many amounts of people here But for a little bit of money, even if it's just for a short period of you get a lot more access that way. So, anyway, that's what I would do, yeah. &gt;&gt; My question is, especially in line between what is a startup and We've got companies growing into a year or two. &gt;&gt; Right. well, there's a company to It looks pretty solid. So they raised say like north Would you still say that you need &gt;&gt; Well, that's a mature startup. That's not a pure startup from zero. If they've done a series B and a year or more and Then you might relax that because a lot of people that are not all Then the question though To ask is, will And does the person that maybe have a seat at the big table? I mean if you're working for an interesting table and you're a seat at the big table but maybe has I'm not sure that's what you want to do. But, if there's a path, that you're right it's in the fuzzy I was more talking about a pure, which I think is much more risky Yeah, either one will get the other one. &gt;&gt; For international people that we may know the culture that much or we don't We have maybe to figure out some What is can we highlight to set up with &gt;&gt; Well, sure. I think that almost everybody attributes that other people don't have. And you're better off if show them to somebody who So I mean if you're not a US National and experience either in your home country or That's an asset that particularly companies who are going to I can help you go to Latin America, I can And so, the entry there may well be One of the things a lot of people companies is through one who's a prior graduate from here who, I mean, if you're Chilean, you're connected with the Chilean MBA the Chilean community of And so it can vary because my their country men, and And then that translates over to you move to Latin America, I'm just The example applies to Okay, Lucky guests. Great country by the way. So, I think that's the case, don't, the closed door, try to find some open who you are, not wants to slam a door And so I can't emphasize Find people that let them get you through an open door and to trying to bang your way in through the Yeah, we missed you. It's your turn. [INAUDIBLE] While we can that big a deal, it's accepted I just want to try and build on that come from non entrepreneurial background And have had reasonably are contemplating as The stint in entrepreneurship, there is to get a sense for yourself is to that Okay, go back into corporate career. Continue the momentum of taper extending. Don't rush in and the potential war not just compensation, I'm trying to think how is really your &gt;&gt; Yeah, it depends. It's perceived differently, As I said, you graduate from here career reset button once. But you don't get an unlimited number of You might get a second pop added in a but then probably not. The other comment I would make is are historically quite easy from quite hard from small ones to large ones. And so if you are going to go from an odd entrepreneurial world because it won't be that easy I mean, maybe if it's a year or you go back to the company you work for But then I would almost say you weren't into the startup world in the first an opportunity to go back. Like I said, Particularly in the entrepreneurial are really almost no big deal. But they tend to be perceived as a much the bigger, more mature companies and I think many of you have So, I think the likelihood is if you career path, And you need to probably believe that's where you're going to &gt;&gt; God forbid it did go well to find the next job. &gt;&gt; Well, they're not going to be They may be talking to you about in which case they're So you don't have to otherwise you didn't get in the door and So that's a positive interview, if you got if it's a startup that failed, This is what I thought The questions that I would ask would be the choice you made to go there, not so much the outcome because What you can control is the choice And so I really want to know, well, What did you think the likely Why did you believe the company was It wasn't, but those questions can have And that's what you should think about, that's part of telling your story and They told me it was going to be great and one of my friends went there and Or they had they had a cafeteria where I mean, those are not very good, those are not very good an honest assessment I thought the technology a year the execute team was And it didn't work out. That is just fine. At that point that's all I And chances are you probably learned Which is also an important thing Who is next? I think maybe you were. &gt;&gt; Yeah, my question is can you practices by Joker Began by industry? So for example, the bay area seems to be such firm diverse [INAUDIBLE] Network. Whereas maybe other industries senior that is much more &gt;&gt; Sure. Well, the first thing I think If or particular set of companies, And who or what institutions is a good first step in it. That's basic homework and If you have questions, you can call the HR department and talk to Though, they'll tell you Do you use recruiters? Is a no, if you do use recruiters, What do you use them for? What level? I think you're correct. There's a huge infrastructure, have It's almost unique in the world. And it's not that they don't use And they use everything in volume. I mean, the recruiting business here is I mean, most of the major companies have Most of those staffs worked at one point I mean, top recruiters at Apple pretty And in other places though, where the vibrant, companies will tend And that tends to be the case as you At the officer level, CEO searches for Pretty much all those searches still But levels below that is a complete And so here's where your networks really contacts. And to tap in for information in terms And if you want to get in the hiring or this set of companies. How do you do that? And people will tell you, this is three years out working in these companies And are out doing those jobs now not me I'm too far removed from that. But I know there are a lot of people And they're pretty easily identified, She knows them all. Mike they know more. I think you were next? &gt;&gt; [INAUDIBLE] While the recommendations you have how we ourselves [INAUDIBLE] &gt;&gt; Okay, question is about sourcing. Recruiters when they do searches, One, they all have databases of much from resumes sent to them. But by profiles they've created over Maybe presented and want to do present again because So they look at that, they look at their own prior Where do we do a search like this, And who were the candidates who came in that maybe would be a good fit for this. They do industry sourcing which is what typically at a level or two above. What they're trying to find. If I'm doing a search for and saying, you know in your competitors, Sometimes they'll even suggest one Surprisingly it happens. Who's worked for you over the years And here, this is where if you've strong performers, they know about you, they've moved on from where you are, They'll recommend you. because they're the people with the calls. The weak ones don't get those calls, And are in a position to help influence know about, or their other teams over the years. And really good executives, I find tend to for them over the years. I mean, they'll recommend them for jobs, they'll proactively recommend them for And in fact, if you've got you can go ask them to do that. Go to somebody who is a boss If that was a good relationship, call them and say, look, Who should I be talking to? Who in this search firm world, do you know and if somebody reaches out to you, So, Okay &gt;&gt; Well, two things. One, if they're international firms, good relationships with the recruiters to introduce you to their counterparts Most of them will be willing to do have offices in both places. If not, then the other source is, people who are Brits There's lots of them. And my experience has been. As I said before, because they know you're in a strange So those would probably be my beyond just the normal networking I will take you, and then you, yeah. &gt;&gt; I'm a little bit reticent So I'm afraid that you can read minds. &gt;&gt; [LAUGH]. &gt;&gt; Anyway, so let me So on the topic of magical powers, if you 30 years ahead, hypothetically, a lot of then sales and then the finance. Will there be a chain, particularly if they've got a technology And we got to be getting that we got to &gt;&gt; Well, some do, and some have I think Technologists are going to continue And if you look at even most of the important companies or are going to be trying to technology companies even I don't know if you saw the cover a picture of Bob Iger of Disney on the company and his efforts to remake So Bob had no technology in his I still think as I mentioned before, move up are the ones that have pieces of business and And you can get a business unit in company to run if you set out to do It might not be a massive one but turn it into a medium sized one, that's Then the next time around, you turn it into a big one, you're And so I actually think the question, I'd almost come back at that question and And it's not so going to be looking to for They're going to look for leaders. And they're going to take them whatever they've been doing, if they think they have the leadership if we think they have the leadership But you gotta be in a position to have before somebody can look at you and a bigger job to and if it's been Some combination of line and staff if some great executives have gone back and And there's a few that have gotten all staff through consulting or, typically more finance than say the softer But I still think that setting having been successful running something And people recognize it is the best There's a question I wasn't asked yet, then answer it because it gets back to And some of you here may want to go and I don't know that to be true, if you've been doing consumer products and or even all big company and And people ask me about, How that kind of a desire matches up with And the answer is, it doesn't. Hardly at all. And you will frustrate you're trying to make that work because 99 times out of 100 it isn't going to work. What recruiters want, they want an easy And they've got a defined spec. And let's call it a marketing director position for PC apps business. Well who are they going to present They're going to present probably They want to present the top individual biggest competitor, or the number two Or somebody two levels in the same space or So, basically somebody that's can come in here and They're not going to present in a consumer project products now wants to be a marketing It's not going to happen, that job can happen but If you want to make a jump shift, change of function and change of industry. You're likely not going to get much profession to do that. And that's just a fact. And I just want to tell don't waste your time trying to convince You gotta go find that another way. And the way you find it is typically by work somewhere else before and is in a done that before but I know you can do That's not how that get, that doesn't get but it gets done every day through your personal contacts. So, if that's what you want to do, If you know what you want to do and you've got demonstrable then there are recruiters out there try to get you your next job in that See, by a jump, higher level job, doing the same thing up from director Shift, same function, different industry, Director of Marketing from Yeah, probably if there's some So I call that a jump or a shift. But if you try to do what in basketball or which is change of level and change your function and And you gotta go work that on your own. Yes, thank you. &gt;&gt; That was my question but Have you also to recruiters and to future took here, then were like, Why would you break that? And go and take an exam, What is your best answer obviously the personal answer to that question? &gt;&gt; That I wanted to, I didn't want to stay with my headquarter. So I wanted to have a career break. I wanted to switch not my function but unfortunately my company because I didn't &gt;&gt; Okay. get some educational aspects and &gt;&gt; Okay, I'd say that, sorry, it's fair. I think you can improve that. And I think you would improve about the opportunity that less negative about the one because nobody really wants to hear that. I mean, for example, you had learned all missing some skills to move up to you thought this was the most time skills and at the same time enhance a different company because you didn't To me that's a much more positive story, Again, I think nobody's that you tell them unless you believe it. So, first off, you have to believe it, but to the extent that it can be much This is your elevator pitch and sort of like what you'd tell minutes to tell me why I should You want to have a really good story And I would just say, There's not a reason in the world for You've made a big your time to improve your And I think most people would assume that. There are some MBA haters in the world, some of them are active in Some of them have gone out of their way time and money. In fact, a college education is you should just go code. Well, easy for But you probably you're not going to get that your time here was well spent. So I go back to the Jim Collins forget about those people and go spend you did here, and there's lots of people. And you don't even have to take an who's wrong. But I can tell you clearly one of them is you than the other one without whether If they think this is a waste of go somewhere else. Yeah, okay. &gt;&gt; I'm curious about what we'd like to &gt;&gt; About compensation? Let me see if I can boil it down One is, ask a lot of questions. Because the more information you have, Compensation has a lot more elements to At senior levels, a compensation package ten major components. We tend to think about base salary, equity grants, kind of the big three, but there's relocation allowances, pension gross-ups, signing bonuses, special project-based incentive as many things as people can dream up. So the first thing you want to do when anybody is find out how many of those Do you have project-based bonuses? Do you use signing bonuses? How do you reward option How do you deal with relocation? Is a home buyout part of that blah, And so now you've got And there might be something on really valuable to you. If you're going to work for Stanford, I mean, if you get college age kids, I know people who have stayed here And so find out what the list is. And then the other thing I tell people, bit like working at a mixing You ever see these things, they got all Probably there's a guy back there And you got about ten levers that, you can't push them all to maximum It's the same thing in You can't push everything to maximum but And one of the things that I tell people, try to find the soft I mean, maybe the individual you're they just can't go any higher but they've got a lot of Well, money's money, okay? So you don't get, and so $50,000 in salary but Well, that's pretty good because you're again in a year but maybe you can get a review in six months. Again, what's the review cycle? That's one of the items on the list So, recognize at the end push too many of the levers But you can push some and They're I think particularly particularly if you push something And if you've done your homework, if you're replacing somebody, that individual got because that's So that's a starting point. And usually if you ask, If you know what industry counterparts the same job, that's useful information. And so, again, do your homework, figure out what the elements are, is worth more to you to get than And that's where you can really, if you that's going to be hard. So go find somewhere else to. So it's another version of an open door that's easy as opposed to fighting And, I mean, at the end of the day, I always try to encourage people get the company to accept that you So go for bigger upside on bonuses, Okay, I'll go in at this level, it's a little less than what But given that, is it possible that if the performance warrants That's pretty soft. They're not given much. They're not giving away any money. They may well agree to that. And if you perform, If you don't perform, [MUSIC]