- Today we're gonna bust Now recently a company called Lighttells made a relatively and so immediately I had to buy it. It's in here. Now I say relatively because but that's cheaper than Now the reason I was so because there's been loads but honestly, most of the either the quality of or the quality of brewing And suddenly I could do a bunch of tests and ask a bunch of questions and get a bunch of real answers that are relevant to me and the coffee that you drink First of all, I'll show 'cause it is kind of interesting and then we'll get into the We're gonna cover things to espresso brewing to roast levels and there are some surprises This is it. I know it doesn't look like $2,500, it doesn't look very exciting, but I promise you it is. The way it works is kind of Turn it on. That bit's fine and I'll in a second. But we need to talk a single caffeine test. And there, there's some bad news. Each test requires this There's a chip, there's some pipettes, and there's some reagent in there. Let me show you. There's a little chip. The chip is what you All of this is single usage. You can't reuse a chip, And so each test, each single and this kit costs PS7.50 per test which is wasteful and expensive. So I had to make sure which we did. So these two are connected I'm gonna need to get a sample of coffee. I happen to have some coffee just here. These are kind of cool. These are pipettes that allow you to capture a very fixed, That full straw section And so we've got a full That gets mixed with this here reagent. In it goes, give it a shake for 10 seconds and then we just need to cover with coffee. I can hit start and the analysis can begin. And we've got a result. We're gonna talk about caffeine levels in a couple of different ways. We'll talk about the in a drink and we'll also per 100 milliliters or deciliter. That's kind of how the Bear in mind that the of caffeine for most people I did make a whole video about caffeine. I'll link it in the description down below but let's move on with that first test. So the first test we wanted versus espresso. Was there a difference in based on how you make your coffee? If you took 18 grams of coffee and you brewed it as an espresso, but you extracted a fixed let's say 21% of the into the beverage, and then with 18 grams of coffee, But here you used 300 mls let's say. If you compared those was there a difference in caffeine? Turns out, oh wow, The average espresso in testing, the whole espresso if you had 110 milligrams of caffeine. If you drank that whole filter coffee, again, from exactly the same amount of ground coffee at the start, but if you drank that whole beverage, 170 milligrams of caffeine. That is nearly 50% more caffeine in the filtered coffee than the espresso. This absolutely blew my mind. This was astonishing to me because the extraction was the same! I could imagine a little difference but a difference this big, I could not get my head around. This needed further testing what exactly was going on here. This led us to the second Here what we wanted to do with both coffee extraction during the course of the brew for both filter coffee and for espresso. Now the way you do this You would make a coffee as normal. Let's say you make a pour over, but underneath it, you're gonna in five different bowls. So you catch, say, 50 50 mls in the second and so on and so on. And so you can slice out and you can do exactly the So you catch the first, the next 10 mls in another, the next 10 mls in another. And you can split it out. Now you have to know how and you can calculate exactly inside. You can then measure the and caffeine and you can what's happening over time, which is what I'm gonna show you now. And we'll start with filter coffee because I think that's a And so the first chart along the horizontal x-axis, it has mass and along the vertical y-axis, Now what you're seeing the extraction increases very rapidly. And if you look at the color of the liquid coming out of the bottom it is much darker. There's lots more solubles And you'll see as we progress the brew and more water passes through the coffee, that rate of extraction and kind of flatten out. You know the coffee right at the end looks Let's look at exactly the same chart, but instead of total solubles, let's just look at caffeine. And again, mass along the x-axis, total caffeine on the vertical Y. And it looks very similar. At the start it extracts And again, as we start in the ground coffee, that rate slows. And so what you can it's a bit nerdy I know, is you can then chart solubles extraction against caffeine extraction. And here you'll see that there's a pretty linear relationship. The more coffee you the more caffeine you get with it. Pretty simple. But let's look at espresso because that I think is So here again, same first chart. Along the bottom we've got mass, along the y-axis we've And again, espresso extracts That first liquid out is and it gets thinner and so the same thing happens. But if you look at the caffeine you'll see that it kind of starts to look a little different. The caffeine seems to lag a little bit behind the total extraction. And so when you chart and coffee extraction, you see quite clearly there's a big lag in caffeine extraction in the early phases and then it picks up speed. - Hi there! I just wanted to interrupt because I forgot to say this in the video. If you pull more like a lungo, like a 3 to 1 ratio, a longer espresso, do expect more caffeine for the same overall extraction. You'll see that from this chart, again, caffeine is accelerating towards the end, and so longer espressos Not as much a pour over, Okay, thanks, bye - Now this particular shot I'll show you a different chart now. This one from the OPTION-O, the P100, so are a bigger burr grinder, and here this caffeine which I think is really, that grinder extracts very, very quickly right at the start too. So it feels like some aspect is linked to contact time. That's the only thing I could think of with the kind of variable Is it that just espresso that there's not enough contact time to get the caffeine out, even though there is enough contact time to get all those good delicious That led to the next experiment. For this one, we required the and the experiment here We were gonna take a 12 grams to 200 grams of water. And what we were gonna change, for a fixed grind setting, The kind of steep time the settle, and the press. And we did a bunch of different tests here going from a 30-second Broadly what you'd expect to see happen with extraction, happened. The longer your contact time went on, the more you extracted. This is news I feel to almost nobody. We know that the longer the more stuff comes out of it. However, the caffeine extraction rate very quickly started to flat line. In fact, once you'd brewed in that particular phase, you didn't see any additional really happening regardless And so you don't have to worry that having a really long steep time, which can taste really or even a French press, that's than you otherwise would have. It's seemingly having little to no impact on the caffeine once of steep time where you're I don't understand this one particular area that but there's a lot more to talk about. So we need to talk about instant coffee. And this is one area - I've made the biggest mistake and essentially spread the Now I'll give you an anecdote that I've heard quite often, &quot;I used to drink instant I drink fresh coffee. And I feel like there's And I would typically reply because instant coffee is mostly made with Robusta, as a species, which has twice the caffeine And I was also pretty confident that during the extraction all of the caffeine out of the Robusta. And so my theory had been, my presumption had been in instant coffee than there would've been in fresh coffee because of better quality coffee that started with less caffeine in there. Then I did some testing and it did not go the Instant coffee compared to a pour over has way, way less caffeine in it. This is a slightly tricky thing to say because obviously the way will have a big impact on how Now if you get a jar of Nescafe gold, you don't have to, but if you did, it will tell you on the of instant and mix that They are proposing you a cup of coffee that is incredibly weak, actually, a 0.9% strength compared that would be say 1.3 to So they're saying: brew it weak. And, you know, maybe for good reason. What we wanted to do was be a comparable strength to filter coffee to compare those two things. So we then took 3 grams of instant for 200 mls of water, which then gave us a at the end of it. So how much caffeine are we talking about? Now here, rather than talk about total beverage amounts here, we're gonna talk about per 100 mls, per deciliter. Instant coffee made the had just under 40 milligrams If you made it the way that we might to get the matching strength, that would go up to 60 roughly speaking. A lot of the pour overs that we measured were actually more like 80 That means if you made of industry standard instant versus industry standard pour over, you might have twice the caffeine per serving in the specialty coffee. This to me was shocking, And what I had massively underestimated and kind of forgotten of those grounds instant are extracting. We tend to see a ceiling of about 30% being the maximum. Instant coffee manufacturers through a number of processes. They're just using way, per cup of coffee and then getting you to make it pretty weak. Now we did go out and test the cheapest, strongest, harshest instant we could find, presuming that to be the and therefore probably That was higher. But again, at industry that was still only 55 milligrams So still not near the caffeine strength of good specialty coffee. This has definitely been I apologize for this now. I did not realize how wrong I was but if you have a friend or colleague that seems to get through like a day and be fine, well this is why. It just doesn't have compared to good fresh coffee. As a side note, we did at one point measure the concentration of which is obviously some Robusta in that. It's still fresh coffee. How is the caffeine concentration there? Yeah, it was over 100 So you know, again, cheaper raw materials and Lavazza Rossa does will have more caffeine in them. So specialty is less caffeine but it's still more than instant. The last test that I was one that I get asked about a lot. I was asked about it in the on their channel for doing coffee support. And that is, is it true in darker roasted coffee? It a question you get asked a lot. The reason people ask it is the fact that caffeine sublimates, which means it goes from being a solid to a gas in the upper ends of The idea is that as you you're driving caffeine out of the bean, it's sublimating out, and so dark roasts have I was always highly skeptical of this but I wanted to test it. And so we took a coffee, we did a sample roast of it to a slightly underdeveloped, a kind of normal roast, and then a dark roast into which is a stage in roasting that would be a measurement You could go much darker than this but I didn't really want to. Then we would take each and brew them as a pour over Then we'd compare the caffeine and the results were Turns out the dark roast filter brew had the highest concentration of caffeine and it was a pretty big difference. So the dark roast brew in terms of total solubles was 72 milligrams of caffeine per deciliter. The medium roast, had about 67.5 milligrams And the very light, slightly had 62 milligrams per So that's a pretty large swing there. Now I think there's two reasons for this. Firstly, the longer you roast coffee, the less dense it gets. Like that 10 kilos of into a commercial roaster, what you're getting out at the end of it is going down the longer you roast. So a light roast, you might with a really dark roast, say, 8 kilos of coffee. Now a lot of what goes away is moisture but other stuff does essentially degrade and disappear out during This means that to make up, you would need more dark But this doesn't explain everything because actually if you count how many dark roasted coffee beans versus the the medium well medium to dark, you more coffee beans to make But we were seeing an increase in caffeine of around 8.5%. So it wasn't just that That darker roasted coffee is more porous, it's less dense, and I it's even easier to extract every scrap of caffeine that's in there. Conversely, that drop with the under-roasted coffee meant that it might just be harder from a much denser, less as well as you just need less of coffee that you're gonna start with. This I thought was super interesting and it kind of goes with my own experience and my own kind of So I was pleased to be proved right, but I definitely didn't expect the swing that we saw from light to medium to dark in terms of total concentration. A highlight of the video for Now one thing I do wanna is that you'll see different numbers at different times for You'll see a pour over or 70 milligrams in one case and a pour over, same recipe, per deciliter in another place. Different coffees do have in them and that definitely What we would definitely do was use the same coffee or the same coffee for all of the tests to try and isolate that variable. But coffee itself is a variable. Generally when we saw they seem to have than other coffees we used. We didn't see a massive high growing specialty coffees but we did see some variance and the amount of testing to give you guidance there is enormous. It's on the list, but it's enormous. Generally speaking, I think we know that caffeine is the plant's and that the higher you grow coffee, the less caffeine the I think that's a good, that will absolutely but it's a good place to start. But yeah, know that some in those final numbers the coffee used was different 'cause we wanted to test lots of coffee, lots of grinders, lots of brewers, all of that kind of stuff, to get to useful actionable insights about how you're gonna brew and drink and enjoy coffee day-to-day. Now, I know there's other tests and I want to hear about them What should I have tested, what's left out there that I'd love to hear your And even if you don't have an idea, let me know which of these or relevant to you, which I have really enjoyed this video. This has been a massive I've definitely been humbled by it. I've been inspired by it. It's been a ton of fun. And I hope it is very useful But for now, I will say thank you so much for watching and I hope