John Daub: So here we are in Yamanashi This is a shakudama No 10 size shell you cannot fire these in Tokyo. And tonight we're going to be But more than that I'm going to be fireworks manufacturing plant to see how And then of course we're gonna fire these up. [Intro music] Irrashaimase! (Welcome!) Peter von Gomm: ONLY in JAPAN John Daub: Giant shell fireworks, Launched 330 meters up, about a thousand feet, Big shells like this are lowered carefully down the cannons covered up to Each one is still handmade. The skill passed down through generations at each family run company. Today we're launching twelve 150 kilometers away from the city of Tokyo. [Music continues] At sunset when the remaining light dims and falls behind the Japanese Alps, the pyrotechnicians on site check before the launch. An 8.5 kilogram shakudama shell explodes from the cannon approximately 6.5 seconds One shell. A lot of work went into that very There are different sizes of firework The cannons for number three, The number ten shakodama cannon. But in Japan they do get bigger, The rare number 20, nishakudama; 30, sanshakudama; and 40, yonshakudama cannons are often buried into the ground. Here are the professional shell sizes and These smaller shells make up the bulk The number five being The number seven and number launches in sparsely populated areas. Weights and sizes get crazy Nishakudama, sanchakudama, and the mother of them all, the yonshakudama seen seen annually every September It's 420 kilograms taking over six months to make one. 48 inches in diameter. The world's largest for decades. That at my feet is a nishakudama. The yonshakudama is massive. Taller than most seven-year-olds. Fired from a cannon that's [Dramatic Music] Loaded carefully by a crane. Its creator, Honda-san, launches two annually as the finale at Katakai. When one's launched, you gasp. Watch it go up 750 meters into the sky. And explode. [Firework boom] It's truly the mother of all shells and can take over half a year to make just one. So how do they do that? Let's head to the Komatsu Fireworks Factory in Japan's north surrounded by the The CEO is a fifth generation owner. Komatsu: I'm the director of Komatsu Fireworks Tadanobu Komatsu. Our company was founded in 1885. We marked the 135th anniversary this year. Here in Omagari, we've had fireworks competitions since 1910. Our company has participated since the beginning, and I am the 5th generation. With about 30 employees, we make fireworks and organize events. John: Each one of these buildings has a We'll start at the beginning of the process. Step one: mixing the powder The next step is granulation: making pellets of fireworks powder, The powder is mixed with water to make It's hand dribbled onto the round stars. This metal barrel spins the stars. The cement spreading evenly on all of them making them just a little bit bigger. The stars are wet. A little powder is added. The process to make them larger takes a few weeks to several months depending on the size of the shell it's for. They start with a little ceramic ball smaller than a sesame seed. Soon you'll see just how The process is always ongoing, day by day. These balls are done for now and need to be taken to a special place. This room is very warm used to dry the stars. Worker: When the weather is bad, John: Everything here except that electric barrel used to spin the stars is done by hand. Stars done drying go back to the barrel for more cement and powder to grow. So to make something like the number 40, yonshakudama, you can see why it takes The stars are constantly rotated This is the charge used to propel the shells into the sky also made by hand. The core made with the husks You may never look at a bowl of rice in Akita the same way again. The drying room can be used year round no matter the weather. But when it's sunny using the power The trays are rolled so the stars dry evenly. These are the size of gumballs. Not yet finished. Not if they want to be in the number 10 shakudama shells. Back to the barrel for another coating. Many of the staff have been here Komatsu-san is very involved with the production. (In Japanese) Next we head to the loading room where the stars are put into the shells. Staff are now making the number three shells and number ten shakudama shells. The number threes are a little bit Maybe the size of a plum. These are near the end of the process. So let's turn our attention I was quickly drawn to the size of the pellets or stars for the number 10s. They're quite large. They're loaded into the paper mache wood hard shells lined evenly to the top. When it's perfect, it's tapped down. Depending on the design another layer is added thus this will be multi-colored when it explodes several hundred meters into the sky. It's just the paper. The details in the composition is The makeup, the thickness, it's a guarded trade secret. Same as the powder mixture. Charge is added inside the shell to really propel the stars out. It really is powered by Akita rice. The two sides are tapped down and when everything is just right, carefully it's capped together like this. The shell is tapped and hammered down. On average weighing about The loading is pretty much complete. The shell halves are taped. The fuse is prepared. Notes written on the shell to know the contents. There are a lot of trade secrets here and this is as far as we can go with the details. Let's follow the shells to the final manufacturing process: the pasting. The shells make their way to this room where the staff is pasting paper to the outside of the shell. The process takes some time. A lot of rolling and skill to make This step ensures the strength of the shell when fired up and also helps the stars fan out. The amount of paper pasted to it playing a big role in how far they go. But the pressure from the pasting is required. The shells may be pasted several times with layers that require drying, pasting, drying, pasting. Larger shells require a lot more work. (In Japanese) When finished and ready to dry, the shells are placed here. A couple of shakudamas and a few number sevens that will be used in our very own fireworks festival. Komatsu-san took me to the storage area. It's secured with heavy cement block walls around a reinforced steel box. [Lock unlocked] This is where they keep the fireworks when it's finished in a very secure building for safety reasons. It's like a vault. [Music] John: This is the room. Komatsu: That's right. At the moment, there are a lot of No.2 and No.3 They're between 6 cm and 7.5 cm and 9 cm round firework shells all stocked in here. John: Some of these number two and threes will get used at our own fireworks event at the launch site. Everything needed for the event is packed up in trucks at the factory the morning of the event. From here it's just a 10 minute drive to the Omagari Japanese National The procession crosses the wide open Komachi rice paddies of Japan's great north. They launch fireworks here quite often with festivals four times a year. Not the nicest place for It's basically a big sandbox on the banks of the Omono river. For this event we had 150 meters dedicated to our launch. It'll take all morning to prep everything. The event starts eight hours later after sunset. There's a lot of work to do including setting up the electric firing systems and field controllers. I have to watch where I step down here. Let's hear about tonight's program from Komatsu-san. Komatsu: We worked hard again as a team for today's event. With help from other fireworks makers Hibikiya and Wabiya from this area, and Kanno and Itoi from Fukushima, we will fire off the fireworks today especially for ONLY in JAPAN. For today's event, we have to set up the fireworks spanning over 200m. The number of fireworks that open up mid-air is about 350. And we have about 150 shots that display different streams of light. So, we'll shoot up about 500 fireworks in total, over 3.5 minutes. That's what we have today. It took us about 2 weeks. We allocated the tasks among the five fireworks makers. That means about 100 people got involved in this project. John: Do you consider yourself as an artist? Komatsu: Well, that's a good question. [Laughter] I am not sure if artist is the right term. But we are very particular about making fireworks. The five makers worked for today each has our own specialty. Behind that specialty is the time committed and what's passed down for generations. Protecting that and developing it further, that's what we value. John: This entire event was crowdfunded by our ONLY in JAPAN Youtube community. 831 backers contributing to The shakudama cannons. They're separated from the other fireworks. We've got two for this first event. Komatsu-san loaded our shakudama himself. You can see the lift charge on the bottom of it. Happy future to all. And there you have it. We're going to be launching these in a few hours. The quiet before the storm. We're all set with just a couple of hours to go. Before we launch our fireworks up at the prestigious Omagari Fireworks Festival, let's take a look at the culture and history behind fireworks in Japan. This is Ogatsu-san, CEO of Marutamaya company and president of the Japan Fireworks Association. Ogatsu: Japan has a culture of rice. The byproduct of rice like the hulls, washi paper glue Perhaps we're the only country to watch just one blast of fireworks. Of course there are other countries that have fireworks competitions As you just said, Japanese fireworks are worth watching, even just one blast. In the west, if only one firework is set off people are not impressed and booing starts demanding for more. I guess there is a cultural difference in how we enjoy fireworks. In Japan, fireworks are a summer tradition. People start gathering even from daylight mingling and waiting together. That's part of the fun. Maybe this tradition is unique to Japan. [Fireworks explode and cheers and applause] The very first fireworks were presented to Tokugawa Ieyasu in the Edo period. Or some say even earlier, to Date Masamune. Fireworks weren't spherical back then. They were more like a fountain, like the hand-held ones. That was the beginning. And then, along came Kagiya - John: From the chant? Ogatsu: That's right. They came out of Nara. They saw business in fireworks, and over generations, they established the style we see today. John: Traditional fireworks in the Edo period were made of three materials: potassium nitrate, sulfur, and charcoal giving it a dark red flare like this. Ogatsu: In Meiji period, oxidizing agents were brought in from abroad. The oxidizers produce colors in high heat. They then put lots of thought into creation - Other color-producing compounds followed. The arrangements of the stars in one firework shell, how to materialize your ideas ... Through trial and error, and with good rivalry, I think that's how we got here. [Applause] John: Now let's launch those 500 fireworks Komatsu-san made and set up for us in Omagari. Peter von Gomm: Welcome to the ONLY in JAPAN fireworks festival. Hope from around the world. We love Japanese hanabi. Let's fireworks! [Music] John: There are many different styles of fireworks. Varying them is part of the artistry making a complete body of light that flows together. Often paired with music to enhance the senses creating a stronger emotion for those watching. [Music and fireworks] Peter: ONLY in JAPAN John: It was a pretty impressive show. Those booms setting off several car alarms in the neighborhood. In Japan it's common for people to buy a shell like this to dedicate one to someone who is retiring from a job, someone who passed away, a birth of a child, anniversary, or marriage. It makes each blast special and personal. Shared by everyone who sees it. One shell can be very special in Japan. Our ONLY in JAPAN community purchased a dozen of these for this launch in Yamanashi. Each one had a message, including this one dedicated to the birth of my son Leo who left his mark on it for the launch. Every year in Japan there are over 200 fireworks festivals called hanabi taikai. Competition by sponsors launching shells for sometimes a million spectators. Sometimes on national TV. Some festivals can last over two hours. When you come to Japan especially in summer, you'll understand more about what makes these festivals so special. It's more than just fireworks in the sky. Join me for more only in Japan adventures around every corner of the country right here on this channel ONLY in JAPAN. Mata ne! (See you again!)