Hi guys I'm Chhavi Mittal and this is Areeza. She's my 7 year old daughter and together So there are a lot of mothers who ask me that what to do about that. And what to do for skincare. So hair fall can have many reasons but I'll in today's video. When you're pregnant you're heavily on But the most important thing is that during So for a normal person on an average every dead hair follicles. That is natural and nothing to be alarmed But the most important thing is that during Meaning there are a lot of dead hair in your So the minute you deliver all these start hair fall. Happened with me also. But thankfully my mother prepared me for this take care of your hair now, then don't blame So I'm going to share the tips with you you are pregnant. And if you've already delivered then better First thing that I stopped when I got pregnant I mean I literally stopped everything. I changed my shampoo to one which had no chemicals, and I went completely natural with my hair. Herbal shampoo and that's it, nothing else The only thing that I had to use is hair color roots needed to be touched up because I'm for that also, which was, I stopped going going on there. Perm, straightening, so it's not advisable So I got an ammonia free color at home and to keep that color in my hair for not more Even though the packet says to keep it for But I used to not do that thereby reducing That is definitely one tip that I want to During pregnancy you are eating a variety me to continue those for a year after. So I'm still continuing those. I'm sure your gynaec will advise you the breastfeeding. These vitamins are essential for your skin So definitely continue taking them for as Another really simple and small tip that we Please do not underestimate the importance And this is a tip that Areeza reminded me. At times I used to come back from office to And I used to wonder who oiled her hair because Then she one day told me that I oil my hair Then she one day told me that I oil my hair She learnt how to do that because she really Right now her hair is not so long but they So oiling is very important. So what I do is, I started this during pregnancy at least twice a week. So I sleep with oil in my hair at night and shampoo. And I still don't condition, I still don't Or any other products in my hair. So you can also try this, this is easy. I also steam my hair a little bit every time And Areeza just reminded me that it is also Because that tends to block our pores and And that's not what we want. So we want to also keep our scalp clean. So just keep your hair clean and oil them I promise. I use a herbal oil. Areeza is also all natural like her mama and Right my baby? Talking about natural things, we all tend that we have easily available around us . For And egg. And if you have time, which I don't.. but But curd and egg is something I also keep So that is also something which really makes me egg sticks, but that's OK we can do it Arham is getting very excited there and he you about my skincare before I go, so just chemical free, So since the time I got pregnant, And when I say no chemicals I mean no moisturizer The only thing that I use on my face is coconut So I use coconut oil in the morning and before And that is it. Lot's of people say that a sunblock is important I feel that the product tends to get stuck of duct and then I get a lot of pimples and I don't like that. So I like to keep my face as clean as my hair. So coconut oil is the only thing that I use And I sometimes use makeup while shooting my face before I go to bed. So I hope that you liked today's video and as much they helped me. If you liked today's video please give me you think it might benefit. Also SUBSCRIBE to Being Woman with Chhavi for me if you want me to continue videos like with you. And my experiences with you then please don't and tell me in the comments if you have any we benefit from those tips. Well if yes then please do and on that note Love and peace from me to you