Big thank you to Nebula for sponsoring this It is August 8th, 2001. President George W Bush is about to give his The topic will surprise you. It's still just 8 months into his first So far the biggest issues of his presidency reform, neither of which warranted an intimate The tragedy that would go on to define much away. He had something else on his mind. "Good evening. I appreciate you giving me a few minutes of a complex and difficult issue, an issue that The issue of research involving stem cells the subject of a national debate and dinner My administration must decide whether to allow for scientific research on stem cells derived I strongly oppose human cloning, as do most We recoil at the idea of growing human beings our convenience. And while we must devote enormous energy to that we pay attention to the moral concerns stem cell research. Even the most noble ends do not justify any And just like that, the White House issued for new embryonic stem cells. It was a decision that would almost immediately And in congress a battle was raging on whether If not for the events of September 2001, the one of the defining political controversies And it was all kickstarted because of a 5 Dolly was born on the 5th of July 1996, at she wasn't announced to the world until 7 months old. Dolly is also a Finn Dorset sheep. And her birth resulted in more laws being You see Dolly is a clone. An exact genetic copy. Your body is made up of cells. Trillions of blobs that make up your muscles, Inside those little blobs are a bunch of chemical...gizmos The most important gizmo is the nucleus, the Inside the nucleus is a full copy of your Your DNA. It's an acronym that definitely stands for DNA is essentially a gigantic instruction Inside that double helix are bunch of molecular We call this a base pair. Humans have approximately 3 billion base pairs, Cs and Gs, determines stuff like your hair cilantro tastes like soap. Over 20,000 different genes. Now when two animals reproduce, most of the 50% of the DNA is contributed from a sperm The DNA combines, and you get a new full set That single cell then multiplies, going from a full organism. Now the crazy part is that 99.9% of your DNA And you and your parents, the closest genetic of that very last 0.1%. That last decimal point is what separates The exception to that, would be clone. Like I mentioned earlier, Dolly had 3 moms. One mom provided the egg cell, with its DNA an empty container. The second mom provided a nucleus, with a That nucleus was inserted into the empty egg to artificially kickstart cell duplication. Then, pretty much the same as before, that enough to be implanted into the womb of the The third mom was pregnant for the usual 5 who was a perfect genetic match for the 2nd Dolly was one of those rare scientific breakthroughs A living breathing clone that you could visit A marvel of human ingenuity, like something Except Dolly was not the first ever clone. In fact she's not even the first cloned Humans have been cloning plants for literally And when it comes to animals, the first ever So why was Dolly so special? Why now? It's because Dolly was the first ever clone And that had huge ramifications for medicine. Human medicine. The cells in your body have specific functions. Bone cells are rigid and provide structure, nerve cells send electrical signals, connecting But Dolly's existence proved that any adult stored in their little nucleus to revert back A state where all possible cells are part And at the bottom of that tree, the stem...is Stem cells, are a uniquely potent cell that Think of the Pokemon Eevee. A generic base template, that can turned into With stem cells you can create bone marrow With stem cells you could create pancreatic With stem cells, maybe you could even grow Medicine at the turn of the 21st century felt of a sheep named after a country music star. The looming question though, was how do we There are two types of cloning: Reproductive The first is what Dolly is. A way to make a copies of full organisms. Therapeutic cloning is smaller in scope. A way to make copies of genes, tissues, maybe or preventing disease. One of these was broadly unpopular, especially The majority of scientists agreed, it was clone a human child. Nearly every major world leader expressed including Bill Clinton. Therapeutic cloning on the other hand was With it you could create stem cells that had But because it required human embryos, that Bush White House intervened. And American scientists had strong opinions &quot;I think there is every reason to believe not be effective,&quot;. &quot;I think that thousands of years of human cannot bottle up human progress, even when "We will be sitting here with the best scientists In his speeches, &quot;Bush evoked worst case scenarios and desperate women pressured into selling But his critics argued the opposite. &quot;The best way to control the research is to then you create rules,&quot; This is true. Even without Bush's ban, the FDA was already As soon as any researcher so much as touches and dozens of eyes on them. By opting for an outright ban instead of regulating &quot;People are still going to do it,&quot; &quot;They're And that...is where our story takes us. In July 1997, just a few months after Dolly its currency. The 1990s had seen several East Asian countries with absurd growth rates that seemed too far But as 1997 came around, global exports slowed, and foreign investors saw blood in the water. That year Thailand's stock market completely that brought down the economies of several Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, all Indonesia even forced its president to resign. But our story truly begins in South Korea, October 1997. Although the exact mechanics of the crisis economy was by and large dominated by massive Brands like Hyundai, LG, and Samsung. Behemoths that were seen as too big to fail. At least until they weren't. They'd been taking on aggressive and risky be their safety net. But something had to give. Before the crisis South Korea had 7 major Only two emerged from the crisis unscathed. By 1999, of the top 30 Chaebols, 11 of them Included in that number was the Daewoo conglomerate, bankruptcy in history. By 1998 1.5 million South Koreans lost their All in all it was terrible way to be ending in the last century. The first half the 20th century saw Korea then be further occupied by the Americans, the country permanently into two. What followed was decades of military dictatorships, that was undoing the last decade of relative To put it simply, things were bad, and the sitting government. The crisis began to snowball just weeks before the incumbent party ousted by a slim margin. The incoming president was long-time neoliberal his administration wanted to figure out how economic stage, so this could never happen It didn't help that they were being crowded To the East you had Japan, which had a clear research and consumer electronics. And to the West you had China, which was undergoing on its way becoming the cheap manufacturing During the 90s the South Korea government investments in semiconductors, and IT. But that alone had not been enough to shield No it needed something else. A cutting edge technological niche, one that that South Korea could make part of its national And so the government looked to Dolly, and But it wasn't enough to just throw millions South Korea had already been doing that since They were up against Japan, China, as well They would never win in a battle of who can They needed something more than that. With their limited funds, they crated a strategy To elevate them as symbols of national pride, Economic growth is one thing. GDP, inflation, unemployment rates, that's But statistics and acronyms aren't tangible Koreans needed someone whose research would they would come to recognize on TV. They needed a celebrity. The idea of a national celebrity scientist All around the world we often think of science Geniuses, visionaries. We'll often see a project with hundreds it down to the lone face in charge. A single person who we project our own national favourite sports team. Within the realm of biotech, this was already Around the turn of the new millennium the A decades long task to write down all 3 billion Even though this was a goal that dozens of of the project often framed it as a competition Each of which had their own mascot. On the one hand the UK's John Sulston, and As The Daily Mail pointed out at the time: is John Sulston, 57, who drives a second hand Surging out on the U.S. side is Craig Venter, gold Rolex on his wrist and a PS70,000 yacht Both men appealed to an archetype of what The bold American entrepreneur, vs the reserved So who could be that national archetype for What scientist should the government pluck millennium. The man they chose was almost too perfect Hwang Woo Suk is a man whose life story feels Just one year after the first ever tadpole It's 1953, half a year before the armistice war. Hwang's family was poor, and they were from His father passed away when he was just 5 to his siblings and their three cattle. When there wasn't enough food, he resorted Even from such a young an age though, Hwang Out of his entire elementary school class, education. In high school he was ranked just 400th out He had to work on a farm to just barely afford Eventually though he worked his way up from University, SNU to become a veterinarian. From humble beginnings, to the most prestigious He would graduate with a PhD in 1982, with AKA the study of animal reproduction. Given what he would later become famous for, early career was not that of a bioscientist, He didn't work out of a pristine lab, but He wasn't publishing articles to journals, to farming. Trying to breed cows to produce more milk, This all changed in 1993 though, when he made cow via IVF, in-vitro-fertilization. IVF is essentially a normal pregnancy that An egg cell is fertilized with a sperm cell monitored as it grows into a viable embryo. IVF is often used to help couples who can't embryo in a lab and then implanting it in On its own, an amazing achievement, but not By 1995 his goal has evolved, and he began for cloning dairy cows. Finally in 1998 it was reported that he had in February 1999 that cloned cow was finally And it was a spectacle. Hwang, not afraid to get his hands dirty, his hands dirty and helped the mother give The calf was named Yongnongi, which translates Now, Yongnongi was not the first cloned cow. It was the 5th. But it was the first clone ever produced by country in the world to successfully clone Not bad for a country that was largely seen at that time. The birth of the cloned cow set Hwang on a Soon he was translating and co-writing books Next he giving interviews and TV appearances to get his name out there. Finally it was him sending out invites to his farm and see how his research was progressing. Just three months after the birth of Yongnongi, of cow native to Korea, the Hanwoo, which The cow was named Jini after a famous 16th At the request of Hwang, the name was chosen himself. With the full backing of the South Korean a humble veterinarian to a full-on distinguished The Ministry of Science and Technology awarded of mass cloning of dairy cows and cattle for The goal was to mass produce over 100,000 ended up failing, and it stopped sometime Nonetheless this did not diminish Hwang's it out of the park twice in a row. This was followed up by him announcing his cows that would be resistant to mad cow disease. None of these promises came to fruition either, Hwang was becoming a master of PR. For his big press releases he hired professional When reporters came looking for quotes, he'd to pet the animals he was working with. His announcements were carefully spaced out or not was besides the point. He was the talk of the country, and at some That eventually came in 2002, when his team pigs! They weren't even the first cloned pigs Although President Kim Dae-Jung had been a still prioritized IT during the dotcom boom. But as the dotcom boom turned into a bubble, initiative. The 6T's. "6T"s--I[nformation] T[echnology], B[io]T, Gonna be honest not my favourite slogan, there's the picture. The end of 2002 saw another presidential election, President Roh. Since Roh belonged to the same party as his many of the same priorities. And of the 6T's, the one that had the most Early into his first year in office Hwang a dog whose life he had saved via stem cell Describing the visit the President said: "I was not a technology but a sort of magic! I certainly discovered the possibility and achievement of over 20,000 dollar per capita body trembles as if I had received an electric visiting the laboratory of Professor Hwang Wow okay, laying it on a little thick, but The government, as well as the media, were Hwang fit the archetype of what a model South Much emphasis was placed on just how humble out of poverty thanks to hard work and determination. The classic bootstrap narrative. And even though he was now wildly successful, Quote: "He rented a small apartment for waking up at 4.30 am, going to the public before going to work at 6.30 am--he stays and also flies economy class [. . .] his philosophy He was so busy, he never even had time to He was often the first in the office, and Almost every aspect of his life seemed to Even his religious beliefs. He once said "I am a Buddhist, and I have And as you know the basis of Buddhism is that In some ways, I think, therapeutic cloning This is a striking contrast to the conversation fundamental drivers of the Bush admin's More than anything though, Hwang refused to He was always highlighting the spirit of sacrifice talked about his lab as if it was a family. A personal army of 125 researchers who he and curing disease". Their personal motto? "Moving the heart of the sky". And the country loved him for it. Here are some quotes from his supports: for 46 years. So our country, [which] was independent since develop our country. If a Korean becomes top of the world in their "He was going to change our country's image this sector,&quot; said Huh Hyun, 37, who was shopping her husband. &quot;We don't have someone to represent us to South Africa, for example, has Mandela.&quot;" That was the type of figure that Koreans saw But still, he had yet to break out onto the And there was a simple reason why. At no point had Hwang proven that his clones...were Yes. You heard that right. His cows and pigs were never genetically tested. He had never once had a paper be peer reviewed. He held press conferences, photo-ops, lab But nowhere did Hwang ever release his data The international scientific community wasn't he could show he was the real deal. Publish his results in a respected, internationally take him seriously. So in late 2003, Hwang finally took a swing. He aimed for the moon. He submitted a paper to the journal Science. One of, if not the most prestigious journal of only 7%. And against all odds, his very first paper...was He was about to become the King of Cloning. Hwang's ground-breaking paper was titled Stem Cell Line Derived from a Cloned Blastocyst" only need two of them to know that this was "Human" and "Cloned". Cloning mammals was considered an earth shattering in the 7 years since there had been several Pigs, cows, and mice. But critically, there had never been a success So the idea that some unknown Korean team cloned a human embryo, that was unthinkable. He was years ahead of the rest of his field. Now of course he wasn't trying to grow a was. Rather he was trying to clone embryos to produce A new type of stem cell that was the holy Now to be clear, your body right now contains indefinitely, which your body uses them to But they're also limited in what they can A common example is found in your bone marrow. These are called hematopoietic stem cells. This type of stem cell can specialize into Red blood cells, white blood cells, or platelets, in the body. People who suffer from leukemia often can't own, and can be treated with a stem cell transplant The limitation here is that bone marrow stem they can't be used to treat anywhere else We call these multipotent. A stem cell than can specialized into multiple Even more restrictive types exist, which are They exist in the parts of the tree with fewer Because your cells can never go backwards cell would be one found near the absolute This would be called pluripotent. Opening up nearly unlimited options to help And this embryonic stem cell, as we call it, of development. In embryos there aren't yet organs, or blood, They have the capability to move up the branches slowly turning off unnecessary genes. The first embryonic stem cell line was isolated If you receive a stem cell transplant, chances else. Their DNA and your DNA are not a perfect match. Your immune system will detect this, and may To get around this stem cell patients often their body won't reject the treatment. Immuno suppressive drugs leave you vulnerable and you must continue taking them for the But if you could be your own stem cell donor, eliminate the need for the immuno suppressive It would both reduce the health risk of existing things like full organs being grown from your That's what Hwang and his team had achieved. Cloned, embryonic, stem cells. The holy grail. But the question remained, how had Hwang and The short answer, was brute force. Hundreds of failed attempts. The cloning method they had used was notorious SCNT. Somatic cell, nuclear transfer. A somatic cell is any adult cell in the body. Not sperm, not an egg. Nuclear transfer is the process of delicately it, again, very delicately, into an empty Then the cell is hit a chemical kickstarter, If you let it keep doing this, you could potentially But for stem cells you just need a handful You can keep them in a petri dish, take as rest will self replicate endlessly. This by the way, was almost exactly the same no walk in the park either. It took them months to fertilize 277 egg cells. Only 1 survived and grew into an adult sheep. This was the biggest ethical hurdle with the it required. Acquiring eggs from a sheep is significantly from a safety and legal standpoint. Normally just one egg is released from the are given a hormone injection so that they normal. Usually upwards of 10 for a single donor. They then undergo an invasive surgical procedure can have potential complications. Some small, some more severe. The key here is that in many countries the they must be fully informed of all the potential For good reason, acquiring human egg cells and lots of paperwork. So couple this with the extremely low success embryo cloning was viewed as a pipe dream And yet this South Korean team had done it. Hwang's paper noted that it had 16 donors That's quite high number of eggs, which But managing to get a successful cloned stem 1 in 242? That was a success rate of 0.4%. Still very very low, but human cloning had "extremely difficult". Hwang had fully evolved from a humble veterinarian, to a leading global researcher in stem cells. Time magazine named him in its list of "People At the height of his popularity Hwang was books and comics where he was the role model up to be. Hwang had appeared on TV more than any other household name and an instantly recognizable He was receiving millions of dollars a year Korean Air gave him first class flight privileges Hwang continued his famous lab tours, but who suffered from incurable diseases. Promising them that his work could potentially His work had even inspired a postage stamp, he made the following promise. &quot;I hope singer Kahn could stand up again from moves soon in this show.&quot; But all of this still wasn't enough. When the average person thought about cloning, It was Hwang's turn now. When someone thought about cloning, he wanted The idea of a Korean academic earning the Near the turn of the 21st century the global the UK. The two most prestigious journals in the world They were the arbiters of scientific legitimacy. If a Western scientist got a paper in either But an obscure Korean like Hwang? That had Westerners raising their eyebrows. Around the time of Hwang's 2004 paper cloning Dolly the sheep had passed away the previous lifespan of a Finn-Dorset. Although today her passing is thought to be living in captivity her entire life, at the simply didn't live as long. This not only generated fear among the public the public debate on stem cells. Besides Dolly's passing there had been a of cloning. Just one year after Dolly's unveiling a the same techniques to clone a human embryo, early at just 4 cells. The team said they had no intention of implanting refused to release any evidence of their achievement, were telling the truth. And then there were the infamous "Cowboy Mavericks who ignored the scientific consensus human clones. An Italian fertility expert claimed in 2003 cloned embryos, followed by a Cypriot doctor Again, no evidence was ever provided by either quacks. The spiciest of all though were the Realians. The Realians are a Canadian based UFO cult, Korea to produce a human clone. In July 2002 the Realians claimed that a young ever human clone. Now again there is zero evidence that Eve and the whole thing was just a tabloid story All of this is to say that the scientific about their reporting on the cloning issue, Korea. Although a certain amount of skepticism was felt a little patronizing. Like they had to make clear: He was one of The didn't seem to phase the South Korean a Korean scientist was making headlines in They took every opportunity to present Hwang's Quote: as: 'heroes in their own time'. 'No matter how the stem-cell issue unfolds' on the cutting edge and medical experts from to sit at [their] feet'. &quot;A great Korean achievement.&quot; &quot;Korea opens the way in organ cloning.&quot; Several headlines drew attention to one very a 'Nobel Prize to the nation'. The Nobel Prize is a particular holy grail No Korean has ever won the prize for any of to South Korea's perceived rivals of Japan respectively, and even more today. In particular two Japanese scientists had committees being assembled in South Korea the country a win. And the conclusion was obvious. Hwang was by far their best shot. 6th grade textbooks talked about him as a I cannot stress enough just how famous Hwang He used to brag to friends that he was so and compared himself to "Korean Elvis". There was a genuine cult of personality developing A fixation on one particular scientist the tragic story of Benjamin Lee. Benjamin Lee was a Korean-born physicist who department at lab over in the United States. A bit of a big deal, a place called Fermilab. Because of his prominence in the West, Lee Korea as a favourite to be the first ever Tragically however Lee died in a car accident What followed was a widespread myth that eventually the Korean public. Because of tensions between the US and South that Lee was bumped off by the CIA for his The Korean media reported on this conspiracy a movie. In reality Lee's work was completely unrelated the South Korean government in the past. But that's the power of a symbol. Lee is beloved by South Koreans not because The potential to break through in the West. Hwang was fully aware of what was happening Once when he was criticized for his aggressive for biotechnology". He knew that adopting nationalistic rhetoric advancing his career. So when he made a cloning breakthrough, he breakthrough. Remember after his breakthrough cloning cow, of cow native to Korea and award the naming Next Hwang said that he was engineering a disease, which was quite prevalent at the His goal he said, was to help protect the resilient. He then promised to "spread the Korean people's Siberian Tigers and Korean wolves once used hunted to near extinction there during the Although he never successfully managed to resistant cattle, it didn't really matter. He got his message across. And these appeals to Korean nationalism, I Others appeals were a little bit more on the During this period concerns around mad cow from the US. Hwang however would brag to the media that US, and cloned them into "perfect aseptic He then directly compared himself to Mun Ik-Jeom, cottonseed from China. Now, bear with me here, because this next most infamous piece of rhetoric, was something Hwang's cloning technique differed compared When extracting the nucleus from the original to suck out the nucleus. Hwang's team argued that something about this cloning process from working. Instead they began by making a small hole, it with two metal rods. It was this change in technique that made Hwang often compared the steel rods to the meals. To quote the man himself: "Who else in the chopsticks? When I show American researchers videos of they are absolutely flabbergasted at their The Chopstick theory was an easily digestible advantage that Koreans possessed in the stem It played into international perceptions of delicate tasks, like garment sewing. Even among other East Asian countries, the neighbours. See the squeezing method used steel rods, use wooden chopsticks. And finally, take this quote from an executive "While leaving the task of basic science repeat the arduous work of processing and That's how we make money." It was this labour intensive churn, and the that had allowed them to become the world Western collaborators were more than happy "Korean scientists work much harder than transferred more than 1,000 embryos into 123 'That tells you how single-minded they are. If it was me, I would have given up at the "The atmosphere in Hwang's lab is "very not just after the headlines, they just love Hwang was cognizant of the fact that he had and the rest of the world. And so he shaped his messaging accordingly. To Korean media he would assert that stem when speaking to a UK reporter, he stated I have to do my work for all of humankind." Those two statements read back to back are But Hwang didn't really see that as a contradiction. The duology of his attitude can be summed quote: "There is no national border in science, He was quite clear in his goals: "I want cells". He also proudly asserted to newspapers that in 10 or 15 years, like Samsung did in the He wanted to win Korea's first Nobel prize All of this is well and good, but there's How had a veterinarian with no prior international world's premier journal? Well...he had found himself a partner. An American partner. And luckily...that American needed him, just Getting into prestigious journals, although about the quality of the research. It plays a big part of course, but there are make it into a journal like Science, which 7%. As a journal, Science is still a business, the flashiest, most ground breaking papers, fits that bill. But there's another element at play here, could get into Science. It's because he had an even bigger name Meet Gerald Schatten. At just 3 years older than Hwang, Gerry here Primate cloning specifically. Primates are of particular interest, because humans. There's an extraordinary amount you can of diseases from studying other primates. He first made headlines in 1999 for producing In 2001 he led a team that produced the world's spliced in a gene from a jellyfish. Later he became the lead cloning researcher made it his goal to produce the first ever But his work had hit a bit of a wall. His team had implanted 33 macaque embryos managed to produce a healthy clone. In 2003 he published a paper that suggested actually be impossible. During SCNT when you remove the nucleus of unintentionally strips away two proteins that Schatten seemed ready to admit that his years-long But later that year out of the blue he had had supposedly done the exact thing he needed. Hwang was asking Schatten for advice, to help at Science. According to Hwang his team had submitted had been rejected in May. He had followed up by submitting it to Science cycle of revisions for nearly 6 months. Hwang reportedly offered Schatten an authorship Instead, and I quote: "Schatten "volunteered by providing some editorial input into a revision He even called the editor at Science during publication of this paper in Science, without data." Schatten's vouching did the trick. Within a month of him getting involved it The paper had been sitting in the review process The thing you're probably wondering here Why go out on a limb and tie his reputation he's never worked with before? Well it all stems back to Jr. here. &quot;Tonight I ask you to pass legislation to research. Human cloning in all its forms. Creating or implanting embryos for experiments. Creating human animal hybrids. Or buying, selling or patenting human embryos. Human life is a gift from our creator, and or put up for sale.&quot; Gerry was doing his best to navigate a claustrophobic In Fall 2000, right before the mess that would National Institute of Health announced that stem cell research. When Bush finally took office just months this decision. Make no mistake about this, Bush had made debate into a larger culture war, as a significant Christians who were deeply opposed to any This ideological lens was easy to spot, when had with the council: "I presented our results appointed presidential bioethics council, about the science or the medicine. They wanted to know my personal religious By 2004 though the public conversation was Public polling was showing that the average of cloning embryos year after year. Editor-in-chief of Science, Donald Kennedy, "U.S politicians can't make the rules claim to the ethical high ground." If you couldn't gather Kennedy's opinion with a doodle of a nervous looking scientist This cartoon was mocking the quote un-quote had offered. The compromise was as follows: it still allowed for private and state funding. And researchers could still use the existing before the funding ban had taken effect. These 71 cell lines had been made using embryos, them so they don't go to waste. Although these conditions sound reasonable incredibly restrictive. Say for example that a University has a lab Now, even if the NIH funding isn't going going to the general overhead of running the That could get your university audited, and What you had happening were Universities building Labs with completely different sets of accounting with a lawsuit. Bureaucratic hoops to jump through that cost And as for the 71 cell lines, they had their Besides the fact that they were older and sample set wasn't genetically diverse, only Certain diseases like Parkinsons couldn't of a lot of ethnicities. Bush's compromise was the absolute bare The fears of researchers you heard earlier A brain drain that saw talented American researchers do the research they wanted. South Korea of course, being one of the most Back to Gerry. He had fared better than most under the ban, But the opportunity Hwang was presenting him He could partner with an international lab, handled on foreign soil, completely bypassing Hwang and Schatten become extremely close "They met almost monthly, at one meeting phone calls almost daily to discuss scientific Schatten once called Hwang his metaphorical It was a true symbiotic relationship. Schatten was able to research stem cells without was able to borrow credibility from a well Several members of Hwang's lab would visit including Park Eul Soon. She was highly valued by Schatten because pioneered in the 2004 paper. With the help of her and others Schatten's first ever cloned monkey embryos. 135 of them. None of them managed to develop into full given up on was now back in the realm of possibility. As a thank you, Hwang was included as an author what his involvement was. Schatten had quickly became Hwang and Korea's "We could have been struggling for decades. Now our work is taking off fabulously. I think the whole world owes the Republic "I'm so proud of Korea and Korean people. I'm also so proud of this special scientist By May 2005 their next collaboration was made Hwang's 2nd ever paper, with Schatten as The division of labour was clear. An actual line in the paper was: "All experiments and all results were obtained in Korea using Gerry apparently handled most of the writing. Once again it was published in Science, and There were two major improvements on display In the previous paper they just kept trying cell. But for stem cells to be useful you need them diseases. For this paper they had stem cell lines from spinal cord injuries, diabetes, and immune The second achievement was a dramatic increase The first paper needed 242 eggs to produce A success rate of 0.4%. This new paper used just 185 eggs, and made A success rate of 5.9%. That's an improvement of 14x. If the 2004 paper was like landing on the The risk that those egg donors were taking This suggested that the technology was leagues It was no longer in the realm of just R&amp;D, on patients. In one interview with the BBC, Schatten didn't than the discovery of vaccines and antibiotics The South Korean government responded with They named Hwang the country's first ever nice little cash prize of $15 million. All in all he managed to swing almost $27 2005 paper. A national campaign marketed him as "the The headlines continued to pour in. "Korea falls in love with Hwang, Woo-suk'". One headline referred to Hwang as having "God's And speaking of God, Hwang had even taken some sharp criticism of George W. Bush and &quot;With all the great scientists and the great of some policy hurdle, the researchers cannot scientist this would be very regrettable,&quot; own spiritual beliefs, he countered that by just 100 micrometers long, made through nuclear a human being who has lived in pain all his &quot;To argue that there is a balance (in considering If Hwang felt this comfortable weighing in about his own country's politics. You see, he had spent years making connections The media, fellow scientists, and of course, What people didn't see at the time, was doors. Hwang had slowly but surely stacked the deck to influence government policy. And he had built himself a loophole. Friends in high places. You gotta have them. And everyone wanted to be friends with Hwang. He was well known for inviting journalists one point he hired Yoon Tae-Il to be his PR Yoon Tae-il was an ex journalist and high first ever 24 hour cable news network in South Over the years Yoon Tae-il would use his connections see later, suppress negative ones. Next, the names that make it on to a scientific as it about networking. The author list on even some good papers are foot in a relevant lab. Of course you know Gerald Schatten already, Korean scientists to hype his work up to the Take Ahn Curie, she was the first ever female She had goals of using cloning to help solve She often acted as a deputy for Hwang, and wasn't available. Then you have Moon Shin Yong. On the 2004 paper he was awarded the coveted Moon was a well respected professor and director Project. When the matter was later investigated, it He provided limited technical assistance and A prestigious rubberstamp, nothing more. Another key name on the 2004 paper was bioethicist It's unclear what work she did for the paper. At the time it was pointed out that her background biology as you would expect for a paper on It's been alleged that she was added to the time she was the Manager of the Presidential Park's political connections led to the included the National policy secretary, and The 4 of them being so close was picked up nickname that combined their 4 surnames. Which translated roughly to "Golden bats". Gotta say, if your weird little under the comparing you to bats, you're probably doing And yes, sketchy things were happening. Jin Daeje had awarded Hwang a research grant Backbone IT Technology Development" fund. Even though Hwang's research had, clearly, But because Hwang was the nation's supreme And of course, Hwang's network eventually Park later received a promotion, and was appointed the President. Yes. In June Hwang was awarded a medal directly And it was this network of influence that South Korea's Bioethics and Biosafety Act. As we discussed earlier, South Korea had had and UFO cults. This was because between 1997 and 2003, South that prevented human cloning. There was a massive huge legal gray area that It wasn't for a lack of trying though. Several bills were put forward by individual it past a successful vote due to disagreements The government, first under Kim Dae-jung, the needle in such a way that they that cloning that it could still boost their recovering The only way a Bioethics bill would pass is So early in 2000 the Kim administration tasked come up with proposals. By definition the ministry is part of the will have a slight bias in favour of the priorities However in 2000 the ministry created KBAC, consisting of half scientists, and half non-scientists. In a move that caught the ministry by surprise, *and* therapeutic cloning should be banned, made through IVF. This was clearly not the result that the ministry they knew would be unpopular with both conservative do their job, and never ended up submitting The government was then like huh...okay I gave the job do a different ministry, the But this also backfired on them because the It was a mess, you had three separate bodies law. The government had found itself in a no-win Hwang had been saying in interviews that if up his team and go work in a different country. And so the government stalled and stalled pushed through a version of the bill a couple the bill would only take effect a year later Because of this Hwang's 2004 paper was technically It could skirt through within the legal buffer It has been alleged that the 1 year buffer Park Ky-Young, as she would have had a large Remember that she was added as a coauthor she had worked on two other projects for Hwang, At a glance the bill seems like it addresses Human reproductive cloning is outright banned, it outlaws the selling and trading of human in criminal prosecution. And most importantly, cloning of human embryos catch. If you had previously been conducting embryonic as you met two conditions.: for more than three years; and (2) you must than once in the relevant journals" At the would only apply to one lab in the entire The South Korean government has passed a law, one man. A few other labs that had the necessary scientific of this clause. By bending the rules for their pet scientist, for what would soon become an international As spring 2005 turned into summer, Hwang announced to his animal roots. His lab was the first in the world to clone one of the most difficult mammals to clone. Specifically it was an Afghan hound name Snuppy. The global media attention on Hwang was so government launched the World Stem Cell Hub. A research network to be directed by Hwang with South Korea, funded through nearly $25 Countries that weren't legally able to study by having Hwang's team carry out the work Alongside Hwang, two members on its board Wilmut, one of Dolly's creators. Truly, Hwang was now in the big leagues. South Korea was no longer an upstart nation superpower. But 1 month later, Gerald Schatten would pull And one month after that he'll retract his Soon, South Korea would be wracked with widescale government officials, and Hwang Woo Suk, the investigation. There was a darker side to Hwang's lab, All because of one seemingly innocent question. Where did you get those eggs? Hey! Are you dying to watch part two, like right Well you can watch it early right now on Nebula, Nebula is the creator-owned streaming service creators on the internet. There you can watch my videos and many more Not only do I post my videos two weeks early originals not found anywhere else. If you're looking for a deeper dive on the modern conflict series by Real Life Lore. Or if you want more in the medical side I'd cure&quot; with Joe Scott. Maybe you're looking for advice on making For that there's Nebula Classes. Courses by some of the best creators out there your videos with great audio. And here's one more major reason to support As of this video I am officially a full-time That's right! Making these videos is my full-time job now one of the best ways to help me out. With it you get a 40% discount on an annual all for just $2.50 a month. And a significant chunk of that money goes which will help me make bigger and better As always thanks for watching.