(phone ringing) - Hey, it's Esther. Have you ever slept somewhere different than where you usually do like during a sleepover or maybe in a tent while you were camping? How about on the side of a mountain? These pods kind of look like space ships but they're actually bedrooms hanging from the side of a cliff. Whoa, they're part of a hotel in Peru. Do you think you could fall asleep there? Okay, if you're a little you may like this bedroom better. This is a hotel made entirely of ice. Even the bed is made from a block of ice. You would need lots of blankets to stay warm and get a Someone named Connor Let's give Connor a call now. (phone ringing) - Hi, Esther. - Hi, Connor. - I have a question for you. What is the longest anyone - Ooh, that is a great question. Okay, have you ever tried to stay awake when you were really tired? It's definitely not easy. I remember I really wanted to see Lord of the Rings on the but the problem was the I tried so hard to stay but I just couldn't do it. I fell asleep right there and missed the whole thing. It's kind of like my body was saying, &quot;You're gonna sleep whether (person thuds) Before I go on, I'm curious, what's the longest What did it feel like? Now would be a good time to Okay, you ready? I don't know how you answered, but some of you might have on New Year's Eve. Or maybe you even stayed awake even later at a sleepover party. Whatever it was, you may have or maybe you couldn't really concentrate. Maybe you even felt a That's because your body needs sleep. Scientists aren't totally sure why, but we know that sleep and gets us ready for the next day. Sleep is really important and a lot of things can happen when we don't get enough of it. Just ask Randy Gardner. When he was in high school, he was really curious if humans didn't sleep. In fact, he and his friend were so curious that they decided to try and break the world for a high school science fair project. That meant one of them for more than 11 days. The two of them flipped a coin and they decided that Randy would be the one to stay awake, and his friend would make After a few days, another They took turns talking and playing games like basketball with him whenever he felt like dozing off. When scientists heard they were curious about if he kept staying awake. So one of them drove hundreds of miles to study Randy in person. Since so few people had he thought he could learn and this is what he noticed. After a few days of not sleeping, Randy started having He couldn't even repeat like Peter picked a and had trouble doing math problems. Oh, and he started getting really grumpy, especially when people He even started having trouble hearing and tasting and smelling. After four days of no sleep, Randy started hallucinating, which is like dreaming while you're awake. He thought lampposts were people and thought he was a By day 11, Randy's body and he could barely even answer when his friends talked to him. Overall, Randy ended up That's the longest scientists have recorded anyone staying awake. After Randy's experiment, other people tried to break like a woman in England while rocking in a rocking So, who holds a record for Is it Randy, the high schooler who was studied by scientist? Was it the lady in the rocking chair who was actually rocking for 18 days? While it turns out, this isn't an easy question to answer because it's really hard to be sure if someone's actually awake or asleep. It might seem obvious, The only way you can really tell if someone is awake or asleep is by using a special An EEG measures your brainwaves, kind of like a heart monitor After Randy's staying awake experiment, scientists studied his brain with one of these machines that he probably wasn't awake for 11 days. In fact, they aren't sure Scientists now believe were taking many naps even though his eyes were When someone's brain sleeps like this, it's called microsleep. It's almost like being awake I'm serious, your eyes can be open, and you can be moving or even talking while parts of your brain And that's why it's not easy to tell if someone is asleep or awake. You may have experienced while watching a movie or The thing is, people don't usually notice when someone's taking not even scientists. So what's the longest We may never know the In fact, the Guinness doesn't even keep track of the staying awake record anymore. They even took it out of their books. They don't want anyone trying because staying awake for too long could be harmful to our bodies. When we try to stay awake for too long we can have trouble thinking, listening, tasting, and even smelling. How weird is that? Sleep is so important that when your body really needs it, you can't stop parts of your brain from taking little naps even if you look awake to everyone else. And when that happens, it's definitely time to get some rest. That's all for this week's question, thanks Connor for asking it. Now for the next episode, we reached into our question jar and picked out three that we're thinking about answering next. When the video's done playing, you'll get to vote on one. You can choose from, &quot;Can trees talk to each other?&quot;, or &quot;How does gas power a car?&quot;. So submit your vote We wanna hear from all of you watching. There are mysteries all around us. Stay curious and see you next week.