&gt;&gt;Rick: Welcome to Buddha at the Gas Pump. My name is Rick Archer and my guest this week Lisa lives in Australia, or at least has for wend her way to the U.K. via Asia, in time And Lisa, I've done my homework on you Lisa. I've listened to 6 or 7 hours of your talks it. It wasn't a chore by any means. And of all the things you said I mean &quot;Oh, I would have asked her this,&quot; or &quot;I would that really jumped out at me a few times, offering a de-scription, not a pre-scription.&quot; And the reason that really jumped out at me interviews. And the reason I say it so often is that I doing just that offering a de-scription Even though they may say it's not a prescription, just sort of giving a description of their listening to that. It's sort of like a guy standing on a mountain the view is like. And I think that for some people that could but for many people it's not adequate. So what do you think about that? &gt;&gt;Lisa: What do you mean by &quot;It's not adequate?&quot; &gt;&gt;Rick: Well, it's like just listening to great but I'm not getting it, something's I hear this from people they get frustrated even mistaking them as prescriptions. &gt;&gt;Lisa: Yeah, yeah. I see life as so impersonal now and even with is completely God's will. I don't know how you like to say it, whether not even anybody's will, it's just the way I don't even see life, really, in terms of However, I know that when you're in the story you do feel frustrated and you do feel like to do. I don't see anyone with that either. I went to many a teacher I love Adyashanti, to give prescription but life is always a It appears that way when you believe you're life, making life, but then when that begins spontaneously. And from the way it's seen now, happiness and cause and effect. And it's not living in the opposite of believing it's just really, just this. It's like teachers, when I first started, and it's not being in the moment; you just else becomes irrelevant. So when I'm talking, if you're perceiving going to see what I say as prescription, you're You'll see it as prescription because that's in time and space, and it's not even you, is for there to be a belief of a separate &gt;&gt;Rick: About a week ago, before I started article that I found really resonated with contained and get your take on it. It might even provide a framework for everything And please bear with me because it will take I apologize to those who send me nasty emails going to talk a bit right now. So you're absolutely right, I talk too much, amount, and on the other hand I don't talk And that actually leads me into what this in layers or levels, we could say. We can hear examples from science, for instance we have the quantum level of physics and the of one do not apply to the realm of the other, And with regard to our life, our experience have effects and there's good and bad, and about animal rights or ending child prostitution, just dismiss as illusion or God's will, if need to be attended to. But then simultaneously, there's a level on It's like everything is perfect, everything And then yet again, there's another level there's another level on which nothing There is no creation, there are no animals just being. The point of this is that all these things dissimilar, and you can't apply the rules negates any of the others. And a really comprehensive realization, as simultaneously and one can operate on all comfortably. So anyway, that's my wrap, and it came out for that. What do you think? &gt;&gt;Lisa: Whether or not there are different fair enough there's different levels, just talking about happiness and peace of of all the kind of &quot;going out&quot; the mind does. So it's not that I live in non-doership or I just live as this. It's not like I have belief systems anymore. And so before, when I used to suffer, I used and so it's not about getting to a new belief good things or bad things,&quot; that's all irrelevant; are there, living without any ideas. So all the concepts that I put forward, none true. It's just about picking out all the old concepts, So even if you asked me really personal questions, or no self, is there good or bad?&quot; or any of that, it's like I don't know! I don't know any of it, I just am this, and And from the way I was taught and the way a separate self that can do or create life, And as long that dynamic is in play there And so what happened here is there was ... there self could never have done this. So there is a process in apparent time and of all these ideas, and it happened first in my life. Like in my life, there were things seen here and I was just left just living, just being, And it's like the ideas of good or bad there's is. However, there is a preference of nice people think about it anymore. So it's not about coming to a new way of intellectually all those attachments to the intellectual or an ego, or mind, or whatever you call it. So now I don't even know. I feel like I'm absolutely in awe and wonder I have no answers. However now, teaching, so it seems to come it's very new, I've only been doing it six &gt;&gt;Rick: I would say yes to it all. I would say you do have answers but you don't You do have opinions and preferences but you It all depends on what level you're talking I mean, you know, I'm sure you're an animal about animal cruelty, people who torture animals and things like that, on some level that concerns If you walked into an animal lab and saw that freak out, you wouldn't be able to stand it. But on another level you would probably not There would be nothing; there would be sort same time that there was the personal concern. &gt;&gt;Lisa: And only if I was physically shown &gt;&gt;Rick: Yeah! &gt;&gt;Lisa: Like if somebody was physically if I don't know if there would be thinking about &gt;&gt;Rick: Right, in other words you wouldn't &gt;&gt;Lisa: I wouldn't think about it. The concept, I don't think, or the thoughts time. Ooh, there's a spider on my foot (Lisa noticing &gt;&gt;Rick: My wife just came in the door and She says I'm getting too animated. &gt;&gt;Lisa: Cool it. &gt;&gt;Rick: So we'll come back to this. You said that you went through a process and ... &gt;&gt;Rick: Apparent process, okay. And granted, all I'm talking about here in those are apparent, ultimately they're not I mean if nonduality is the ultimate reality There aren't any trees or horses or people And physics helps us with that, I mean you of physics, and you end up with a vacuum state, so it's a world of appearances. So I think we're on the same page with that. &gt;&gt;Lisa: Yeah. &gt;&gt;Rick: Okay, so your process. I heard you refer to your teacher a number tea with your teacher and all that. Who's your teacher? &gt;&gt;Lisa: His name is Roger Castillo. He's not famous. &gt;&gt;Rick: No, I've never heard of him. &gt;&gt;Lisa: He was Ramesh Balsekar's student. &gt;&gt;Rick: Okay, like Wayne Liquorman also. &gt;&gt;Lisa: Yeah, Wayne Liquorman ... Roger was But I knew Ramesh and Roger better. &gt;&gt;Rick: Is he in Australia? &gt;&gt;Lisa: Yeah, he's also why I came out to He's also my boyfriend as well. &gt;&gt;Rick: Oh, okay. &gt;&gt;Lisa: And Ramesh passed me off to him. It's quite a funny story. Ramesh said to me, &quot;If you want peace of mind when I had just started dating Roger, and face]. &gt;&gt;Rick: That's a little sexist right? Roger probably put him up to that. &gt;&gt;Lisa: He does it to people and he would what to say. When you're suddenly told that you're to listen &gt;&gt;Rick: Yeah, so how did that work out? &gt;&gt;Lisa: Well, we were in a relationship for We broke up about 8 months ago but it was than a boyfriend. Because it's hard to ... in a way it was hard exist at the same time, so it was more of &gt;&gt;Rick: Hmm, yeah. Was he a lot older than you? &gt;&gt;Lisa: No, 7 years. &gt;&gt;Rick: For some reason I think of Ramesh someone as young as you couldn't have hung I don't know. &gt;&gt;Lisa: He only died two years ago, I think. &gt;&gt;Rick: Oh, okay. &gt;&gt;Lisa: So I had been with Roger like a year a year before Roger. &gt;&gt;Rick: You're probably going to tell me it's that, but did you spend a long time as a spiritual Was there a whole series of ... so yeah, would bit? &gt;&gt;Lisa: No, not at all. So I started off in Buddhism but was always I don't know, I'd never been into spirituality understand suffering. It had always been such a strong ... like old, I was an activist, and there was such on. And then when I was about 20 I got involved of the Western Buddhist' but I've heard they've they've changed it to. And as soon as I went, the very first time Buddhist for 5 years - like a lot of meditation, of my social life and friends ... thinking teacher very quickly, who was in the Buddhist and Adyashanti. And then in 2005 so I started the Buddhist in 2005, I don't know how I ended up there And I walked in and I found that he was so is a waste of time, what a load of bullocks,&quot; And I sat there in my Buddhist clothes with [Gasping] &quot;Like, how could you say this?&quot; Within 6 months the Buddhist stuff had completely my whole life was Buddhism. And then suddenly I dropped it all and had changed. And then I hung around with Tony for a year, And then after a year-and-half that's when and ended up over here. &gt;&gt;Rick: Well that's a nice synopsis. You know it's funny, I have a friend here things, but she says - I was supposed to interview with his technical side, so we're still working certain point I would read Tony Parsons and hold the book to my heart, it was just like A couple of years later I couldn't even pick It was like it served its purpose for me and appropriate.&quot; &gt;&gt;Lisa: I kind of felt like what happened or when I was going to his satsangs and that what he intellectually explained to me, Roger and Ramesh and going to India, it kind up in my life. So first of all it was intellectually understood, in life. &gt;&gt;Rick: Yeah, I'm still reading his book All through it, and I'm really enjoying it but &gt;&gt;Lisa: He's hilarious. &gt;&gt;Rick: Yeah, he's a character. The book is excerpted from various talks but or something like that. &gt;&gt;Lisa: Yeah, and it's hilarious to go to crushed there because they've been so much and then they meet him and he's like and &quot;What a load of bullocks!&quot; And somebody will go, &quot;What about meditation?&quot; And he's kind of taking the absolute opposite (Lisa makes a face of someone who is confused) &gt;&gt;Rick: Yeah, and that's sort of what I was I don't mean to pick on Tony because I really serving a purpose, but it's sort of what I is that what he's saying is absolutely true level to other levels. So there is a level on which meditation makes Let's say you take 200 people and you have and you have the other half smoke methamphetamine At the end of ten years half of group B will of group A - not half but a good percentage Some may have had awakenings, they may have have relative effects. &gt;&gt;Lisa: Yes. The way that it's seen here is the story always So if you train every day to be a swimmer, be a swimmer, not because the past action the story works in cause and effect. Because if you separate out and say that cause everything isn't one, that there is separation can affect another, but it's not the cause This world is logical and this world works So if you overfeed a dog, the dog is going has a super duper metabolism, and the same More than likely after ten years of meditation, to experience a quieter mind, not because in this apparent cause and effect. But one action can never affect another action is separate and that somebody can be separate And here, if you believe that you're a separate then you can also screw up life. So as long as you believe that you're a separate good and bad and that you can mess up life. And the majority of suffering comes down to my teacher, says it, and how it's being seen down to guilt and blame. These are the two big sufferings: &quot;You did You're a bad person for doing that,&quot; and then I shouldn't have done that. I'm going to create really bad consequences.&quot;&quot; And it's believing that you're a separate long as that belief is there, there'll be There's also Ramesh and Roger also showed and guilt but they're the two main ones. There's [also] expectation, worry, shame, believing that separate self can do or make And the majority of people that I come up this&quot; I enjoy discussing with them actually, but that really get upset about this is not, is they want to hold on to blame, they to say, &quot;You did something to me and you're You did something, say ... you're cruel to They want to hold on to this dynamic because bad and blaming them, that they can in some make themselves secure. And as long as you believe in that dynamic yourself a victim and afraid and scared. Even though you believe [that] in making the as bad you're making yourself safe, it's an the perpetrator. But it's not you creating it; it's just the &gt;&gt;Rick: A lot of times it's just a matter the other isolated perspective. For instance in the United States the republicans think the republicans are bad, and there's days between the two. It's very hard for the Congress to get anything But when I listen to you talk, and this is and I'm not one of those people who would found myself completely agreeing with you, saying, &quot;Yes, but ...&quot; What you're saying which are also true, even though it may be So for instance you said, &quot;Cause and effect, If I drop this cup it hits the table, and that describe that phenomenon, that can't And yet on other levels it's not true, there Newtonian laws are completely transcended.&quot; And so it's just a matter of being flexible is Caesar's. Recognizing that every level has its own rules, because of being grounded in the other. One can become callous or insensitive if that &gt;&gt;Lisa: Yeah and when you talk about levels I remember this being a great realization that this story is always going to appear If you go around shouting at people, it's back at you, if you put your hand in the fire ... it's not even like I see it like that it's just so immediate. I don't have that going into it. There are times obviously where you've got that that thinking comes about, but the majority life is happening, and there's not a thinking And I don't believe that you need to be sensitive to others or thinking about that is buying and complete as we are and we don't need others So if someone is coming up with that argument nothing at all to do with me; it's to do with Because I can now, and it wasn't like this you get this too like very firm, non-agreeing so indifferent. I prefer the nicer emails but it's so indifferent. It's just what it is, I just don't ... It's is seen as my happiness. So I don't even think about if I'm being sensitive like creating different levels or anything I just do. I just ... mouth open and says. &gt;&gt;Rick: Yeah, I totally agree with you, I And we could probably preface everything we as soon as you open your mouth you're in the You know, there's me talking to you through I'm in the United States, and so on and so But all that is just apparent, you know? I mean we're all sort of ... well, you can't infinite closeness, infinite correlation in But as soon as we begin to speak of any manifest or this and that we're talking about something but it does have its rules and significance And the point I keep coming back to is, well but, you can't shoot the tiger of the dream You can't juxtapose the principles and mechanics level of life, and the reason I keep hitting That's what Tony Parsons is doing, in my opinion. He's kind of taking the principle that there then concluding, &quot;Well, since there's no one, lot of bunk. Because there's no one to receive karma or And on some level that's true, but on another is someone who reincarnates, and who generates And so it's all just a matter of where do &gt;&gt;Lisa: Yeah, but I don't even, like, the its dance perfectly, and so I don't even worry communicate this, because it will be communicated time. In this story it appeared that I had to have even the lighter - but the teachings of Buddhism And it all built up and built up and built was completely not involved with the story, But it's like life will show you exactly what And a lot of spiritual seekers that I speak do and how to do it, and how to get liberated, you need to do it and get it right. Life will show you exactly what's meant to That thinking process of &quot;How can I make liberation? How can I do this? How can I get this?&quot; is, in the assumption It is what's covering it. And if that's what the destiny of most people opinion that everybody wakes up, if not it's all a story of liberation. However that's just my personal opinion, I it. &gt;&gt;Rick: Tony says that too. &gt;&gt;Lisa: Like the very idea &quot;How can I make is suffering, is separation. But the seeker thinks that that idea is something but it's actually not. It's what's covering it. It's that seeking dynamic ... &quot;I need to get &quot;I need to get somewhere, I need to do something.&quot; I understand how that happens. I went through ten years of a lot of suffering. Spiritual seeking is the great suffering for &gt;&gt;Rick: Can be. &gt;&gt;Lisa: Not all the time though. &gt;&gt;Rick: But it can also be a lot of fun. &gt;&gt;Lisa: Yeah, yeah, yeah, and I say that ... like He read spiritual books and then it was over. He just fell asleep a lot for those two years. He would just sit on the sofa, read the book, fall asleep. &gt;&gt;Rick: Sounds good. &gt;&gt;Lisa: Yeah, and that was it for two years. &gt;&gt;Rick: If someone pays the bills it's fine I'd do it! Well, you know Jesus wouldn't have been very &quot;Seek and ye shall find,&quot; and so they would Now in your own case I would argue that although is no cause and effect in this stuff, but you know, Buddhism and Eckhart Tolle and Adyashanti was actually instrumental in bringing you There's an old Zen saying: &quot;Enlightenment makes you accident prone.&quot; And it might seem absurd from the point of of view of the sun - &quot;Hey! I'm always shining; I don't care what those Doesn't matter whether the clouds are cleared But, to stretch the metaphor a bit, from the it makes a big difference whether the clouds So there are things which one can actually one doing them, which are actually conducive nervous system, things which destroy the nervous And you know, that's not a popular way of the way I see it. &gt;&gt;Lisa: Well it can ... in some it is. The way that I see it is as long as you can past action is affecting a next action, then be suffering. Whether it's true or not ultimately, I have It really is irrelevant to me whether we see All I'm pointing out is as long as you believe However, and in Lisa's story, it couldn't In anybody's story it couldn't be any other I went through this, ten years of this beautifully and it couldn't have been any differently. And it's the same with everyone else's story, differently and that you've got it right or And all I see happening here is Lisa describing, is. And it might be seen - if that's the destiny be seen, it's just dependent on whether that's It's just written that ... but see, it's just Like all of these ideas, they're just pointers; If you believe in time and space, and I'm and I can create my spiritual journey,' like that, you're into believing-seeking. Among this seeking energy there's this energy, Screw liberation or enlightenment, all they appears with the dynamic of I can create I need to get pleasure and avoid pain,' and And so that's what's got to be removed, that's It's just that seeking dynamic of that contraction. And now when you stop believing any idea - screw dropped, and nobody could possibly do that. Nobody could possibly drop the ideas because is the ego. So as long as those ideas are in place, there there's just an expansion, and it's everything, It's shocking! It's shocking the trick we're in, the joke that happiness is out in this and that we've And that's the dynamic that stops but nobody I mean, do you Rick, do you believe you could &gt;&gt;Rick: For me the word belief' is not Um, I don't dwell too much on beliefs or non-beliefs. For me, experience is more paramount, and believes. If experience is that one is a bound, constricted, is going to believe, it's sort of a cart-and-horse And if one's experience is that one is oceanic of life, then one is going to believe that. The word belief' is sort of irrelevant, And of course people arguing about something most religious people do and fight wars over what's being served for dinner in the next going in there and eating it, and resolving Now you mentioned a thorn to remove a thorn', and all the great teachers have used that is that there are methods which can remove methods are in and of themselves are also or true. Meditation, yoga, whatever you want to do, they're useful. They're instrumental in removing the thorn Maharishi and so on, actually encouraged people for them, self-enquiry or whatever. &gt;&gt;Lisa: And actually it doesn't come up here not against that. Because whatever is happening is ... if the is to meditate, or the attraction is to go that, then that is absolutely perfect, it's There's nothing wrong with doing those things, it can be useful and other things can be unuseful, So if when you do these things you believe, bop-bop,&quot; you're going to carry on suffering, So it's not that I'm saying don't do; I spend at Roger's house, just sitting, sitting. I don't do any practice anymore but at times and look at the world. And people ask why do I do that and it's not anymore, there's not an urge. The urge to do something or try to make an seeking of I need to make this better,' anymore; I just sit there and look at the So it's not that I'm saying don't do, at all, separation - that is the thing like, I've I'm not saying don't do that; I'm just pointing I'm just pointing out what is suffering and the dance of Lisa does, is points out that But how could you possibly not do? Something is always going to happen even in &gt;&gt;Rick: I'm reminded again of the de-scription, Gita also, which on the one hand there are the realized person doesn't act at all, even stuff he realizes I am not the doer,' and Arjuna to go out and fight a battle, you know, But he's saying, &quot;First establish yourself it, and then go do it.&quot; So where was I going with that? The word &quot;belief,&quot; I don't feel like there's wrong, but I don't feel there's any harm in effects. If you eat certain foods they will nourish they will make you sick, so relative substances, on the body - take this pill, does that, take true with spiritual practices, they have different Whether or not you can actually say they lead there because realization is sort of beyond can anything step you into it? But it's like a boat, there's a certain point jump out prematurely alligators will get you, time to get out, you know? I'm sorry, go ahead. &gt;&gt;Lisa: Well, so the dynamic here, even when experience all the time, because as you say, is that in happiness there is no dynamic If when you're seeking - and when you're seeking better, you're a separate individual trying is happening is wrong because that's exactly that belief there, any belief that what you're suffering, you're in separation, you're in You're in a separate self that believes it But again, I don't deal in concepts, but this concepts - there is no sense that somebody That will always create suffering and so it It has to be with meditation, with eating body as well, and it is something that is Like it's not to do with having certain emotions And this was shocking to me in the beginning, when I was a child and in school, I was very the intellect and it's not about intellectual And it's shocking because up until a couple it,' it was in some intellectual concept, understanding; it's the falling away of all is creating that veil, and creating that sense And it's crazy when it's seen, because I used that if I could get them to say a certain differently, I'd be free. And it was the same with meditation and sitting enough, if I could sit in that silent witness do with it. It's craziness. Like there really isn't a self here doing to the doer. There is just absolute expansion and happiness and good and bad, and right and wrong, and falls away, there's just absolute in-loveness be alive. But any belief in time and space whether absolutely irrelevant to me, it's just is And it's not even a belief, you're so right, or intellectual ideas or thought patterns, of themselves. What is uncomfortable is this, that's the &gt;&gt;Rick: And it's not so much is it that the in the suffering state concomitant with that is, it's just characteristic of that state &gt;&gt;Lisa: Yeah. &gt;&gt;Rick: Yeah, it's subtle, because it sounds should drop my beliefs and then I'm not going as that. And you're describing very beautifully a state all that has been let go, and even that sounds somebody let it go, and so on and so forth. But it's very hard to phrase it, to really you know? &gt;&gt;Lisa: Yeah. &gt;&gt;Rick: So I may sound argumentative but I I really do agree with you, I think entirely, know. &gt;&gt;Lisa: Yeah, yeah, and I was talking to my from England, staying and he was talking And he was saying something like ... he was something and doing something: &quot;Oh, she's and da da. And I said, &quot;Oh I don't think the dog thinks.&quot; And he was like, &quot;Of course the dog thinks, And I was like, &quot;Oh I think the doing just And he was like, &quot;Oh don't be silly, of course And I remember believing that thoughts created happening so effortlessly and spontaneously to think about anything. But thinking does happen and it appears to diary and you plan to go on the train, and need it. Life is happening so spontaneously without And then I tried to say to him, &quot;Well did the thought next?&quot; But he was so convinced that it was all about for it to happen. And it's so shocking to the mind, it really In a way, when I look back on this story I mind kind of - I call it stabilized or when all through my life I can remember knowing And it's so obvious to us, so obvious what the belief is in the mind and in the thoughts, Like the energy and the believing that you're creating life, and that you just did a bad it right, you're doing the right amount of really appears like that to the mind. But also, when I'm talking about this I can talking about, there was such a strong knowing &gt;&gt;Rick: Yeah, I think everyone, not everyone, it resonates because it's there, you know? There's an intuitive understanding because describing their own experience. And perhaps there's some greater clarity which some degree of coherence and yet help someone And even in Tony Parson's book he said, &quot;Clear this side the clear seeing might be occluded but there's an energetic resonance that takes will dissipate the occlusion, dissipate the on both sides. I guess that pertains to what you were just kind of started out the whole interview talking somebody's de-scription? And I think it is for the reasons we've just this. And it's sort of like you're pointing to something like turning the spotlight on it, whereas I mean? And that kind of enlivens it. &gt;&gt;Lisa: Yeah, and I just have to go back to about. I remember what Tony used to say about seeing and it's not effective because somebody's that's how life reads it. Like with me, living with my teacher for three it appears that that really diffused Lisa here, because every time I came up against to drag him into a drama, that didn't happen I need to blame you; I need to get you involved you.&quot; And so it appears that way not because there but because that's how it's written, because up, and keeps writing it in loads of different ... like my waking up process was so dramatic, and then moving to Australia, and living in with people for three years, but it's not was written, because that's the way it is, because the separate self or somebody's doing of liberation was to happen in Lisa. And it's the same with Tony, that nothing having an effect but because that's how I I don't mean an individual entity, but I'm of God's will. &gt;&gt;Rick: Yeah, yeah, I am very happy with the a little bit. But you just referred to Tony and out of respect I had a lot of trepidation about interviewing things from people. I mean, I even had one guy who got in touch after Tony, because he said he hated him so he said. And I said, &quot;Oh, I don't think so.&quot; But you reminded me of one of his phrases so it can find itself.&quot; And it's like this game or this Lila, as they am one and become many and then go out into go? I better find it.&quot;' Let's talk You keep talking about things happen this it was meant to happen that way, who's writing Who's the script-writer here? &gt;&gt;Lisa: Oh I don't know the answer to that. &gt;&gt;Rick: I know it's speculative or theoretical at just about anything and you think, Oh, I would like to meet this artist.' You know, like I watched a little documentary we have a 100 trillion of these in our body?! And the guy who gave the presentation said, on in the cell but I'm going to tell you what And he went on to give this incredibly beautiful and everything, about how an individual cell there's so much incredible stuff going on. And you look at that and every bit of it is such a thing, and that is orchestrating its of them in one body alone. Now, what is the intelligence, what is the &gt;&gt;Lisa: Yeah, it's amazing. &gt;&gt;Rick: Illusory as it may ultimately be, I hear the word &quot;mystery.&quot; &gt;&gt;Lisa: Yeah, and I just feel absolutely in Particularly nature and animals there's animals do their thing. And if you watch ants creating their amazing, lines, they always know where the piece of Like it might be miles away but you see their over the ceiling, down the other side. It's just amazing, it really is. &gt;&gt;Rick: When I was a kid I used to sit on little trails with it and watch the ants do And then look at an ant under an electron &quot;Whoa! What an incredible thing?!&quot; Again, for me at least, I'm speaking of something but I see it as a sort of a destination in this way, who have had this yearning for God what, who is the artist behind this beautiful that I want to know, and that eventually &gt;&gt;Lisa: I don't really have the urge to know Like when I think about it, when I try and but I don't spend too much time thinking about &gt;&gt;Rick: When I said &quot;know,&quot; I didn't mean I'm not talking about get it all figured out merging with that. Which gets me onto a theme that I often bring see it, and as many people whom I've interviewed others there is no end to this. Sure there's an end to seeking, if by seeking gear-grinding, yearning for satisfaction or that falls away, but then what? Then the adventure continues to unfold. There's continuous refinement and exploration &gt;&gt;Lisa: Someone was saying to me the other &gt;&gt;Rick: Sure, yeah! &gt;&gt;Lisa: Yeah, so all I talk about - and this is the end of seeking, which is suffering, of energetical shifts and things that change But all I talk about is the end of suffering, And Karen was kind of suggesting - and other of it. But I don't see it as a deepening; I just have any extraordinary experiences that you people's minds or even walking through walls, like that, and I don't even think about it Or experiencing like ... Vishram, he was telling with people and he calls it the download.' I don't know, I didn't finish his interview about it with you where he downloads people like these big dishes. What do you call that? He's like a dish that receives conditioning, nothing really complicated like that has happened But all I'm talking about is, and the huge energy has fallen away, and it happened slowly I woke with Tony and it happened apparently there was a big bang at the end, a big, sort And that doesn't happen for everyone, it's And that seeking energy fell away and now And energies still come up, thoughts still there's pleasure, there's pain but fist) anymore, and I know, I can't explain And so now, there's not really a caring if don't think I want the downloading of people really care too much. The caring came when I felt like this (makes When I was like this, I wanted future to be So that's my take on it however, I'm completely dynamics or whatever it shows or does. Like living with Roger, certainly lots of over those three years and he used to call noticing different things. But the most important thing that's happened can be whatever it is and I'm excited to take &gt;&gt;Rick: That's great and you're a wonderful be saying 10, 20, 30 years from now, it could &gt;&gt;Lisa: It could be six months! &gt;&gt;Rick: Sure. &gt;&gt;Lisa: I think somebody played me back something that?&quot; &gt;&gt;Rick: Yeah right, yeah. &gt;&gt;Lisa: You repeated and said that six months what I'm saying now. &gt;&gt;Rick: Yeah, what you're saying now is great I mean that's why there's so many teachers they all have their little clusters of people &gt;&gt;Lisa: Yeah, and the attraction is to somebody it like this and that's exactly what's meant This is just the song that Lisa sings and exactly what's going to be heard now, because Like I know that Tony Parsons, and I love I was like, &quot;But what about&quot; because I younger, and I was like &quot;what about Eckhart And he was like, &quot;What a load of rubbish this And I was like, &quot;Ahhh&quot; (making a gasping sound). And I don't have that sense, that sense that right; I just see it working perfectly, as That's exactly what people are going to hear. And I don't even think Tony's wrong for what song is. &gt;&gt;Rick: That's his song and I totally agree And I would extend that to fundamentalist imams and atheists, and whoever's telling They're just kind of like one little niche cosmic play. Which is not to say that there aren't qualitative towards what resonates with them and when else. &gt;&gt;Lisa: Yeah, and actually what I gravitate Like a lot of the time ... well I was on a guy that used to I won't say his name and tell jokes to people in the corner and And he would love it if someone would just and he would wet himself and it was hilarious I can't say his name but he's in the corner I remember sitting in in a conversation and obviously covering up a lot of stuff with his psychology and about how he was repressing. And now, if somebody's telling jokes in the I love to laugh. And it's not that I think that this is a component I think it's to do with the way that the body-mind's animals, laughing, I quite enjoy talking like And it's just what I enjoy but I completely do it for hours, and I could see myself just &gt;&gt;Rick: Yeah, well I kind of enjoyed it listening some serious Vedantic thing and then all of you would go, &quot;Oh, bunny!&quot; And then the goo-goo talk would go on with the serious Vedantic talk. A lot of fun! And of course there could be someone equally jokes, who would consider that totally frivolous serious discussions about metaphysics or something, Like, we all have our own wiring. &gt;&gt;Lisa: Yeah, and Roger, my teacher, he's He's like Ramesh very heady and very intellectual, and hours and hours, and he loves intellectual &gt;&gt;Rick: I should interview Roger! Sounds like I'd have fun with Roger. &gt;&gt;Lisa: Yeah, and Roger is great at talking Like, we used to joke together he used you've not got that mind,'&quot; like &quot;You've Like it was our joke and so I never, ever, thought about talking about this. And now we laugh when we talk, for the fact And I'm not actually, intellectually that If you listen to Roger, he has the answer Any question you ask him, he could give you &gt;&gt;Rick: Yeah, well I'm not intellectually people and ask questions instead of getting know? Also, I feel like having been a teacher of for the most part, without really full experiential an aversion to premature emaculation, you - teaching when I'm not, you know, fully ... Like you don't have to be ready.&quot; I've had that phase of my life and maybe I'll at this point to ask questions and bring out Let's talk about, a little bit, you mentioned, was this thing, and then there was this big a little bit greater detail. &gt;&gt;Lisa: Yeah, um, which part? &gt;&gt;Rick: Well, I mean ... &gt;&gt;Rick: Well, some people seem to have an going off very abrupt, very dramatic, because they hadn't anticipated, they didn't Sometimes incapacitating - Eckhart Tolle had the pigeons, you know, until he could get And other people it's much more slow and gradual, stage of it and you barely even notice that &gt;&gt;Lisa: And that's kind of what happened to a stabilization, because it was more of a the dynamics. So I'd keep thinking, I'd keep having the world,' and I wasn't 100% clear as to what And there was a lot of flip flopping, there then real expansion. And then when at the beginning of 2011 I split woke up in the middle of the night and was I was like, &quot;Uh!&quot; &gt;&gt;Rick: In the middle of the night? &gt;&gt;Lisa: It was maybe about 11 or 12 at night. &gt;&gt;Rick: Hoping he didn't send you out the &gt;&gt;Lisa: No he didn't. He gave me a couple of weeks. But he was like, &quot;It's time for you to go no, no, no, it's not time for me to go now. It's not time for me to go now.&quot; And he was like, &quot;No, it's time for you to I've had the feeling that things need to change.&quot; And a lot of fear came up but a lot of ... the and it's not really true, it's just what is ready, the teacher kicks them out. And I couldn't, it didn't feel like, I couldn't I was so attached to him, not as a boyfriend, And it was quite mortifying to hear him say, does what it does, that's what has to happen.' So I got on a plane to Bali. &gt;&gt;Rick: Not a bad place to go and lick your &gt;&gt;Lisa: Yeah, like I'd spent 3 years in the had fallen away, my job, my house in London, All I was used to everyday was being in the two dogs, the house, I'd created a garden. So it was quite a big shock from your everyday the world. In Bali I went to this place called Uber, Eat, Pray, Love, and I went to a retreat center It was just an exhaustion, I was just exhausted. I just laid there and yeah, there was a sense and then it was slipping into feeling absolutely But I felt so exhausted by that flipping like being taken away and feeling absolutely contracted. It was just the character of Lisa was exhausted I just ordered room service and there were dramatic. And then one day I got out of bed and went at the waitress and I was like, &quot;Wow! She's beautiful!&quot; and I don't mean sexually; I just was like And then I looked around the room and I was This room is beautiful!&quot; and I was overwhelmed by the beauty of everything. And I didn't notice there was a difference of this is different to how you normally So I took myself for a walk into these gardens, plants were shimmering and shining and I was And I remember seeing this guy and he was He can see how amazing this is too,&quot; and so guy, and then realized that he was actually it was so dramatic. And then I saw a dog dying on the street and with the animals, and I looked and I was like, by God. It's like every part of God is supporting It's not stuff like ... I can't explain it &gt;&gt;Rick: No, you're doing it. &gt;&gt;Lisa: Yeah, yeah, and then I was walking and loud cars, and I was absolutely just knocked Even the poverty, the dirt, everything was And I'd known this all along, like I'd been now ... and first seeing. That went on for the whole time I was in Bali And it was like I was walking around like to me that I could talk, that talking was it was, all of it was shocking. I didn't know how I got from one place to just perfect. I was still alive, I was still paying the And then I had a conversation with Roger and was no urge to tell anyone about this. And Roger just said, &quot;Do you want to house I'm going to go away for three months?&quot; So I went back to Australia to house sit for And yeah, and it's just kind of carried on, I don't get used to it but it's just not as But now it's just great, I'm absolutely in was before. It's not so dramatic, because at first the &gt;&gt;Rick: Yeah, you do get used to it, because get used to things, you know? &gt;&gt;Lisa: And there is a sense of awe still, of wow' there. So that's happened and now I just ... it's of years ago and now is like, the characteristics he's so different from me and the way I express And in him it wasn't the difference in characteristics happened over a couple of years and it was The difference in me was so huge because I victimhood and feeling so victimized to life, and not always feeling good enough, not feeling huge difference character wise, to the personality &gt;&gt;Rick: That's great, yeah. And it's worth repeating that in case anticipate that same sort of thing, you know are people. &gt;&gt;Lisa: Yeah, and like for Roger it was so It was just that he fell asleep a lot and and most of it seemed to fall away when he And Ramesh, I think the story of Ramesh is He said weeks or something - I don't really then one day it dawned on him that suffering And he was like, &quot;Oh,&quot; so it was so different. So I think maybe because the weight of suffering it was quite a big radical change. But that's just a story, it's easy to get baggage and I've got so much...,' I can hear &gt;&gt;Rick: Yeah, it's interesting, I've seen my town, which is a place which is the home There's a university here and everything, been meditating for decades, and there's quite boot it out, or they sort of just extricate Then shortly thereafter they have some awakening. Your story about leaving Roger reminded me of like an incubator. There's a certain point at which the chick, to remain in the incubator. The incubator has done its job, time for the unless it gets out of the incubator. And so when that time comes, through one means stretching the metaphor here get out of &gt;&gt;Lisa: Yeah, and in this story, when I look of that situation. And it was like the final, and it often is, or the teacher, or often another attachment of similar, in a way, but for me it was definitely and so much respect. And as long as you're holding someone in that here as a student. And it's not you holding; it's just the dynamic student and they're a teacher, and they're from that. &gt;&gt;Rick: And there's a time for that, you know? That's appropriate in its own time and then or superfluous, or time to change that dynamic. &gt;&gt;Lisa: Yeah, and it's really funny because dramatic thing; it's just that's what comes But Roger does, and he very much is, and it's the teacher, and that will always be the dynamic I mean, I go back and he's telling me ... like &quot;You don't need to say apparently' so much, &gt;&gt;Rick: Yeah, that's funny. &gt;&gt;Lisa: That is so funny. &gt;&gt;Rick: Well, you know, just to dwell on this Roger probably didn't even know that ... I than Roger realized in telling you it was Something moved him to say that and you left, the perfect thing for him to have said at you know? &gt;&gt;Lisa: Yep, and he didn't, even when he said you've got to go.&quot; &gt;&gt;Rick: Yeah, exactly, he had the impulse, &gt;&gt;Lisa: Yeah, it's amazing and life happens. Now that the identification isn't claiming the time. It's always so perfect what it's doing, is never out of place. And it's only that idea that life is out of be protected and controlled that gives that And that's the perfect explanation of that to go.&quot; &gt;&gt;Rick: Mm-hmm. It's that same intelligence that's orchestrating also, you know, the puppeteer for this entire this way and flow that way, for ways that out to be just right. &gt;&gt;Lisa: Yeah, and I didn't tell him for months And he came back, maybe in September or October &gt;&gt;Rick: Didn't tell him what? That you'd had this awakening? &gt;&gt;Lisa: That anything had changed or happened. And then he'd be walking, we lived together walking around the house and he would be like, Why?&quot; And it felt pointless telling him, it was It was like, and I'd be sat on the sofa and a lot of sitting that happened afterwards, hours and also this is hilarious, what Have you ever watched MTV? And really like dance music, like I'd spend &gt;&gt;Rick: Oh that's great. &gt;&gt;Lisa: Sometimes I'd get up in the middle and just be bopping around the room. And I'd love watching. It wasn't like I wanted the radio; it was other people. &gt;&gt;Rick: That's nice. My wife is really into that, she loves to I forget what it's called ... big, popular gotten bitten by that bug so much, although I used to be a drummer back in the old days. &gt;&gt;Lisa: Oh, me too. I was a drummer at school. &gt;&gt;Rick: Oh cool. &gt;&gt;Lisa: Just a drum kit, not percussion. &gt;&gt;Rick: Oh, I played in rock bands and so &gt;&gt;Lisa: Yeah. &gt;&gt;Rick: But no, it's kind of neat. And actually you said something in your talks was also interesting, which is that you found your personality, whereas at one point you mainly the only way you could be, you discovered kind of acting, or feeling, or behaving for you. You can probably say it better than I can. &gt;&gt;Lisa: Yeah, yeah, completely, and it's about Like, I've always loved to laugh and one thing tension, was laughter and being sexy, being girlfriend, and now anything can arise, I Obviously not any character with anyone; it's of boyfriends and fall in love with anybody. Like obviously not so much, but it's not, it's whatever the situation brings. So if I'm sitting with someone and they're they're laughing their head off, then more off too and telling silly jokes again. There's no fixed way of being and really, that will create pleasure like, I'm going And it's some warped idea that [it] will create like this, or you'll avoid pain, avoid an And it's so warped to have all these perceptions, suffering I need to be like this,' or be like this in this situation,' and of pleasure. And whenever you're buying into that dynamic a tight contraction in the body, and really anything. And this is why I don't like saying &quot;I'm a the wally, the laugher, the very serious person It's whatever, ever comes up in that moment. It's just being flexible and free to what's this body-mind mechanism. So also if the teacher role falls away, there's role falls away there's not attachment to natural falling away, like there's not that &gt;&gt;Rick: No, it's good to hear, because I mean it's argued that there's no practical benefit it is', but I've seen many cases where it personality, you know, a much greater richness just what you were describing. And it's just like you use this gesture (Rick and when one is like this (making contracted You're kind of locked into a certain constrained who knows ... &gt;&gt;Rick: Yeah, yeah. &gt;&gt;Lisa: And I listened to a talk of you and was saying something along the lines I'm said something that, &quot;You become fully human,&quot; was saying. And I really understood what he meant, like You can express yourself in every single way, So this is quite a funny movie - inappropriate my mum was sitting at a bus stop and she she had a big puffy skirt on and she had a - beautiful makeup, beautiful hair. And the lady had really high heels on and skirt went over her head and her whole pants Now to an ego, to a separate self, I can imagine the set up that I need to be this pretty, way, I mustn't make a fool of myself, I've my boyfriend ever see me in an unelegant position' going on. And so I'm sure, and I might be wrong, to happening, and it was just awful that everybody and sprawled. And when my mum told me this story I was laughing, I was laughing at the ego, that how it creates Like yesterday I met somebody in the park, like, &quot;Oh, you live in Perth, can I meet up them. And apparently, I tripped over the wall when wall, and I don't even remember this! I don't even remember falling over the wall. I must have just gotten up and laughed and This lady that fell over, if she's heavily she's still going to remember falling over And it's about all these ideas, these second got to behave like this, I've got to be like behaving and being like this will create the amount of payoff, and it's so untrue. There's no comfortableness in, I mean there no comfortableness in trying to pretend to it's so restricting. And it's not somebody doing it; it's just terrible amount of suffering, but it's also Like particularly when you watch kids when they're just beginning to learn nice behavior so they're just beginning to learn that you no one's looking. You mustn't hit a kid when there's teachers looking you can give them a good thump. Just when the ego is beginning to learn how mean, there is also immense suffering if you be you. &gt;&gt;Rick: Yeah, you've probably heard that Indian ... Line on stone, line on sand, line on Have you heard that metaphor? &gt;&gt;Lisa: No, no, no. &gt;&gt;Rick: Well it's like, you know, we have (making contracted fist) then the nervous Something happens to us and it's like a line a long time. Like the lady falling over in the street and she'll remember that 20 years from now. If there's less constriction then it's more but then it washes away. Maybe even less constriction, line on water. Less constriction, line on air. It's like the experience happens, like you it. It's like you could be embarrassed to this of whoosh, passed through, onto the next thing. &gt;&gt;Lisa: And if you believe that you're this then falling over the wall and not being serious Or if you believe that you're a serious teacher people things and needed to have a good outcome, or angry messages, you'd be &quot;pfftt!&quot; (makes hitting sound), there'd be that hitting energy. And it's amazing that everything the ego thinks that that trick, that dynamic, it's never that dynamic, and it's striking, what it's Yes! I'm going to get my happiness.' And if all of that is seen through, this is it needs. &gt;&gt;Rick: Yeah, there's the analogy they use every little gain and loss is a big deal, You gain five dollars and it's like, Whoa!&quot; You lose five dollars, Oh my God.&quot; But if you're a multi-millionaire, it's like and it would be like, Yeah, okay, no big bedrock of wealth, which is just not influenced So I think it pertains to what you're saying or contentment, in a substantial way, which from by circumstances on the surface of life. &gt;&gt;Lisa: Yeah, yeah, completely. &gt;&gt;Rick: And again, that's a de-scription. We're not telling people to try to behave that would be very unnatural, but it's something Cool. Well ... again. &gt;&gt;Rick: I did and then she just wanted to there, Fahrenheit, but she wanted to go out We haven't had the dogs this evening but they I was hoping they would so I could kind of &gt;&gt;Lisa: What sort of dogs are they? &gt;&gt;Rick: Oh, one is a corgi mix and the other an Australian cattle dog, and they're both or another. So, they're great. Okay, so I think we should probably wrap it at a certain point in the interview that we've long for people if we go a full two hours But this has really been enjoyable, as I knew all week. And again, I apologize if I seem sort of aggressive questions, I just was percolating on them thinking about how I wanted to discuss that And from my side it came out great, I just a lot of ground, and I hope you feel that &gt;&gt;Lisa: Yeah, yeah, and I didn't perceive &gt;&gt;Rick: Okay, good. &gt;&gt;Lisa: You should hear some guys that I speak thhhhpp (making tongue sound), the questions. &gt;&gt;Rick: So you do phone consultations with &gt;&gt;Lisa: Yeah, yeah, if people want to chat. I know, and it's getting a bit harder to fit better if you have a real burning energy, but a real burning energy or a burning question, &gt;&gt;Rick: Right. Do you charge money or do you accept donations, &gt;&gt;Lisa: It's a bit of both. I had like a standard donation but I'm so Like obviously I need to live, but if you're if you're earning very little money then $50 are at. They just need to discuss it because I feel that it's not taking up my time, but that have infinities of time. &gt;&gt;Rick: Yeah, there's 7 billion people in &gt;&gt;Lisa: And so charging is a good way because that it's using time or something. Because I found in the beginning that I was much. &gt;&gt;Rick: Yeah, I mean, I sort of did a similar I'm not setting myself up as a teacher or would want to call up and chat with me you I work full time, I do this, I have a wife to one guy, &quot;I'm sorry, I don't mean any offense, I'll actually be able to do this even during and he said he'd have to think about that. But that's understandable. So do you have a website that people can go &gt;&gt;Lisa: Yeah, I do actually. This really beautiful lady called Pranya just &gt;&gt;Rick: Oh good. &gt;&gt;Lisa: www.lisacairns.com and it's a really She did it really nicely and it just went &gt;&gt;Rick: Well cool, I'll link to it from my And usually the way these go, within a week watched the video and listened to the audios some traffic from that. So, lisacairns.com. &gt;&gt;Lisa: Yeah, and if you just type in &quot;Lisa &gt;&gt;Rick: Yeah, it'll probably come up. Maybe not within 2 days it won't, because it, which is what I do for a living I We'll link to it. Let me just make a couple of concluding remarks. First of all, thank you, Lisa, this has really And as we were just discussing, those listening, by making a little donation or something, to find out how to do that. If you've been enjoying this interview, or that you might enjoy, then go to BATGAP.com at the Gas Pump, and you'll see them all archived. I think this is number 103, 104, something There's an audio podcast you can subscribe of your computer for an hour or two looking driving or whatever. There's a little email newsletter you can interview is posted. There's a discussion group that springs up and start chatting about what we talked about, will come in and respond to people's questions So there's all that. BATGAP.com, go there and I hope you enjoy So thanks again, namaste, thank you to those see you next week. {BATGAP theme music plays}