- It is 2024, my dudes. And the Nintendo Switch, is seven years old. Back in 2017, it was just another wacky, But fast forward to today, and they have sold over making it not only a huge success, but one of the most popular But the question is, &quot;How And should anyone buy a Switch today?&quot; Let's take a quick rundown of the current lineup of Switches. We have the cheapest Switch, retailing at $200. Now the Lite was released in 2018 as a dedicated portable console. It is smaller, lighter, and has better battery life at the cost of not being But a lot of people would certainly prefer the regular Switch, which is actually a So I call it the &quot;red box.&quot; But basically in 2019, they replaced the which also retails for $300 and is very much focused So you get all the goodies the dock in the box. And it has almost doubled the battery life of the 2017 model, thanks to a much more efficient processor. Finally, we have the Switch OLED, which is the last version of the Switch that came out in 2021. Now the OLED is a little It retails for $350, and there's not a huge difference between it and the red box, except for what the name implies, the beautiful OLED display. It is bigger, it is brighter, and honestly it's like a cheat code. Because while yes, games don't or any faster than the regular Switch, but literally every single game because of that OLED screen. So you might be asking, &quot;Who is even considering buying Like isn't the new one Well, I got news for you. Ask your cousin, and your cousin's cousin, and your little nephew. I mean, look, there are legitimate reasons if you wanna buy a seven-year-old system. But the question is, &quot;Should you?&quot; Before we go over the bad stuff, I wanna make something very clear. I love the Nintendo Switch. It is still the gaming One of the big reasons for There are over 4,500 and you just can't get Now, if you're willing to you also get access to a Currently it's about a little over 200, and you're getting like NES Game Boy Advance, N64, Japanese game. I might not be a huge fan of the way that the online systems but you do get a lot of games included with the online service. And again, I wanna emphasize 200, 300, even $350 pales in comparison to pretty much every and especially every other handheld. As long as you're willing which again is my personal favorite, and it is my daily driver, you cannot get a cheaper It is a great way to get into gaming. However, it is not all Time to talk about the elephant So the gaming experience has been, how should we say, To see just how bad things have gotten, I went out to my local Target and bought as many of the I could get my hands on to see exactly how bad they truly are. When it comes to &quot;Pokemon,&quot; this is a game that has on the Switch. Now, it is a really fun game and it is the reason why playing it. But the problem is that not but it seems like it's for this hardware. Which seems kind of silly that there are games that look that runs smoothly. With this open world, you do not get 30 FPS very Especially when you start flying around, or driving quickly or stuff, you'll see that this thing drops frames like absolute no tomorrow. Now it's easy to make an excuse like, &quot;Oh, the Switch is old,&quot; or &quot;Oh, the Pokemon team, they're not really great at And that's all true and fair enough. But the fact that I'm minding my own business and trying to fly a little bit, and I can see it literally dropping frames right in front of me. Like it's just, I enjoy the ability to play and high settings and stuff. And this is the like absolute opposite. Personally, I have gotten used and I've kept playing. But I shouldn't have to. Not when other open world games like &quot;Zelda: Tears the Kingdom&quot; run surprisingly well on this hardware. And when you think about it, performance issues aren't unexpected. I mean, every variant of the Switch is running not some but they're running the Tegra X1, a mobile chip that Nvidia And that's nearly 10 years old. If anything, it's a miracle that these play games as well as they do in 2024. But that is not an excuse. A game that shows off the actually pretty well is So this is the original game that was re-released And then we'll say that for a originally designed for this holds up surprisingly well. I would say not only does on those consoles, but importantly, the performance is relatively stable and does go to show that might feel like it's too when you actually have a game there is some performance here. &quot;Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom&quot; is certainly far from a perfect But I will say that it has for the Switch hardware. So yes, you will see some you'll see some slight I actually would say really quite nicely, especially given the age of this hardware. Now, yes, if you try hard enough, and you want to go for some crazy build and you wanna explode a bunch of stuff, you can get the frame rate to drop and there are certainly points to be a touch choppy. It does show you that when and the money and the resources you can get a very, very nice looking game off of this very old hardware, right? I don't think anyone's gonna look at this and like, yeah, sure, it's a little jaggy up on And there's certainly some But a game like &quot;Breath of the Wild,&quot; a game like &quot;Tears of still very well suited Like I don't think anyone's &quot;Oh my God, it's horrible and terrible.&quot; Like, I mean this is a and it looks phenomenal. Ha, ha, ha, ha! Take this, AI overlords! I got a stick! Excellent. The games that work best on Switch are the games that are You can see stuff that Xbox One, and that stuff Whereas games that were designed and these limitations in mind, tend to perform far, far better. Some games like the &quot;Witcher I mean I wouldn't say it's unplayable, but I don't know if I'd into finishing the game on the Switch. Then there are these straight such as &quot;Batman: Arkham Knight.&quot; Now this is a game that for the PS4 and the Xbox One. And as you might imagine, it has not been the most when it comes to, oh, uh oh, So this is also my first This game had absolutely when it was first brought out. The Digital Foundry video on Now, thankfully, it has It is, I will say, impressive, that this is running at I will just give them that. There we go! So like look, the texture quality, like the actual settings of the game are clearly inferior to the PS4. Well, I mean, that's not a surprise. The Switch is nowhere near as powerful. And for sort of more basic, I should probably run away. For basic simple kind of it's not terrible. But as soon as you start to get that whole open world into view, it's clear that they sort of bit off more than they could chew with this game. But I don't think anyone is and be impressed with the you're getting on the Switch. This just feels like it is a little bit too much for the console. No, no, no, no, no, no, I'm running away. Running Holy! Did you see that frame All right, you know what? Time Not that I bit off too much It's just, I was trying to make a metaphor that I couldn't handle, much like the Switch got into by trying to play a PS4 game The number one game I is &quot;Hogwarts Legacy.&quot; Now this is a game that came out for current generation consoles, so we're talking about something which is very graphically demanding. And somehow they squeezed So let's see how it is, shall we? I mean, I appreciate the fact that they have condensed the entire, very demanding game onto And I mean walking around the corridors, I actually say this looks But pretty good and good enough, I think, are two different things. 'Cause what I am seeing is a and sort of stutter in this. Now it's cutscene time. Oh, you look, you see This is a game that I highly suspect would look a whole lot better playing on the Switch OLED's internal 'Cause like yes, it's but I can see the pixel creep, I can see the sort of the that they're trying to upscale. A lot of that kind stuff I think, is going to be masked when It just, the display helps a lot in just sort of shrinking everything down. This is a good example, right? So as I walk up here, it and then there's a micro And then it speeds back So that is a pretty acceptable The problem is, as soon as and sort of experience the game in a little bit more of a meaningful way, you're not just seamlessly transitioning from place to place. You're waiting a minute And to me, that's, I don't because again, we're Like I don't wanna be but it's not a great experience and it's significantly worse I think the problem in that, when you think about what in large part, it needs to be equivalent Because I think a Steam Deck significantly better with Whereas the Switch, it's like, if you've ever tried to like you don't have enough lemon juice. So you take it and you and it's still not enough, and you get one of those and you squeeze it even more Yeah, that's what they've There's no more juice left in the console, and yet the grinding don't stop. It's easy to forget that when it was a bizarre new concept. I mean, there was no competition. But since then, handheld It's not just niche emulators anymore. We're talking about the the Lenovo Legion Go, the MSI Claw, and way more on the horizon. And it's easy to make the argument that Nintendo sort of pioneered It's also easy to see why many companies are hopping on the trend. But despite the rise in popularity, to me, none of the gaming handhelds on the market are true Nintendo Switch competitors. None of them are as compact and the ones that do get close It is clear that while especially by today's standards, Nintendo did a lot of and I think a lot of the competition are really just still trying to catch up. So how is the Switch holding up in 2024? I mean, unsurprisingly, Aren't we all? But Nintendo does an amazing job of creating gaming experiences that don't rely on the latest graphics. As far as I'm concerned, developers have pulled to optimize the amount of I mean, yeah, there's But for the most part, it's It's clear though, that for the next chapter in Nintendo. And I, for one, am very And unless your Switch that you should find a it's probably a good idea to This hardware's probably but I will tell you what, the Switch 2 does not need to be a very, very worthwhile upgrade.