- This car could be yours. The newest giveaway car from To win a 2020 Mustang. We have two giveaways at the same time. We're giving away an iconic Roadster. So you saw an ad like this or this one, or these. If you're like me, your feed and there's no way that all these giveaways could or even legitimate. 'cause let's be honest, these sites are no Oprah or Bob Barker. They need massive production and legal teams to actually whole car, right? Well, today I'm going to dive how broken they've been in the past, and why we've ended up in where Canadians need to to take a giveaway car home. So if you don't know what I'm of staying off social media But over the last five years or so, dozens and dozens of brands have after car giveaway. At first, it started out very familiar. Big companies like Omaze would spend a lot of dollars advertising the And to enter, you just had to Of course, money would come to cover operating costs and but the math seemed to work out. And if you didn't win, you could still write off your But then something changed. Smaller and smaller companies Instead of a Ferrari likely it was a modified car, and instead of charity And instead of a donation to buy their merch. For a lot of people this and even more so when these on top of the car. When a car giveaway is or fundraising, that's one thing, but when dozens of companies business model, something So let's take a look at how Okay. For starters, most of aren't really giveaways at all. They're technically raffles. You gain entries by or earning them by purchasing merchandise or even car parts on Oftentimes, they come with multipliers, allowing you even more entries from making certain purchases. And while we're on the topic, this is how what seem like T-shirt to give these cars away If done right, the raffle of their merch, which covers the cost of both the products and the car. Now, just selling entries That's illegal. Technically, that would And even selling merch with doesn't get them out of the jam. For this to be legal, they have to make it no purchase necessary. The only thing is they love to bury that fact deep within their sites. We went through multiple car like Facebook and Instagram. More often than not, every by making a simple purchase upfront, and they really like to drive that point home, no pun intended. 80Eighty does it, Throtl does The list goes on. In most cases, if you scroll of the page, which can honestly and you'll be distracted by or you'll be shown every single piece of merch you could purchase for gas twice to get down here. It's not until you're here that you can even find the official rules that state you don't have to All you have to do for one of a handwritten postcard of a specific size with various information and a specific envelope and has first class postage. If all these conditions are met, then you get your one entry. If you want a second entry, through all that again. And let's be honest, you Christmas thank you cards, have you? You're really not gonna do this. In most giveaways, these handwritten requests to the low thousands of entries. But that's not the only thing Sometimes the prize itself comes attached with certain conditions to receive your car. For example, one set of states that in order to to claim it at &quot;a sponsor Utah&quot; within 30 days of notification. Otherwise, it'll be forfeited Now, I don't know about you, but I don't have a vacation And who's responsible for Oh. While we're on the subject, I do wanna mention another and regulations that we found fascinating. In every single set of official that Canadians have another through in order to win. Any Canadian that wins must first answer question in an allotted before they ever get their prize. Yeah, that's real. It's a Canadian law that after luck-based sweepstakes So they require a four-step math problem to be answered first. That way it's a game of skill. Pemdas. Never forget pemdas. Maybe that's why our teachers burned this into our little minds. Today's video is brought Listen, I know how it is. Tires are the last thing but finding the right set, Suddenly your car rides and gets better mileage. If you want a quality rec with a high mileage warranty check out Continental They're designed for great and light snow conditions on and even EVs. That's because Continental's minimal rolling resistance So Tour 54s can carry you further with fewer gas station or charging stops. Find more details and your local Another thing you should and regs is the limit on entries. Yeah, it's great that you but mathematically you may be at a massive disadvantage doing so. In some cases, fortune favors the loaded. Many contests don't meaning whales can drop of dough in these stores to Even ones that do have a of 400 to 500,000 entries. One of the good things that these types of giveaways often do now is prize, and most will also allow you to take a full cash These aren't just for Instead, it's there to sweeten the pot and correct the problems of Because remember, car It's the Mazda 808 sedan. Game shows, talk shows, half court shot challenges of cold, hard cash, cars are anyone can do. But the internet, well, that's the world's mall- Now the 1950s is where we started to see a real boom in primarily by the growing popularity of everyone's favorite reason The fabulous 60 minute Price is Right. Fun fact, the very first car up for bid on the Price Is This little beauty was with a six cylinder engine, a heater, and a two-tone paint gray and a little bit lighter gray. But in 2013, a contestant named Aurora LS, which she correctly After winning the car, not only did she have to pay just over two grand in that provided the car, she also had to pay almost seven grand in state and federal taxes on top of it. That's in 2013 money. You know, back when you for just under 10 bucks. This is the caveat Many people don't know: winning a car, whether it be on a game show or elsewhere, winners are required to pay sales, state, and federal taxes as So the amount you pay of factors like your tax bracket, which may even change And it's not just The Price Is Right. Yes, the Chicago Santa Claus herself, Oprah Winfrey gave her entire 2005 Pontiac G six, as the replacement of the Grand Am. Needless to say, everyone was ecstatic until they realized something. Because it was a promotional It was therefore subject to being taxed. Taxed to the tune of That's nearly 12 grand today. Backstage audience members Keep the car and pay and pay the taxes or leave with nothing. Now, if you've got $7,000 lying around, that's a moderate blow. But when you consider who were very much in need of a car, you can probably guess they didn't. That left a sour taste in which according to one producer, &quot;like literally hurt our feelings.&quot; Too bad the IRS doesn't allow happiness and gratitude as an Although to Oprah's credit, 2010 in which she for everyone in the audience as well. But what about casinos? They're easier to get of a game show or a and they give away cars. And sure, it might be harder to win, but the process must be This guy, Jacob Earhart. Anyway, Jacob won a 2015 Wins Casino Resort. And long story short, before they would even give or whatever, he had to get approved for a $4,200 a year and was going to have His obvious solution was But even though he had owned dealerships would only and his highest offer was Because as we all know, the second you drive a new car Modern giveaways have so many because they're trying of giveaways from the past. Many, well-intentioned for winners because of and giveaways are written. But that's assuming everyone So let's take a look at some giveaways that actually did turn out to be scams. Okay, so last December to be writing your Snopes checked out a to give away a brand All you had to do was perform surveys and signing up for free trials on various websites in order to gain an entry. Furthermore, they'd ask and click highlight on the Facebook post. All seems simple enough, but unfortunately, over 450,000 people had just information and made it easier The whole point of typing the @ symbol and highlighting the and wide by increasing Then there was this jamoke who for almost four years promoted and bogus websites using bunk terms and conditions that and completely false at worst and scammed people out of dollars in entry fees. But now he's facing prison time and fines. So that one has somewhat But if you thought you of scams in the real physical world, boy do I have some sour news for you. Back before electronic there were these large called malls. You may have seen one in Stranger Things. Malls were like a physical Amazon that didn't pay for bargain basement Lex Luther to go to space. For those of you that know you've walked through the mall and seen a brand new car being that only requires you to phone number, email marital status, household income, name of your third grade Well, in 2020, journalists for a site called The Hustle Great Mall in Milpitas, between a half-stocked A 2018 Acura TLX was for simply entering some A 2018 Acura being given away as new in 2020 was probably But when the journalists that the contest was being run that had no intention As a matter of fact, they even loaned by a nearby dealer who confirmed that the car wasn't And to make matters worse, which you almost certainly and a half presentation after which you were given a scratcher. If you win on the scratcher, to win $100,000. That boiled down to a one in four chance to pick the right envelope. So this supposed giveaway was information to a timeshare company. This plot is starting to So where does all of this leave us? Well, what it boils down to is every American's favorite The easiest way to see if to check the date the page was made, not the post the page itself. If it's only a few days old, my friends, that's a newborn scam. Also, look for things like If they ask you to jump or don't have any terms and conditions. And yes, you're going to have to read the terms and conditions. I am not the only Kyle to to read the terms and conditions. Are there scams out there? Of course there are, but are many of the legally We interviewed this who legitimately won a brand new Ram TRX and a 2005 Mitsubishi EVO VIII six months. So yes, the American dream and getting something awesome The bottom line is you should and every contest rules because they can all wildly And I'm not even saying you should only do the free entry method. If the giveaway is being put on by a store or a content creator then entering via purchases And of course, if it's a reputable company that says it's donating to charity and makes it very clear you're almost doing a good deed. The purpose of this video isn't to dissuade you from Instead, it's to arm you so you don't get pulled into a scam. So really what we're giving Okay? It's not, but it's If you like what you saw and subscribe to the drive and share this with anyone We'll see you next time.