Welcome to Identifying Luck for Mario Party It is here where we will learn how to best at the only Mario Party game with Let's dive into the pipe and take care of The bonus stars! We've got the Coin Star, Happening Star, The three amigos! They're so tight that you'd never be able that one of them is gonna be replaced in a This third one awards the player that collected of coins from standard minigames only, nothing You can turn bonus stars off if you want, then you'll be turning off hidden blocks I'm not sure why these mechanics are tied Same is true for Mario Party 2, the last video, so there you go. Our spaces for this title are: Blue, Red, Happening, Bowser, Chance, During the final five turns, blue spaces and will always have their coin values doubled A hidden block can appear after landing on In this title, there will always be three One contains a star, one contains 20 coins, either a Magic Lamp, a Wacky Watch, a Barter a Koopa Kard, a Lucky Charm, or a Skeleton This last one appears way more often than If you get lucky and land on a blue space then you'll receive your reward and that will move to a different blue space. Only one hidden block can be on a blue space then the hidden blocks' placements will If the game's gone on without any hidden then target blue spaces that haven't been While this kind of move is better in this because there's one more hidden block on it still shouldn't be something you center but if there's no better option, then hey, Bowser spaces trigger the Bowser Roulette. You're given the option to stop the roulette just like Mario Party 2, but unlike Mario Party 2, The option that the cursor is hovering over is the option that's selected; meaning that it's not prerandomized, you This, along with some of the events you're makes this title's iteration of Bowser one the least threatening out of them all! We've got Coins for Bowser: This is the most common event, The amount of coins taken varies depending and the placing of the player that landed For example, if you land on a Bowser space, unlucky you, and the game is on the first five turns, then you will see "20 Coins for Bowser" Bowser's Coin Potluck: from everyone. The amount of coins taken varies depending Bowser Revolution: them evenly among all the players. In this event, you're a communist if you're and a capitalist if you're ahead in coins. Bowser's Curse: Bowser puts a curse on all that forces them to move 1 to 3 spaces on much like a Poison Mushroom, This could give yourself or your opponents For example, if a couple of your opponents to a chance time space or a game guy space, then you can sit back and watch as they hope could lose it all. Obviously, board placements matter here, and there are tons of situations where slowing could actually help someone, so keep that It's best to go for this event when you're of an item that can cancel its effect on you, such as a mushroom, a golden mushroom, a warp Imagine everyone rolling a 1 to 3 dice block while you're over here rolling two normal it could really put you ahead. Bowser's Reverse Curse: is when Bowser puts a curse on all the players that them to move backwards on their next turn, much like a Reverse Mushroom, Be careful with this event. Moving backwards in Mario Party can be a power which you're going to find out about more in detail later, You wouldn't want your opponents to go back Only try to land on this event if you're that your opponents wouldn't benefit that Using a mushroom, a golden mushroom, a warp or a magic lamp once more will cancel this curse's which can be an even greater way to zip ahead out your opponents in the process. Bowser Shuffle: is simply when Bowser shuffles all players' positions on the board. This functions like a mass warp block and can be incredibly helpful in screwing if they're in a good position. Bowser Phone Giveaway: Bowser gives the player On rare occasions, Bowser may give 2 Bowser Calling Bowser on whomever I want? Count me Bowser Suit Giveaway: Bowser gives the player a Bowser Suit for Getting an item from Bowser for free sounds 10,000 Coin Present, 100 Star Present, Star These are all in yellow text. If you land on any of them, then Bowser will not pay up at all. If you land on a Bowser space with no coins, then Bowser will give you coins based on what These, what we'll call pity coins, can go if the game's in the final five turns and The fact that you can time the Bowser roulette If you sharpen your timing, then these events you look at the time! It's... Chance Time! This title's version of chance time functions but with a few unfortunate twists we're The player still has to hit three blocks to Two of the blocks have pictures of all four and the one in the middle shows what they're Here's where we start seeing some differences. The player cannot hit the blocks in any order the game chooses the order all on its own, taking away some of the choice we had in the The remaining blocks will still spin faster The side blocks which show the players' nor the placings of each player. This isn't too big of a deal though, since I imagine that not many people were of the turn order for these side dice blocks It's quite easy to figure out a new order Once a player's been selected, they'll still disappear off the other dice so they don't cause a rip in space-time The middle dice block, which determines will roll one of these three cycles that it For example, if it's the final five turns, That'd be great... If it weren't for the fact that where the In Mario Party 2, you could memorize how many you'd have to wait for certain trades because each of its cycles started at the Since these cycles don't do that like Mario Party 1's Chance Time, you're gonna have a tougher time getting Pick a trade you really like from each cycle that way you'll be prepared to time your no matter which trade the cycle starts spinning Even this strategy can fall apart though, fast for you to tell where everything is. Just make sure you have a general idea of and make your best attempt at timing your If a player lands on the Battle Space, Goomba gets a certain amount of coins from each player, and a Battle minigame begins. The amount of coins he'll take each player The possible results are 0, 10, 20, 30, and Yeah I know, 0's an option, stick with me The chances each amount have of showing up During the first five turns, the low amounts whereas the high amounts are shoved aside. During midgame, 0 drops dramatically, During the final five turns, 10 drops a bit to give even more room Needless to say, the big swings are mainly Players attempt to battle each other to get 1st Place gets 70% of the coins 2nd Place gets 30% of the coins If players tie for 1st or 2nd, If the total jackpot is not a multiple of all coins but one will be distributed in this and the remaining coin goes to a random player. If a player lands on an item space, they will either play an item minigame or or Baby Bowser, who will ask the player a Toad's questions are choice-oriented, and Answers suggesting greed are more likely to Answers suggesting less greed generally net Sometimes it's better to answer neutral your inventory getting filled up with mushrooms Baby Bowser's questions are &quot;yes-or-no&quot; questions. Answers suggesting less maturity generally Answers suggesting more maturity are more Baby Bowser to leave and give the player nothing. Don't overthink the questions most of the If Toad visits you, then be a good noodle. If Baby Bowser visits you, then put on your If a player passes the Bank space, If a player has less than 5 coins, the bank If a player lands on this space, The bank can hold up to 999 smackeroos. You can gauge how many coins are in the bank One means at least 5 coins, two means at least three means at least 25 coins, four means and five means at least 45 coins. At this amount, the coins stop piling up, meaning that you've gotta start keeping of them yourself if you weren't already. The bank space can be deadly if it fills up although you may not see it fill up as quickly since only half the boards have a bank space If losing five coins would be a huge downer then avoid these bank spaces as best you can, unless you're able to land on one of course, If a player lands on a Game guy space, then make them play a Game Guy minigame. These mostly luck-based minigames or more, depending on the minigame, or if We'll cover Game Guy's wacky minigames later. This title has twenty items for players to These seven are purchasable from Toad. These seven are purchasable from Baby Bowser. These two are purchasable from both. And these four are rare items, that can't They can only be obtained by chance through a hidden block, or a question event on an A player can hold up to three items in this Whenever you come across an item shop, either Toad or Baby Bowser. As you saw earlier, the difference isn't the items they sell are fairly different, which means there are now two item shop tables What each seller has in stock when you visit and your current placing. For example, if it's the midgame, then he'd be selling a skeleton key, a poison a reverse mushroom, a plunder chest, a lucky If the situation's the same, except Toad then he'd be selling a mushroom, a skeleton a warp block, a golden mushroom, and a boo While it is a shame that you can't choose appears whenever you visit an item shop, this knowledge is still worth having. There may come a time where shooting for a really matters enough to the point of risking Worst case scenario, you pick an item that as well as the one you wanted. There also exists an item that lets you call which deletes the 50/50 outright. Every CPU has an item they're more likely when they're at a shop or target when it Mushroom When used, this item allows the player The numbers of both rolls are added up together, If the player rolls a 7 on both dice blocks, if they roll any other number on both dice It's always nice to have a mushroom in stock, There may come a time where you'll need so unless you're low on funds, then consider Warp Block When used, the warp block will appear above The player will then hit the block. The effect of this is that the player will with a randomly chosen opponent. The player can then roll a Dice Block to move You're still not guaranteed to switch with but as always, your opponents' placements If everyone is in a hotspot besides you, then the warp block is bound to be useful. On the other hand, if two of your opponents your one is alright, but your last opponent then you probably shouldn't expect everything It's a matter of weighing the pros and cons If you switch with a player that's on a then hey, the bank still calls that a legitimate I really thought that was a glitch in Mario but I guess the developers either intended Either way, you're likely to score a few Cellular Shopper When used, the player will be able to choose When the player has called, I'll tell ya, this thing used to feel like but now that I know about the item tables, Accessing whichever shop you want from anywhere You can adapt your game to the current situation without having to spend multiple turns to that may or may not even contain the seller If you've got a handle on how these item then five coins for this item ain't a bad Dueling Glove When used, a Goomba will be brought forth. The player will then choose an opponent to After this, the player will have the option In this title, you can only duel for coins. The highest amount of coins the player can can't go over the least wealthy player's I've always seen the dueling glove as just at least when it comes to purchasing it. The thought of spending coins to bet coins doesn't sound like a good move to me on unless you're really confident that you've in which case, I won't stop you. Golden Mushroom When used, the player using it will roll three The numbers of all three rolls are added together, If the player rolls a 7 on all 3 dice blocks, if they roll any other number on all three then they'll get 20 coins. Three dice blocks for the price of only ten SIGN ME UP! These bad boys can have you zooming around unless you roll low on all three rolls... That's never happened to me before... Boo Repellant This item will activate itself when a player The effect it has is that it will fend off If it is used by the player before they move, FINALLY, we have a proper counter-play to For multiple titles, whenever you were getting you just had to take it, but now if you have a boo repellant in stock, I can't recommend this item enough, especially if you sense that you're a target Even if you don't sense any danger, it's a good idea to get a hold of a boo so players don't even think about stealing There may come a time where your opponents where one of them will purposely try to steal so your boo repellant is wasted, making you vulnerable to the next person that I don't see this happen too often, but if you notice that the situation starts it may do you good to turn your opponents After all, someone's gotta sacrifice their own boo so why should it be *them* instead of You could even go as far as telling them that and that they're not going to gain anything just the person that steals from you afterwards. Most of the time, no teaming will occur, and players will simply ignore you because of your item. If you're in a position where the prime then try convincing everyone else that they if they don't team up with you to steal if they're hesitant, then tell them that to use your boo steal for the good of everyone! Magic Lamp When used, the player will summon the Mushroom He will then escort the player to the Star, This thing costs thirty coins in Mario Party but while the reduced price does make this a little more tempting to purchase, I'm gonna stick with what I said the first Paying 20 coins to get to the star, and another to purchase the star is gonna burn your coins I recommend taking this course of action or if cutting someone else off from the star This item's usefulness increases by a bit which has a real star and a fake star present You can't tell which is which normally, but a magic lamp knows the difference You could also use this item to teleport to for some reason. I'm sure there's some situation out there Reverse Mushroom When used, the player using it will choose this can also be the player who uses the The next time the selected player moves, that player will have to go backwards *Coughs* BUSTED. This item is good, like... There's a reason why it didn't come back cuz oh boy the things you can do with this &quot;But Zikey Zoom, it's just going backwards, Well I'll show you! Imagine you're right behind boo. You roll your die, use boo to steal some coins On your next turn you decide to use your reverse which lets you go back the way you came... to visit boo again, steal whatever, and your On your next turn, since you're going forward you roll your die, use boo to steal whatever That's one boo steal every turn for three If you think that's good, then consider Some boards have a gate right behind boo, so if you used a reverse mushroom to go backwards, you'd visit boo, have him steal whatever, in the same turn! All of this, with a single reverse mushroom. Imagine what you could pull off with multiple. We're not done yet though! Every splitting path is treated as a junction even if the splitting path wasn't a junction to begin with. This means you can take routes that would only be accessible by passing through a skeleton Got anything else up your sleeve reverse mushroom? No? Okay...let's move o- ARE YOU SERIOUS? THE REVERSE MUSHROOM HOLDS PRIORITY OVER BOARD Look at this! Normally, this part of Waluigi's Island to time their jump so the arrow lands on the But if you reverse into this section, to go. It also ignores the signs in Woody Woods, which normally force players to move the direction In Deep Bloober Sea, one junction has an event way you intended, but as you can guess, that. The only board mechanic it seems to obey is Which can only be crosses by jumping To top it all off, the Reverse Mushroom only at Baby Bowser's item shop, and guess what? IT'S ALWAYS AVAILABLE. [In the background] Is it possible to ban Poison Mushroom When used, the player using it will choose (can also be the player who uses the mushroom). The next time that the chosen player moves, that player's Dice Block will only be able If there's a space you wanna land on that's then using a poison mushroom on yourself you landing where you want. Why settle for a 1 in 10 chance when you could You could also slow yourself down to stall you don't wanna deal with. On the flipside, you could poison mushroom a higher likelihood of landing on a space Forcing them to roll low is a respectable but there's something satisfying about setting to an undesired space. Bowser Phone "When used, the player will call Bowser. Bowser will then ask who is calling him, the player chooses one of the players, can Bowser will then perform his events to that as if the player landed on a Bowser Space. Calling Bowser on someone could do them some as long as they don't know that the roulette If they do and have shown to be good at it, If you're great at timing the Bowser roulette, then you could call Bowser on yourself and to land on revolution, potluck, shuffle, Bowser Whichever one floats your boat! If the ones you want don't show up but Bowser then shoot for that and call Bowser again! Bowser Suit When used, the player using it will masquerade The masqueraded player will then roll the whom are passed will have to give twenty Coins This item costs 10 coins and will let you If you only manage to pass one player, then Not bad, but this item is definitely more If you purchase it, then try to put yourself where running into a player or two or three otherwise it may just take up space in your Lucky Lamp When used, the Mushroom Jeanie will appear. She will then move the Star from its current essentially making it the counter-part of This can be an incredibly threatening item Your opponent could be spending multiple turns just for you to move that star away from them, If players notice that you have this item, then they may ignore the star entirely, If they do this, then go for the star yourself! The worst that can happen is you move it away just be careful about accidentally moving This item does not affect how the star spaces so no worries there. Move the star whenever you wish, but do so Plunder Chest When the player uses this item, an item from. If the designated player has more than one the item stolen will be chosen randomly. In Mario Party 2, this item was busted since were only able to hold one item at a time, but in this title, since players can hold the plunder chest is now a bit weaker. If you use a plunder chest on an opponent then you're guaranteed to get that item If they have two items, then there's a 50% If they have three items, then there's a This means that if you only have one item, game, then you should purchase another item you so you're not guaranteed to lose the one if someone targets you with a plunder chest. The same logic applies if you have two items; grab a third so you can reduce the chances Boo Bell When used, the player using it will summon Boo lets players steal coins or stars from He requires a payment of five measly coins The minimum and maximum amount of coins Boo varies depending on the turn number. For example, during the midgame, the lowest whereas the highest amount of coins he can What determines the exact number of coins depends on how quickly the victim mashes when The faster they break their A button, the It's much more worth it to steal coins during and last 5 turns rather than the first five You can make some serious bank, but at the you'll put a target on your back. When making your selection, look out for which have a boo bell or are close to boo. It costs 50 coins to steal stars, but unlike no button mashing will help here. Unless you have some boo repellant, your best bet is to convince the player selecting that you're not as ahead as they think you A straightforward plea like this may be ineffective, which is why a subtle comment about a different ahead in certain bonus stars may be the push Skeleton Key This item will be activated automatically who possesses it passes special gates. When activated, it will ask the player passing This item may be used at the start of a player's during which the key will ask the player if Unlike Mario Party 2, you will go through you can't use the skeleton key and leave. The value of this item will vary depending the skeleton gates are for the board you're Item bag When a player purchases this item, the player will then get to hit the bag that above the player one to three times. This depends on the amount of items the player The player will receive an item each time The items the player receives also depends That means if you've ever bought an item at toad's shop hoping for a boo bell, then there was a 0% chance of it happening Only buy an item bag if you're at the shop This person ran tons of tests with item bags the chances each item will show up when a The tests were only done for Toad's shop, shop as well. Mushrooms and skeleton keys are consistently standing at around 45% collectively. The rare items on the other hand seem to stand Every other item in-between seems to fluctuate The value of the item bag decreases with every Spending 30 coins for three items is a fair but if you spend 30 coins on the item bag then you're only gonna get one more, which The only scenario I could see this being a isn't in the shop and you are literally That scenario is incredibly unlikely, but Most of the time though, buy the item bag Wacky Watch When used, this rare item will set the game such a time that there will be five turns Effectively, this can either increase or decrease This item can be terrifying when used correctly. If you know you have a decent lead in the then using this item to shorten the game will the amount of time for your opponents to catch Inversely, if you're falling behind, more time to catch up! It doesn't matter if you're ahead or behind it'll be useful no matter what! Just be careful to not have it get stolen now that would be a tragedy. Barter Box When this rare item is used, the player who What will then happen is that the player chosen Maaaaaan the plunder chest went to the gym This big barter box boi can really mess someone's If the only item you have in possession then you won't give your target anything Sounds like a fair trade, huh? Sometimes you'll get this item when you which can make the decision of swapping items Consider what getting their items would mean but also consider what them getting your items Ideally though, you wanna be fresh out of when using the barter box so they get zip. If you notice an opponent got a barter box, then look at your own items and think if they If so, then use your most valuable item immediately Using the item at a time you didn't want than an opponent stealing the item to use In a sense, the barter box forces players their most valuable items unless they want which can be pretty effective in and of itself. Koopa Kard This item will activate automatically when passes by a Koopa Bank. When activated, it will allow the player to deposited in the bank thus far. You obviously want to cash the Koopa Kard so avoid the bank when coins are low and approach Don't be stubborn about this though; if you really need to take a path with the then go there anyways so you don't ruin Lucky Charm When a player uses this item, they will summon Game Guy will then take all of the player's and a Game Guy minigame will be initiated. This can also be used to force another player This item radiates chaos. You could use it on yourself for a chance or use it on an opponent for a chance to get Of course, the opposite is true too. You could end up losing it all or your opponent There's really no telling what will happen the most control you have is when to use the which is more powerful than you think. For example, let's say there's a huge with over 200 coins, way above everyone else. What have you really got to lose by calling They're already massively ahead in coin them winning even more coins won't extend the net loss outweighs the net gain in this For the opposite example, let's say your the game are incredibly low, no doubt about What else do you have to lose by calling game All your coins? If your chances of winning are really low then losing all your coins probably isn't the net gain outweighs the net loss in this You can't determine the result of the game but you have agency outside of that; don't underestimate it. As stated earlier, you can use a mushroom, or magic lamp to remove a slow curse or reverse If you get reversed while you're slowed then the effects will stack, meaning you will Once five turns remain, the final five turns The event is hosted by Toad, who first gives standings then introduces a character to predict Usually, the Millennium Star predicts, but who still has his unrelenting bias towards The predicted player is given ten coins from Sometimes, Baby Bowser hosts the event and In this scenario, the predicted player ends From that point onward, blue and red spaces' and players that land on the same space as play a duel minigame with that player before Whew...jeez...it's really cold...we're He-here's the space line-up; out of all the boards, it has the most amount and has the most amount of battle spaces at Let's remind ourselves once more how the On most boards, when you buy a star, random location. However, only certain spaces have been programmed we refer to these spaces as star spaces, and When a star space isn't active, it looks What you'll be happy to find out is that there's a discolored circle next to every Some of them may be harder to see than others, and man is that a great addition! No longer do you have to try and memorize just spot these visual indicators and you're That's definitely a mainstay feature right? ...RIGHT? Let's say you're in the middle of a game. You remember that these five star spaces have and you notice that the current active star If that's the case, then where's the next Over here, since all the other ones are either or will deactivate after its star has been When someone lands on a Happening Space, the giant Mr. Blizzard wakes up and throws to the left (then downward), or to the right Regardless of direction, if you jump over then you'll remain on the same space. If you get chased by a snowball while it's as it starts moving down, then you'll end If you don't jump over it as it starts moving then you'll get chased to this space. If you get chased by a snowball while it's as it starts moving down, then you'll end If you don't jump over it as it starts moving then you'll get chased to this space. You don't need to memorize these spaces don't pay attention to this one though, It's also possible to make Mr. Blizzard by paying him five coins upon passing in front It's best to do this when you want to move or move back some spaces. Say the star spawned behind you. You could pay Mr. Blizzard five coins and he throws a snowball that rolls to the left. If he does, then you could purposely get chased much closer to your desired location. Keep in mind that any players within the path You wouldn't want to help out a threatening Of course, there's also a chance he won't in which case just jump over the snowball Yeah, you may have paid five coins for nothing, Another reason to have Mr. Blizzard throw force your opponents to move towards an unwanted This can only happen if they don't time which is fairly unlikely, so don't go for this unless you're desperate The board has many junctions, including an at the center of the board. If a player lands on a space on this ice while the ice cracks, and both players run to this If you notice that a threatening player is and is close to extending their lead, then it may be worth it to kamikaze them and This strategy is made better if you have a Inversely, if they have a movement item and then the kamikaze may not be worth it. When players attempt to leave the icy lake they have a small chance of slipping on the on the space at the edge of the ice which You could have two spaces left to move or You still have the same chance at slipping This could even happen for multiple turns although the chances are low. This junction has three paths to choose from in addition to a skeleton gate on one of the to bounce off of to change the amount of spaces For example, let's say you roll a five, You count five spaces up, five spaces left, for a total of three spaces you have the option But if you go right, bounce off the skeleton and reach the junction once more, then you'll have three difference spaces This means that you could have a total of so long as you can make the trip back from Bouncing off a skeleton gate to change what but I thought showing the strategy in full would hit home how impactful it can be. Always consider if bouncing off a skeleton In case you were curious, the reason why I skeleton gates in Mario Party 2 is because In that title, the skeleton gates were at of each pathway they were on, so bouncing off of them didn't change your I wonder if the developers added spaces before in Mario Party 3 for added strategy. I mean, we went from no skeleton gates having to all skeleton gates having spaces behind It's possible. When it comes to the particular skeleton gates there's one on the left and one on the right. We've already talked about how helpful this but let's examine how helpful it is as an It's nearly 20 spaces quicker than the next That's about a three turn save on average The save itself doesn't matter if where but we've got Boo right here, and the southern Not to mention there's a chance space for Good job right gate! Now left gate, there's been a pattern of can you break the status quo? Oh jeez, apparently not. Taking this gate will cause you to loop back I'm not even sure what the developers were Yeah, if you're on the northwest part of and the star just appeared over here, then I can see this gate being useful. But that scenario is a lot more niche compared almost always helpful right gate, which leads to Boo and covers many more star I can at least appreciate that the left gate in addition to being in a good spot for players for a better chance at landing on the bank As said before, using a mushroom or golden just to slip in the icy ring of chaos can I'm not one to take my chances here and if I find it necessary to my game. I'd much rather roll multiple dice blocks of the board to save myself the stress, but Having one of these guys in stock can be useful fleeing from the broken ice. The same can be said for the warp block; there's nothing more satisfying than screwing just for you to use a movement item to get If you're ahead of Boo and use a reverse then you're highly likely to visit him twice because of how close the right gate is. It should also be mentioned that moving down you won't slip. If you find difficulty in reaching the top then consider buying a cellular shopper. The magic lamp will see an average usefulness unless you're super paranoid about slipping Overall, Chilly Waters has a lot of movement-oriented Try to play them in your favor as best you We've dived into Deep Bloober Sea. Here's the space line-up; out of all the it has the least amount of blue spaces at happening spaces at 16, and the least amount Here are its seven star spaces. There exist a few junctions here, but the is looked over by a Sushi in a submarine. Every time players get here, the shark makes one of four buttons before taking the path Three buttons do nothing, allowing safe passage, but one fires a torpedo at the player, blasting Additionally, the buttons do not reset until This means that if all three players before then you're guaranteed to press the one If you're put in this position, then pick of the one you want to go on; this way, when the torpedo hits you, your If you reverse mushroom into this junction, you want without worry. Landing on a Happening Space near the giant makes it call for its mother, whose huge tentacle takes the player to the While landing on a happening space can be these ones can be flat-out frustrating. Imagine traveling so far for the star just to a different path against your will. If you want to increase the chances of getting then carry a mushroom, or even better, high enough to avoid the tentacles. Whether you have these items or not, bounce off the skeleton gate. For example, if you have eight spaces left then you're gonna land on a happening space, use up two of your eight spaces, then now you're only gonna move six, which If you land on a happening space next to the then the arrow on the angler fish spins around. It'll randomly point either east, southeast, It'll then start inhaling all players on If you tap the A button to swim against the then you'll remain on the space you landed If you don't press the A button at all or then you'll get sucked in and spat out in If you get sent east, you'll end up here, and if you get sent southeast, you'll end The first two spots I mentioned have a red Since there's six happening spaces in a it's highly likely that you'll get involved which is why you should fully understand the Did I just say conch... conch shell? the pros and CONS of each direction you can be sent in. Going back to start can be good if you're that's spawned on the southern part of the or if you want to reliably seize another item This won't be a good move most of the time since it's still far away from a lot of The main reason to go south is for a star There is a battle space ahead of you but the same is true if you choose not to There's a battle space, and the main junction In most scenarios, the best direction to get sent is east. This path has boo, two item spaces in a row, hope to land on another happening space to increase your odds of getting the happening The bad part about the east path is that it's and doesn't have an item shop on its route, but there's no doubt that it's the best There's a skeleton gate up top and on the The bottom gate has your typical chance space It's not unheard of to place a Bowser space but it's kinda mean since the player's for going out of their way to take the route. There isn't a Boo this gate cuts to and You may write this gate off at face value, Consider this scenario. You're at the main junction and you really You press a button, get unlucky, and are shot Under normal circumstances, you'd either have to land on a happening to the southern part of the board to get back If you have a Skeleton Gate though- Did I just say if you have a Skeleton Gate? Yes, if you have the Skeleton Gate item- No- If you have a skeleton key though, all you and you'll arrive at the main junction much I admit, this scenario does have a couple For starters, the chances that you're gonna when you're trying to go up, not land on a happening space, and not see right in front of you is quite low. In addition, using a reverse mushroom to try especially because it's a more If you take the top gate, then you're guaranteed back on the north part of the board, whereas if you didn't take it, then you'd It can also lead you back to the item shop if you choose to go that way, otherwise you Skeleton keys are normally great to carry but I'm not really feeling them for this Obviously take advantage of a skeleton key but I wouldn't recommend pursuing them when to correct your movement on the board. Poison mushrooms are fantastic on this board! If you're on one side of the board and wanna happening space to move to the other side then use a poison mushroom on yourself to You could even pull off multiple happening if you manage to get to the angler with a All you have to do is land on one of his happening don't get sucked in, and use your poison mushroom on yourself to guarantee another happening space. This could end up even better for you if he If your opponent's on their way to extend whether by visiting Boo or getting a star, then consider using a poison mushroom on them Dramatically changing their placement on the just make sure you don't accidentally grant With how frustrating it can be to navigate I'm sure a magic lamp could help out in Using a warp block can help you get out of Overall, Deep Bloober Sea is fraught with You could be on one path one moment, Keep a spare movement item in your inventory Haaaa...so hot...guess I should've expected it is Spiny Desert after all. Here's the space line-up; out of all the it has the most amount of blue spaces at 57 and the most amount of total spaces out of Here are its eight star spaces. The constant challenge of this board is to because there are two on the board, but one Okay, hahahaha, real funny. Mirage? Humor. You can't tell which one is a mirage and If you end up visiting a mirage, then no text If you end up visiting the real deal, You may be curious how the mirage star interacts active and inactive star spaces. With this person's testing, I was able to like the real one, only appear on star spaces This means that if the real star has appeared on the left of the board, then the real star and the mirage will only of the three star spaces on the right. What I was hoping would be the case is that would appear on a star space already used but nope, they developed it well to make it There is one exception to this though, For this example, let's say the bottom-right is the only place a real star hasn't spawned When it comes time to spawn both the real the real one will get placed on the last possible so in this case, the mirage will appear on Simply put, if you keep track of where the then you know for a fact that the only star This may sound a little exciting... until you realize that this is basically the keep track of where the star's appeared where its next location's gonna be. So... too long, didn't hear, keep track and there's no way to figure out which one until the eighth star space is used. As a general rule of thumb, if a player's then aim for the other in case that player Happening Spaces are around sand pits on both Players who land on one on either side are along with anyone else around it and are transported You could land safely on a circle just for to the other side, that sucks! If your goal is to travel past a pit, then or golden mushroom to ensure you travel a The skeleton gate at the bottom is a useful Say you don't wanna get sucked into the but you roll a number that'll have you land If you bounce off the skeleton gate, On the other hand, if you do wanna get sucked but you roll a number that won't have you then it's possible that bouncing off the You should be looking out for bouncing off but it can be especially helpful here! One thing to note about these pits is that allow you to keep moving in circles if you This means that you can farm for happening at getting the happening star. Only consider doing this if you're confident It'd be terrible if you wasted multiple just for it to not be enough in the end. If someone's, say, four happening spaces then you may as well cut your losses and go If a player decides to take the path with then they'll be prompted to jump over both If they hit the first cactus, they bounce with the cactus picture on the right side If they hit the second cactus the one with they bounce over to the sign with the cactus While this event may seem pretty straightforward, This person made a table for all the possible depending on how many spaces you were at when For example, if you have four spaces remaining, you land on this blue space. If you hit the first cactus and go left, If you hit the first cactus and go down, you If you hit the second cactus then you land If you jump both cacti then you land on this That's right, there are five different spaces when encountering this event! This means that whenever you come across these you should be checking every possible space and considering which one will best benefit You may be wondering what these three results Well, if you have 8, 9, or 10 spaces left and you decide to hit the first cactus and then you'll go far enough to encounter this but with a different amount of remaining spaces, meaning that you'll be given a different This is a great move to make if you really you're given when you have 8, 9, or 10 spaces The craziness doesn't have to stop there! What if you had, say, 30 spaces left to move You'd have to do tons of counting to figure This is because with 30 spaces, you could visit the event again, hit the first cactus, and so on until you've visited the event This is, of course, the maximum amount of to this event and it's also highly unlikely but this was meant to show you the power of BUT WE'RE NOT DONE YET. Check out what happens when you reverse into you're given even more spaces to choose since the reverse mushroom turns splitting You could reverse into the event, purposely then reverse down the right pathway if you Oh and in case you were curious, reversing won't do anything, you'll stay on the Alright...now we're done. Don't skimp out on considering every possibility, There's a skeleton gate down below and one The latter guards boo, who's quite easy because he's so close to the skeleton gate. Even if you roll a fairly low number, you'll in one turn if you managed to reverse into We've also got a classic Bowser space and so if you're desperate, then you know where The bottom gate will lead you to an entirely than the one you were going on, so if you have business visiting an item shop, or just want a shortcut further into the board, If your reason for taking it mainly has to to get to the other side of the board, then check to see if you're about to land There's no point in wasting a skeleton key if you can get there instantly while also These are some fairly solid Skeleton Gates! Congratulations skeleton key, you're pretty You already saw the chaos that mushrooms could but what about the warp block? Due to how easy it is to get around in this using a warp block isn't as risky as it so don't worry if things go wrong, just Overall, Spiny Desert may look a little frustrating what with the mirage star, but it actually has a lot of strategy built that are willing to explore the many possibilities. Ah, Woody Woods! Not too cold, not too hot, it's just right. Here's the space line-up; out of all the it has the most amount of red spaces at 7 Here are its seven star spaces. The main feature of this board is Monty Mole Every turn, he pops out of his hole to switch He also does it every time a player comes or lands on the Happening Spaces that are As you can imagine, being forced to go one has the potential to ruin your game. You could be this close to getting a star, but just cuz someone landed on a stupid happening you'll be on your way in the wrong direction. It's essential to hold onto movement items so you can reduce the impact of this gimmick. Let's say you're close to a sign and you're but the sign is pointing in a bad direction. You'd want to roll low so next turn can and solve your problem, right? Doing that with a dice block that rolls 1-10 so a poison mushroom may be nice to hold onto Additionally, you can use the poison mushroom so they won't reach their desired direction Imagine a big threat nearing the path they just for you to stop them right before the so they have to go the opposite direction This all sounds well and good, but because that change the signs, it's definitely not You've gotta make sure to look out for other For example, if everyone's nearing a sign, that a happening space near the sign will making it difficult to gauge whether or not I'd save my poison mushroom in situations but if I needed to go a certain direction, The other position you should look out for Is someone really close to one? Do they even have enough coins to change the If they do, are they willing to even pay the These are the kinds of questions you've gotta ask On the other hand, if a threat's going to then sabotage them as best you can. I mentioned using a poison mushroom earlier, then by all means pay five coins to prevent We've talked about trying to stall out signs, Getting to them as fast as possible before Carrying a mushroom or golden mushroom can your worries about poorly timed low rolls so you can pass the signs you want without Warp Blocks can be nasty on this board with has to be put into for one's movement. You can almost consider a Warp Block a yourself in a terrible position. There is, of course, the chance factor when but on a board like this, sometimes *anywhere* is better than where you're at currently. If you end up going down a bad path, A move like this will vary in power depending since a reverse mushroom is best used when isn't locked behind a skeleton gate this This placement may seem generous to you... until you consider the fact that to get to you need to pass these two signs, which can be a pain if they're not facing the right direction. And when I say &quot;right&quot; direction, I mean, if they're not facing the left direction, To get a better handle on navigating this let's take a look at the happening spaces If you land on a happening space in front then he'll gives you a Plus Coin Fruit which or a Forward Fruit which makes you roll again. You have to decide which fruit to have by and if you don't choose in time, That last bit is crucial. If you want the Forward Fruit, making a decision in time. There is no point in attempting to choose If you instead want the Plus Coin Fruit, then If you're too slow and don't select either then you'll receive the forward fruit, so The fruit you want should depend on where Wanna stall out the next sign? Wanna blitz past the sign as quickly as possible? If you land on a happening space in front then he'll give you a Minus Coin Fruit which or a Reverse Block Fruit which makes players Just like before, you have to decide which by going either left or right, and if you don't choose in time, If you're already on the path you desire, If you want to try and switch paths, guaranteed to get the reverse block fruit. If you manage to get to boo, There's no better feeling than triple dipping You'll notice that there's a skeleton there's also one on the bottom. However, at first glance, this one up top Why would you divert from the path with boo? For a couple reasons actually! This gate leads to two star spaces, in addition which can be crucial in screwing over another That being said, I wouldn't call this gate but I wouldn't call it useless either. Most of the time you wanna stay on the path it also has much less spaces to travel too! The bottom gate doesn't let you switch to but instead redirects you to the main path. This can be useful if you're aiming for want to get an item quickly, or if you wanna correct your position on the These are all decent reasons for going through the skeleton key kinda sucks on this board, I'd rather opt in for movement items instead when it comes to navigating these woods. Overall, Woody Woods is about blitzing and You've gotta make sure you're going the or you're gonna end up in a bad position. Get a good handle on that and you're good Hello? Hellooooo? Oh, there you are. We're traveling through Creepy Cavern. Not the most welcoming place is it? Here's the space line-up; out of all the it has the most average space layout. Here are its seven star spaces. This board's cut in half straight down the The main method of traveling between the two You can do this by visiting a Thwomp and paying where you'll have to time your jump to hop making it a waste of coins. A mine kart will also appear if you land on that is located on the tracks. In this case, Thwomp rides the cart to the chasing all players in the way to that side This means that if the Thwomp was on the left then he'll be riding the cart to the right, and if it was on the right side of the board There's no timing any jumps when the cart so you're guaranteed to be affected by it. If you need to get to the other side of the and you just can't land on a happening space, then you may need to cough up five coins to Your only other option is by going through either the one up top or the one on the bottom. Their placements may seem odd though, which makes you wonder, of using the Thwomp? There aren't even any spaces that you can going through one of these gates, so what Well for one, it's possible that you got meaning you can pass to the other side of instead of paying five coins to do so, but a more likely scenario for you to go through is if there aren't any Thwomps on your side Yeah, that can happen, and it can be frustrating. If both Thwomps are on the other side then to move over, and then you'll have a chance Having a skeleton key in possession can help allowing you to cross over without needing either of the Thwomp's placements. All this being said, I've found that players around often enough for this scenario to not but if you're paranoid of it, then grab There's actually another reason to have but we'll get to that in a moment. You may have noticed the Whomp King in the He'll always be sleeping on the same spot. He blocks either the right path that leads or the left path that leads to Boo. Players can land on a Happening Space not to make him turn over, but that is also achieved if a player gives such as a Mushroom, Poison Mushroom, or Skeleton If he flips over by means of a happening space He'll stay committed until his request has It is possible for him to ask for the same He can be a pain when navigating the board, since he blocks the main path up or the main depending on which side you're on. Luckily, there's an item shop in a good so if he's blocking your way, then you can purchase one of the cheap items and grant his request. Even if you end up not having to use the item What you should keep in mind when considering is how much it'll help you vs how much it'll The Whomp King doesn't function like the in previous boards, where they block the path The Whomp King switches to the other side until something triggers him to flip back, so you're opening the pathway to everyone, not just yourself. If him flipping would be beneficial to all, then purchasing an item just to help everyone doesn't sound like much of a good idea. Flip 'em over when you're the main one alternatively, if an opponent is on the other trying to travel through one of Whomp King's then you can flip him over to block 'em This can prevent someone from going on a boo which could change the game drastically if The movement on this board isn't reliant as it does on visiting Thwomps and landing This is why I recommend you put more of a instead of mushrooms here. It's better to try and warp to other areas instead of rolling a 30 and going in circles This doesn't mean that mushrooms are flat-out you just won't find them as helpful as they A well-timed poison mushroom could force a to a side they don't wanna be on. Careful about making opponents land on happening you should only do so if you're confident get the happening star because of your actions. Otherwise, ruining their placement can be Farming boo on this board may prove to be The first is the aforementioned Whomp King, The second is all the happening spaces on and cause you to get really off track. By all means, if you can triple dip boo by but our troublemaker mushroom may not find This board is surprisingly forgiving on the You can easily avoid each bank on each side When you come upon the junction leading up check if you can land on the bank space, and if not, then move along unless you have Overall, Creepy Cavern can be a frustrating if you get stuck in a section you don't Keep a mental note if where both Thwomps are Knowing your options at traveling will prove Here we are at Waluigi's Isla- WAAAAAAAAAAAAAHHHHHHH!!! WAH HA HA Haaa... Here's the space line-up; it has the least amount of red space at 3. You may have noticed that these numbers don't that's due to one of this board's gimmicks, one type of space, which changes every turn. We'll get more into that later, but for Wherever players go along the topsides of they will always enter a red pipe that'll The island with all the dynamite is the first The Happening Spaces are dangerous here, because every time someone lands on one, counts down. It always starts on 5, but when it gets to Anyone caught in the blast loses ALL their This place isn't much of a threat early but in the later turns, avoid this place like Remember, you're not the only one that can You could be sitting pretty in the circle just for the other three players to make it all in the span of four turns. It's a shame too, since this is a fantastic You can still do it, but keep an eye out for so you don't accidentally lose all of your If you need to get past this island safely, then use a mushroom or golden mushroom If you head north off dynamite island The four arrows on it flash in clockwise order at a random speed. Players jump to the gear, and stop it when The arrow that is flashing when they land If it stops at the down arrow, or if players they stay on the dynamite island. Getting this part of the board right is crucial There's nothing worse than needing to go just for the lights to flash at a fast speed, The jump your character does is meant to sike Whichever light is lit up the moment you jump you land. Doesn't matter if it's flashing super the moment your character is airborne, will be your destiny. That being said, trying to time the fast one No matter what speed it is, stay focused on and build up a rhythm in your head so you Quick tip, if you reverse into this part of then you can manually choose which way you The top-left island is a unique part of the Every turn, all of the spaces except for the will change to another type of space, either Blue, Red, Bowser, Chance, Battle, To get to this island, you must cross a draw There are two on the board, but only one of If you land on a happening space next to one it'll cause one of them to rise up, and You may be wondering why anyone would want this part of the board if it's so incredibly Well, there are not one, but two star spaces which is really mean design, to get what you want. It could be safe one turn, just for all the and now you're forced to gamble, or maybe a sudden battle minigame pops out There's a sleuth of events that could occur But hey, if you enjoy chaos, the randomness; watch as your opponents gaze on in horror you're on gets littered with chance time how delightful. If you want no part of this island and simply then I recommend you use a mushroom or golden Otherwise you may end up rolling low, which means you'll be at the mercy of whatever unless you manage to land on the bank space, but honestly, if you're hoping for that, Players that want to get to Boo have to take where one of them is booby trapped. If they take the path that has the trap, they There's no way of knowing which his which, to go this way. Reversing into this part of the board does the event like the roulette in the middle, you are still prompted to make a decision and one of them will still send you back to For this reason, along with how strenuous farming boo becomes a difficult task. I'd attempt it if I was already in near Ehhhh, I'd rather center my game around What sucks about this path is that there's so given enough time, one's gonna spawn and somebody's gotta make the journey for unless a magic lamp is in possession. Let's talk movement items. Mushrooms and golden mushrooms can help you if you ended up on a path you don't want, otherwise they're great tools for blitzing Warp blocks on this board can be frustrating You could finally be on the part of the board just for your opponent to switch places with On the flipside, if you're the one initiating then savor the glory of skipping over the If the dynamite island's counter is at 1 then toss a poison mushroom their way so they at blowing themselves up losing all their While this can be a fantastic way to end hurt it's also risky since you're letting an so caution is advised. There's a gate on the left and a gate on The latter is a shortcut down to the green There's also a chance time space. That's it, pretty underwhelming. Let's see if the left gate is any better it just loops you back around with no spaces I get what they were going for with this though. If the dynamite island's counter is at a and there are multiple players there, then you may want to take the loop back around but this scenario is quite specific and unlikely, on this gate either. I guess that means the skeleton key won't which kinda sucks. Also, this is the last time we're gonna and they aren't even that good. Kinda of a shame really. Well, regardless, let's give one final salute you all added a kick of strategy that was I'll miss you, I really, really will. Overall, Waluigi's Island is chaos incarnate. Only go here if you're okay with the possibility in certain sections of the board due to trickery This title has 68 minigames that all have There's twenty 4-player minigames, ten 1-vs-3 eight battle minigames, ten duel minigames, and four Game Guy minigames. 4-player minigames Aces High &quot;Climb into a place with 2 types of missiles, "Each player has two hearts and can shoot If the player holds the shoot button the player can release it and the Bullet Bill It doesn't matter who you're facing; if they're further away than the person then your bullet bill's gonna flip around Surprisingly, they seem to land just as often Once the Bullet Bill is launched, the player cannot launch another Bullet Bill The bullet bills don't last forever, a long time without getting another. To not get hit by a Bullet Bill, you have You can avoid it with clever maneuvering; diving down and away normally does the trick, to see where it's coming from. Remember, the big arrows are your opponents, they shot. If you're not confident in your ability then hang around the wall of the arena. If you touch it, then you'll be stunned but you'll be invincible during the entire Exploit this invincibility while a bullet and it won't be able to do anything. Bullet Bills will always try to aim for your but if one happens to come at you from the If a player is hit twice, that player will and be kicked out of the minigame. If all four players are eliminated or there still in the area when time runs out unless one player has more health remaining The last player staying in the area wins. If it wasn't already obvious, you should always have a bullet bill flying towards someone, it's too good of a tool to not be spamming. When you're not charging up a bullet bill, with your opponents. If you're finding it difficult to land your then accelerate towards them to close the This is best done when you're approaching Braking is a useful maneuver to align your but it leaves you vulnerable to enemy fire, Being in the middle of the arena is a terrible You'll most likely find yourself in-between which means that if they decide to fire their then you're gonna be the main target whether What's worse is that you wouldn't have of the arena to secure invincibility. You'd instead have to out maneuver multiple while also avoiding regular bullets as well. Talk about a nightmare. This is why I prefer hanging around the wall You don't have to worry about every conceivable you can get a good view on the action, and you have a quick escape option via the If you're ever in a position where your then constantly run into the wall for the To counter a player doing this, constantly It's not super easy, but it's possible. Awful Tower &quot;Jump from block to block to climb the tower. You can jump pretty much any way you want but when it comes time to jump over a gap, block when you jump. Jumping and then moving won't cut it here. You need all the distance you can get. "At certain points during the tower climb, a Hammer Bro riding on the cloud will drop at the individual players in order to slow If a player gets hit by one of the hammers, Avoiding these hammers can be tricky. If you're finding trouble getting past the then try simply running towards the block Jumping isn't required here. For the others, just watch where the hammer falls whenever he throws it. He'll keep throwing it in the same arc over and over again, Once the hammer is past you, You can grab coins on your way to the top, but each location for one requires you to which is why I recommend you focus on winning The only times you should be getting these when you're way too far behind to catch or if your opponents are just so bad at the that spending time gathering the coins won't If neither player has reached the top within the minigame ends in a draw. This minigame has the same layout every time, Bounce 'n' Trounce &quot;Get on a bouncing ball, Players have to knock other players off the Later in the minigame, the square-boxed platforms The last player standing wins. If multiple players survive after time runs the minigame ends in a draw. which I'll refer to as "levels." Most of the time, you'll advance a level the moment your ball lands on the ground. At level 1, mistiming your jump will keep timing your jump will bring you up to level At level 2, mistiming your jump will bring timing your jump will bring you up to level At level 3, mistiming your jump will bring and timing your jump will bring you up to level At level 4, mistiming your jump will bring timing your jump will bring you down to level You can't attack at level 1, that's reserved If you and your opponent attack at the same then you have priority. If someone's targeting you and they have then running away is the best option. If you're cornered, then try attacking them If you're playing with people that have then quick attacks close to the ground can If there's even one person that knows what then try to attack from above them at all With all of these tips in mind, remember that You're trying to be the last one standing., or y'know, bouncing heh Cheep Cheep Chase &quot;Swim like mad to avoid the hungry Cheep Cheep. If a player gets eaten by the Cheep Cheep, If a player touches a floating bomb, they're and are basically out of the minigame unless The first player to reach the end wins. If there are more players swimming when one all the remaining players will get eaten. If all the players get eaten, the minigame Give this button masher your all the entire And I mean the entire way through! If you forget to mash while you're underwater, The floating bombs are fairly easily to avoid since they're all lined up and perfectly As the minigame goes on though, Don't let these this distract you though. You only need to dive under the floating bomb The floating bombs' hitboxes aren't super where I'm practically clipping into it. More often than not, I see people getting as they're about to surface because they An exclamation mark will appear above your if the Cheep Cheep's about to catch you. Don't. Stop. Mashing. Chip Shot Challenge &quot;Aim for the hole, then hit the ball. If a player gets a hole in one, that player Other players can make a hole in one and win If no players make a hole in one, the player If two or more players tie with the condition all of those players will still win. If the ball falls off the island, In the regular party mode, known as Battle Royale mode, the players take turns according to their placing on the board. Whoever's in 1st will go first, 2nd will In Mini-Game mode, the players take turns The later you go, the better off you are. This is because you can copy the angles of If someone got a hole in one with a certain then all you have to do is copy that angle. If someone didn't get a hole in one but then all you have to do is copy that angle If you have to actually play the game, The color of your triangles will give you you're gonna launch the ball. Blue is weak, green is medium, and red is Compare the lines in the grass to the hole's in order to figure out what strength you need. For example, if the hole's around the middle-back, hint of red. When you need to turn your angle towards the don't overcompensate. A lot of the time people will turn way too A good rule of thumb is to keep your top triangle the middle of the field and the hole, favoring If there's a hill involved, then favor the to compensate for the elevation difference. These tips won't apply for every hole you some of them are tricky, but I believe in Curtain Call "Players have to memorize the order of the Koopa Troopas, and Boos onstage. The curtain then closes, at which point Toad and asks all the players a question about More characters come by as the game progresses. If one of the players gets the wrong answer, All players who never make a single mistake Memorizing the order of the dancers tends Either repeat the order in your head, try or do anything else to hold onto the info. The tricky part is the wording of the questions He won't ask questions like "Who was the He'll instead ask questions like "Who These kinds of questions require a little which can disrupt your memory enough to screw Which is why you've gotta get a good handle If Toad asks "Who was the third person from Then you start counting from the left most Inversely, if Toad asks "Who was the second Then you start counting from the right most That's all it is! this minigame should be a piece 'o cake. It may not come as easy to your opponents which is why you want to confirm your selection so they don't copy your answer. On the other hand, if you have no clue what then copy off someone that seems like they Frigid Bridges "Players attempt to get the blocks at the and cross the frozen path without falling and place them at the end of the path. At the middle of the path, a Cheep Cheep jumps If a player gets hit by a Cheep Cheep, they freezing the player for a moment. The first player who carries three blocks The path is a little slippery but it doesn't If you get hit by a Cheep Cheep head-on, then but if you sideline it, then you likely won't Its jumps are predetermined by the way; it'll When the minigame's about to begin, hold so you start moving at the earliest possible Stay in the middle of the pathway, cutting since the upcoming Cheep Cheep will be in which you need to avoid by stopping for a ideally by releasing the analog stick. As soon as the Cheep Cheep isn't covering continue onwards, cutting corners as close Once you reach the end of the path, the water, so you don't have to worry about falling While the animation's taking place, at the earliest possible moment, just like when the minigame started. Cut corners like before and run past the Cheep at this point, it's no longer a threat because aren't in sync with you crossing in front Continue to the beginning, and immediately the moment you grab the next block. Cut corners on your way to the end, drop the cut corners on your way back to the beginning, rinse and repeat until you drop the final Once your bridge is finished, cross it to If your opponents are bad at this minigame, then feel free to play it safe by staying instead of cutting corners. If you fall off for any reason, then now you've If you're approaching it and haven't seen then wait a quick moment, let it pass, then Ice Rink Risk &quot;Try to avoid being hit by the spiked Koopa the frozen playing field.&quot; If you're moving fast and either release or try to move the opposite direction, then your character will slide for almost before obeying your command. That's terrible when you need to avoid shells It's a good thing you can cancel the sliding You could either short hop to regain your or full hop if a shell's headed right towards If you jump in the direction you're facing, Try not to slide in the first place though! Don't smack your analog stick the opposite Instead, roll your analog stick whenever you so your character a moment to adjust when If you ever wanna switch directions instantly, At the start of the minigame, of the arena and bounce off the wall. As long as you don't move until it touches Any time someone gets hit at the start of it's because they ran around randomly before Don't be that person, because I will laugh at you. Avoiding the first shell is fairly easy Obviously don't test your luck though, The second shell will drop down when the timer It'll drop at the edge of the arena and just like the first one did at the beginning If you're next to the wall, then look for and make sure you're not under it. Now that there's two shells, you've gotta with them bouncing off one another. When they do, it tends to be what you expect, But sometimes, one shell will be moving fast completely unfazed when another shell sidelines I personally haven't seen this happen when only when one's getting sidelined. Regardless, keep to the edge of the arena and jump whenever a shell approaches you. In nearly every case, it'll bounce off the and leave you alone. If multiple shells crowd around your spot, jumping so a spike doesn't hit you where the sun don't shine. This becomes more difficult when the third in the same manner as the rest when the timer The three of 'em will bounce all over the at the wall and keeping your distance is your Players may also stomp on other players making them more likely to be hit by the Spiny since their movement speed will be reduced This isn't necessary though since multiple only do this if you've gotta prevent a certain If you're jumped on, scream at the person that did it, and then get to the nearest open space and wait to return to normal before gaining your movement Mario's Puzzle Party &quot;Break blocks by connecting 2 or more of the Thwomps will occasionally fall and squash You'll send bricks to the other players The better the string, the more bricks that'll These bricks can be broken by making combos Thwomps will crush the blocks underneath it which can aid the player in scoring combos. It tends to not half the size of every block with the main culprit being one of the top "The player who reaches the score limit the limit will always be 100 if this minigame's When playing this minigame in Free Play Room, the score limit can be set from 100 to 1,000 in 100 point increments. "If any player runs out of space in the the player's game ends. The last man standing rule can also decide If everyone but one of the player's game ends, regardless of how many points that player There's a few different strategies to for but if experience and advice has taught me it's that making a hole's the way to go. Start by filling up the first and second column Once done, combo with the color at the bottom to spark a chain reaction. If you didn't get that color, until you get it. If you succeeded, then you should've gotten if not and your screens filling up, for the Thwomp. This guy is incredibly powerful when your Sometimes you can get 40+ points out of 'em While you may feel inclined to play it safe that's not how you score tons of points. Do that, and you'll be left in the dust. You wanna build up tower after tower while so you can spark a chain reaction from the You can still set off chains anywhere else, which is why you can't let bricks pile up Make sure you clean them out before continuing. You'll average around 50 seconds using this While it's effective when done correctly, it can be a disaster if you aren't paying and fill up your screen to the brim without Make sure you match the bricks at the bottom so your chains are clean, unlike your Messy Memory &quot;Toads knock the items on the shelves to the Try to return all the items to their proper Before the minigame starts, players have to the items' location with the few seconds they After that, many Toads come onto the screen white smoke. Once done, it is revealed that they knocked leaving some in their proper place. When the minigame starts, the players have and place it back on the shelf then their The better the player memorized the item's the more accurate the placement. Once done, the player can close their curtains They can open the curtains if they feel uncertain When the timer runs down to 0, the game ends, all the curtains closes no matter if the player is done or not. Then all the curtains reopen, and the game placement of each item from left to right. The player who puts the most items in their There don't seem to be any predetermined This minigame will randomly shuffle around There's a few ways to memorize the placements Using verbal memory would involve repeating of the items in your head again and again. Using visual memory would involve burning of the items into your eyes. You could use only one of these tactics, but you'll probably find more success if since the processes take place in different Look at one row of items. Start repeating it in your head, don't stop. Now look at the other row and burn the Once it's time to set up the items, since it's a tad more delicate, then place the ones from your verbal memory, as you've been repeating the order to yourself If that doesn't work for you, then try making Maybe there's a hat next to an egg, so you eating an egg while the next character watches The more uniquely distinct, the better. If none of this appeals to you and you don't memorization strategies on your own, then shamelessly peek at your opponents' If you know one a particular opponent of yours then pay more attention to them. If they cover their screen to avoid your attempts, If people are trying to copy off of you, your screen as soon as you're done. If all else fails, then use a trusty photo how-you-say... Doing this will likely result in tarnishing I was going to say reputation but Ithink it's bigger than that, so that mispeak was- whatever! If you have to do it anyways, if you have to cheat, then... your M.P.I.Q. is probably pretty low. The first player to answer three questions correctly wins. First, Toad will slowly show the question A player must press A Button to hit the buzzer and players can hit the buzzer before the An &quot;O&quot; means the answer is correct If an answer is incorrect, the player who gets squashed by a block and loses their next Players are also squashed if a question is If no one answers three questions correctly the minigame ends. If multiple players have the highest score, There are tons of questions Toad can ask. They range from easy such as "what color such as "the current total of coins all There are only three options to choose from so even if the question's insane, you still but here's the problem... When you're playing with three other people, is bound to try and answer the question way before it's fully displayed. This can turn M.P.I.Q, which is supposed to into a luck-based minigame, where everyone's trying to mash A as quickly for the 33% chance of being correct. Yeah there's a 66% chance of one being wrong but sitting out a round isn't a harsh enough to discourage this kind of play. Try to have everyone come to an agreement if they're reasonably sure they can answer Otherwise, your session may end as a button-mashing, Parasol Plummet &quot;Open and close your umbrella to close the I don't feel like I didn't really give that much enthusiasm, let me try again Parasol Plu- *cough* Para- *cough* ah crap- Parasol Plummet &quot;Open and close your umbrella to collect the If the players close the parasol, they fall. If the player opens the parasol, If the player touches the top of the screen, but they can still open it again if they choose. You can bump into someone while your parasol's to make more room for yourself. You can't bump into someone while your parasol's you'll just move slightly if you fall onto Hammer Bros. at both sides throw Coins, Coin which are worth 5 coins, and Hammers to players. If players get hit by a hammer, the parasol rendering them temporarily unable to collect Camp near the top corner of one of the two The moment you see hammer bro, what he dishes out. You may get hit by a couple hammers doing but you'll gain more coins overall than A coin or coin bag that's gone off-screen It'll come down eventually so predict the and snatch it before anyone else. Picture Imperfect &quot;Hit the block to stop the correct parts as Try to re-create the original picture.&quot; "The picture players have to match may be Each set of parts flashes by quicker than The more accurate the picture is, the more the points the player will earn. The player (or players) that have the most For Toad, you can get a total of 30 points red circles, a regular smile, and regular For Wiggler, you can get a total of 40 points a white flower, a big nose, an open mouth, For Mario, you can get a total of 50 points a big &amp; round nose, a Mario 'Stache, a regular The cycle every feature runs on is completely each time the minigame is played, sadly. Regardless, treat your timing on this minigame you would chance time. Memorize a feature or two that come before then when they flash by, secure your desired You have a full minute to finish up, take A lot of the time players will rush through when they could've gotten a better score and paid close attention to what's flashing Pipe Cleaners "Each player has to knock the Baby Bowsers as they pop out of the pipes.&quot; The Baby Bowsers may trick the player at times. Your reaction time could be incredible, pipe corresponds to which input, then you'll struggle, so make sure you've If you're finding a hard time distinguishing then try turning your controller so A and You should see A on the right, and B on the which visually corresponds with which side This might make pressing each button feel and help you remember what they do, if not, practicing enough will teach your If a Baby Bowser's retreating back into The same goes for when they're just exiting which means you can actually pre-emptively and hit a Baby Bowser before it even gets A pre-emptive swing can do you good if you just don't only rely on them, your reflexes Keep your eyes on the middle of the screen, and immediately swing towards a pipe if you see any movement. Rockin' Raceway "Players have to race with rocking horses If the player gets an orange carrot power-up, the player can proceed rapidly without losing any energy for a moment, but if the player gets a blue carrot, that player is stunned for a moment. The player will also get stunned if they run In either case, the carrot energy will be If the player stops mashing, then the horse The first player that finishes half of the Go as fast as possible the moment the race Once your energy is down to one carrot, You'll see a carrot panel right ahead of You need to make sure you touch the panel carrot power-up is the one that's showing. To do this, keep track of how often the panel For this first one, it'll switch every three Manage your distance in accordance with when so you can secure the power-up. If you got the orange carrot from this first then go as fast as possible until it runs The second panel's trickier since it switches Try building up a rhythm in your head for so you have a better idea for when to slow and when to accelerate for the orange carrot. If you got the orange carrot from this second then make your way to the finish line with If you got a blue carrot at either panel, there's a chance your opponents may hit This can be risky but if you want an edge, burn up your carrot meter the moment you're about to hit the orange carrot, since it refills it all anyways, this way you get the most out of your meter. Snowball Summit "Players have to create snowballs When a player's building up a snowball, as it takes time to make one. Once done, the player is able to move the and the more time it spends rolling, the greater but as your snowball grows, it rolls more Any contact sends players flying depending Players can also fire a snowball to reach without having to cross the entire battlefield. When two snowballs meet, though, they both no matter if it is fired or being built up That's right. A snowball the size of a pebble will cancel out a monster. In addition, hitting someone while they're will also destroy that snowball. These details are the reasons why this minigame If you see your opponent building up a huge then you can easily take it out in no time Assuming that your opponents aren't the build up your snowball without making yourself and launch it at any vulnerable player. If you see that someone's targeting you then guard yourself with your own. While the middle of the arena will keep you it's also where your back will be turned This is why you should prioritize staying of the arena while there's more than one Once it's a 1v1, secure the middle and make a big snowball and strike your opponent where Odds are that if you're both competent players, The Beat Goes On Players take turns copying the beat the Spear while beating another drum of their choosing with the next player having to replicate the as well as the added drum then adding another. If a player plays an incorrect drum, or doesn't they'll get kicked out of the minigame. The last player remaining wins. If a total of 16 drum beats are played before the minigame ends in a draw. Since A is a button that can appear in a pattern, you may find that the pattern can be spoken aloud. For example: B, A, B, A, Z. of these letters in a row But because A's a vowel, it turns this arbitrary into something that's a lot easier to remember: Now imagine if a few letters get added on You could repeat all of these letters in a but again, it's much easier on your mind Let's turn this pattern into "Babazabb!" That's...a little more difficult, huh. This is why you should separate the words In this case, we'd have "Baba" and "Zabuh-buh." The reason why we don't say "Zabb" is which we need to distinguish in our head, When it comes time for you to play the drums, and go one button at a time. Don't forget to add your own button at the Of course, some patterns are gonna be harder but you can get creative! Three Z's in a row can be grouped together Three A's in a row can be grouped together There's many different ways to knock these This is just how I do it. You could really throw your opponents off when it's time for them to replicate the Just don't be surprised if they do the same Toadstool Titan &quot;Break the blocks to find the Mushroom. Players can move around the room and use their jumps and attacks to stun other players from moving continuously. When a player finds the Mushroom after breaking the rest of the floating blocks will disappear, making the other players react by either attempting or run away from the player taking advantage When the Mushroom is not grabbed yet, until a player grabs the power-up. Never never never flee when a mushroom's Always go for it no matter how far away it Worst case scenario, someone else gets it before they actually turn mega. If you're the one that hits the brick containing then jump as soon as your brick turns to smoke. Waiting any longer to jump will risk you getting When a player's mega and runs in one direction, then they'll keep running that direction which stalls them for a moment. The giant player can eliminate other players When the player shrinks to normal, the nine Brick Blocks appear with the Mushroom and the process repeats. If you're mega, then run into players without If you're finding that a certain player's then counter their mix-ups with your own, either by running towards where they aren't, YEAH YOU CAN WALK WHILE YOU'RE MEGA. It's hard to do but if you barely tilt your then you'll start walking. I'm not about to tell you to try and walk the purpose of slowing down this much is mainly Yeah, you can cover a little distance to put but the fact that you're walking can be even the most experienced players off. I wouldn't say it's enough to walk one and then run in the same direction though. It'd be better to walk one direction and You don't even have to walk to fake-out If you push your analog stick towards one then your character will face that direction however, if you quickly push your analog stick then they'll move that way instead. Making your character snap directions like You don't have to go overboard with these Most of the time, predicting your opponents treat walking as this wacky mix-up option When running away from someone that's mega, you and them as possible. This way, there's more space for you to which'll make it difficult for them to guess Perform a jump away from the mega player whenever this can be the miniscule difference between If they know how to walk or snap their directions, Treadmill Grill The objective of the minigame is for each the other players off the conveyor belts within In addition to each other, the players must that occasionally leap onto the conveyor belts with up to three being present at most. The players can stun other players by jumping punching them, or Ground Pounding them. If a player is stunned by a jump or attack, is decreased, they can still jump. If a player is stunned by a Ground Pound, In addition, the four rows of conveyor belts at varying speeds, changing direction occasionally. The size of the conveyor belts decrease when and again when the timer reaches 10 seconds. Do not stay near the edges. Doing so will leave you vulnerable to getting or getting blind-sided by any Lava Bubbles Instead, take stage control and take notice where the Lava Bubbles are, and what your If everyone's just trying to survive, then After all, if you start a fight, then you But hey, if you're confident in your skills, then feel free to punch your opponents off or ground pound them and laugh as they're or burned by a Lava Bubble. These attacking options become more useful as you'd get expect. If you manage to ground pound an opponent then they're gone, but if you miss, Don't underestimate the power of walking A lot of the times people will run all over and get themselves knocked out. Taking it easy can do you wonders. If three players are eliminated before 30 the remaining player wins but if time runs out and two or more players or all players touch the Lava Bubbles, it's Water Whirled Players have to race in waterboats If the player goes the wrong way, the word &quot;REVERSE&quot; will replace the words for them and go on and off until they turn Hug the wall as much as possible from each edge of the middle wall. After every turn, readjust yourself forward, If you find yourself going backwards and all then get in the way of the most threatening 1-vs-3 mini-games Boulder Bash "Three players try to climb a slope while flinging boulders at them in an attempt to If squished by a boulder, the squished player If one of the three players reaches the top but if the other player manages to keep the that player wins." If you're the solo player, then bounce your This way, your boulders will cover the most and you'll make it hard for the three players If someone's getting uncomfortably close, such a way that they'll hit that player. A direct shot could work too, but they may If you're one of the three players. then try to have two players on one side, and the remaining player on the other side. If a boulder hits the player in front, but then the latter will push the squished player while the player alone on the other side serves or a win condition if they're left unattended. The best way for the solo player to counter straight down the wall with the two players in an attempt to knock 'em down or split Coconut Conk The player in the barrel has to avoid being while the other players on top of the tree have to knock the player in the barrel by Ground Pounding when the player is above If one of the three players hits the player the three players win, but if the player in the barrel avoids being for the entire time limit, that player wins." Despite what the visuals may have you believe, a coconut will spawn directly below them. If you let go of your analog stick after moving then it'll take a long time to come to a If you try moving in the opposite direction If you're the solo player, then pay close After all, they can only ground pound if they so if you keep a close eye on these movements, It may not always be this easy though. Some players may jump without ground pounding, or jump in an arch and ground pound at any No matter what they do through, there will be always be a delay from when to when the coconut reaches the ground, and you need to take advantage of that delay by getting out of there... without... accidentally You can sometimes screw their team up This could make them fumble over each other Regardless of your evasions strategies, Even the most basic of coordination If you're one of the three players then quick ground pounds are the way to go amount of time possible to react. Make sure you coordinate with your team to and not fumble over each other. You wouldn't wanna accidentally jump on that'd just waste time. Crazy Cogs The player who controls the large cog has get hit by Bullet Bills while the latter try If the solo player makes all three players get But if even one player in the player-field the three players win. If you're the solo player, to the large cog. Spinning clockwise, spinning counterclockwise, there's nothing in-between. Pay close attention to the shadows on the since they'll tell you where bullet bills The bigger the shadows get, Move your opponents towards these shadows It doesn't hurt to randomly switch up how If you're one of the three players, then you should also pay attention to the so you can avoid the bullet bills! Don't let the solo player move you into especially if one is bigger than the others. Hand, Line, and Sinker "Three players dressed like fish have to being caught by the other player who attempts If at least one of the three players avoids but if the other player catches all the players If you're the solo player, then get a good If you just push left or right on the analog then probably won't be making many accurate You need to hold the analog stick down and for much better coverage. The further down you hold the analog stick the further the Magic Hand will go. After you've casted, you can move the Magic the analog stick right, or right by pushing This can help you catch any opponents that after you cast the Magic Hand near them. Once you've caught someone, they can't so bask in glory as they become your next If you're one of the three players, You should be hanging out at the more difficult such as the middle left or middle right. If you go all the way to the back then you immediately from a long range cast, which is the easiest one for the solo player If you see that Magic Hand approach you, for your best chance at evasion. Hide and Sneak "Three players must attempt to hide behind a rock, a tree stump, a bush and a mushroom while the curtain is still open. The last time the analog stick was tilted determines the player's hiding spot. The other player must guess one of the other If the solo player finds one of the players that player is eliminated. In addition, if a player does not tilt the during the hiding phase, that player is automatically At the end of each round, the selected hiding and the remaining players in the trio then to hide from the remaining hiding spots. The players should be careful as the number If the solo player seeks all the three players the solo player wins. But if any of the three players survived from after the 3rd round, the three players win. As the three players are deciding where to you may notice that their characters are running This is NOT telling you which direction they're One could be holding their analog stuck up or not touching their analog stick at all, regardless, their character's gonna run If you're the solo player, best guess. If you're one of the three players one round, then you can coordinate with your remaining and consistently hide in different locations Most people will play the minigame fairly Ridiculous Relay &quot;Everyone has a different vehicle in this It's a 3-on-1 relay.&quot; "The two teams of players must outrace one The solo player is hang-gliding and must dodge and Flying Goombas on the way. Hitting any enemy will slow the player down. The hitbox for the solo player is not as large but it's counterbalanced by not allowing to change directions that quickly. If you're the solo player, then put some and where the bullet bills are coming from Back up as your change directions for an even Where you are on the screen will not affect so there isn't any point in hugging the for most of the game. I say most because you do want to hug the so you can touch the goal the moment it appears Be aware of your hitbox and any tight gaps Speed up or slow down accordingly to avoid If you get hit, then use your second of invincibility The team of three each partake in a three-legged The next player starts the moment the previous touches the black and white checkpoint. The first player must press A and B alternately The second player must hold their analog stick and press A, hold it up and press B, hold It sounds complicated, 'n' A, Up 'n' B, Down 'n' B. If you screw up, then you've gotta start The third player mashes A as quickly as possible. No matter which section you're randomly don't stop your inputs until you reach the I've seen times where a player assumes they're just to stop an inch before the next section. This mainly happens with the second section it may be worth practicing. River Raiders &quot;Ride on Koopa shells and try to collect coins One player in the boat drives around to get while the other three players on Green Shells For example, if one player gets 5 coins, another and the last gets 15 coins; then all three There are some logs that float around the the player is temporary unable to get coins If you're the solo player, then your goal while making sure the three players end up To do this, you have to be aware of your limitations. If you're on one side of the river and go then you're barely going to make it in time. With this limit in mind, if you see a coin then don't move towards it since you won't you're only going to make it so the three and we don't want that. If you're one of the three players then or uh, water as possible to get the most coins. Hitting a log when you're part of the team as when you're the one person since your teammates can still grab coins so feel free to go out far. Sadly, you're limited by where the solo and can't influence their movement...in Not all players are masters at gauging distance so making sly comments like "Don't get can trick the solo player into bringing you when they didn't really have a chance in Spotlight Swim &quot;Catch the swimmer by shining all the searchlights Three players have to use the spotlight to while the other has to avoid being caught The other player can also go underwater but the player has to surface every once in If the player manages to avoid the three player's If the three players catch the solo player the team wins. If you're the solo player then promptly or make your best attempt at faking out the Try to stay underwater as long as possible If you're swimming one direction above water, If you find this minigame difficult as the If you're one of the three players, then move your spotlight towards where the and where you think they're going to pop Just your spotlight won't do, you need all so make sure your teammates are following Thwomp Pull "Press the buttons the Thwomps tell you with good timing to move your sled forward.&quot; The solo player has to press the correct buttons while the three players are assigned a button and do the same thing together. Snowmen will throw snowballs at the lane. If a player or players get hit by one, Nothing will happen if a snowball hits the The first player or team to reach the finish but if neither team makes it within 60 seconds, This minigame follows a 1-2-3 pattern, where each button needs to be pressed once before it can be pressed again. For example, if the first button is Z, and then the third one will absolutely be A. Afterwards, the cycle begins anew. If the first button is A, and the next one then the third will absolutely be Z. Knowing this information, you can press the at a much quicker speed than normal, which over time will give you a great edge Remember that the game starts to register when the Thwomps touch the ground, so the moment they slam down after your second immediately press the button for your third This isn't just a solo player deal, although you have to make sure they fully to get the most out of it. Getting hit by a snowball or messing an input If you were supposed to hit A before the screw-up, Tidal Toss &quot;Jump to avoid the waves caused by the player Three players try to stay on the platform while the solo player attempts to knock them or Ground Pounding the boat and making waves, with their size being dependent on the force If one of the three players gets knocked off they are eliminated from the minigame. If the solo player knocks off all three of However, if at least a single member of the survives when time runs out, the team wins. If you're the solo player, then refrain They're easy to dodge, the knockback they and your opponents can easily abuse the invincibility from getting hit by one to avoid more threatening You instead want to focus on producing large which are harder to dodge, and deal a lot If these large waves are timed well enough, their invincibility frames run out. If your opponents are avoiding your large then mix up the timing of them by just a little, it can make a big difference in faking someone If you're one of the three players, Don't stay still there since your character getting swept away towards the edge by the water. It's not by much, but every inch counts. Pay attention to what kind of wave the solo If they leap high into the air, then prepare you don't wanna get hit by one! If they instead produce small waves, get hit by one so you can abuse your invincibility frames just don't do this if you're right at 2-vs-2 minigames Baby Bowser Broadside "Aim your cannon at the Baby Bowser target, Teams at the outside border have to shoot in the middle by using their cannons to get The Baby Bowser target moves randomly, and The team who has the most points wins. When the timer hits 20 seconds, at a consistent speed. This, combined with the inner border moving will make your shots a lot more difficult Just keep tapping A at a steady pace and watch Make quick adjustments to ensure as many shots hit the Baby Bowser target. If your teammate's shots are consistently then let them know what adjustments they should Cosmic Coaster &quot;Hop in a two-person coaster, avoid the signs If one or both of the players in a team rams the coaster will slow down. In order to avoid the signs, they must either Some signs only block one section of space decorated as Bowser's face. Some, however, fill up two sections of the decorated as Bowser breathing fire. There are also coins along the track, the signs. This is why I recommend focusing on safely and winning the minigame instead of getting Only grab the coins if you're confident I like to keep my eyes on the signs two or and use my peripheral vision to avoid the Alternatively, you could focus on the ones and use your peripheral vision for the ones whichever one you find success with more will This minigame's layout is the same each to get the pattern down so you don't have Eatsa Pizza &quot;Work together to gobble up a giant pizza. If a team eats their entire half of the they automatically win the minigame. It's possible for both teams to eat the making the game a tie. This one's an endurance button masher, so but not so fast that you end up spraining Toppings are harder to eat through them. This shouldn't be too big a deal though whole time anyways. Just don't let the sudden increase in speed Make absolute certainty that every pixel of If your team misses a couple pixels way on then you've gotta hustle your way over there To prevent this scenario, watch for stray and munch 'em up before it's too late. Ideally, you should be eating as much pizza until the end of the minigame. If you realize that you're not getting much then realign yourself to devour as much as Etch 'n' Catch &quot;Toad has been turned into a stamp. to return him to normal.&quot; The lines will begin disappearing after a regardless of their length. The first team to save five Toads wins; if neither team can rescue five before time the team who saved the most Toads wins. If both teams have the same score when the then the minigame will end in a draw. A circle around Toad can't be formed alone; circle. The easiest way to draw circles around Toad and your partner are both moving clockwise This way, you won't run into each other quicker and easier than if you went in opposite Your team's circle doesn't need to encompass it's okay if a part or two's sticking just make sure you've a good chunk of the Hyper Hydrants &quot;Douse the flames from the Podoboo. "One player in the team attempts to pump to douse the flames from the giant Lava Bubble If you're the one pumping the water, then make sure you're pumping at a pace for your teammate's hose to constantly be If you're the one dousing the flames, then NEVER HOLD THE A BUTTON TO SPRAY. It's only useful when the Podoboos are really and even then you still won't get much out The water you shoot can actually hit Podaboos meaning you can spray two or more of them Focus fire targets that are lined up "If both teams end up with the same amount Log Jam &quot;Press the button displayed on each log to One player in the team attempts to place by pressing the correct button while the other player attempts to chop the the same way as the placer. If a player does not place or chop the log The team that places and cuts the most logs If both teams have placed and cut the same the minigame ends in a draw. This one's all about reaction time! The one placing the logs will have a smaller since they'll see what button they have and will be given the opportunity to press The one chopping the logs has a larger margin since they'll have seen the button they're before they actually have to press it. For this reason, you may want to switch controllers to make sure that the person with the better is the one placing down the logs. Don't undermine the wood-chopping position The person there should only chop when they being placed in front of them. Assuming that your partner will get their might lead you to chopping after they screw which will result in lost time, so always If you're behind by a few logs, time is the other team hasn't made any mistakes, then throw in a guess or two on upcoming logs After all, your opponents are that consistent then going for the lucky press may be your Picking Panic &quot;Grab the cherries from Woody, One player in the team has to grab the and throw them to the other player, who then puts the cherry in the basket to The team that has the most points wins. If you're the one tossing the cherry to then release A the moment your character crosses This way, the cherry you're throwing will for your teammate to grab it. There's less of a chance of them following if you throw your cherry at random intervals, Keep in mind that the distance the cherries A single cherry thrown at the same place as will fly further because it's lighter. If you're throwing at the place I told you then this detail shouldn't matter too much, but just to be safe, throw single cherries to compensate for the distance they fly. If you're the one receiving the cherry from then you've gotta read the arc that the and hold A once the cherry is on top of your If your teammate's a good thrower, from the short distance, but everyone screws up now and then, Now under normal circumstances, you'd expect each team to get the exact so no team wins simply because they were given But that sadly isn't the case here for some reason. I've found that the overall amount of cherries by the end of an optimally played game tends possibly by a margin as wide as six cherries! That means if both teams play flawlessly, will beat out the other simply because their cherry pulls were more which is terribly unfortunate. In my experience though, the team that wins this minigame normally deserves it, but darn me if this RNG won't be in the Puddle Paddle &quot;Climb aboard a two-person raft "If one of the teams gets hit by a hammer, Hammers that are in the water can't hurt The hammer bro will throw around coins, and hammers randomly. It doesn't matter which direction he's all items will be tossed out in a random direction. This is why you want to cover as much space regardless of where he's looking. Target the coin bags first and foremost, even call 'em out so your teammate's in sync with you. There's nothing worse than being so close but losing it cuz your team didn't have This minigame is by no means a button masher, Blocking the enemy as they go for coins can especially if you can take those coins for Coins and coin bags actually stay in the water so you can travel a wide distance to grab Pump, Pump and Away &quot;Press A Button and B Button with good timing The team whose rocket flies higher, wins.&quot; The players in each team will have to pump as much as possible within the ten second time The player can pump the most air into the The rocket that flies the highest will win If both teams did nothing, the minigame will If both teams pump the exact same amount of then one team will win by chance via their boosting ahead by about 48 meters, kind of a weird detail... Don't worry, I'm not about to tell you I'm done with that for now. Instead, direct your efforts towards syncing as that'll give your rocket more air than It's still great to have a quick rhythm but value the comradery of you and your partner Slot Synch &quot;Pair up to hit character blocks. A Goomba is worth one point, a Koopa Troopa a Toad is worth three points, and a Baby Bowser The team who has the most points wins. If both teams have the same amount of points the minigame ends in a draw. The faces on the block for you and your partner focus on your own and make sure you're both if you accidentally get a Goomba or Koopa then have them match you so you get something; if you accidentally get a Baby Bowser, so you don't lose a point. You can get an insane amount of points on if your team lands on toad over and over again. It's fairly easy to time it after you've since the block doesn't spin fast immediately, it actually goes slow and gradually builds If you still find trouble timing your jump the moment you see toad jump out of the pipe. Jump as soon as you reach 3. 0...1...2...3! 0...1...2...3! If both you and your teammate are good at then victory should be yours! Battle minigames All Fired Up &quot;The Podoboos are coming to get you! The Podoboos will shift into different formations These formations are: the circle, the cross, They will not assume the same formation two and they will idle about in-between formations. For the circle, jump into the middle of it as soon and the wave of Podoboos spreads out after that, they're either going to return to the middle while in their circle formation, or return to the middle after scattering about. This sounds simple, but it's highly likely that they're going to try to fake you out multiple times. They may start to approach the middle in circle formation, just to spread back out over and over again This is to trick you into thinking that they're going to getcha so you prematurely jump towards them, and get burned. Don't fall for it. Only make an attempt to jump over them if they get really close to you in circle formation. Otherwise, wait until they scatter about at the edge of the arena, and jump diagonally as soon as they begin their approach. I say diagonally, because the cross and wave formations never start out by touching the diagonal sides of the arena The cross will touch the top, right, bottom and left wall, This makes the diagonal walls the most safe to cling onto while waiting for the Podoboos next formation. The cross is the most difficult formation to dodge, it'll spin one direction just to quickly shift to the other direction and back again, over and over again. Reaction time is crucial here, but if you realize a Podoboo is about to hit you, Don't rely on this too much though, The wave is the easiest formation to dodge, it'll spin the same direction all the way though, Simply go the same direction its going and keep out of reach. If you realize you're right on the edge of it, Jumping on an opponent will slow them down and make it so they can't jump. This can screw someone over during formations like the circle, where jumping is practically required to live. Overall though, try to focus on survivng yourself instead. Eye Sore &quot;Run circles around Big Mr. I to shrink him Complete 15 laps to make Big Mr. I vanish I doubt you'd ever make this mistake, but make sure you're going around in clockwise The arrows will guide you. Hug Mr. I as close as possible without bumping or else you'll get stunned for a short time. You'll also get stunned if you run into which fall from the ceiling periodically. To avoid these guys, simply run around them or wait if they're in the middle of your Squeezing between Mr. I and a Podoboo is normally since their hitboxes are a little larger than When in doubt, wait it out, unless you really need an enemy to get a certain placing. Locked Out "Grab a key, then open a door! or it won't open!&quot; There is always one less key than the amount Players without keys can punch other players If one of the players fails to get in a door, The first player that reaches the end of the If no players have entered a door when the minigame will end in a draw. However, if only one player has entered a that player will automatically be declared There's some chance to this minigame since some players will spawn on the side whereas others may have to go extra distance If you got lucky with your placement, If you're competing for a key that you're then you can either grab it and try to run move the key around before grabbing it, or punch your opponent away before grabbing it. The option you choose should depend on how and how good they are at landing their punches. If they're far or haven't played this then try grabbing it and running away. If they manage to land a punch on you, before making another dash. If they're close or have experience with then move the key around a little or hit them If you're competing for the key then punching is the best option if they attempt it or you'll have hit them before they tried The option that punching doesn't cover is which they're unlikely to do anyways since so throw in a punch or two to knock 'em If you're without a key after someone to steal one, then block the middle of a door so someone If they try approaching you to get through then punch 'em and steal, a rather toxic It can be really effective because you can't while you're holding onto the key. The only option you have if someone's blocking if they're not properly in the center or What you've gotta consider is this, Are they really willing to stand there by so both you and they lose or are they going to say "screw it, camping and come for you instead? on everyone's placings in the game. For example, if Luigi's a huge threat to and I need him to not gain anything from this then you bet I'll camp by the door and take sorry Luigi. Not all situations are like that though; if I've been low on coins throughout the and desperately want to win the battle minigame, then Luigi knows I'm likely going to approach for a steal so I don't lose. If you don't wanna go through all of this then you can always throw the key to the side then quickly pick up the key again and run Not the best strategy, but it's a mix-up. Obviously, camping at the door will only work for anyone to go through. Merry-Go-Chomp &quot;Below the spinning pillar, the Chain Chomp Try your luck--pick a color to avoid the Chain I wish this minigame had some kind of trick but it really seems like that Chain Chomp Hope that you're not on his menu. Slap Down &quot;Quickly press A when the flower on a revolving matches the big flower in the middle!&quot; If you slap on the wrong flower, Make sure the flowers match! I burn the flower in the middle into my mind anything that shows itself. You may have a different way of going about one's strategy for reacting to something Regardless, be careful, since some of these flowers look really similar to one another, and if you accidentally slap down on the wrong then that's an instant out. If the flower hasn't shown up eight times then it will show up on the ninth reveal, Otherwise, be QUICK. Stacked Deck &quot;Use a Ground Pound to flip the card and find If you flip over a Baby Bowser, you lose!&quot; Players have to Ground Pound the cards and whatever is on the card results in different The players are arranged in a line, and take A Toad card lets the player remain in the A Boo card will scare all the players causing and instantly return in a shuffled order, A Baby Bowser card will kick the player out making the player lose. If a player does not Ground Pound a card within Baby Bowser spawns automatically, making the player lose instantly because of The last player standing wins. With all these cards and rules, you'd expect or strategy to increase your chances, but You may find it peculiar to note that the their cards in corresponds to the current 1st place will choose a card first, 2nd place Now, before anyone gets the wrong idea, the initial does not grant anyone an advantage or disadvantage. I could go into detail why, but Identifying Luck for Mario Party 2 covered for Bowser's Big Blast, so if you listen to my explanation for why then you'll understand why order doesn't Slight disclaimer, of course order is going to matter if you have to go twice in a row by a boo, I'm just talking in general though. With all that said and done, pick the card Storm Chasers &quot;Hold your pot under the rain cloud to water The more you water it, the more it will grow!&quot; Your Piranha Plant will flash brightly In the middle of the minigame, if a player bumps into one, that player will The player who gathers the most rain for their This cloud goes all over the place. Its unpredictable nature coupled with four a small moving shadow for themselves makes The Monty Moles I mentioned earlier don't You mainly want to run when you need to close between you and the cloud. When you're close to the shadow it casts, as best you can. A lot of the time, players will keep running which results in overshooting it You can't attack your opponents, so you've in order to stay under the cloud for as long It's not the end of the world if you bump avoid them if you can, but by no means are Three Door Monty "Toad, Boo and Koopa will enter the castle. be the quickest to answer!&quot; If you choose the wrong door, you're out. Burn into your mind which character is in when the timer starts counting down. Make sure your fingers are ready to any of A, B, and Z. Once you see the face of a character, quickly and press the button of the house they're If you're not confident in your reaction then you have a couple options. The first is to try and fool your opponents is in a different spot than where they last This can be done by muttering to yourself "Alright, boo z, koopa a, toad B" or anything in an effort to make any of your opponents Even if they seem sure about their answers it's possible that this slight distraction for even a millisecond while in the midst which can mean everything. You could also be more obvious about this and obnoxiously shout out incorrect spots but as always, that may come at the cost of Should you attempt to employ this strategy, You could spend so much time repeating the that it's possible you may get them confused which would be a delicious twist of irony, The second option for slowpokes is to guess Sure you only have a 1 in 3 chance of getting then you're guaranteed 1st place unless I can only recommend this method if you're in which case, this strategy's your best Duel minigames Baby Bowser Bonkers &quot;Lots of Baby Bowsers will pop out of the Score points by stepping on them!&quot; Numerous Baby Bowsers pop up from the fourteen The players score points] by jumping on their For each hit Baby Bowser, the player gets When the timing is right, players can also from one Baby Bowser to the next without touching After 30 seconds, the game ends points wins. As you can imagine, the greatest way to get is by consecutively bouncing off of Baby Bowsers. When they're right next to one another, but if you wanna get to one further away, then hold A when you hit one so you can bounce far enough to reach. Whenever you wish to change directions, as far as it can go. Doing so will increase the consistency of exactly how you want them to. If you're too passive with pushing the analog then you may find your character's movements because of this detail, Whack-a-Plant from is actually more fluid than its spiritual You don't have to jump on a Baby Bowser you can easily run into one and do the job this isn't recommended however, since you'll making it more difficult to chain multiple Stick to short hops for chain starters. This is a duel minigame, so of course there's one way or another. Surprisingly, you can't jump on the other You instead wanna cut them off from Baby Bowser by eyeing their position and You may not get as many Baby Bowsers this but remember, you win the minigame by getting more points not by getting x amount of points. Bowser Toss &quot;Spin Bowser by the tail and toss him as far Both players have 10 seconds to spin their Their Bowser is thrown when the 10 seconds The angle and spin of the Bowser affect how Whoever throws their Bowser the furthest distance I repeat, the angle and spin of the Bowser You could be the greatest button masher in but with a terrible angle, you're not getting Make sure that you're holding the Bowser which is in the middle of straight up and You don't have to hold this angle the entire you can quickly get to it in the last moment it's all up to you. The more accurate you angle Bowser and the the better chance you have at winning! Crowd Cover &quot;Choose the small picture that matches the The larger drawing is covered by characters As time passes, the crowd on the paper decreases allowing players to see better. If one player chooses incorrectly, The picture can be of a Boo, Toad, or Bob-omb. which of the drawings Here are the quickest methods for figuring for each character. For Boo, look at its mouth. If it's wide open, then select the only with the mouth wide open for a quick win. If it's open just a bit, then look at Boo's and select the matching picture from there. For Toad, look at his right foot. If it's up, then select the only picture If it's down, then look at his right arm Alternatively, you could look for the right and then look if the right boot is up, but I said boot first since it's a lot easier Unlike Boo and Toad, the Bob-omb has a feature eyes. If you see that its left eye is open, one with both eyes open, since the other two pictures don't have On the other hand, if you see that its right then you know the matching picture is the since the other two pictures don't have It's all a matter of figuring out which and which eye is closed within a matter of If the eyes aren't obvious at the beginning, If the right one is in front or the left one then choose the only picture that matches You could also check the spark of the Bob-omb If it's small with very little orange, The spark should be obvious early on, so take a quick look there to see if it's smaller than normal. If not, check the eyes. If you're not confident at all in your ability then feel free to immediately guess with a These odds are much better than a sure loss that knows what they're doing, such as myself, End of the Line &quot;Climb aboard Steamer, then pick the right If you pick the wrong tunnel, you'll fly off There are three junctions players must They are given a choice of two tunnels at and an incorrect tunnel drops the player off and they return to the start of the course. The first player to choose the correct tunnel and arrive at the station with Steamer wins. The correct tunnels remain the same throughout so if you fail on the third tunnel, get back. You and your opponent share the same tunnel Meaning that you should keep an eye on which to see if it's correct or not. For example, if you're on junction one and then peak at their screen to see what happens Did they go left and fall? Did they go left and succeed? Preventing screen peaking like this is practically so if you're on the third junction and fail, direction is the right one. There is a little bit of memorization involved so if your opponent's on their way back, then you could trip them up by claiming they're or for the reverse play, assure them they If both players arrive at the station at the or if five minutes pass, the minigame will Fowl Play &quot;Chase down and catch the runaway chicken! In this minigame players must follow the and catch it in 60 seconds; if one of the players gets too close to the the chicken will try to run away. The first player who catches the chicken wins time limit, the game ends in a draw. It's easy to lose the chicken because it's If you can't find it, follow the footprints. If you want a clearer picture of where the then take a look at your opponent's screen You can jump to get over fences instead of but you can't jump on your opponent's so don't waste time trying it. When you approach the chicken while it's it'll likely hug the wall to make an escape, so make your move as it runs towards you for Don't throw out grabs randomly, since if you'll be stationary for a short while. Only grab if you think there's a real chance otherwise, close your distance with it instead. The chicken will attempt to flee both you so if it's running away from your opponent then close off its exist to take it for yourself. The more accurate your predictions, Motor Rooter &quot;It's a Koopa shell race in a pipe! Run over an acceleration panel for a quick speed burst!&quot; The players can move all around the inside On the way, there are speed-ups that makes shaped like red arrows. There are also Amps that are indicated by Their shock waves cover all but 2 of 8 spaces If the player gets shocked, they are stunned The first player who reaches the goal wins. There is a time limit, and if nobody reaches it becomes a draw. Your speed will also decrease gradually over so make sure you're hitting every panel Now you may think, as I thought at first electricity would be a good strategy, but I found with repeated testing that even the amount of time I lost from being so slow I saw more success with going fast and making quick dodges when opportunities arose. The two safe spots away from electricity will which is quite easy to spot, so if you see it in the distance, then make This won't always be possible though, reducing the amount of time you have to react This also makes it more difficult to speed since you won't see some of the panels in It's not completely hopeless though! While the panels' placements are quite random, It's common for speed panels to appear alongside There may be one in a lane, then one in the and so on until a chain of about five speed This can help out when taking turns, since you can simply hang around the area and hope this pattern is what results. This next one might just be me, speed panels close to an amp the electrical part. Regardless if this is chance or not, don't keep focus on where the safe zones are. You may have guessed it already, same layout as one another. If your opponent's ahead of you, then you may find it worthwhile to peek at to see where the speed panels and safe zones I say "may find it worthwhile" since this and diverting your attention for even a moment crucial speed panels or important dodges that Peek in moderation! Popgun Pick-Off &quot;Baby Bowsers will pop up in the windows. Use the Analog Stick to aim, then let them have it!&quot; If one of the players accidentally hits The player who has the most points wins. Hitting a Baby Bowser once will yield one A Baby Bowser can only get hit a maximum of before getting knocked down. This means that if your opponent hits one then you can only hit it four more times before Keep an eye on your point total throughout The moment you've launched your tenth shot then immediately switch to the next one. Many times will players overshoot a Baby Bowser since they're unsure of how many shots they're allowed to take at it but if you count each shot or simply wait then you'll be able to react in advance This should go without saying, but avoid Toads Don't get tripped up by the controls either! You need to hold your analog stick in the If you're aiming top-left, then hold that analog stick top-left until you're done! If your opponent starts gaining a decent lead, then consider shooting the same Baby Bowser then quickly switch to another and secure Silly Screws &quot;Line up the nuts and advance rapidly!&quot; The players rotate the screws by rotating The player who reaches the end first wins. The faster you spin the nut; This is why you've gotta know in advance the stopping point so you won't accidentally There are two ways of doing this. The first is by intensely watching for both hey I heard that! I know one of you watching this chuckled just let's be mature! Anyways, this method is fine, but some people struggle with depth perception, so gauging how much time it'll take for one nut to approach the other may be difficult. I prefer the second method, are on the screws. I find it much easier to line up the nuts since the screw indents are clearer indications than if I focused hard on the nuts themselves, Mash the correct button as fast as possible Tick Tock Hop One of my favorite Mario Party minigames! :D &quot;Stand on the clock's hour hand and jump the The players stand on the hour hand, and by simply jumping over it as it comes spinning As the game progresses, the minute hand may the hour hand may be the only one rotating, and they may also reverse direction and change The last standing player wins. If the players are knocked off by the minute the minigame ends in a draw. The game also ends in a draw if both players Although it does not say in the instructions, their character or run in place. However, they will stay in the same place, just style, you know the deal. There doesn't seem to be a consistent pattern Sometimes they'll change directions after it really just is what the game's feeling What should stay consistent is your focus Don't think your safe when a hand passes always be prepared for that hand to swing Landing on a hand will still knock you out If you wanna lose a friend, but win the minigame, then do a quick and resume right as the hand's about to hit the both of you. No one expects someone to be that toxic, which is exactly why this may not be your best option... might be more fun if you two agree on allowing Vine With Me &quot;Use vines to swing your way out of the Piranha All the vines swing back and forth as the Players have to get to the end of the level If a player misses a vine, that player will and will go back to the vine they previously The first player to reach the end wins. You gain control of your character the moment Let go of the vine you're on the moment to go as far as possible. There may be situations where going super because of how the next few vines are positioned, so pay attention to how they're swaying and gauge if you need to wait or not on each swing. If a vine you're on overlaps with another then letting go of the one you're on will Your momentum does not carry over from vine if you leap while the vine you're on is then to the left you go, incredibly fast beforehand. With awesome timing and positioning, you can but I recommend you focus on simply getting going for something like this will probably unless you've played the minigame a ton. You can't leap backwards to a previous vine; You and your opponent share the exact same but unlike other minigames, there's really no advantage to be gained Item minigames Bobbing Bow-loons &quot;Time your arrow to shoot down an item.&quot; The player's objective is to shoot one that contains an item within the time limit The row of balloons moves vertically with The value of the item varies, with a rare and a common item in front of the player. If the player pops a balloon with their arrow, they will receive the item from the balloon the player popped. However, if the arrow is shot it will bounce off the stone tower and pop resulting in no item gained. The same is true if the player runs out of Here are the timings for each balloon placement. First one: you don't need any specific timings just shoot as it goes in front of you. Second one: shoot as soon as the minigame You should be mashing A as soon as you see Third one: shoot the moment 4 pops up on the Fourth one: shoot the moment 6 pops up on If you happen to shoot on the first couple then you'll get the first balloon instead, but this shouldn't happen so long as you're popping up instead of shooting in advance. Fifth one: shoot the moment the first balloon of its cycle while the timer is at 7. These are, of course, not the only timings they're just the ones I found the easiest It should go without saying that the movement each time you play the minigame, so the timings If you don't wanna memorize these timings then watch for how quickly each balloon is and gauge when you'll have to shoot your and the balloon to intersect properly. You've also gotta worry about hitting a Dorrie Dip &quot;If you Ground Pound on Dorrie's back, she'll This minigame's quite similar to Give Me From Mario Party 2, it may ring a bell as well. To get the item you want, want is between these rocks. When you reach the height of your jump, If done correctly, your desired item should If Dorrie grabs Baby Bowser or the time the player gets nothing. If your time's about to run out, then ground You want a chance at leaving with something. Hey, Batter, Batter! &quot;Hit Baby Bowser's pitch. Hit an item with You can swing the bat only once.&quot; The item you hit will change with the timing Watch the ball and time your swing well. If you hit way too early or way too late then straight to Baby Bowser and get nothing. Hit early to get what's on the left, hit hit straight-on to get what's in the middle, hit a little late to get what's on the middle-right, I find this to be the most difficult item The precise timing you need in order to nail This is why I don't really aim for anything and instead try to hit the ball to just get something. For example, if there's an awesome item then why would I risk hitting a fly-ball swing for anything near the middle? This minigame may be a cake-walk for you though! If that's the case then feel free to time just don't be surprised if things don't Swing 'n' Swipe &quot;Hit a Baby Bowser with a hammer to get the This is one of the easiest minigames in the Simply walk up to the Baby Bowser that's with the item you want, and swing at him. Just make sure there isn't another Baby so you don't accidentally hit him instead. If the Baby Bowser with the item you want then settle for something else. Swinging with Sharks &quot;Jump from the swing and land on a barrel Timing is important.&quot; If the player misses, they get nothing. If the player runs out of time, they automatically jump into the water. The timing tips I'm about to give only apply after that I can't make any guarantees since the barrels move throughout the entire minigame. I could figure out the timings for every swing, but it's wiser to invest time into memorizing so nothing gets jumbled up. First barrel: Jump the moment the swing starts from its highest point. If done correctly, then you'll actually If you jumped super far then you hit the jump remember, only when the swing has just started not when it's finishing the process of going Second barrel: Jump the moment the swing passes Third barrel: Jump the moment the swing touches Fourth barrel: Jump the moment the swing is Fifth barrel: I know it looks odd physics-wise, but jump the moment the swing reaches its highest height. Your character won't look like they have to launch themselves to the fifth barrel, just make sure you're not jumping when the or you'll end up on the first barrel. If you wanna meme, then try jumping off the One moment your character will be on-screen, and the next, the swing will be empty. Winner's Wheel &quot;Stop the roulette wheel with good timing Pay close attention to the roulette wheel You're much more likely to overshoot your because the wheel is turning the opposite To account for this, try stopping the roulette when it's about to highlight the item you In addition, it's best to find a pair of so if you end up overshooting the first item you can be content with the second. If you run out of time, you'll be forced however, the wheel will automatically point If your time's about to run out, then just A chance of any item is better than Baby Bowser. Game Guy minigames Game Guy's Lucky 7 Hit the Dice Block, then climb up that many You can hit the die once or twice. If you climb higher than him or stop on the he'll] double your coins! But if you stop below him, or if you fall he'll get to keep all of your coins. However, if you land exactly on the seventh If you're lower than him, then always roll I'm honestly not sure why the game even if you want to roll again if you're guaranteed It's almost like it's secretly plotting If Game Guy falls off the stairs, or you can roll again for a chance at landing Whether or not you take your chances should you are already and your current place in If you're on the 6th step for example, and losing all your coins, but if the only way for you to win the game then this may be a risk you have to take. If you're on the 1st step, then no matter Your dice block rolls 1 through 6 so there's a zero percent chance of you may as well try for the x10 then! You can't really account for this, but there despite having already won, will roll another dice block, and give you the win. Consider yourself lucky if this happens. Game Guy's Magic Boxes &quot;Toad is hiding in one of these treasure chests. If you guess right, you'll get more coins. When the minigame starts, the two boxes are hidden by the curtains and may be switched; when that's done, the player must pick a box. If the player picks the box containing If they pick the box containing Toad, their The player is then given the option either or risk them all for a second doubling --and, if lucky enough to guess right the Three correct guesses multiplies the player's but of course players may also opt to quit and take their winnings. Only keep doubling if the potential gain outweighs For example, let's say you went into this and you manage to double it to 200 coins. If this amount already scores you the coin and is way higher than your opponents' coin then why risk going even higher On the other hand, if it's the last few and your biggest threat has the coin star then hey, go for another double, Not all situations have to be so dramatic if you're coming up on Boo and want to steal but you only have a little over 25 coins, then risking another double could be integral If there's anything to get from this, it's that you need to keep in mind how the and if the risk of doubling again and again Game Guy's Roulette &quot;Place your bet, then make your guess. If the shell stops in the area you chose, odds. If the shell lands in another area, your coins Here are how many slots each character takes along with the chances of landing on their Out of all the Game Guy minigames, likely to win over the others, but you should try to strategize anyways! If multiplying your coins by two won't get then bet on Bob-omb or Goomba, since five and four slots aren't that much An example of a situation like this would in which case you've hardly got anything so you may as well go for the larger jackpot If losing all your coins would mean losing then bet on Koopa Troopa since it has the even if it's hardly a quarter. Game Guy's Sweet Surprise &quot;The Big Chomp and the Little Chomp will have Predict which one will be the quicker cake If you guess right, you'll get more coins. But, if you guess wrong, your coins will be All the player has to do is to predict which can eat their cake the fastest. Big Chomp will most likely finish first, he will win, they will double their coins. However, if the player correctly guesses that their coins will be multiplied by an even either 4, 8, 16, 32 or 64! Before selecting a Chomp, players can read which seem to imply each Chain Chomp's but the Mario Party Legacy channel has a video The guy in the video ran 1000 total tests isolating all variables but one in separate to determine what about this minigame actually He tested the amount of coins one enters with, the descriptions under each chain chomp, and the multipliers. After all the tests were completed, he concluded that the amount of coins one enters with and the descriptions under each chain chomp have no correlation with which chain chomp will win. What he does claim has a strong correlation is, as you probably expected, the multipliers. He outlined the percent chance of the Little for each of its five possible multipliers. Whereas the x4 multiplier gives the lil' the x64 multiplier gives him a less than 1% Based on his findings, I'd say that betting so long as losing all those coins won't I'd only bet on the x8 if I needed the coins When it gets to x16 and x32, I wouldn't the odds are too out of favor there Now you may laugh at x64's chances of victory but those odds are actually helpful in a strange Think about it, if you enter this minigame then you're practically guaranteed to double Big Chomp due to how low the chances are of What appears to be the only influential factor Bet on the one you think will win, and WATCH THEM EAT THAT CAKE UP! I feel like the main reason Mario Party 3 is cuz it wasn't released on the virtual console during the Wii era. This game took a lot of what made the second and pumped it up even higher! Yeah sure, we don't have the costumes, but we got new characters, more item slots, spaces next to skeleton gates to allow for more strategy in general because of the busted and you don't have to buy minigames to play They simply appear after you play them for which is something future titles adopt, and Not to mention that this title gives you the every player moves around the board so you aren't waiting a long time for the I wish that was in other titles! You'll find as this series goes on that for as much strategic gameplay as this one, which is why I want it to be appreciated as I don't find said titles to be bad because but there's a lot of value in the way Mario that I hope to see a return sometime soon. Thanks for watching, see you next time when