Early in 2003, Baghdad was waiting. Baghdad was uncertain. Life went on, they'd be plunged into the unknown. All the decades of deceit and cruelty US President George Walker Bush had Work. The operation would be Its aim: to overthrow Saddam Hussein, country for 35 years. Behind the desert sands, of neighboring countries. They waited for the final order to attack. Saddam Hussein was driven into a corner, He knew his two oldest assets would now be everyone would see it as determination, which would give everyone confidence. He also knew he would have to reckon to rule: suspicion, civility, and terror. A few weeks before the deployment a strange scene occurred in a windowless which the regime had relocated its the response to the invasion. A final act in which the absurd blindness out into the open. A handful of strategists, presented the Rais with some of their battle with the Americans. Nails, bows and arrows, and slings. Saddam Hussein observed, The previous night, with the final pages of a book he was entitled Out Devil. A threatening phrase, As we were there from September 2002, it became more and more clear that, we would have to probably end up going I remember, I believe it was late summer deploy in order to take It was about probably August, that we had to develop in order to train for our platoons and our My brigade combat team deployed with the 101st, the rest of our division in February of 2003, we went to Kuwait and occupied several assembly areas, and my brigade was in camp Pennsylvania. I have a military background. I was in the Marines myself when I was things about being with the military. So when the Pentagon first announced journalists with them, my editor came to me, for the Chronicle, approached me and asked in being part of it? I was writing a novel at the time, of the imagination was turning on the approaching war, hometowns, and on the mindset of the youth The future was blurred. That's what frightened people most. But within that fear, People wanted this change, whatever We were audiovisual graduates. We were posted to radio and TV station. My department numbered two young women, None of us felt like reporters. In Iraq, the situation was this. The people were hungry, They wanted everything back to normal so like people in the Gulf States. They believed that after Iraq was invaded, and in wealth, wanting for nothing. Medium regular coat. Large regular coat. Medium regular coat. I was renting a house, me, an officer, a colonel in the army. Was my monthly pay enough After two weeks, it had all gone. After 10 days, all gone. How do you make it I'm talking about my own situation ate was bread and yogurt. A bit of cheese and a yogurt, And I was a senior officer. During the embargo, 3,000 dinars or 3 to 4 dollars a month. And he had to travel from one region to the and then return to the front. All these conditions made invasion easier to defend his homeland. I left the army in 2002. Since I was unqualified, I started working in the presidential palaces as part of a team installing I earned 2,500 dinars a day, just under The services was never higher Members of the Security Services Those who gave in to stealing or but the rest lived in extreme poverty. Initially, the fourth division was a part supposed to enter Iraq. It was a very powerful division. It was our most modern division modern mechanized division. Vehicles were able to see through where each other were. In terms of modernizing its military equipment, Iraq was way behind. So in case of an attack on Baghdad, to get one plane off the ground. The vehicle I commanded is It's a main battle tank. It's heavily armored, It's got 120 millimeter cannon, It shoots with a muzzle The round coming out of the tube And there's no armor on the modern day cannon cannot defeat. So if I could hit you, it's going to kill you.. Iraqi military equipment was a full In the regiments I commanded, That's old enough, but we had other tanks that dated from 1955 and 1962. There was constant training, that there was a haze over all of Kuwaiti . Weight that was made from all the tanks and boots on the ground. It just was like smog. It's just the entire sky was Let's go. It worked out very well for us because we to train and operate in. And so we did what all American units do. We do war games, what-if things, if we did get the order to conduct be and how far would we go? In Iraq, the Bat Party had two branches, As Bat was the only party in government, Any citizen who worked in public or had to be a Bat Party member. For military men, it was strict. They had to be loyal We controlled the whole area. We controlled every district, We had the full responsibility in the field held all sorts of powers. That way, sectors, they were immediately On every street corner and intersection, a security service office on the other. And nearby, All three of them were Any party bigwig could claim to have really only recruited a handful or none. The aim was to look good in the eyes but this illusion of a massive number the regime in the end. They didn't stop coming to see us. We asked them what they wanted, as men to become Baha'at party members. Mayala damn them. They wanted us to turn into their on our own friends and families. In Iraq, social relations had broken down. Sons denounced fathers, daughters denounced mothers, and wives wrote reports denouncing their husbands. So social and family ties were completely undone, to such a point that a father could send his son off to war and the father would earn a bonus We did get a lot of training about the Iraqi people, about the culture, we're of a different religion. But if you're the person who hides your So don't hide your religion. We learned some language, some words. Thank you. Stop or I'll shoot. We learned how to say Keef, which means Lash Shicron means no thank you. Medina means city. Very few words. If you're a combat unit, to everything in front of So what do you Not much. You just need to know that they're not and you just need to know what weapons problems you might run into. One of the things I emphasize, you're not going to teach everyone how sentences, I mean, I know how to say thank gets you the most mileage There were some cultural sensitivity in the Marines that they were not there They tried to instill In fact, what they were there to do was Saddam out of power and then leave. Of course, the regime-controlled media of things and never the other. Alternative media and television So by only ever seeing Saddam Hussein you ended up believing him. And before the war, A few months before the war, had a feeling of fear and uncertainty One day, as we were watching at the place of his nephew, Aymen Sabawi, I asked him why he was laughing, seemed really pessimistic. And he said, it means he's sure he'll win. I told him there's no proof that a smile People were worn out. When rumors spread of the end But when he appeared on TV to make his that he'd lost his mind. He carried on as if he held On I asked if we could talk about I illustrated the gap between us, our so-called crack troops, None of us doubted we Our army had defeated them once We knew that they The question became, what then? As war seemed inevitable, suggested to the President that we and the way we did battle in order to mount guerrilla warfare. After the meeting, photo, and said, Are you trying We We were just simple soldiers, following our superior's orders . The officers told us we had the necessary We were really motivated. We believed we could fight At that moment, Roles were clearly handed out. Military leaders were dispatched But these leaders refused to obey And contrary to what was said, decisions for the military leaders. In the context of preparing for war, command was considerably reduced The opposite is true. The political leaders were spread over and the north, of military leaders because All Iraqi army leaders knew that Saddam axes, one in the north one in the center, To lead them, he appointed non-military Kousai Sadam Hussein, and Isat Al-Douhri. Ali Hassan Al-Majid, aka Chemical Ali, the bloodthirsty liquidator, Kousai Sadam Hussein was naturally As for Isat Ibrahim Al Duri, he had always Later, the king of clubs would be one of the Americans and secretly carry on his ranks of the Insurgents. None of them had any link or any idea of Iraq's military history. It created an unspeakable mess But how much longer before we, say, enough, enough. Iraq declared 8,500 leaders of anthrax. I remember in Kuwait, and there's a TV there. And Colin Powell was giving And I'm sitting there And just out loud out, I said, And a couple of my officers turned to me You're sitting out there, Division out in the Kuwaiti Desert. You have half of the US Army, you have And you're thinking, sometimes it's It's like, How do you stop it? You don't. We opened up a Pandora's box out there, with the whole consequence of that. Iraq was living in a bubble, Back then, we had no cell Iraqis could watch only state-run Same for the press. There were only five newspapers, The only difference between them was All news in Iraq was covered in lead. There were no satellite channels, but we All Iraqis listened to that or They heard the voices of the opposition We knew the war was lost in advance. A hundred% lost. The TV technicians refitted the basement and they started working The anchormen came down and started We had a sense of urgency, I believe the final count in Kuwait was the I want to say there were 750 journalists. That's a lot of... Reporters, photographers, That's a lot of people That's almost an entire We did reports on people who had come from Jordan, Syria, Syria and Palestine. Lots of youngsters arrived to enlist the Fida'een of Saddam. They weren't called the Fida'een of Iraq, They were trained by the Bat Party to fight, and to handle weapons. These guys were dispatched We poked fun at ourselves. We knew there was a national defense plan, attack or aerial bombardments, Would we have time to take cover? We were in a ridiculous situation, We were unusually worried. The officers knew we could All the efforts were focused on protecting and on nothing else. Normal citizens had to fend and protect their friends and loved ones. For love to eat, the authorities handed We were ready for anything, We sealed the windows with nylon, But we were scared, and of not knowing what lay in store. Intercedent communications indicate one issued chemical weapons When we were still in Kuwait, we were constantly told Saddam has and he will use them. But it was all very scary stuff because and telling us that we had to inject our the gas or we would die. Come on, come on, come on. At the time, I felt like a camera moving from one place to another. I was observing what There was a never-ending wait. The regime was preparing for war while about their daily business. They went to the pool, They saw themselves as extras in a drama. The drama had begun, Saddam called a big meeting His vision of things had become He came out with something that made me shiver and chilled me to the bone. He said, I know the Iraqi army is weak, But Allah has no other army than ours. A Holy miracle will happen. The Americans will reach the gates of Baghdad, and we will beat them. And when you return victorious from this battle, I will tell you, now go West. Free Jerusalem from the Israelis and put the Palestinians back on their land. To my mind, this was the closing speech of the Iraqi movie. A week before the war, Saddam stopped We'd receive a sound recording, transcribed and read out on air. The anchor had to read out about 60 Sometimes we ran late, at the anchor's feet, It made us suspicious. There were two possibilities. Either Sadam looked too weak to appear From Saddam's perspective, he saw threats, and there were regular threats to him. So he tended to withdraw. He tended to trust people even less. He tended to not trust those who came He tended not to trust those In Saddam Hussein's inner One of them, Udai, openly displayed his image Everything was set up for him to show Udai was as unreliable When war was announced, of the militia, which suited The other son, Cusee, power could only last if he was Saddam Hussein had made him Supreme head and of his secret service. He saw Qusai alone as his successor. In the war preparations, despite his lack of military experience, The Minister of Defense He was nothing compared to Quese. Quese had the first and last word. We had a very dangerous role It meant acting as his eyes and ears, or concealing things from him. We either told He told him what he wanted didn't want to hear. One of the key individuals to the war was his presidential secretary, When Abid Hamoud was leading departments in Saddam's name, run by Qusai at his father's request. Abid Hamoud shut off all This was a guy He knew what Saddam decided. He knew it came out of Saddam's office. He knew as much about Iraq and the regime He knew more even than the sons. Abid Hamoud was the only man allowed Always at his side, he was everywhere, keeping an eye on everything. Later, when the American offensive he would prove particularly useful Saddam's money and weapons. A few weeks before After the outbreak of the Republican Guard who wanted true state of the army. Abid Hamoud told them this, Saddam, you will have two obligations: and to satisfy him with what you say. Saddam saw the officers They said nothing We managed to catch Bush's speech with our satellite dishes. That was the only way we could hear it. Saddam Hamza Hamza, and his sons That's when we knew something In fact, our vision of Iraq and its army was wrong. We had no real idea of how bad Iraq had been bled dry. It was an empty shell, and it would collapse. We had never imagined that. They took up position in every street which became one big army base. The Bat Party dug trenches and set They were trying to fool everyone that they were in control of this would enter neither Iraq nor Baghdad. There were also smoke clouds, which, would prevent the Americans A few days before the fighting started, the US Air Force dropped pamphlets calling for the Iraqi people A lot of regions were showered control of Saddam's security forces. In In Amara, we received pamphlets They said that we were defending injustice We only really understood when Bath Party district by district, handing out weapons. We couldn't advance. We couldn't retreat. We were mothers. The Minister of Defense Army headquarters had no further It was late winter. We couldn't watch weather forecasts on TV. It was the time of the Taraya, The mood was one of great sadness. At that point, I realized as it was the moment of truth, the final battle. Baghdad was deserted. The only sound was silence. We had the feeling the whole But while we were acutely aware of what we knew this feeling would disappear. Everything was cloaked in silence. One of my friends said, and another one answered him, If the city This city is already dead. On March 19, 2003, at dawn, we were informed that the air traffic 20 planes in Iraqi airspace to the south. These planes had flown within 180 and heading back south. But on the second day, truly began, and Baghdad was The explosion started before They were really loud, but I wasn't scared. I watched the show with the planes and It was like a big fireworks display, but the detonations were terrifying. The air bombardment started with crew's missiles. Then the US Air Force I was at home. When I heard the attack, The Minister of Defense had People started packing I saw them in my neighborhood carrying furniture, supplies, flour. They were loading up their cars It was a dramatic image that reminded me them to a mass grave. At that moment, It was as I arrived at the assembly point. The minister was already there, With their experience of the 1990 to target our anti-aircraft defenses. The fact that these had been positioned all the more reason to flee the city. My neighborhood was bombed. I remember telling my family I wouldn't watch what was happening. As they left, my family was furious everything, the buildings From the Kaueti border, 500 armored vehicles and 170,000 troops would now be unleashed on Iraq. Among them, the third second Battalion led by Colonel Brian McCoy, Mccoy was a Cuban cigar Before every battle, Brazilian tune, The Girl from Ipanema. The radio code name he chose for himself a nod to the Star Wars movies. That morning, McCoy, on the Capitol, was still unaware that due become on the man who conquered Baghdad. We're seeing some rocket That's West. This camera is facing north. We're not really sure what it is. We might have thought it was gas. We dawned our masks, and then we Everything was all clear. I'm speaking during this video It was very dark. It was very scary up there because it was know where the border was. We kept moving around and changing announcement that the And what I did to start with was I was at the beginning of all this, to see enough combat that was going on. But he was a well-protected guy, I think one of the defining thoughts as we with myself and most soldiers, and that was all of the unknowns. I was following, services, the battle that had There were undeniable Among them, openings made in the Wall of Sand, separating Kuwait and Iraq. We crossed at a place called Sofwan. The two governments there dug a big ditch the We're up front, so we're going to be one but you're waiting for your turn. So you wait, you wait, you wait. But when your time comes, you charge You got to get through there very fast. Got to keep it clear so that units can We and we're not bottled up there, for the enemy to attack. There we go. Finally made it, man. Where are we? Just crossed the border directly. About 10 miles ago. Destination, Cork. At around 04:00 PM, the first clashes started in Naziriyya and in Basra, the oil fields, as there was in Amkasa. We have a lot of units coming their way. And the first one I engaged, It was not very dramatic It just was pretty much the way Acquired him, engaged him, I was at home when the war started. We joined up with our army units We had already dug personal trenches. We handed out wages, equipment, The tanks took up position, When the war started, I was on the Saudi border in the Umm Al-Hashu region. We were attacked during We were in a state of total confusion. It was the first war we'd ever been in. We'd only just joined the army We were a forward observation unit. There were three of us, All we had was one Kalashnikov each. I was in charge of two Strella missiles, but I couldn't even get out and launch them due to the bad situation we were in. On the first day, the US Air Force was cautious, but this caution And planes started swooping They were having fun. They're terrible memories. Absolutely terrifying. Is anyone in trouble? We need to move it. I've seen Every night lasted an eternity. The bombings were nonstop. At Sunup, you'd discover a tank blown up the Quartermaster burned to cinders. One night, the Americans bombed the supply I woke up and all I could see were flames. In the morning, I saw that the gasoline My face was black spread everywhere during the night. When I entered Iraq, it was like, on television about Iraq, the flat desert, and the areas associated with that. But as we got closer to Baghdad, paradise, but there was a lot We were in our attack formations going in West and Iraq, and you would come upon they move around the desert with their And so you literally had almost two eras of times in history coming in, contacting each other. The Bedouwans look up and just wondering, And ours is driven by. They seem to be very friendly people. They're waving and exchanging So it was a surreal moment. You can imagine, you have We don't want to be there We want to be able to transition the Iraqi people, and I think They did start to be Hajj is an Arab term that refers to Mecca, which you're supposed to do at But nobody wanted to make Once you're in a combat zone and there's at the hands of somebody who looks like like that, then hajjj becomes like... Then it's no longer, Now it's like, Well, fucking haji. I I tried to think rationally, but I could see in this war some mysterious dimension that could reduce everything to a mirage. I kept questioning myself, result in regime change, writer and I don't believe From the beginning of the Nahr, My father wanted to leave the house and go He thought the war was But to reach him, Baghdad would My mother had a more religious view. If it's written that we shall die, If it's written that we shall live, I felt uncomfortable about both my father's Baghdad wasn't its bridges and buildings. It was us, our neighbors and our friends. I insisted on going to work, but my mother and father refused. Despite that, a car came I cried. I was so sad. I crossed the bridge of the and I and the ministries in flames. The radio was broadcasting a speech Stay and resist. The war has begun... Oh, this ain't going to work. I got to get to the road. Either we're almost there It was mostly desert as we were out to the avoiding the cities. Of course, third Infanter Division and the Marines were on the east side of the river, had already moved up. We killed a lot of Iraqis on the first day, and it's very easy for us to defeat them. And we pulled into our position that first Marine named Corporal Schroeder. And I said, Almost doesn't He said, No, Staff Sergeant. I said, Well, you just Don't worry about that. You'll figure out how But you just keep pulling that trigger. Mccoy just said this to the Marines. He said, Keep your honor clean. You don't want to get You don't want to get done with this yourself or dirtied yourself. Do the right thing. Keep your honor clean. and let's go do our nation's business.. Right on day one, our tanks were destroyed like at a Turkish shoot. The battle was lost in advance. We just wondered when it would be over, what limits they would set themselves, be, and what would happen Those were the things A few tanks made it to Dibi Asat, From then on, our unit broke up. The senior officer fled, It felt like a tree had come down on me. We clearly weren't We were looking for possibilities Over this rise came I said, really civilian pickup trucks, on the back, with RPG rocket launchers And they started engaging our tanks. It was clear that these white pickup and in fact, were what were going to When I used to write poems questioning I would disguise it to protect myself in Then for the very first time, For I could write freely with my hand eyes of someone awaiting that end. Most of those close to Saddam left to take refuge in places far away from where they had been posted. Many of the bigwigs in the regime left back to their hometowns. Basically, the battleground and They had He didn't plan During the first days of the war, there was a famous press conference given Sultan Hashem, the only professional The Army Chief, Sultan Hashem, inside Baghdad within two weeks, after this press conference. It was practically an order for the army the defense minister was so sure of the We took advantage of a unique opportunity when an endless three-day sandstorm blew up during the night of March 25th to 26th. It and we were all afraid because it was to sit here and wait for this sandstorm out. But what if the Iraqis This is their territory. They could just come and attack us. Baghdad was like a graveyard. For the most part, Anyone who knows Baghdad will tell you which is usually all hustle and bustle. Baghdad was like a tomb. Wednesday, April second, 2003. American forces were Their priority objective was the airport. This mission was entrusted a formidable officer who, in the desert, greatly appreciated The airport The court was defended the Republican Guard, Here unfolded the only Meanwhile, Dr. Hanan Hamid had only one to save her husband where he had been jailed, charges shortly before the war. So she bit the bullet and headed person who could forgive her husband. The night of April second, in order to negotiate various Once we arrived, it was that that something was about to happen. We realized that it wasn't going to be into a specific airport. On April the third, The streets were deserted apart tearing along towards Right in front of me, one of which hit two red buses, The road leading to the airport was I stopped the car and jumped out. There were no flames or smoke, just like a dazzling flash of lightning. The sight of twitching Then they freeze, Even the clothes had disappeared. Charred skeletons right there. The shaking had gone right through them I'll never forget that vision. I left my car near a health center I forget what his rank was. They had to take me. We covered a good part of the way on foot. It was tiring because it was uphill. This was a real battle on both sides of the road to the airport. Where the most intense fighting happened of the airport, where the enemy realized and that we were set there. And that's when the fighting against tanks Republican Guards happened. These Republican Guard had the best We went into the airport building. Kousai was there. He was wearing a dish dasher two cartridge belts, a military jersey and a keffie around the head. I tried to keep the situation calm, Then I launched into the tale our home, our children, and how I All the while, this officer Then he leaned over and whispered something on a piece of paper. Kousai then said, right after the officer This was around 11 o'clock A jumbo jet had just landed, He said to me, You will be a witness. I had no idea what he was talking about. Then I saw these metallic-colored Mercedes they went up the ramp into the hold. The door closed, I asked him what he meant by treason. He replied, There is treason in our camp, Here is the authorization you need. It is a pardon for your husband. And he stamped it. The following day, Friday, April fourth, at 07:00 AM, Hannah and Hamid went to the prison of Abu Ghraib, husband, along with four other prisoners. The scene witnessed at the airport The commander of the Republican Guard, had just defected to the Americans For the previous year, Now, he was finally being Meanwhile, another general had deserted. The commander of the Fedayina When the militia led by Big Cat Lover Uday, The list of the defectors After the first week of war, it of Intelligence, Tahir Jalil Al-Habush, had been recruited by the CIA. Later, it was discovered native to Tkret, the he had previously collaborated with MI6, We were left to fend for ourselves between us and our superiors. From the third day of war onwards, If you were to come to them, were not proper military orders. We were left to run our own base. By the last Iraqi force had been destroyed, the American advance on Baghdad. Sometimes I used to wonder what the heck I always felt very in control in command and there was no way they History would remember our failure without mentioning our That evening, and cried like a child who April the fourth was a fateful day. The Iraqi army collapsed as Outside the city, forces, ready to take the city Task Force 27 was given the mission link up with Colonel Dave Perkins' brigade The name of their offensive sounded like Thunder to run. The idea was to launch a fleet across the city, firing relentlessly. It's a tactic that complies by Tommy Franks, the Commander-in-Chief Speed kills. Only in this case, Thunder would turn out to be a gigantic within a real-life situation. No spectators, only victims. On that same April the fourth, that had intrigued the whole country. He decided to make a public appearance. Two of his henchmen turned up at the HQ They ordered cameraman Mohamed Al-Obeidi of Baghdad, known as Al-Adameya. As well as Saddam, faces of others in the thrall. Among them, a zealous bodyguard sporting His name was He only held a junior What wasn't known was that this man, glasses, later as the drama of the capture The Americans nicknamed him the Fat guy. We went with them up to the designated to find Saddam there. When I saw him, I could not I thought he had long since left Iraq. He had with him a small Some members of the Bat Party He began to take children When he saw the crowd coming, It was also a way of preventing He had a highly developed He was afraid that the situation Whenever I raised my camera, He was very careful If you study his movements and his body ill at ease with regard to the crowd. Throughout the filming, his four bodyguards had their hands on their weapons. Watching the footage, are through, that the end is nigh. Baghdad was about to fall, When the crowd swelled, he made a sign It meant that there were too many people the situation would become escape the crush. The man wearing glasses looked When the crowd became even bigger, He quickly slipped between It was so quick that the camera It was as if he just wanted to prove He wanted to defy the Americans The President looked like someone else. It wasn't the same Saddam It wasn't the official dignitary with his He was tense and nervous, The editor, came to an agreement that from that day we would never go back. We walked out of there never to return, As planned, the American troops They entered the city In the Vanguard was a battalion Mccoy had a rather uncomplicated He was the son of a Vietnam veteran guy with journalists. I'm here to do a job. War is horrible. It's a dirty job, The trouble with McCoy's unit, American units, They didn't necessarily kill people But if anyone got in their way, They never take risks with their own men. The rough estimate for McCoy's men, I believe, was 144 fatalities, including 24 or 25 in motor accidents. Over the same seven-month period, which did its best to maintain a strict reported at least 7,000 And things like that leave their mark. All Iraqis were surprised From the beginning, the Americans Paradise Square is It's where the Palestine where all the foreign press were staying. The statue there had been erected less 2002, for the head of state's birthday, statues of Saddam in Iraq. Because Saddam was born in 1937, each carrying his initials, S-H, Tanks and armored vehicles circled headed for the statue. We wondered why the American soldiers were or for some other reason. People were wary first. Then the soldiers took out loudspeakers finished and that they had come As the crowd got there, it became this It's like, and pretty soon, It was like, got to take down the statue. I was also realizing our security was completely broken and full of civilians. But there was something about it that we It's just, let this happen. Whatever these people are I never forget the vision of this guy. Apparently, later on, weightlifter or something like this. He's an enormous guy. He's got a sledgehammer in his hands. But this is an enormous statue. He's not going to come down that way. Mccoy sees all this and is immediately hauled up in the hotel. They were afraid of looters, He gives his interviews to American TV he sees that there are a few more They're trying to knock So he says to one of his captains, help them get that statue down. I don't think McCoy is the type to be Louis pauses and says, But sir, we're Apparently, they had destroyed a statue into Iraq from Kuwait. The locals took it badly, of Saddam, but it was up And here, McCoy says to him, Listen, so you help them and get that statue down. An American soldier climbed up and covered I don't know who saw I think it might have even been seen Somebody in Washington saw this and called who called the Regimental Commander, all in the space of probably about Get that flag down. So they got up, they took the American an Iraqi flag up there. When the crane started to pull, and broke in two, the legs in one part A whole hunk of it fell onto started to smash it up. The divided, of the statue because they could no longer enjoy So Brian McCoy Of course, Baghdad as a whole was taken April the ninth that the regime fell. I have a mental image I think that the physical statue fell carry within us is still standing. When the Americans arrived, we hid. It was a Thursday. We didn't know what was going to In the middle of the night, The water was cold because We went out and saw the Americans, They didn't speak to us.. The in Abu Ghraib, They had occupied a school He was sitting around a fire, laughing. They had taken control of Baghdad. The Iraqi army had disappeared, We were going to go, cloth to show that we were We knocked on the door of a house We told them we were soldiers returning and we were thirsty. But they threatened to turn Go away. You are thief. They spoke to us from They wouldn't open the door.. God, God, God, God, we could see were people entering public and set fire to them. When it was announced on April ninth I was near the Iraqi army base. So driven by feelings of patriotism, to find weapons and prepare What surprised me most was and the Baghdad Museum while an Abraham's tank was Back up, back up, back up. We approached an American I was with Dr. Benam Abu Al-Souf, We pleaded with them to protect That was when I realized that it The entire long history I arrived in Baghdad for the first time on an American C-130 plane. I was with a whole group of Iraqis. Without really thinking When I was I expected to go through passport But all I found there were Marines. American Marines in Baghdad Airport. I asked myself, What are these Two days before Saddam's statue fell, by the military logistics team, of Baghdad, and they said, Where should we house all these thousands of Americans? I couldn't believe it. You haven't planned it? And I said, Look, Unfortunately, I was the one who said, And I circled the Green zone. The Green zone was this enclave that originally was used by Saddam Hussein the Republican Palace, Because it had walls, All the Americans initially had to do was of the main roads leading into it. And early on, that was good enough. The term Green zone was coined by some to identify it as the safe area. And the only Iraqis who really went for the Americans, and they called the Of course, the first question, was where I should go. My home had been confiscated by Where could I go? My friends weren't there anymore. They had all been executed, So I headed for the presidential palace General J. Garner arrived in Baghdad just a few The situation was urgent, for which Washington had failed The management of the shambles Jay Garner was a quiet man Indeed, part of his brief was to bring process of liberating Iraq. The serious business In Baghdad, the general moved into what in the heart of the Green zone. It was a mess. There was no running water. So the first thing we had to do is get all established and get some electricity in will work and we go to work. That took three or four days. We slept in sleeping bags We stayed there for several weeks. Baghdad had changed a lot. In the halls of the palace, built organization with objectives that no It was designed or built Number one, to handle any humanitarian function of the war. Number two, to begin reconstruction, built, those things Number three, to bring the government Jay Garner had barely settled into his President Bush and Secretary of Defense, planning his successor. They wanted a firm hand Our country will be sending His name was Paul Bremer, almost a monarch's name. He was serving free and democratic. And in Iraq, he was to have Always dressed up to the nines, with a meticulous eye for detail. Henry Kissinger, who had worked alongside His wife, Frances, was very proud of him. She even wrote a book, Coping with his She clearly remembers the moment when her appointment in Iraq. They took each other's And that's something that we will be at the appropriate time. That from Secretary Rumsveld, said, tell you everything you're doing is great. And by the way, He wants to run Iraq, and that would And I'd like to have you And the next morning, about 6:00 in the morning, the phone was ringing. It was Ambassador Bremer calling me. So that's the first and that was my second day in Iraq. As we began to get things where we could go to work, We found that none of the government agencies had come back to work. They had all just gone home. We of Baghdad walking around the streets in the Ministry of Electric? Do you know anyone that was in Our first idea was to constitute a new in collaboration with the Americans. But that didn't work out because exiles. Among the American baggage was a face Ahmed Chalabi, a man it Of all the returning Iraqis in exile, choice to lead the new Iraq. I am America's best friend in Iraq. The scenario was a perfect Ahmed Chalabi looked a decent sort, Founded a Shia movement of Iraqi opponents by the CIA and yet maintained close Sentenced to 22 years in prison for the misappropriation of $70 million. Fabricated evidence of the existence to justify the erasion of Iraq. Led a strong-arm militia that had actively involved in the forgery of banknotes currency, as well as a host Back in Iraq, to be the American's main man I met Shalabi on the 14th He and I did not like each other and he left after we had the discussion. He told me, I'm going to Baghdad. I tell him, No, you're not going to run. I'm going to Baghdad, So we didn't even shake Paul Bremer, nicknamed Jerry, For the time being, he, too, first floor of the Republican Palace. Every morning, he would invariably rise through the Green zone, Every Sunday, up in the middle of the palace hall. On the walls was a fresco glorifying But Jerry was only interested in one and setting the country He had to face the task alone, to make decisions single-handedly. Ambassador Bremer was He was a polished guy, of tan combat boots with his suits It was a little unusual. You walk into his office, you see this Jerry was particularly fond His son had given them to him Accompanying the gift was a card Bremer was a strong personality and a real authoritarian. During the first meeting of the government and what his responsibilities were. He said sarcastically, My remit is that of an occupier. I have got all the power Saddam Hussein might consider necessary. He wielded absolute power. Within a few days of his arrival, machine, a hitherto unseen He announced announced three decisions and destructive seismic shift. Firstly, Bath and Bathists were to be If you said the word Bathist to many Ahmed Chalabi, to his great satisfaction, For a decade, they didn't have They would interact with these external who were shaping their message things that they wanted to hear. Secondly, the Iraqi army was What we did within 24 hours, they were out of jobs, and we told 400,000 And two days later, Thirdly, a free market economy was decades of state control. The old state-owned factories By failing to reopen those factories, in the world to do, to go and join the insurgency. You took away their livelihood. They didn't know whether they'd be able to families to get food on the table. So they decided instead To me, the debathification, and the disbanning landing of the interim the group, the group we put together, And that period took us from being The Iraqi people reacted differently depending on who they were and where they were. Shia, as I mentioned, The Kurds were very happy. The Suni, it depends. Most of them lost. When the regime fell, Their status in life, The most unhappy were, Certain young people, belong to, began to form Some of them have their group names, We didn't support any party. We didn't take orders from anyone. In some regions, you had In others, you had civilians. You even had people who had no Others were deserters from the Iraqi army toward the army or their homeland. Their patriotism was During this period, American intelligence Lacking information, network that turned the tracking of Every head had its price. The highest reward, $25 million, Saddam Hussein, public enemy number one. To that end, the Americans secretly gave aware that Saddam had been I was selling ice cream during the day to meet the needs of my family. Then I would be fighting at night. I had been in military administration, and the people who joined us We, Iraqis, didn't know anything The weapons used in guerrilla warfare weapons. I personally repaired and rehabilitated to use guns such as RPGs and PKC's. We ran into a lot of difficulties. We didn't know, for example, We were determined to learn. As soon as operations against people became increasingly bold. The first operation I did with him, we were I did my first operation here at the end of the street with my group. Our expert prepared an explosive device. He hit it in a hole while a team We watched out for a passing The bomb exploded when the armored Then we slipped away, It was a very typical guerrilla war, a shadow army, the desert, away from the urban area, come in, be sheltered by the local people who would not tell us who it was It was very much what Lawrence of Arabia described as fighting a war against a vapor or against a ghost, something You can't grab a hold During the first acts of resistance, We didn't wear Balaclavas. The streets were with us. When we returned from an attack against The women cheered us on, Very few of us had any We had voided all knowledge of that after Vietnam. And so we went through a very painful making very painful mistakes We developed strategies to fight these with setting out secretly, with sniping teams, all in a network, Good. The case of the French in Algiers is The Battle of Algiers, the movie, in 2003, as the insurgency in Iraq was getting the decision-makers in the Pentagon that was now being fought. Intelligence becomes, far and away, The tank battalion I was a part of had personnel assigned to it. I and there were 800 other fighters assigned to the organization. But I often said that I would have been officers and only four fighters. Intelligence services began They were collecting information their locations, et cetera. Each faction had its own I think, ironically, Islamists in Iraq prior to the American But the presence of Americans inside Iraq in after the occupation began drew Al Qaeda really led to the formation of AQI. And it was immensely frustrating trading difficult thing I had A candy-colored clown, they call a sandman, tiptoast to my room every night. Just to sprinkle stardust Everything is all right. I close my eyes. I arrived at Baghdad International Airport It was the same day that they had just Physically, what I felt when I got off felt like I was walking into an oven. Well, at the Baghdad International Airport, that was responsible for tracking down They had different teams So after four or five days, a guy to go to Tukret for 48 hours. So I jumped on a helicopter and I went being over four months. I remember when I got to Tecrete in May, not welcome in that town. They hated us. Killer glances where they would stare at It was not a welcoming place. Not surprising. Tukrit was in Bathis town. It was a government town, that Saddam was from there. Saddam had a network that we were able we occupied the city of Tukrit. After learning about who they were, supplied his closest bodyguards, Working with the task force, social networks of individuals who weren't but had the same information, activities of these wanted individuals. That's initially how I on the right track to finding Saddam. And it really centered around five two other supporting families. I'd identified four bodyguards, And the most important of those One of the bodyguards was From December first to December 13th, the raids to capture other relatives And at 2:00 in the morning on December During the fall of Baghdad, Al-Muzlith was one of the faithful Saddam while he escaped. During the seven months that Saddam had been trusted lieutenant, Al-muzlith was not a card in the American the Ace of Spades was hidden. It was just a matter of making him talk. I began my interrogations of him at five initially talked to him, he said, The primary technique, that I've discovered, but for the 2,700 interrogations that I've I need to keep him close to his hometown. I need to give him that sense that he's So I need to give him that hope. Of course, the most effective That's the opposite of what I do. I'm not going to touch you, buddy. I'm not going to lay a finger on you. With every one of my prisoners, with me is I try to provide them and the absolute best case scenario. The best case scenario is they go home longer looking for them or The worst case scenario, going to raid and capture the households of every single friend, family in their world. Many captured after being on the run for so almost relieved, and they would So Mouslet, he begins to cooperate. And I explained to him, Muhammad Ibrahim, We've captured 40 of your relatives. They're with us now. And I listed and then started telling him, They're in this house. Now, you can take me to Saddam, I'm going to go after every relative because maybe they'll take me. Took him about and then he realized we got to go. See, when he gets captured, move, to take us to Saddam, So he said, Let's go. And so as a result of that, a reconnaissance, the general area where he could be. And this was done very secretively. The story might have finished Ladies and gentlemen, we got them. But in Iraq, nothing is simple or perfect. In the pursuit and capture who was playing a key Without him, none of this would have been A Kurdish warlord, of Peshmerga, and fiercely opposed His name is Khosrat Razul Ali. He chose this moment to emerge by way of saying that without a guide or succeed in finding its prey. Unlike the American intelligence services, infiltrated the workings They knew all its weaknesses and networks. I can confirm that we had informants the Adnan secret services, Bathist Command and Army, the government. We had reliable information In the Tikrit region, The Arab tribes helped us. The Yubaid, Jibur, and Azza tribes helped who spent time with Saddam. Saddam was hiding in the countryside The property belonged He was living in two rooms there. Four or five brothers acted They were from the Yadda Ghat tribe, This tribe lives in Beji These men all came from Ala Wajah. They collaborated with us We knew where he was hiding, who was helping him, and who had contact with him. We gave all this information They added it to what they already Without our information, No, it's a complete fabrication. The Americans came to thank us. We had been promised a reward. Not only did they not give us anything, the credit for themselves. They denied any involvement We have seen so many happened, that a Lebanese descent US Marine, was involved and got nonsense, absolute nonsense, him sometime before and held him. Absolute workmanship. Perhaps Colonel Russell is so skeptical doubtless totally unaware When it came to passing on the decisive the Kurdish leader was smart enough of American command in the Tekreet region, and his assistant, Michael Barbero. Saddam Hussein was captured Both parties benefited from the outcome. The Americans revealed in the applause while behind the scenes, the Kurds, to the overthrow of Saddam, were given It was a good deal all round for them, with the advantage of leaving all who wanted it most. There probably remained a few photographs that nobody would pay much attention to. Saddam Hussein was captured In the course of this year of thunder could have guessed what Saddam Hussein did not know that he would one winter morning at dawn. Muwa'f al-ruba'i did not know that one day in person, office of Saddam's hanging rope, which he Sad did not know that his companion Amina, like many others, be targeted on her birthday in 2006, into a state of turmoil. When the Americans entered Baghdad, things would come to pass. But then, Iraqis found themselves It turns out that there are The Iraqi street has lost its diversity. Emina knew that she could never be Sadek, Sadek knew that he Mohamed Sadeq did not know that he would in the garden to hide weapons in, he and some of his comrade would be straffing of a Black Hawk helicopter. General Hamdani did not know that he would hidden on a peasant farm, to the victors, and that he in turn, in exile far from Baghdad. Hanane Hamid did not know that all her bombing and the fury would only serve Eric Maddox did not know that he would that would have as its Steve Russell did not know that he would and that his seminars, would prove to be a huge draw. Mccoy did not know that after Baghdad, and that when it comes down to it, is better than condemnation. Ali Khosrat Razul did not know that many and that his health would decline just Sami Hilali, our driver who saw everything until the day he walked around the car we after so much violence and distress, and utter a few words in French, like a cry for help or a message of hope. I love Victor Hugo. I love Albert Camus. The old dictatorship has produced My dream of a secular state Because the worst form of absolutism But I'm reluctant to voice my despair. It's true that in Saddam's day, While now, even though the feeling of