This video was filmed without sound. Is it possible to use only these images to reconstruct the sound? that is can you in this video I'm gonna try to demonstrate that it's possible to gonna be easy so I'm gonna need some this episode was sponsored by LastPass which allowed me to fly to the heroes so now on with the video. How're you doing? I'm sorry my place of this crap over here. So this is the experiment that I came up with. -It's like a crumpled up ball of tinfoil? -yeah like had like the right lens then you know we you're spying on somebody. But we should recover like a rhythm or a sound from Now you might think it would be easy to sound is just vibrations so the air is it hits should vibrate back and forth video that motion and plot displacement But it's not that simple because for one incredibly tiny. They move objects only super zoomed in that is way less than a thousandth of a pixel. -We're not seeing an adjacent pixel. You're seeing one next pixel get slightly brighter. -What the things that work best are things very light so that they move very so what are some good examples? you know the initial experiments were very like contrived in optical benches we were blasting light the sounds were like as loud as we could Mary had a little lamb, little lamb, little lamb I figured we'd try to do a rhythm. This is... shave and a haircut let's put that camera on a tripod - oh yeah that's I mean that'd be great All right, let's give it a shot, this is the actual clip I recorded and I want you to notice two things: first, you can't really plenty of pixels getting dimmer and it's not a pristine, perfect image so how pixels getting brighter and dimmer due Essentially you look for edges in the image moves by some fraction of a fraction of then pixels on one side of that edge the other side of that edge will get a we do is we sum together all the ones subtract all the ones that are supposed one number right and if you track that estimate of the displacement over time. This is time but in samples and then this is position. -hmm so what do you do now? well we're gonna try to do some filtering on that. it's clipping. You don't say I mean recognize two of the beats. This is what eighty frames per second, which isn't like audible frequencies so that's why for here is a bit of a rhythm Now of course the main limiting factor is framerate because we can hear sounds cameras only shoot 30 frames per second Imagine this is the you try to capture this with a camera at seeing the object always in the same in the wave cycle. So your perception So in order to measure a sample at least twice that frequency at 44 or 48 kilohertz - that's more than At any rate if you want to get going to need some higher frame rate so we just went to the camera store and able to shoot a thousand frames per Is that gonna be enough? it'll be enough for something. Hehehe I love that confidence This is one modulation away from dubstep right here. Just a little bit more of a wump wump and then we have the next big track. I've set it to a thousand frames per second now we're talking okay okay so you have the footage there and you're cropping in a bit, tell me about well we're running this on my laptop as opposed to the servers that I that if we run it on the full video of so we're gonna crop it and try it on that -yeah I mean I think that one question is whether that's like yeah well in this case would be kind of like the equivalent of has a like a rocking mode then that's sound information Can you tell I am optimistic. I think because I know what I'm yeah you've gotta be careful though that you're well just gonna be careful that you're not like confirmation bias let's try that that's about 60 Hertz that seems a okay we're gonna try one more time. We top of the speaker, we're dialing up the speaker so Cool it's beautiful, it's gorgeous. it has been like a couple years since might have forgotten something and I'm something out here, which is that here's the piano roll of the signal that we This looks like duh duh to me and that's the duhhh yeah yeah that's it that is the... ---dih duh dud din duhhhh din dih see if we can actually get it to hear that -We can see it, we just can't hear it I think I know what it is. What is it? I don't think my laptop can play those frequencies. hold on a second let We need real speakers or something. What do you hear Abe? hold on. I hear shave and a haircut two bits here, listen this. All right. thank you. yeah. and... pitch shift [recovered sound of Shave and a haircut, two bits] yep there you go, this was a basic proof of concept but Abe showed that with more human speech from outside soundproof Have you ever considered that your computer is a physical system that gives produces a unique sound due to its shown that audio recordings of typing Now this portion of the video was sponsored usernames and passwords so you never people from stealing your passwords by or just looking over your shoulder. What's even better is the convenience of never having to fill in usernames and With LastPass you don't have to write You get unlimited password storage and free When you open an app or site on your computer or on an iOS or username and password this saves you passwords on autopilot with LastPass. Now upgrade to LastPass premium you get it works like magic. So click the link and thanks to LastPass for sponsoring