Can you withstand the ups and downs from the peak to the bottom of life ? They won't give you a lot of time and won't let you make a comeback. You know it. Why don't you speak? For me, staying silent is the best way. You thought you kept it? If you keep silent, they won't kill you, right? The more you talk, the sooner you'll die. Cooperate with us. I'll guarantee your safety and get you out. I don't want to cause trouble . You are a trouble in your own right . What happened? He hit someone , not me. It was him who beat him. Take him inside. It's time to open the door. What happened? He hit someone , not me. For me, keeping silent is the best way. Knock something. Knock the bastard. With this, I know you stay here. I'll ask you one last time if you want to hand over your things, where they are, who asked you to do this, surrender. You can't run away. Call an ambulance. Don't move. Although your injuries are not serious , you lost too much blood. The only thing you need now is to rest well. How about Mou Chuan? I know you're worried about Mou Chuan. He's seriously injured, but we've got him under custody. Someone is doing harm to Mou Chuan. The hospital needs to be extra careful, and don't worry. We've arranged a private room for him with round-the-clock police guarding. That's good . I know what happened , but I also want to remind you that when encountering such emergencies in the future, you need to be more careful and learn to protect yourself. Now thinking about it, I'm afraid that if something goes wrong, how do you want me to explain to Zixuan, sister? You must not tell Zixuan that I don't want her to worry. I'm fine . I know. Thank you for thanking me. Thank you for saving my life. There is one thing. Mou Chuan said that he wants to see you. If you want to see me, I will arrange a suitable time for you. You guys should have a good rest when we meet . Hey, boss, that girl is gone. Stop here. You can't get through here. The whole city is looking for you . How dare you show up ? Aren't you afraid of throwing yourself into a trap? Is there a safe place for me now? I really admire you for taking action, VX3. Is it more important than your life? You know my character and I won't talk about it. Your attitude is very detrimental to you. Do you think I'm afraid of death? Isn't death scary? What I 'm afraid of is that you don't know. Don't worry if your death is not in vain. I have tested many different ways of death. Today I just want to see what method you use to kill me. You are still the same, very stubborn. Nature is easy to change but hard to change. Dr. Chen, don't move. Who are you? If you move again, I'll beat you to death. What are you doing? You are the doctor in charge of Mou Chuan, right? You have a daughter named Nasha who is six years old this year, right? Six years old should be the age when a daughter is most dependent on her father. But if I let her never see her father at this time, what will happen? Wouldn't it be fun or change it so that her father would never see his daughter ? She does n't want you . What are you going to do? It's very simple. Do me a small favor. It's not polite to treat a doctor with a gun. Put it down. What do you really dare? Who asked you to do this ? A bald man and a young man named Galleago. What is their plan? I don't know. You know. I just tell the guards outside and the police what you are doing . Do you know what crime you have committed? They said if I don't do it, they will kill me. Kill my daughter. Don't worry about your daughter. I will protect you and I will protect them. What is their plan? They asked me to inject him with an anesthetic needle and push him out and take him to the emergency room. On the way to the emergency room, they abducted him and put his clothes in the parking lot. Take it off, take it off, hurry up and call the police. My name is Li Junjie, Calais. It's very likely that I'm in the parking lot. Everyone did a good job. Thank you , thank you, Calais. Wait a minute. I want to ask if I can see Boss Ruan. Why do I need to see her? You know it's done. I can't stay in Bacheng after what happened. I know Boss Ruan's strength , so I want you to help me introduce her to her. Thank you. Thank you. I have sent you the video now. Has the driver been found? I just watched him. He disappeared from the surveillance blind spot two blocks away. Now the police have initially determined that he may have hidden in a nearby residence or restaurant. I think this matter is not that simple. If he was an ordinary truck driver, he would not have escaped so smoothly. The good news is that the operation went very well and he survived. But the bad news is that the doctor said that he has not woken up yet. This coma may last for a while or even longer. You two stay here and watch me. Go back to Mosa first . I know they have left the hospital now. Let's intercept him as soon as possible and take him away . What are you thinking? What would Ma Qiming do if he saw Shi Yunhao die in front of him today? The most he would do would be a ghost cry. You are so humorous now . After receiving this part , I went to check the No. 7 warehouse. It has just been acquired by a company and is now in a state of abandonment. The surveillance probe there is no longer used . Open the door for you and let him go first. Junjie, get in the car. Come on , feed me. I'm ready to go. Ma Qiming notifies the action team to go. Good horse Qiming, Ruan Taiyuan, check the current location of the Bacheng police. They are on the way. You really dare to come. Don't worry, I am prepared . All the surveillance cameras have been blocked. Look, my people are all around you. They have seen it. A lot of English black tea or coffee has come . It's up to you. Lao Qin has two cups of American coffee. When the opportunity comes, listen immediately and receive it. I told you not to touch my bottom line. You almost killed my son. You did so for profit. What a shameful thing. Take away, sir. Do you have two cups of coffee? Lao Qin brought it over. It seems that you are half-weight. Wait , these are beautiful flowers. Leave the beautiful things and talk about business. You said on the phone that Li Guoxin is still alive and the control device can be reset. I have three questions about the production. Where is the production time, location, and cost? Who will bear the cost? How will the benefits be distributed after the production is completed ? I will tell you. Li Guoxin will give me the production location and time, and I will control the cost . Where are the Bacheng police now? The Bacheng police are in position and ready for action . Wait , Ruan Taiyuan has a gun to protect Ma Qiming. Listen to my instructions. Ma Qiming is in Mouchuan's ward. I have told you that the first person to die if you don't get VX3 is The second one is you. I am telling you now that the third one is your son. She wants to commit murder . Mr. Ma will arrest her. Ruan Taiyuan is arresting you now because you are suspected of several injury cases. Mr. Ma, thank you for your assistance. Li Junjie still remembers. How did your master die? Calais will not let you go. I remember that I will prepare a set of mourning clothes for you to wear for Calais, right ? Director Chen , I am Calais. I took the liberty to call you to inform you that I should We will enter Bacheng in two hours . If you don't release Miss Ruan and let me see her within six hours, I may turn Bacheng upside down. Is there anything going on? I haven't traced you to Calais yet. Give me a moment. Calais called Director Chen two hours ago. Where will he take people after entering Bacheng ? This is simply looking for a needle in a haystack. We don't have any clues now. From what I know about Calais, he will do anything for Ruan Taiyuan. Come on , hurry up, hurry up, get it , hurry up , hurry up, line up yours one by one, don't be anxious , sit here, sit here , sit with me, sit down, sit down, sit down, are you happy? Everyone, sit down, buckle up and be safe. We are driving soon. Children, do you want some ice cream? Ice cream is good. I want it. I want it. I want it. If you want to eat it , don't rush. Sit down. Come one by one. I want ice cream. Hello. This is Baccarat police. Can I help you? Hello. I'm Calais and I hijacked the school bus. If I don't see Ruan Taiyuan in an hour, I will kill everyone on this school bus. By the way, let Li Junjie come to me. Team leader Zhou has news. The police received a report. There is a car on Binhai Avenue. The school bus has been hijacked. Pull up the video and take a look . There is a school bus. The robber is a blue bus. The robber is wearing a clown suit. The number of people cannot be determined. Park the car . Park the car. The school bus has passed through the first intersection. Attention everyone, the school bus has passed through the first intersection. There are too many obstacles on the road to get close to the target. Li Junjie , I knew you would play with me. I told you that I installed a time bomb on this school bus. It will explode in thirty minutes. This is a gift I specially prepared for you. Now the game starts . Hit him to death. I saw a large number of pedestrians in front of me. Rush over and get out of the way . It's too dangerous. Li Junjie, I want you to die. Open the window. Children, don't worry , uncle will come to rescue you. Good uncle Wenzi Wenzi - do you hear me? I have already controlled the school bus, but the brakes and The accelerator is broken. I can't slow down and stop the car . There's a time bomb in the car. I need a route to open the car to save people. Hey , Junjie, I'm here to help you open the way. Are you okay? Help me see how many bombs there are. Good for a long time. Time is running out . There are seven minutes left. The speed is too fast. There are too many obstacles on the road. We can't go down. We can't go down. I'm coming. Zixuan broke the back glass and tried to find a way to transport people over. Come on , come on, come on. Three, three, bad. Police. The helicopter found a broken bridge 1.5 kilometers ahead of the road. There was no way to avoid the broken bridge before. Zixuan, God, it's too dangerous. Junjie, what are you doing ? Li Junjie, do you want to die with me? I'm just giving my conscience an explanation for not taking care of my children. Everybody is supported , sit down, I don't want Zixuan to die. What should Junjie Yunhao do? Junjie, you bastard, don't leave me. Junjie, Junjie, Mr. Ma, Alpha wants to ask you to meet. He is here . Yes, he is here to talk to you this time . Talking about future cooperation, I know he just wants VX3. Tell him that the controller is destroyed and ask him to bring Li Guoxin so that we can talk about cooperation. Alpha has already thought of your request, but he asked me to remind you. Your communication has been monitored by us. For safety reasons, I will notify you of the location and time of the meeting half an hour in advance. Please bring your VX3 to the appointment. Feed Lin Jin . It's rare for you to come to see me, team leader . What's the matter? I've read your resignation report . I have something to tell you. Where are you ? If you have something to do, just talk to me on the phone. This matter is very important . It's best to meet in person. Okay. I'll wait for you at the coffee shop in the south of Mosa. If there's something important that I have to talk to you in person. I just want to ask you why you suddenly resigned. It shouldn't be any of your business where I am going. Anyway , in your eyes, I have always been transparent . Do you think about it more? It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter anymore. Didn't you say that there is? Do you want to tell me something important ? In fact, I am also an Alpha. Don't lie to me. Even if I reveal my identity to you, you still don't believe me. You stopped us from getting VX3. You did so many things that hurt us. How can I trust you and me? It's to protect my identity. I think you should still remember when you snatched my mobile phone in Moser. Team leader, stop acting. Lin Jin , do you think you are the only one who installed a bug in Moser? Are there others in Moser? I am doing this not only to cover my identity, but also to protect you. It seems that I can only believe your explanation. It's a pity that I have to leave. Otherwise, it should be fun to work with you. You really have to leave the Bacheng organization. I left Bacheng with Ma Qiming and I shouldn't have said so much. I came here just to remind you that the police in Bacheng are looking for you now. Your situation is very dangerous, so you must be careful . Can you come and see me off? When are you leaving tomorrow at noon at the unfinished building in the eastern suburbs? I will definitely go to see you off. Don't lie to me. I have something else to do. I'll leave first. Hey, Inspector Wu, I have something important to tell you. Is it convenient for you to talk now? It's convenient to say that I have reliable information. Tomorrow at noon at noon, Alpha, an unfinished building in the eastern suburbs, wants to see Ma Qiming. This is our last chance. We must not let him escape again. Is the information reliable? I guarantee it with my life. Then I need to report to the Security Department. Let me report. I'll wait for your news. I found out that Ma Qiming asked him to come in . Ma Qiming, you're here early. I can't wait to leave this sad place in Bacheng. Thank you, Alpha. It's too early to say thank you now. Where is Li Guoxin? I want to say a few words to him . I To confirm that he is still alive, he is upstairs. But I want to see VX3 now. I have expected you to come up with this move. Who are you, Shi Yunhao, you liar? Hand over Li Guoxin, Aita, kill him. You know that man. You If you like him, he will die in my hands soon. Don't worry, our people will take good care of his Alpha. What do you want to do ? Please sit down and have a drink first and enjoy the last beautiful scenery of Ba City. Otherwise, there will be no chance. I want to know what you want. Take me wherever you want. In ten minutes, we will set off to a new world. I will remember today. Etta, he is yours. Shi Yunhao, you liar , haven't you ever lied to me? Go to hell. Put your hands on your head. Put down your weapons. Put down your hands. Hold your head, hurry up, hurry up. This should be what you want . See for yourselves. Are Junjie okay? Junjie and Zixuan are fine. The three of us are like a family. I never thought that this day would really come to pass.