- Today's topic is about cybersecurity, governance, risk, and compliance. I will dive deeper into and we'll cover a few Just before we get started, just wanted to give you about me in terms of my career so far. I completed my bachelor's in 2016, got a bachelor of technology and then moved on to work with PWC as a cybersecurity consultant, after which I decided pursued my MSIS from Smith School, had a great time there. And then moved on to which was formerly Verizon Media. And then now I'm currently as a GRC specialist. So in terms of like what my role has been throughout all these is essentially in the when it comes to, like when it was more about cybersecurity, which included GRC as well as like other cybersecurity domains as well. And then when I moved from Smith School, I where I did more of like GRC specific work and I kind of flagged it and then continued the same in Salesforce in a different area. Now before we even, you into what GRC is, I just wanted to like give a high level overview of what that is and it's more governance, is basically a very high level. It's basically a very where you get to do like multiple things. You can be like a coder, you can also be someone into just security management stuff that's like, you can be technical, non-technical, non-technical. You can like kind of choose things. So it's kind of a big realm. So I have been like hopping doing different things so far, and I will be talking about So today's agenda would be starting with what cybersecurity is, a little bit about privacy and architecture set up in Then about, specifically about GRC, where we will kind of look into and compliance, basically R and the C is what we will be focusing on today. And then we will also talk the amalgamation of the two. And then we will be talking to do the job, which I especially when we are in school, to know what do we need to get there. So starting with what in the modern world, I'm sure of like the different types of attacks and the different types of like different types of security breaches especially in tech, being in the tech industry, of these things a lot. So I won't be diving too deep into like what exactly all these things are, but essentially cybersecurity preventing cyber attacks and Like you cannot always So the other thing about how to control the damage. And all of this involves when will a security attack happen or when will any kind of attack happen? How will it happen? Where will it happen? Those kind of questions are by doing our research, by actually having, in incorporating cybersecurity principles in your organization, these questions in advance. So before we even get into there are three major security pillars that I would like to talk about is confidentiality, integrity Not giving you too many but just a high level overview would be, is that any that I'm sharing with you. So for example, if I have and you are the only one then that needs to be maintained that it, that data is just exchanged and that's how it'll be confidential and no one else can access it. So who's accessing it and entails confidentiality a good example of like a would be social engineering attacks. You might be getting like from random organizations You might be just getting a call, &quot;Can I get your SSN and then I can update blah, or whatsoever. That's a very good example And this happens on an everyday basis and this is something that not everyone kind of identifies immediately, right? That's where the whole Talking about integrity. Integrity would be anything information with you or I shared it with you, in the same manner. For example, if we are and I sent you something, entirely else or you received but it was slightly tweaked, that's a good example which is also called an alteration attack. So that's just like a like how in integrity can be violated and then comes availability. If you wanna access any any system at any point in time, you should be able to do that. And if you're not able to do it, that is breach of availability. It could happen for For example, there is a network failure or there is some natural disaster that happened because of which, you know, there's availability issue and stuff that's one thing. But another thing would be you from accessing something like a cyber attack on your systems. So a good example of this Say you want to access and someone is able to get all of your payment information and all every confidential and that person has access an activity right now to access amazon.com at the same time. So they will basically and you won't be able to And that's just like a Just a small example of to achieve something in by someone who's trying to or trying to steal your information. So when we have these, like, these are just like some but then there are so many that happen every day. So the main agenda for when it comes to cybersecurity protected, your data protected, And in fact also training like I said, the social even everyone should be security principles that we should follow on an everyday basis. And that's the reason why we So now how do organizations actually know what security measured to apply? So there are security best practices, which are like standardized that are out there. There are some of which are some of which are regulated who are highly focused on or only focused on identifying security breaches and then kind of coming up So these are the frameworks that you see are such as ISO 27001, All of these are standard globally everywhere and And now how do organizations which framework to choose on? So this basically depends is of that organization or if they, it not necessarily be a product, it could be a service that So it's basically catered and what really your business is. And organizations have certain policies and procedures about how they're operating and And accordingly kind of adapt what is applicable to them. For example, any company that's dealing with credit card data adapt the PCI frame framework, which is focused on payment So they will make sure security controls mentioned or anyone, any company which for example, they need to the HIPAA compliance, which is So this is about all all about healthcare data. So they need to make sure are, and the controls that are mentioned in this framework is actually We will learn about how in a few slides from now. So just a little bit, where privacy fits into all of this. Often like cybersecurity in a very confused manner and where to place what. So just to give you like a brief overview of what privacy is, it's basically focused on data How is your data collected? How are you handling your data? What are you using that data for? How are you classifying it? Are you sharing your data with with another person? If yes, then how are you managing that? So it's essentially and like how you can properly handle all of the sensitive information your organization or for So, and the major focus here would be PII, which is personally And the reason being organizations, there are many organizations or service need to store this information to kind of generate profits basically get their business running. So for that to protect that data, there are different types of laws, data privacy laws, which kind of are, which could be border specific There are some which are that your business is running and some of which are very specific to, or some of which are very to like all of the data all over. So for example, GDPR, this is governance of data So all the GDPR laws, if of the EU data, then you have to make sure that you're compliant to GDPR or similarly, if you're HIPAA, if you are working with healthcare data, you need to make sure that Now these laws are enforced can bypass it. So if you are working with this data, you need to have these So just wanted to give you of what like cybersecurity and privacy is. Cybersecurity essentially and privacy is more is being handled when Moving on, we will talk about in organizations. Just to give you an understanding would probably place is there would be like a for example, where there would be on like application security, cloud security, security Now all of this is very specific to, all of this is very varied by organization and it'll be very specific to what kind of business you have, that is and based off of that, basically it's need to protect. So that would be one The other aspect would be which is what we will be talking about. Where governance is all how you're trying to make setting up all your and everything, what Risk management is something that you want to make sure and compliance is all about making sure that you are kind of aligned are saying. We'll learn about this So talking about governance, like I said, this is about aligning IT with your organizational or So say my businesses for example, I am selling candles online. So if I'm selling candles online, what what would I have I would have servers, I would have, and it's a very small business, I would say have like five I will have the payment information. I will be basically through which the and so on and so forth. Like so many aspects of understand that I have decide what security So governance is essentially planning of all of those things. It should align with whatever IT objectives should be aligning to Moving on to risk management, this is basically whatever assets you have and whatever assets it's all at risk because you're using them like it's a simple thing. It's you're using them, it is at risk. Anyone can breach it that you have the right controls in place. So to just understand what you need to take care what these terms even mean. There are potentially, there are basically four things that you need to look for. What is a threat? What is a vulnerability? What is the risk and what is a control? So I'll just give you to make you understand. Suppose you're in a forest, you're in a forest where The threat here would be by these animals. The vulnerability here Because the fact that you since you are a human quite possibly you will be attacked or there's a great So that is your vulnerability is the vulnerability you can get serious injuries And what would be the control here? So the control here would be that you can look at it at two ways. One way is not going to because there's clearly danger out there. Or the second thing would be that okay, if I'm going in, I wanna make I wanna make sure whatever given out by the national or whatever that, okay, you make sure you do, you do don't go here at this hour. If I follow all of those, So that's a control. So, in terms like translating tech or to everything when risk of a cyber attack is always there. What we do at our end or implement safety features to kind of save ourselves from the cyber attacks. So whenever you're talking like risk and control are the two terms that you will hear a lot the other is a solution. Like if you think about and when it comes to risk management, you can also look at it in two ways. There is organizational risk management and then there is third Now what are these things when it comes to organizational risk of a small business, I that I need to take care of. I need to make sure that I to protect my systems and data. If I do have that, then for the systems and data that is organizational risk management. Whereas if I am collaborating who owns another small business and he's working with that even he's protected, has a security features that at least some security features with him, that data won't be misused. So if I want to be sure that even Trace is incorporating security measures, that's third party risk management. So I will be like, &quot;Hey of all the potential risks If he gives a thumbs up, working with him. So that's essentially, you know, a high level version of what which we will kind of take a And then moving on to compliance, this is basically conformance and security best practices. So when I am working with Trace, I have some security certifications like, I was talking about those So those frameworks, I by those frameworks and that in the form of obtaining or security reports. And how do we do that is cover later on. But I have those security certifications with me and I will be asking Trace, &quot;Hey, do you have these security If yes, that's only then I So this is something sort that every organization has whatever kind of business that you have, you need to have the that are applicable to your organization or applicable to your business. If you don't have those will not work with you if you're secure or not. So this is a way to kind you're working with is in fact secure. So we will be talking about, like in this slide I was We will be talking about in a little detail followed by compliance in a little detail. So third party risk so the steps in basically first identifying the third party. So for example, I I would like to work with, sorry to call you out, Trace. So he will be the one, the third party that I would like to work with. So I will identify that how I'm collaborating with what kind of collaboration do we have. So for example, let's say we're exchanging personal information in the sense that I am sharing my customer If I am doing so, I need I need to basically understand how, what are the risks that are for my customer data. I need to know what my with my organization, right? Then I will go on and conduct where I will send out security attestation to Trace and he will be giving He will be giving me a list that he has. And then I'll ask him okay, how do you protect your data? What do you do with your data? So on and so forth. Like that's like a long extensive process that we go through. Once that is done, I will perform an analysis Basically I will see how and then I will compare it with mine and I will see if it is my organization's This is also a complicated do a calculation of risk using the formula that I've shown here. It's too much detail, I but just wanted to kind of, you know, give you an idea of how it's done. And then we kind of get the outcomes for these risk levels So qualitative or quantitative outcomes. So I will say like working with Trace, how much of a risk is it? Like, is it a critical a low risk or whatsoever depending on all the calculations that I did. And then make a decision about how I will, if I will be working with him or not. And now in cases like where we and Trace and I are exchanging customer information, the potential areas that I if he's using a cloud platform, then how is this cloud security? If we are ex we are exchanging data. So how is this data security, risk management, privacy, SLAs, like these are all very Again, don't want to but just to give you an And the next part would be developing a risk treatment strategy. So now this could also go two ways. For example, if Trace's is kind of at a good place like I need them to kind and then I can work with them. So I will come up with a risk send this risk strategy to them. Can we mitigate this risk? Can we transfer this risk? Can we accept this risk? I will basically go of learning, trying to see implemented at Trace's end if we need to so that we can actually move And there could be a worst clearly there does a and we won't be working together and I work with someone else, which in most cases it's not very common. It's mostly like where the risk here is kind of taken care of in the sense that two organizations come to a in question kind of makes sure the security posture that we want them to just so that we can 'Cause everyone wants to do business and grow profits, right? So this is just a very high is done and specifically So moving on to compliance. Now this is where your Every organization needs to be prepared, needs to have these security needs to need to abide by And this is enforced by by industry standards, and also So every organization So when they do it kind of helps in preventing security breaches. It minimizes the risk of cyber it minimizes risk of penalties So like in the previous Trace's organization is They have all the certifications, that means they have a good reputation and I will be willing to work with them. Whereas if my organization, for example, fail to abide by one of that I was supposed to have, And these are also kind of listed out on, in the frameworks that we So in order to avoid all have to must and definitely make sure that they are compliant to Just a high level overview comes to a point of compliance. The steps here is basically adaptation. First step is adaptation, which is adaptation of like I said earlier, works best for their organization. It could be multiple and in The next step would be auditing, which is conducting internal Now when external security basically there is an external auditor, a third party company which your organization. They they say that, &quot;Okay, you are and are you actually that you're doing.&quot; That is basically tested and the outcome of the would be the certification. So it's not like I can self-certify that, okay, my organization is I need to have another testing everything out and then saying, &quot;Okay, they're secure, we are giving them the certification.&quot; So that's step two. And then step three would be monitoring, which is basically continuously your system for changes. For example, if I made a or in my organization where I included like say more servers or I added like some new technology altogether, then I need to make sure and I am also doing of that aspect of the new And secondly, monitoring where say I need to monitor So I should be monitoring And if I see that okay, is accessing my system and that person is not supposed to, how do I know that I need So that's like incorporating security mechanisms to kind going on for all your critical assets. So this is again, very, very high level. A lot goes into all of this. These steps are quite high but just to understand or a small organization also whatsoever needs to kind of do to be compliant. So moving on from here, let's talk about analytics and GRC. Basically everything that we spoke about. I know I spoke a lot compliance and stuff like that. How does analytics come into picture? I think one good example it comes to risk management The fact that we have, so with so many systems, so many data, so many different things and we have so many security You are tracking all of but how do you know where, how do you know that say in system X or from computer Y or whatever. Like there are so many things going on, how do we know about these things? We have those monitoring systems in place and we have different to give us that data. From that data there can that we can identify. For example, I see that okay which is kind of open and the internet and has access to, has the link to my website and take this data away from me. That's one risk that the The other risk is that, okay, I shared this information with company A and company A is not at all secured. They have our data out in So there's so many happening around. So amalgamating all of and trying to classify these risks and understand what's going on. Someone has to look at a &quot;Okay, here's the problem, we need to kind of find So this is in a very broader sense, like there are organizations in a very minimalistic way. There are organizations in a very detailed manner. So it all depends on what do you have at your organization. But definitely this is a good, this is a very good place where analytics comes into the picture. Like we all always wanna and how to address it. And the other aspect of Again, many aspects to this. What is the type of risk? Where did the risk originated from? How can this risk impact the What kind of controls do So all types of information can be also done through analytics in a very detailed way quick decisions. Leadership does not have time okay, why did this happen? They just need to look at a &quot;Okay, we see these two problem areas, we need to come up with an So that's essentially why where analytics comes into picture. Similarly for compliance, audit reporting is one thing where where you can give an entire picture of how an audit is going through data, through basically representing your data and generating insights okay, how the audit process is going, what are the problems are there any audit findings All these questions can be that data visualization And the other major thing is So the external part, third to kind of perform an We are giving them tons of data to kind of look through problems, right? Because they wanna know what we are doing. So we'll give them a list of data and then they will have to find an anomaly and their job is to find So that's a major when it comes to the So yeah, these are just of like how we can use analytics. There is definitely more to but I think these are the main focus areas from what I have experienced so far. And then just wanted to walk the different GRC tools You might have heard of some of these, you might have not heard They're quite very specific to GRC but they have great analytics So you may not always connect this particular tool to some analytics tool necessarily. Some of them have inbuilt some of them actually need, you need to kind of connect But these are things out you can like kind of and applications. They're all over the And one such example, just of how it looks, this is where the use case here is again third party risk management, It's just basically a feel of how the UI, how the third party risk It has like these different with the risk, identifying doing a risk treatment, risk monitoring. You can see the list of risks out there just to give you a feel And then you can see the dashboard here. This dashboard kind of gives you an idea of like how a risk management to make decisions about their next steps, about what controls to implement. So you can see what kind of third parties, you can see the windows by risk level, you can see windows windows by type, windows by rating, just information that and kind of make decisions. And then one of the other This dashboard here that you on incident management I left my laptop in a I did not have a password Some random person is that's an incident that happened. How are we managing that incident? All of the information about, you know, incidents of all kinds are kind of managed in this dashboard and this because this is like real time, these kind of incidents need You don't have time. These are like something that you need to kind of work on immediately. So someone like there's a looking at this dashboard and and kind of making sure that does not really escalate further and dies down after a point based on whatever solution they provide. So again, a good example of in the GRC space. And then moving on to the last segment, which is what skills are in candidates. So talking about technical if it comes to like GRC specifically when it comes to like you should be able to read code. If not write it. I mean this is not, I think where you should be able to know, you should know what a coding like it could be any like what organization you're working for and stuff like that. But whatever coding you should know what what can it do. You need to have that basic to be able to kind of actually When it even comes to identifying a risk or even when it comes to like even for your audit in an audit process, you want to see, how a security mechanism is implemented. It's obviously done written in a code and it's implemented in a particular way. So where in that code the security part which is coded. Like that's something super So yeah, if you don't wanna write it, but you should at least you should have some knowledge Cloud technology is I think Everything is on cloud. Mostly, if not all, but AWS, Azure, GCP, these are like big players to know information about these. And also if you wanna get it's good to have like and frameworks knowledge you like okay I am CESAR and stuff like that 'cause expensive certifications to say the least. Which mostly if you they'll help you achieve that. But then you need to have There are several websites out there, like ISAKA is one organization which is focused on cybersecurity. So you can definitely go out there or courses that for you to kind of take, you can look through it and frameworks in. Again, MS office, G-Suite, I'm sure this doesn't need But yeah, we all need to Then comes data visualization tools. Great to have Tableau, Looker, there's nothing specific that you think, okay, I need to know There's no such thing. But definitely need to have or one of these tools at least so that when you're it's very easy to adapt and 'Cause every organization definitely uses a different tool altogether. But if you're looking at some, an amalgamation of like kind of job, this is a big plus to have, again, data analysis given how compliance like auditing works and how risk management works. I think that is something in our day-to-day job and different project management tools. Again, this is something you need to know beforehand, Like it just saves time for &quot;Okay, I don't have to train And then moving on to competencies, it's just about like critical thinking, analytical problem solving, I think these are the in the sense that I or I use it more often than And yeah, these are the like the GRC space or the And I think that's about