(keyboard clicks) (upbeat music) - [Man] Just sit in the car Any questions? - [Man 2] No boss, no problem. - [Man] If anybody gets in - Grand Theft Auto III not just for Rockstar Games, but for the entire video game industry. It was the first game that felt like it was took place in a Because before GTA III, Grand Theft Auto games looked liked this. It takes a very special for a game like Grand And that's what today's episode of Greatest Hits is all about. Most people assume that and thanks to Rockstar's that's now, in part, true. But the game about racing was originally created in a post-industrial port town DMA design was founded in Dundee in 1984 by a group of friends who Over the next 15 years, the studio created the Lemmings franchise, cult classics, like &quot;Body Harvest&quot;, &quot;Space Station Silicon Valley&quot;, a Kirby title that never and a couple of games about stealing cars you may have played. There are a lot of games to cover here. So to do this, I'm going to have to spend a couple of months reaching who worked with DMA designs as possible, which is tricky because some of them have fallen off the face of the earth. Others left the industry a long time ago, and don't wanna talk and more still, still And if you know anything about Rockstar, is that they're one of the most cagey when it comes to talking to the press. So we're also going to at the Video Game History Foundation to unearth some never before And seen as we're forced to we're hiring a video team in Scotland to go and fill in the other the city of Dundee. So what's the point of this video? Well, aside from having just a fun, nostalgic romp about a I wanna answer a question for a really long time. A game him like GTA doesn't So what was it about DMA and about that time and place that created one of the most important And there's one more thing we Whenever we talk about Grand there were certain names that People like the Houser I wanna know how influential these people were at the start and and really who are the who are the unsung heroes and Grand Theft Auto? When did the story of DMA design end? And when did the story All right, I have a lot of research to do, and Scottish people to interview. And you have a lot of So let's just roll the intro. It's the only reason any of (upbeat electro music) (mysterious music) DMA design was founded in the Kingsway Amateur Computer Club in the Scottish city of Dundee. Dundee had been a successful and it was during the 18th century it found itself in the supporting a network of jute mills, which employed some 50,000 workers. But when the textile industry it left tens of thousands and desperate. The manufacturing industry would set the course It could have been anything, cars, sofas, washing machines, but two days before Christmas in 1946, it was the American that opened its first plant in Dundee. Crucially in 1981, the for Sinclair Research Limited and suddenly the factory was for the UK market. So while in other towns or washing machines of local delivery trucks, in Dundee it was ZX Spectrums. So first things first, if I'm gonna be able to tell the story of the early days at DMA design, I need to talk to one and thankfully through Twitter I've convinced two of them to have a chat. Mike Daily and Russell Kay. - I went to this computer club in Dundee. It's in the college. And I think in the chemistry lab. And you got to take your computer along, But also you had to take your TV with it. So it was the old CRTs that took on a bus, couple of journeys to get there. So I met Steve, Russell And so him and Russell met, we all kind of got together 'cause we were really interested, in making stuff for computers, rather than everybody else at the club that was just swapping games and things. And it just kind of went from there. Russell and Dave were doing a game called &quot;Moon Shadow&quot; on the Spectrum which eventually became &quot;Zone Trooper.&quot; And for somebody coming in, to see somebody actually making a game that's gonna be commercial game. It's like, &quot;Oh look, they're doing stuff.&quot; Especially up in Scotland because there was no companies up here. So any kind of dev was interesting. - We all really wanted to not just sit and play games, which is what half half I worked on the Spectrum, Mike did stuff on Commodore Dave actually worked at the Timex factory. He had the inside scoop on how things were actually put together He left Timex. We took on a contract to convert a Commodore 64 game to Spectrum, that was taking a very long time. And Dave wasn't really He wanted the new shiny he bought, Amiga. That was when he came up - [Danny O'Dwyer] Using Dave bought an Amiga 1000 and got to work on his under the company name Acme Software. This was pure bedroom programming. Dave would code in his parents' house, while Mike went to Russell's house to code using a plank of wood balanced Dave eventually managed to with famed Amiga publisher Psygnosis. And after the deal was signed, they changed the company name to DMA because a company in America - That game got published and he started getting some money for it. And at that point he realized, you know, what's the point in staying I could go and make money on that. So he decided to give up college and start doing it full time. And he started on &quot;Blood Money&quot; and he was getting kind of So halfway through &quot;Blood Money&quot; he decided we would start the office and asked me if I wanted, you know, because he do I want a job there. &quot;Yes, please.&quot; What usually happened would be doing ports and or DMA for these. Then he'd pay us, me obviously, salaries and Russell as a freelancer. And that would keep the office going while Dave looked at original work. That was the idea, is that the ports would So just to kind of be honest, - [Danny O'Dwyer] As more work came in, they'd hire whoever seemed Russell's mate Gary Timmins playing with pixel art and One of the reasons they did was that it was the closest still about four hours across down into Liverpool. By August of 1989, they had sat above a baby shop This is where Dave coded &quot;Blood Money&quot; with the help of remote This is where the growing worked on ports, made tech demos, talked about other games David decided that his on the AT-AT like walkers and had animator. Scott Johnson, recently hired from the local McDonald's, create some enemy sprites to walk around underneath the walkers. But Mike Daily thought weren't quite small enough. And so unlike the scale the walkers didn't look And so began a conversation you could animate a sprite while retaining believable movement. While all this was going on, another creative problem was being solved. Russell was fawning over a particular gun from the game &quot;Salamander&quot; that traced along the This mishmash of conversations and ideas and problems would eventually lead to DMA's first greatest hit. (playful music) - We've been having this argument that, how many pixels do you actually need to make something that could move properly and Mike wanted to prove that There was a game on the and that had very small the really nice animation. Other people had been arguing that &quot;Prince of Persia&quot; where it that had really nice animation, that you couldn't get that animation in such a small number of characters and Mike wanted to prove us wrong. (playful music) The chap who did all the he was always amazing to because he would have a pixel for an arm and a pixel for the other and then the head. And he would animate these pixels to get them to just the way and he would spend hours and hours just moving this one pixel. &quot;It's the wrong place, There you go.&quot; - Okay, I edited this whole section not thinking I'd have to but I've just realized it's So here is the briefest of &quot;Lemmings&quot; for all you Basically you start each level with a bunch of these little You have a bunch of jobs And the idea is to dig, from that entrance to an exit It was the biggest Dundee even has this just down the road from And if you go to the shop there's a plaque saying that Of course, none of this explains What is this thing? It's got like green hair It's wearing blue overalls. So of course that was the Why did they look like that? This is a game made in the nineties, so naturally the answer - [Mike Daily] The color of was to do with the EGA color palette because you had limited colors there. So on the Amiga but doing it on the PC, So it was either green or blue hair and green dungarees. I mean, just, it was just decided that the blue dungarees - And we all sat and talked about what the game could actually And I did the prototype because we decided that 10 Lemmings wasn't enough. 20 wasn't going to cut it. We just did things for fun, it was pretty much just &quot;Alright. I'll have a wee think about how we could do that.&quot; If we were going to make the like I was saying, it's the Salamander bullets that followed the landscape. How would you actually go about that? I had an idea on actually And it took me a few to kind of put a little prototype together and then it took another few lunchtimes to work out how to draw - [Mike Daily] So, I the guy that came up with the scales and we got them and that was the scales, it wasn't like it was, &quot;That's not going to work, we'll do another one, we'll do It just, that was what we got Lemmings took about nine months or so. Once we started doing levels, we were getting like a tenner a level if we got into the game or something. Which when you look back at it, it wasn't that much really. I think Dave managed to get a couple in but they weren't particularly good ones. We kept making these levels thinking they'd be great and we'd solve them in like three seconds and then he'd go, &quot;Well, And then he'd go away and Steve didn't get any levels in, they just didn't really work very well. So it was really me, Scott and Gary that got the levels done. And we all had really different I really liked making big pictures and making you play through them. Whereas Gary ended up and then one skill and you had to get out, and they were really tricky. But we were all trying to beat each other with these levels and just - My levels were never very good. You know, I'm better at writing the code, than actually making things like that. When you do a PC game back then, you didn't just have the one graphics card and back then you didn't So you weren't writing I had to write a VGA, EGA, CGA and each one quite It wasn't a lot of common code that you could actually have. From day one they were Lemmings. That was always the name. - And were they Lemmings, like you'd say, like that's a Lemming, that's - No. - Or were they Lemmings, like like a sheep? - They were the concept of a Lemming. They were following each even to the point of death and they were never meant not the actual creature. In fact, I don't think we what a real Lemming looked like. No, as far as we were concerned, They were a cultural and we originally wanted to do all the ... do we have the lemmings and as the Addams Family and like that, you know? So a lot of what they've done was what we were thinking They were a no-man that you - [Danny O'Dwyer] In the weeks and months after it's release, Lemming's It wasn't an overnight ports to other computers were demanded. And so DMA had to expand to meet it. The studio more than doubled in size with some developers working on ports and others developing But while the studio was larger, Dave Jones' business have a solid backbone of that would pay for the So in 1991, while they DMA was using their newfound with one of the biggest - Up to about '95, 'cause we started obviously we started doing like SNES stuff as well. I did the SNES version of Lemmings II, but we also started getting for doing other things as well. And we actually had while we were doing that as well. Between '92 and '95 we did We did &quot;Uniracers&quot; on the SNES. We did start doing a Kid Kirby game, but we didn't, we just So that ended up getting because it was a proper - Right. - It could have been - Is that from them Miyamoto visit? What was that like, - I didn't really know Because it was, you know, early nineties, it's like, he wasn't the huge name everybody knows of him later. It was just, you know, it was a guy coming around and trying to wear something neat. And will be standing behind - [Danny O'Dwyer] Kid Kirby that never saw the light of day. And this was kind of par for the course for studios like DMA back in the mid 90's, kind of like record companies, studios would often have multiple Taking bets on which with shorter dev time and much less known about consumer behavior in video games, it made sense that some But DMA was also suffering from while some teams within the studio had the right mix of others didn't. And while a great team didn't always necessarily create a great game, a bad team, never did. - You could tell from working with a team, whether they were, and the game was going forward. Cause that was, that DMA was famous for actually I'd just come off &quot;Union Racers&quot; and &quot;Union Racers&quot; was a And I went across to work on Kid Kirby and that was just totally different. That was my first experience of, &quot;Hang on, I thought game but it's like this.&quot; So yeah, it's just personalities involved, the approaches of people. So yeah, when it got I was not particularly shocked. - At the end of Lemmings because I had quite a lot to I wasn't really particularly You know, we had so many It was unbelievable. And as we actually that there's about 10 skills that we hadn't actually We had to just go back in I hadn't been particularly in which Lemmings II had actually been run and I decided to leave and that was when I - [Mike Daily] After Lemmings up to 95, we grew from those five to 10, up to '95 would be about 50 or so. And then when the GTA stuff GTA, Tanktics and Clan and that was a big deal. I mean, that was a couple And the company went up to like 130, 140. So we had lots of lots of Dave's stuff as well. So it grew hugely. - I vaguely remember job interviews, but we were totally making You know, that's the honest truth of it. Nobody really knew, there was Nowadays, you've got people they've trained to do video games. They're all fluent in But remember, this was like pre-internet, so nobody could download a tool from, from a website and in their own time and We were getting people coming for jobs who literally hadn't a touched a computer. Yeah, I think people a lot of that stuff was back then. And particularly before the internet, like when you couldn't You literally had to wait for a magazine to in order to find this stuff out. It's, you can't comprehend it now. It's a totally different world. - All right, you probably His name is Colin Anderson. And as the keyboards in he was the audio director I got his email through who suggested Collin could speak to the variety of teams that once they expanded after So let's set the scene. DMA has now ballooned up and they're working on multiple projects. And while &quot;Lemmings&quot; had been a success, it had come because of this that had come from everyone in the studio, everyone was sort of like, in Lemmings to a certain extent. With the studio much bigger and working on loads of different games, that type of creativity, On top of that, the studio and new hires. Some teams were functional And hey, while we're at it, let's throw in the thing that than anything else. The move from computers to To solve this, the studio and took on a lot of During the next few years a two game deal with GT-Interactive was signed, as was a four game deal The next game we're here to talk about is the most notorious of the bunch, even if nobody expected it to be. So Mike and Russell, who I they were also able to and so was Collin. But at this stage, I really wanted to talk to more people at DMA. People who had worked on GTA and other games at their studio. And this is where I started to run into a little bit of trouble, A lot of them hadn't and some of them didn't And I also wanted to see what it was about the other teams at DMA. What was it about certain that were hits and other ones And there's one thing with everyone I talked to about GTA, is that for all the right up until when it was done, nobody thought this was a hit. (hop hop music) (car engine roaring) The original pitch for Grand Theft Auto was a game called Race and Chase, a top-down driving game where you could chase cars, play as cops, or be the robbers. In recent years, the for this game has surfaced. But as part of their research our friends at the Video uncovered a bunch of new assets, including some original Donald Robertson, and these 3D pedestrian According to lead artists, Ian McHugh, the plan was to render out for the pedestrian sprites. But never quite worked and So they ended up hand drawing the sprites in D-paint instead. - I did the initial prototype for GTA, the game itself was team driven, and the whole design and everything, everybody in the team contributed Although Dave took the &quot;Okay, it's gonna be cops and robbers and it'll just be robbers, Everything else that made the game really fun and entertaining and implemented by the team. The initial part, when I so it was this top down engine, it obviously went through With the spinning isometric on first and we'd add the top down because it was made out of blocks. That top down perspective on the city and all the things moving within that view and make it busy. The engine itself being top (horns blaring) (sirens blaring) - So, you know, for the it was called Race and Chase and you were trying to clean up the city, but it was only once we actually got a playable kind of prototype, it became apparent that if you are going skidding knocking push chairs and and running over old people, you had to get penalized because it didn't make any logical sense. You know, the cognitive So, you know, the decision and the team had autonomy Let's get you to play a criminal. Let's see how that feels. And yeah, that was the turning point. - Now all the people in here are working on what DMA hopes will It's a game called Grand Theft Auto. It's gotta be finished by the end of June. So they're involved in some It's all about a car of a fictional, probably American city. Here are some of the maps And Dave here is one of he's been trying to put it together. - One interesting thing kind of overlook in this study is, the team that did Grand Theft Auto, none of them had made a game before. It was a brand new team. You know, they'd all come very different, previous So, so this was a first. It grew and evolved. And if one part of the like the car handling, it was awful. - The initial driving And then a guy called Pat &quot;Look, here's, here's - Pat Curr, he was working on Cobra. It was a little prototype of a box. And it was, just messing and it done some sort of crazy, skiddy, sort of that rear ended at fish tails. And it started skidding &quot;This is fantastic to This needs to go in.&quot; And that made all the difference because the handling was so bad. - And just basically gave us little driving cars, went into the game and it was really nice and that fixed an awful lot of the issues because part of the GTA is obviously the driving and the original GTA, it was - And it's because there's I don't know if you're aware about the aggressive police in GTA. That's one of the funniest things where police cars are just so crazy because if car was trying to go, they were trying to drive through you. So it's a bug. They weren't, they what they were doing. And the car was trying to drive, this car was trying to drive through you 'cause the route got messed up. So of course it feels like you're being attacked by a police car. It's a fantastic feeling. So all these lovely little different people feeding - I think the other part that really cemented the game was and stuff that went in as well. We called Anderson and these musicians, I think six of them. They had all these kind of And that was just a huge addition to it. - If you look back at that the mention for audio is something like, there will be one megabyte That's the, that's the audio design. So it changed a lot along the way because we certainly didn't of radio stations and it when I started on it, it was gonna be, it gonna be a floppy disc version of it. So there was no way they One of my best days at work ever was when Dave Jones turned up and said they were canceling the floppy version and it was gonna be a CD release only. And I think the N64 And that was great because suddenly, DMA design had a problem, which was, they had a game that looked 2D even though it had that that when you saw it moving, But when you saw it in a So they had this game that And no matter how high res you made those, those textures and maps and whatever, it was never gonna come anywhere And back then, like when they expected it to use that technology because CD was cutting edge. So we needed a story that made use of it. And we didn't have one. So I just put my hand up and said, I think I knew how we And then Craig Conner, who one day the whole team just They all sat at their desks It was just random. He didn't come in to work on that game. He just came in and sat at that desk. If he'd sat at another desk, history would have gone in So I'd given Craig the task of writing kind of 10 or 20 little sketches of music, just tasters of what kind of music could we use in this game? Cause the premise at that a single type of music across the game because nobody put in in games at that point, And so he sat down, he wrote all these some dance, techno, pop. And I just went to review he was playing them and They're all great pieces of music. And I remember thinking, that's a shame, we're gonna lose. we're And without thinking about what would be really cool is like, if we could get some kind of where you could play all so that you could have all this. - [Game Radio Host] 68 89FM, Head Radio. And I wasn't thinking about it at all, it was something, it and I would have forgotten all about it, except for Craig's face when I said it. I saw Craig's face and his eyes lit up, you know, in that kind (hip hop music) (horns blaring) - Now this is DMA's music department. As you can see, they do Let's find out what they've been doing for the Grand Theft Auto project. Craig, what have you been contributing? - I'm working on a radio the hip hop station. There's a variety of different stations in each car that you go into. - Every time you get into a - Yeah, different station. So this is a hip-hop channel that we're in the middle - So you're not just You've actually composed the-- - No, everything's - Amazing amounts of work. - All right, okay. (hip hop music) - If you're interested in learning more about the audio design of GTA and the work that went into creating it's various radio of the No Good podcast where we have an extended chat with Colin Anderson. GTA's development was long and difficult, but many at the studio told us, that while the production all the extra time they was what saved it from Brian Baglow was hired as a writer and joined the Grand Theft Auto team at a point where all the games missions were already completed. His job at the time, to retrofit these missions with stories. - Each of the cities, you could go down to wherever you wanted, but the missions were So you could, your character and get in a car, drive a get out the car or drive into a building come out, jump onto a motorbike, zoom to another point in and then, you know, take a And so what happened with it, the level designers were building that as a series of activities and going, &quot;What are we doing?&quot; And that was compounded by the fact that not only was it entirely non-linear, but the only way we was through a pager that had, as I recall, I think it was 120 It was certainly under Twitter. And so everything had to and the pagers could be triggered by either driving over or by picking up a car. So what I did was, I ended jotting down every single You know, crime thriller from the last 50 years and going, you know, all the good bits. Remember the elevated train chase in &quot;The French Connection&quot;? Right, that's going in. It's the heist gone wrong Yes, I'm having that. And so the whole thing was, was implied. (car crashes) There was so much in there You know, simply driving down an alley and smashing through some crates and watching them go boom through to, you know, the kill frenzies with all the little remote The fact that the more you played, the more aggravated the police got, your wanted level went up. Realizing that you could take and a bomb shop, you know? There's all these little It rewarded you the more you played it, the more you explored it, the more stuff you found. You know, so it made you feel like you meant something in the world, you were affecting change. - [Danny O'Dwyer] The missions in GTA along with the radio stations all contributed to making this game feel a little bit more When you talk about GTA now, people bring up all the controversy in the UK press at the time. But most of this was actually executed by BMG themselves. For the team in Scotland, the violence was nothing more just like Lemmings was. And here's another thing Lemmings and Grant Theft Auto shared, a bunch of sprites following each other. The only difference, you could run them over. - [Game Announcer] Kill Frenzy! - We always viewed it as because it's so distant. You didn't really see it. It's almost Lemming-esque in because it was tiny little pixels. So it didn't really matter. You run over them and it was funny. It wasn't that Carmageddon in your face where you see somebody We never really viewed I think the only, I mean, to you know, the Gouranga thing. Running over the Harikrishnas. All the scores add up and everything. It all goes down to that and all the missions and So that Gouranga thing just, you know, it was a multiple kill situation in the arcade with the spaceship where you just killed them all. And it was the same kind of thing. (radio chatter) (soft music) - [Danny O'Dwyer] DMA worked it was the PlayStation into living rooms all around the world. Russell Kay had left after and founded his very own But then one day deep they got a call. - So DMA had been working for quite awhile. We got a phone call, that they were needing a bit of help with the PlayStation one version. And Sega Saturn, actually. It turned out they didn't have And to tell you the truth, the team had no technical they were actually And we thought we were gonna have to ditch some of the game But actually we managed except for trains. While we didn't have trains that, that you could get into we still had trains that but a player couldn't get into a train. And so we had to cut that were all revolved around trains. I don't know whether or not or if they removed that as well. There was a question mark as from memory, there's three levels in GTA. We thought we were only to start off with it. And that was mainly a time thing, whether or not we would actually 'Cause we also had to cut down They'd done full color, And on the PlayStation one, we could only handle 16 colors per tile. People believed that the police were chasing you around the city. People believed that the and they had sort of goals People believed that there was other cars that were moving around as to what they were actually going to do and that you could follow them. And they would be doing particular things. When in reality, that was not nowhere near what was actually going - [Danny O'Dwyer] It's at this point that some familiar names start to appear. Rockstar doesn't promote their And as such, there are only a few names that tend to come up when and usually for all the wrong reasons. Sam and Dan, the Houser Brothers have a long history of while producer Leslie as a key player due to a 2016 lawsuit. We'll get to Mr. Benzies a little later, but it's at this point that the Houser's entered the picture. Sam Houser, son of an actress had been working at the record when he had the chance to transition to their new interactive initiative. It appears that around this time, Dan, his younger brother of two years wanted to get involved. - At Visual Science, we ended up hosting a on the QA side of things as being a, he was embedded with us who just sat with us and and helped us find all the bugs. Sam Houser was just a The DMA guys keeps saying but we had Sam around I don't know if it was just on the QA side of things, or if he saw the the lead version or what. I don't know exactly, but he was very keen on the PlayStation one version looking good. (upbeat music) A lot of people played I think PlayStation the most popular one. So I think that there was a generational thing going on there. You tend to find that if you were a child, you would play the PlayStation one. You, you weren't playing the PC one, but dads were playing the PC one. - [Danny O'Dwyer] The other were a mishmash of ideas, but many of them shared a similar DNA. A seed you could argue They were all sandbox games. - Pretty much everything seemed to be moving towards this whole idea of what is generally called And if you've ever been involved in making one of these games and I've been involved including three Crackdowns and two and a half GTA's and so on. They are a nightmare. The company was growing. It was trying to, to mature, You know, some of these but plenty of talent. In order to try and generate some more money to keep the company going, DMA did a deal with GT &quot;Attack&quot; and &quot;Clan Wars.&quot; So Attacks was kind of like a little, it was inspired by Japanese As it turns out, Pikmin ended up doing a very but attack was like little caveman, that wondered around in a group and they worked like a they sort of attack dinosaurs and stuff. And &quot;Clan Wars&quot; was basically CNC with a kind of Scottish vibe. You know, both of those unique and original, interesting titles. - We never got a chance but there were four other titles released by DMA design during this era. And they're all mad. So to help me explain them, I entrusted the help of Brian Baglow, who worked at DMA design and subsequently was PR manager for Rockstar to tell you all about &quot;Space &quot;Wild Metal Country&quot;, &quot;Tanktics&quot;, and of course &quot;Body Harvest.&quot; (playful music) - So based on the success of Lemmings and some of the Adelaide games, DMA got signed to the dream team, which was the group of that Nintendo put together which was the Nintendo 64. And so they came up with a which was essentially a 3D in which you played a who had to go back to various and defeat huge insectoid aliens. There were elements of GTA in there, because you could wonder you could pick up the weapons, you could go into buildings. It also had this sort of a very distinctly cheesy 50's sci-fi theme. It was, it's got a bit I ended up going out to try because Nintendo kind of stepped back. There was a constant sort of a bit, a bit of a battle because they Every time we sent something over to them, they wanted it more family-friendly and then at the end of that &quot;Go.&quot; - It was a weird one because it spent so long It was about three games I remember many people and just coming, like going Oh, it was, it was a That was one of those to be a few steps removed to have being stuck in the front lines. I remember seeing what it did to John who was lead programmer. Yeah, that was hard going. - So Tactics was even by deliciously bonkers, okay? It made no fucking sense. You controlled a giant hovering creature in one of four time periods, dinosaur and a dragon, Then you you could roam You played it on a PC. So you used the mouse and you could swoop around the landscape and use your giant magnet or you can pick up boulders and take them to the Part-O-Matic which somewhere on the landscape. Drop the boulders in and And you can then also go and pick up sheep and drop them into the hopper and they would turn into tank parts, or you can drop them onto and it would speed up the And your tanks came in tracks and engines and weapons and sensors, and you can put tanks So there were modules, you can build them. And then you could go off and play as a real-time strategy game to go and conquer people next to you. What was difficult about that? - It was definitely my favorite over the four games that BMG signed. Tanktics was the one I I thought, this could be great. The unique selling point was gonna be the dynamically creative chain, put a magnet on the end. And it was gonna be, in using that to pick things up. And unfortunately it was that sounded much better then when you actually when you realized that the main thing that your game hinges on isn't working, that's a, that's a hard day, because then you've gotta go and go, right, &quot;How are (dogs barking) - So &quot;Space Station Silicon Valley&quot; was set in a space station, which had been lost in space for years. And it was an experimental space station populated entirely by robot animals. All of a sudden it popped just in the new solar system. And so they send up Dan Danger and Evo The Robot. And they crash into the space And all that's left is the You know, he's just a Silicon chip. He has no power. So he powers down really quickly and to survive he has to jump And you can become all but they're different So you've got a dog, but then the dogs have So you had the dog on wheels, so you can have races. There was also a dog with wings and a lovely white scarf So you could go zooming And so you had to basically get through all of these different get to an inaccessible Oh, the classic - &quot;The Silicon Valley&quot; They definitely knew what they were doing. Good bunch of people. They knew their stuff technically, they were curious, inquisitive and figured things out as we went. They were, they were pretty productive. And yeah, the game, you know, it was a classic DMA game. How do you market that? And that was always the was we just focused on that made us smile and but then when it came to I do not envy the marketing team at any of the publishers They were a good team, Lez He was lead programmer He took over production later on. It was clear that it more hands-on production He was just really good at it. And he worked really well So Gary came in as he helped to sort of focus as he did with so many of the games that DMA were working on. - They were working on which was gonna be sort of a Couldn't get it working. So the team kind of flipped open world game, again sandbox. We play tanks and the characteristics, different performance, different handling and everything. And you basically had to blow shit up and collect power potion. Again, you know, the sound was fantastic. I thought the level design was wonderful. Rockstar published it and as Wild Metal because I think the would make people think - All of these games are very different, but they do share one commonality. None of them got a sequel, but just like their greatest hit Lemmings, Grand Theft Auto did. Soul making Soul shaking Earth quaking Change - GTA 1 is still my reference point when people talk about of polish time, of post because I saw what GTA 1 was like when it was feature complete. You know, technically had everything that it was ever gonna have. And it was borderline unplayable, yet you fast forward six months and all you've done is tweak stuff. You know, you fixed bugs, you've changed bullet velocities. You know, you've improved all the audio, you've done all this You know, the team had been on it for three and a half years. That's that was a long time you know, that was a You know, there was a few So I think they just wanted to do something very different. And the obvious thing and set it 20 minutes into the future, I think was the phrase. And so there was a lot of Frank Miller stuff and because it was just right. We need to make this (hip hop music) I mean, it was a great team. So it was two years. And to be honest, that was, I remember sitting down with and they needed us to commit I mean, it was completely unheard of, but the logic was sound because they said, right, we wanna put this in the sand because by this point the They wanted to put this marker down and tell everyone else, right, this is when the second Grand So keep your games away from us. This is, this is our date. (car engine revving) - It was a worthy successor The difficult part was when we had that five minutes into the future You get so much design done for free when a game is set in a contemporary ... Like, you know how weapons work, you know how cars work, if you don't, you can go you can, you can ask. As soon as you have five it's like, &quot;Okay, how &quot;So what design should we do, lasers?&quot; And it just takes, you know, how do the cars work? Are they electric now? So there's so much more design to do on a game that's not contemporary. And yeah, we learned - The last sort of six, nine months were basically just a big, long crunch. I mean, no one was but we just knew, we knew we couldn't and get everything done and get the game shippable So I can certainly remember one time where I drove everyone home because we'd worked through the night. The gold master was due to be concorded over to New York or something. So we had to, we had to meet the Concorde and, you know, it got picked taxi down to Heathrow and So it was like, yeah, we need to just pull (telephone ringing) The thing that I liked most about it, that never actually but it was the fact that there was no prescriptive mission order. You know, in the first certain forms of driving you had limited choice. You know, you had a little bit And obviously between missions, you could go off on tangents. What we tried to do with was really open that up, how you sort of favored you were taking different missions. So we wanted you, the player to be much, much more in control. (explosion erupts) - [Game Announcer] Job complete. And we understood the gameplay So, yeah, I think it was richer set of missions. And most of the design decisions were made with the whole team, we basically evolved the game on the fly. And I think it was I would just go down to the team room and we'd all get around the And we would just brainstorm stuff. So some of that would be vehicles. You know, what are some that the designers need to build into the mission structure, kind of got done by committee, which was great in terms of but it was just a very different how you develop games now where ultimately it's a much smaller group it's tight and focused, But it did mean everyone was bought in because it was it was all, you know, group decisions on what could, - [Narrator] In the city, respect is everything. (upbeat music) (sirens blaring) (car engine roaring) - [Danny O'Dwyer] The sort of a super cutted that was used for marketing, right? - [Dan Houser] We were aware there was, there was a intro movie getting cut. We weren't really involved. I remember us all being So there was, there was no problems, but no, we weren't On the first game, I think and the dev team went out and were hanging out a window shooting fake guns down at I don't know if that video You know, GTA was now big enough that we weren't gonna get - And that makes sense because it always seemed in Congress as well. Like that was sort of the clearly gangster type thing, but it felt different to - I mean, a lot of the publishing and the marketing was You know, the, the was taken from the top of just looking down. To this day, everyone thinks, you know, the game is developed in the States. It just, because it's got that vibe. And because there's not, in the scheme of things that big a deal ever made about it being something that, that comes out in Scotland. - History records Grand Theft Auto III as the final game from DMA design. But in truth, it was GTA DMA had been passed from pillar just before the release of to Gremlin Interactive and around 2 million pounds in debt. And just after GTA II launched, Gremlin were in turn acquired by the French publisher Infograms. But family friendly about the negative may attract to them. So they look to offload This is when Take-Two Interactive who wanted Grand Theft Auto bought DMA and made it part of their which was being headed by two brothers recently hired from BMG interactive. Early copies of Grand Theft Auto III have the DMA logo on the back of the box. While later copies would feature the studio's new name, Rockstar North, but from all the people we talked to, the truth is that DMA came to an end when the studio moved to set up shop in Scotland's This is where Rockstar This is where many of our interviewees decided to part ways with the company for one reason or another. Some of them had simply really hard and needed a change. Others still cited They didn't really vibe with and they wanted to do something else. Others still just didn't but some of them did of Grand Theft Auto III. So I was hoping they'd able to answer the question that has been who was it that stuck around? Who were the people who were that shepherded Grand Theft (gentle music) - So the Silicon Valley team was superb. The core of that team was And he was kind of looking after the team and there was Obbe. Obbe was fantastic, he And then Aaron Garbut, who And they were kind of And they became the core of the GTA team. So, GTA III team and they were a really really good at getting things done, which was the best thing about it. And they just had a really good game feel. They really understood the importance of how things should feel. I think it was Lez's belief in himself and Obbe and Aaron that they would be able to make - It was essentially that took over GTA and became the GTA III team at that point. So the Silicon Valley team, to my mind were the team that really The way I always looked at it was, it took the whole of DMA Design and every game that DMA design ever made to make GTA III. Because when you look at what it became, it had bits of &quot;Body Harvest&quot; in it, the open world, vehicle 3D thing, they'd already encountered the design for how you structure missions in 3D world landscapes, same We'd already done that. But then the physics part of GTA III came from &quot;Wild Metal Country&quot; because, I think it was Bill Henderson &quot;Wild Metal Country&quot; was You know what? If felt like to me, it felt like no one team within DMA on its own could have made GTA III. The only reason GTA III who were really good at like focusing and producing and organizing, that had all the support around them from all these other projects that we'd learned hard lessons from. There were just a lot of how to make games to begin with 'cause we were hiring people but by that time in '99, 2000, we had people who had and they knew what to do. And then it was a case of to lead certain parts. Yeah, I don't think the GTA 1 team could have made GTA III and I don't think the Silicon Valley team could have made GTA III. To me, it took DMA design as To my mind, it was that you know, the whole way through and all the mistakes that had been made on all the projects that and really got that one over the fence. Like the commercial success but just the technical, what It's fantastic to think that DMA ever produced a game as good as that. - Hey, so this documentary was done. And then I got an email from who was like, &quot;I worked on a bunch of these games at DMA and I worked at Rockstar. If you have any questions, let me know.&quot; It's the finished dock behind me. So this is about as late as I've ever done. Hello? - Hey, how are you? - Hey, there we go. Not too bad, how are you keeping? - Alright, good to talk to you. Let me just say that I'm actually quite big fan of your series. I think your videos are amazing. - Thank you so much, that means a lot. Whenever we hear like, people especially, you know, some watch our stuff, it's like the most humbling thing in the world. So, thank you so much. - Yeah, no problem. It's always fun to talk about So, you know, anytime. - What are your, you know, strongest memories of your time working on &quot;Space Station Silicon Valley&quot; then? - It's really just comradery. It was a small team, So four coders, maybe three something like that for most of the time, it grew a little bit at the end. And you know, we did everything together. Like typically go out and then again on Fridays, just with the team or with the company, there wasn't a design document that we had to strictly follow. But because everybody talked it all worked out in the end, you know? You can criticize other people and you can take criticism That's half the battle because then you, you can have an open discussion. Everybody listened to everybody and it was just really So we finished &quot;Space in '99, late '98. And in '99 we set up because basically there was that didn't really love Dundee. I mean, it was fun to work at for a while, but it's a, you know, you couldn't see yourself So they set up an office in Edinburgh which is just an hour up the road. And then, you know, I volunteered for it and most of the Silicon Valley team went there straight away. but it wasn't really a plan You know, it wasn't ... We went there and then I said, &quot;Okay, now what did we do?&quot; So what ended up happening, is everybody started So it was Leslie and Aaron and said, well, why don't we work on GTA III? because you know, GTA GTA II didn't do so well, and you know, they could see that, that it's gonna go somewhere. So they started doing that. And literally within two weeks, yeah, that's a great idea. So everybody sort of teamed And in fact, it didn't It didn't come from New York, they just kind of let us do it for a bit. And then after maybe four or five months, they went, well, this looks pretty good. So, okay, carry on. Whereas before, it sounded planning to give it to because GTA II wasn't really but at that point, they just kind of went, okay, fine, you do GTA III. (gun firing) Leslie Benzies did make a design document with everything specked out, like the weapons and the sort But basically, I think that it was just gonna be GTA 1 in 3D. There's some things that well in GTA 1, they have like, a lot of the missions you You know, that was really not something that we thought would It was kind of weird to So we ditched that idea, I mean, the gameplay was just great. It was just a matter of making it 3D And of course, 3D gives all of a sudden the weapons So you can have like, blow up this truck and there's multiple ways of doing it, with a rocket launcher and So, you know, sniper rifle but it works in 3D. So it just led to more just because it was in 3D. Now it was about 25 people. So basically the Space plus a few other people that and maybe some new hires. But it was still the same, we'd still sort of go but it was just incredibly hard work. In fact, it was a lot Silicon Valley was three And GTA was just two, What was crazy was Vice City though, because that was just one year. In that year, we also did so that year it was, it was a bit much. But the GTA III was fun. Yeah, it was just fun. - Okay, so you were in over the course of made like the first open world city game and your enduring memory was that it was, it was a good laugh. - It was a good laugh, yeah. And there was still time, there was still time to So it was all, it was all good. (police radio chatter) - From my conversations I'd come to understand that on the first two Grand Theft Auto games, Sam Houser had more of an for the publisher BMG. While Dan did some QA and had written the second games intro from Rockstar's offices in New York. This office founded in 1998 after the acquisition of BMG Interactive. Dan has a writing credit while Sam, an executive producer credit. So I guess I wanted to know how involved the New York Rockstar office was in the development of And ultimately what was work especially for a bunch of - They were pretty much hands-off I would say it was really up to us. And the game was completely Like people would come up and say, oh, this would be cool And we tried it and it It was not fun, it's out. Nothing to do with the story basically. And then it was up to but it wasn't really a story. It's like you meet a character, you meet another character. In the future, in the later games, New York sort of got more involved and took more charge of it. And they had their ideas would be playing out. And the characters were more important. But with GTA III, there was very little, it was mostly wrapping a thin story around the missions really. Doing small games are like really fun because there's only so many people. So every person has like So I can look at GTA III and say, oh, I did that, or whatever, the clouds, I can make along list of things. But then as we moved along, more artists, everybody So at the end, you know, I so it's just way more fun And after GTA IV, for me, that was a little too big a project. - What's your memory of DMA? Do you think DMA came with that I was still DMA during GTA III? And what is your sort of I guess, as opposed to - I don't think of it I think DMA stayed in Dundee and slowly dissipated into other companies and all the people that work there still. I think Dave Jones had I think the freedom had So yeah, now it just became different. It became more corporate but more focused and more Whereas in DMA it was all, It was like interesting projects, projects being canceled, new projects being started all the time. You know, that just disappeared. So DMA was something that And then it sort of, as it just kind of went away. (mysterious music) - When I started this project, I wanted to celebrate And obviously, what I thought that was, was celebrating all the games they made and ultimately the one franchise But from talking to all of these people, the folks you've seen and or over email, there's another legacy here, It's not just the games that they made, but it's the place they made them. Since the closing of DMA Design, the city of Dundee would go on to become one of game development's Not just the many games but pioneering innovations in education, technology and entertainment. Inspired by a handful of local boys who made some of the Dundee would go on to embrace video games as an industry that which is why today, a city in Scotland with a population just is recognized as one of the most important video game hubs in the world. - Way back in the mid nineties, Scotland had six development studios. DMA was the one that did Lemmings and Lemmings was one of the very first superstar, breakout, 22 platforms, millions of sales, and that's still fondly remembered. There are pubs in Dundee with Lemmings on every surface. I would argue that that's a, the fact that DMA was really helped directly to go, hang on, maybe there's something that we could be teaching And they did, they first video game development university. You know, Dundee remains, the sort of the beating heart Around about 50% of all is in and around Dundee. Dundee has reinvented itself. It used to be known for You know, so it was an it was a shipping, bailing, But it's now, you know, the waterfront is a place And not only have we got the V&amp;A Museum right on the waterfront, it's now getting a 4,000 one of the first in the whole of the UK. So it's continuing to and it's still inspiring people across the whole of the country. You know, we made Grand Theft Auto, we continue to make Grand Theft Auto. It happened here. You can do it as well. (gentle music) (upbeat music) (horns blaring) (car alarm blaring) (car horn blaring) (people yelling) (car horns blaring) (people yelling) (police sirens blaring) (police radio chatter) - [Police Officer] Freeze! (police sirens blaring) (car engine revving) (car horns blaring) (police radio chatter) (keyboard clicking)