It is insanely delicious! Hyogo,Japan This time the store is located in the town where the national treasure Himeji Castle is located. Since 2019, Minatoan Including before the relocation, it has been here since before the war. Owner arrives Minatoan 3rd-generation Owner: Yoshinori Okano (63) Udon dough is made Salt water (Mr. Okano) It says salt content. This is roughly around 10 (%) I'll change the concentration according to the season and temperature. Pre-prepared dough is stretched Cutting the stretched dough Minatoan traditional specialty Oke Udon&quot; is a traditional specialty of Himeji. The dough is pressed in a press. (Mr. Okano) (The dough) is laid down a little I'm going to stretch it again and make it into balls We will sharpen the rice Preparing dashi stock Kombu is taken out Shaved flakes Preparing to strain the dashi At Minatoan, another type of dashi is made. (Photographer) The hana-katsuo is (Mr. Okano) I put it in for the final aroma. Zarame(sugar) Soy sauce (light) (Photographer) Is two kinds of dashi used? (Mr.Okano) Yes, we blend them I don't want to change the taste. So it's like we're taking over the soy sauce that we've been using for a long time. Mr.Okano heading to the grocery store Riding a bicycle to the grocery store Minamimachi Chuo-dori shopping street We select vegetables for our menu. (Photographer) Do you always buy this much? (Mr.Okano) I think it's a little much today (Mr.Okano)I ordered fried tofu from a tofu shop. There is a place called &quot;Nishimura Tofu.&quot; They deliver tofu and fried tofu every day. Nishimura Tofu Store came to deliver tofu and fried tofu (Mr. Okano) (The tofu shop) is a private store (Mr. Okano) He makes it by hand. Like fried tofu. (Photographer) What do you already stock or do you stock (Mr. Okano) Yes. Almost exclusively private stores, so... It's like an old-fashioned relationship. The rest of the broth is strained. Part-timers come to work Used for oden and other dishes Carefully removing the corners as well Minatoan menu of Sanju-an Oden with ginger and soy sauce. Firefly squid in preparation. Preparation of miso soup (Staff) (Miso is) made with rice, rice malt, soybeans, and salt. (Miso soup) is not on the menu. (Miso soup is) offered free of charge to those who eat a bowl of rice (Photographer) Is it miso soup? Tofu in miso soup Miso is added. Finally, fage (fried bean curd) is added Cooked rice is unrolled Preparing shrimp Preparation of tails and dorsal fins 11:00 a.m. Opening. Menu The first pair of customers arrived immediately (Mr.Okano) Welcome~! (Staff) It's curry with pork cutlet1 Cooking curry with pork cutlet Original curry Pork cutlet (Staff) Thank you for waiting! It's curry with pork cutlet Lemon water service to ease the spiciness (Photographer) Do you get a lot of requests for cutlet curry? (Male customer) This is my first time It's my first time except for udon It's delicious! One customer after another! (Staff) Welcome! (Staff) Curry udon, meat udon Oyakodon 2 Udon noodles to be boiled Making rice balls Cooking nabeyaki udon noodles (meat) (Mr.Okano) Welcome! Nabeyaki (meat) udon noodles Curry udon cooked Potato starch dissolved in water Curry udon noodles Oyako-don and cooked meat udon Chicken Meat udon Oyako-don Set miso soup Tempura set meal cooked Tempura set meal (standard tempura, rice, mini udon) Oketen cooked Kelp mitsuba yuzu peel (Female customer) Oke udon here, right! The specialty is I've been coming here since it was built. I've been coming here for decades. (Male customers) Because it tastes good. (Male guest) And history. Because it's pre-war. (Female guest)I have been eating Oke udon for a long time! Oke udon and tempura And they call it &quot;Oke-ten.&quot; It's delicious. Kobu udon cooked Kombu udon noodle (Staff) Sorry to keep you waiting~ Meat udon Udon cooked with egg Udon noodles with egg (Male customers) They come once or twice a month. Udon noodles with egg (Tamagotozi udon), meat udon and kobu udon (Staff) Thank you for everything! (Male customer) I've been here since my parents' generation. This place has been here since before the war. Since before the war. (Female customer)It used to be over there. I've been going there since then. (Photographer) A store? A lot has happened in about 20 years. Everyone in town wanted him (to open the store). (Female customer)This place has always been famous for its noodles. (Male guest) That was good! (Male guest) I have nothing to say! (Photographer) Thank you very much! (Photographer) Like you've been going there for about 70 years (Mr. Okano) There are people like that I don't know, I was a kid myself. (Photographer) The famous tub udon. (Mr.Okano) I think it was Yudame udon, to be exact. It's not kama-age, as they say in Sanuki Rinsed in hot water, reheated and served once more We've been serving it in tubs of udon for a long time. We still have kelp inside So it's a unique udon Odamaki (winter-only menu) cooked Preparing ingredients for Odamaki Egg liquid Steaming in a rice steamer Odamaki (winter only) Keiran udon cooked potato starch dissolved in water Keiran udon noodles (Staff) Thank you for waiting~ (Staff) Welcome! (Male customer) One curry udon and one medium rice Making tenmusu Shrimp tempura Kobu udon noodles Tenmusu Kasu-udon noodles cooked with sake lees Udon noodles with sake lees soup, curry and rice Curry udon (Male customer 1) I had curry udon here for the first time today! with red bean paste on top! It's insanely delicious. (Male customer 2) Yeah! Definitely! (Male guest) Thanks for the food! (Staff) Please come again! Lunch business is settling in! I'll make the staff makanai staff makanai Oden preparation (Photographer) Are these ingredients for oden? (Mr. Okano) Red konnyaku and thick fried tofu. Aka-konnyaku is a specialty of the Omi region of Shiga Prefecture. Actual meal 1 Curry rice bowl Zarame(sugar) Beef Green onion Curry powder Potato starch dissolved in water Curry rice bowl Actual meal 2 Oke-ten Oke-ten (Staff) First you eat it as it is And then you can add your favorite condiments You can eat it with udon noodles If the soup stock becomes too thin Please use this soup stock Actual meal 3 Oden Oden Daikon radish Cabbage roll Red konnyaku Ginger soy sauce