Welcome to Jeremy's IT Lab. This is a free, complete course for the CCNA. If you like these videos, please subscribe Also, please like and leave a comment, and of videos. Thanks for your help. Also, remember to download this practice lab out yourself in packet tracer. If you want more labs like these, I highly the CCNA, click the link in the video description It's a network simulator like packet tracer, of these guided labs to not only help you but also deepen your understanding of the I used it myself when studying for my certifications, to all of you. Watch until the end of this video for a preview And if you want to get your own copy of NetSim, Okay, in the lab instructions for today's lab, in packet tracer. That's because, if you can see the link in a forwarding state and which are in a blocking To turn them off, which I already have, click make sure 'show link lights' is disabled. By the way, I assume you've already studied lecture video, so this will just be a fairly If you have forgotten some concepts, like lecture video again to review before trying So, the first portion of this lab is the same end of the lecture video. Identify the root bridge, then identify the either root, designated, or non-designated. But since we're in Packet Tracer, we can I didn't want to make the lecture video so please watch this video to see which commands First up, which switch is the root bridge? First we must compare the bridge priorities, Those are the two components of the spanning bridge ID becomes the root bridge. In this case the answer is fairly obvious, will be the root bridge. So, we now know port role of each interface on ports because it is the root bridge. Just to make things easier to remember, let Click on the note button up here, and let Okay, and after you have made them let's move them into position. Okay, so all four interfaces on SW3 are designated Next up, let's find the root ports. Each other switch in the topology must have The first criteria to determine the root port root cost will become the root port. How about SW1? Via either F0/1 or F0/2 it would have a cost SW4's G0/2, so 27. Via f0/3 or f0/4 it has a cost of just 19. So, it will be either F0/3 or F0/4, but we tiebreaker, neighbor bridge ID. Well, both are connected to the same switch, The final tie breaker is the neighbor switch's It's important to remember that this isn't port ID. It's the neighbor switch's port ID, SW3's F0/1 is lower, so that means SW1's F0/4 that label. And then I will move it over to SW1. Okay next, which will be SW2's root port? F0/3 is directly connected to the root bridge, so it might look obvious that this will be the root port, however via F0/3 it has a root cost of 19. Via G0/1 it has a root cost of 4, plus 4 for Therefore, G0/1 will be the root port. That also means we can label SW4's G0/1 to a root port is always designated. So, SW4's root port is now obvious, since must be the root port. It also has a very low cost, only 4. Okay, so we have found and labeled all of Next up, in each remaining collision domain and which will be non-designated. First up, two very obvious ones. SW1's F0/3 is connected to the root bridge, The same goes for SW2's F0/3, it is connected All that remain are F0/1 and F0/2 on SW1 and The first criteria is the root cost. The interfaces on the switch with the lower will be non-designated. SW1's root cost is 19, via F0/4. However SW2's root cost is 8 via G0/1. So, SW2 has the lower root cost, therefore designated. The other side, SW1's F0/1 and F0/2, will Now that we've figured out the answers, Let's go on the root bridge, SW3 first. So enter privileged exec mode with ENABLE. And the first command I want to show you is SHOW At the top here, it shows the VLAN number. If there were multiple VLANs on these switches, separately for each VLAN. In fact you can filter the output of this SPANNING-TREE VLAN 1. But we only have a single VLAN, so it doesn't Under that, spanning tree enabled protocol This means we are using the 'classic' Actually, it's Cisco's PVST, but this than the newer rapid spanning tree, which Then there are two big sections, Root ID, tree's root bridge, and bridge ID, which In this case, SW3 IS the root bridge, so they information they present. Under Root ID it just lists the priority of its the priority of 24576 plus the extended In the root ID section it clearly states, Then there are some timers listed, I'll video. Finally, at the bottom, each interface participating role, status, cost, interface ID, and interface course by the way, it's not necessary. So, because this is the root bridge, we expect to be forwarding. As you can see, they are, so we were correct. Now, before moving to another switch, let SHOW SPANNING-TREE DETAIL lists similar information with more details. I won't go through everything here, but And one more command, SHOW SPANNING-TREE SUMMARY. This lists each VLAN, and shows how many interfaces I told you about Blocking and Forwarding already, are transitional states which I will teach The final column, STP active, just lists how By default, every interface that is connected running. Next let's take a look at SW1. Enter privileged exec mode with ENABLE. SHOW SPANNING-TREE. As expected, F0/4 is the root port and is Note that slightly different terminology is but the meaning is the same. Also, notice that the root ID section shows information is different, this is SW1's So, our answers for SW1 were correct. Next up, let's go to SW2. ENABLE. SHOW SPANNING-TREE. Looks like we were correct again. F0/1 and F0/2, connected to SW1, are both really these connections are disabled because F0/3 is blocking, and G0/1 is the root port. By the way, something I should have mentioned cost of this interface, not the total root If you want to see the total root cost, use SHOW SPANNING-TREE DETAIL. Here it says, cost of root path is 8, because in the path. Finally, let's check on SW4. ENABLE. SHOW SPANNING-TREE. So, G0/1 is designated, and G0/2 is the root So, we successfully calculated the spanning That's all for this lab. Next up, let's take a look at a lab in Boson Okay, for today's Boson NetSim for CCNA lab bit different. Here in the 'network access' section of NetSim for spanning tree. Why is that, why does Boson not include spanning Well, let's check the exam topics list. These are the exam topics for the CCNA 200-301, 2.5, 'describe the need for and basic operations identify basic operations.' So, 'describe' and 'identify'. There's no mention of 'configure', like these 'Configure, configure, configure, configure.' This one, 'describe' and 'identify'. So, according to the exam topics list, spanning So that's probably why Boson didn't include However I still think it's a good idea to and configuring spanning tree. So that's why I include labs in my course. However, if you check out the CCNP ENCOR 350-401 3.1c, configure and verify common spanning So configuration is included in the CCNP exam So instead of a CCNA, NetSim for CCNA lab, There are quite a few spanning tree labs here. Starting here, 'Spanning Tree 1', all the Tree Protocol.' The one we're going to take a look at today Protocol'. Click on the lab, and click 'load lab'. But, I've already done that, so 'lab instructions'. So there are four switches here, P1ASW1, ASW2, ASW mean 'access switch', 'access layer switch'. And DSW is 'distribution layer switch'. These are two common layers of network design, talked about them yet in my course. So, you can wait for that in the future. Just know their meaning now, 'access switch', Notice the hosts connect to the access switches, distribution switches. Okay, so just for today's preview I will do On P1DSW1, issue the SHOW SPANNING-TREE VLAN SHOW SPANNING-TREE DETAIL, to display the Use the output to answer the following questions. So let's go into the CLI of DSW1 here. Click on the device and click on 'console'. Okay, and we're in. ENABLE. SHOW SPANNING-TREE VLAN 1 DETAIL. Okay. So, question A, which spanning tree is VLAN We aren't actually going to do any configuration questions. And actually that's something I really like to really test your understanding of the topic. So anyway, which spanning tree? It says it right here, 'VLAN 1 is executing This means classic spanning tree protocol, This is not rapid spanning tree protocol. Okay, so that's the answer, regular classic B, what are the priority, sys-id, this is MAC address. They are stated here. Bridge identifier, bridge ID, has priority to the priority so it's really 24577 in total. And this is the MAC address. So, that's question B. Why is there no root Well let's confirm, is there a root port? Here, fastethernet0/1 is designated forwarding, port. 0/2 designated, 0/3 designated, designated, So there are in fact no root ports. Why is that? Well, the answer is here. We are the root of the spanning tree. This switch is the root bridge. As you know, every port, every interface on So that's why there are no root ports. So that's C. And then D, why are there no Well that's the same reason, because it's There will be no blocked ports on the root in a forwarding state. Okay, E, what is the timer value for sending So, I haven't talked about the timers yet them in the next lecture video, Day 21. But the answer is here. Configured hello time. Hello time is the interval at which it sends So 2 means 'every 2 seconds'. So it will send 1 BPDU every 2 seconds. What is the maximum age for a BPDU? Here it is, 20 seconds. Again, I will talk about this, this maximum And what is the value of the forward delay It is 15 seconds. Sorry, there we go. 15 seconds. These are the defaults. 2, 20, 15. Okay, so that's the answer for G. Okay, so then lab solutions highlighting all of the everything we just looked at. Yeah, okay. So there it is, Boson NetSim. If you want to get a copy of Boson NetSim at all of these guided labs they have here From network fundamentals, network access, So if you can I highly recommend getting a If you want a copy, please follow the link Thank you for watching. Please subscribe to the channel, like the with anyone else studying for the CCNA. If you want to leave a tip, check the links I'm also a Brave verified publisher and accept Brave browser. That's all for now.