Many financial historians argue that financial driven by irrational herd behavior where investors actions than economic reality. Another group real economic shocks, asymmetric information, the financial system. There is truth to be a mistake to search for an overly simplistic as you run the risk of walking away with a events which can lay the foundation for inappropriate One of the most fascinating periods in modern financial crisis that took place in the United New York Stock Exchange fell almost 50% from and seventeen trust companies failed during to a halt by a small group of business leaders and brought an end to the crisis. a single, large event while others like the smaller unique forces that combine into a might be the most difficult to understand most from. A number of unrelated events like a difficult political environment for businesses an extremely severe and extraordinarily violent three weeks but led to an intense depression was the event that led to much of the modern the formation of the US Federal Reserve. In the early 1900's the young American economy 1906 the nation's annual growth rate was absolute size of all US industrial production With this economic growth came an enormous that the United States was at the time. Much booming exports, but this wasn't nearly rapid industrialization, where railways were and the automobile was being mass produced of financiers in London and New York were Americas factories, which were the most advanced during this period too. Over a ten-year period into just 93 large corporations. Much of the flowed through a relatively small group of important deal maker and financier of the on the street was Jupiter - suggesting godly simply as Pierpont. Morgan was a fierce advocate industries where he could, to avoid what he that successful and prosperous businesses economy forward and improved the wellbeing in the formation of US Steel in 1901, the at $1 billion dollars was twice the size of the time. On April 18, 1906, San Francisco was struck of 7.9 on the Richter scale. Devastating fires More than 3,000 people died, and over 80% as the deadliest earthquake in the history The strains from this catastrophe rippled News of the earthquake led to an immediate exchanges. country and around the world. England sent sent an additional $20 million dollars in Global effects spread back to England. British insurance insurance in San Francisco. While they hadn't had underwritten fire insurance, and fire the earthquake had. by selling American securities and began shipping In an attempt to halt the depletion of the began hiking interest rates. Rates went from Other central banks in Europe hiked interest too as gold reserves flowed to San Francisco The seeming calm before the storm. were reasonably calm for most of the next diverged sharply from equities. The stock in September 1906 before a slow decline began. earthquake - there were further rumblings. to raise capital and the municipalities of bond offerings. Bankruptcy filings were starting million dollars with National Banks around An anti-business president the assassination of William McKinley in 1901. championed his &quot;Square Deal&quot; domestic policies business. In 1902 he resurrected the nearly a lawsuit that led to the breakup of a huge against 43 other major corporations during put in place an agency - The Bureau of Corporations commerce. particular social groups and to supervise before in The United States. In 1906 he regulated by railways, in some cases setting prices When stocks began their decline in March 1907 towards big business for the slow down. A weak harvest on US farms in 1907 did nothing meant lower exports, which meant less gold of funds led to a drop in demand for commodities On June 28th New York City failed to place bids for only 2.1 million dollars of the issue. decline in business compared to a year earlier. hit with a $29 million dollar fine for taking seven times the value of its entire property. bad law and "a manifestation of the spirit President Roosevelt gave a fiery speech at the financial distress of the country. United States was being felt elsewhere too. were experiencing extreme financial strain they would have more cash on hand. again to issue some bonds - overdue debts could not secure financing, they would have problem was that they were legally capped the interest rate they were able to pay was Morgan was travelling in Europe at the time $40 million dollars' worth of bonds with By the end of September, the stock market year and the storm clouds were still gathering. today's video sponsor, The Financial Times. the FT as I've been a subscriber for over source of high-quality news. While the FT reporting, the topics they cover are much financial markets, economic news, have high style news and so much more. for just one dollar giving you unlimited access desktop and mobile by clicking on my link The Financial Times is one of the world's for its authority, integrity and accuracy. like the Wirecard Scandal, The Greensill Scandal news that you can find elsewhere. you can trust boosting your career as you is going on in the world by both colleagues The FT equips aspiring business, political, and knowledge needed to rise to the top in The high-quality journalism that the Financial offering readers the insights they need on Click the link in the description below to one dollar giving you the mobile app and website Fritz Augustus Heinze speculation in a remote corner of the financial and rather notorious copper magnate. He had by an inheritance from his father began an The new technology of electric lighting had copper, and it held the promise of vast riches. to making money in Montana than just producing The General Mining Act of 1872 allowed a mine on his claim and follow them underground beneath the law of the apex, and Heinze maintained copper ore from beneath his neighbors' properties. buy up land adjacent to rich copper properties as many as 40 lawyers at a time to sue these legal system with case after case. It was His chief opponent was William Rockefellers of lawsuits finally agreed to pay Heinze twelve Heinze took these gains and turned his attention was heavily influenced by his association most Colorful and notorious figures. Morse rich beyond reason, rapacious and shady. New York Financial institution, the Mercantile presence on Wall Street by purchasing a seat Otto and Arthur, creating the brokerage house entered into a speculative pool with Morse stock were exchanged for shares in Morse's The Failed Short Squeeze increasingly concerned that their company have been mostly driven by the rising interest holdings, however, had been used to secure and the falling price was starting to cause Otto Heinze decided that the price had been are traders who borrow the stock of a company, then sell that borrowed stock at the current shares of the company, now at a cheaper price, in price is their profit. and decided that there were more shares trading felt that their shares had been lent out by to corner the stock and engineer a huge, short Heinze's plan was to team up with Morse and up the price as much as possible. Then, with the stock, he would force the short sellers as a &quot;short squeeze.&quot; The short sellers would buying his stock at very high prices. the Heinze brothers embarked on their scheme. to push the price up 59% to $60 per share. quickly fell back to $50 per share as many at this new higher price. The brothers then their share certificates back from their brokers sellers. To their surprise, every one of the the stock that had been called up. There had When the market worked out what was going the stock price of United Copper collapsed. that no one had ever seen a stock collapse down to $10 per share. The first casualty of the failed short squeeze that the Heinze brothers had used to execute the stock, the brokerage firm then found that unable to pay them for the shares. They had squeeze could have been used to pay their The second casualty of the failed short squeeze brokerage firm which was officially suspended to meet its financial obligations. bank in Montana called The State Savings Bank in Montana) which failed the next day as it collateral for some of its loans. at Mercantile National Bank to bear. They as the president of the bank. He announced short squeeze but that he was stepping down straighten out their affairs. In 1907, the United States had no central Three types of banks existed at the time, There were also Trust Companies, which started and estates, but over time began to mimic of banks. was backed on average by 25 cents in the till, 6 cents. Because of the lower reserves, trust more of their deposits and thus pay a higher than 40% of savings deposits in New York were interest rates that they paid. As a means of enhancing returns, many banks at other financial institutions. Rural banks 40% of that had to be held in cash, but the city" banks and earn interest. Reserve city reserve and half of those reserves in cash. their reserves on deposit with banks at major money center banks in New York were heavily instability in securities markets could prompt There was no deposit insurance at the time, out of luck. Depositors were expected to pay kept their money at. Occasionally, at times payments of principal or interest on government but the currency of the United States was variations in economic cycles. in the United States many banks had formed cash checks drawn on another member bank. of last resort in times of stress, pooling any individual member would be able to honor The Bank Run Begins a run on the Mercantile National bank began. sought the assistance of the New York Clearing a member. A quick examination of the bank National's capital was intact. The clearing of all of the directors of the Mercantile. the run continued and it began to spread to Heinze, including the banks run by Charles by the clearing house and found to be solvent. the Clearing House ordered the immediate elimination all banking interests in New York City. Morse had already stepped down from the Mercantile two Trust companies. Both men were ordered It was decided at this point that the Mercantile All of this should have been enough to restore and Heinze just been big traders who lost really mattered, but their involvement in enough to spook the public. The Knickerbocker Trust stood at the corner on the opposite corner from the Waldorf Astoria Trust company run by Charles T. Barney. Barney a number of deals in the past, and their association Trust. The depositors began lining up outside demanding their money back. the Knickerbocker - pushed by the directors Given the unregulated and somewhat speculative by the protections of the clearing house. Bank of Commerce - a clearing bank to get announced that same morning that they would This meant that no other bank would accept intensify. had returned more than $8 million dollars building) in cash. Towards the end of the each with checks for over a million dollars. bags of cash and then the teller's window While other banks were refusing to cash Knickerbocker on behalf of depositors and bring them over messengers that had arrived late in the day checks and those large payments had overwhelmed JP Morgan returned to New York as this chaos was unfolding. of his business affairs over to his son. He condition at the time. he sent an associate to examine the books could be done. The report came back to him Knickerbockers solvency and Morgan decided put the deposits of other institutions at Trust Company of America gathered outside The Trust Company of America. company. Morgan once again sent a man to examine done to help - and the report came back that remained solvent. to stop the trouble." the most severe yet. The president of TCA visible on the counters so that worried customers feel reassured - The tellers were also instructed to get more cash or calm the situation down that the lines got longer and longer causing JP Morgan summoned the presidents of the Ten office and explained that a bold and decisive public confidence in the financial system. and pool some funds to form a clearing house them his analysis that the Trust Company of self-interest) argued that the run should firms next. agreed to go with Morgans plan and deposit when the money was supposed to be transferred feet and one by one backed out. house plan reached Morgan the next day, he to the Trust Company of America based upon day earlier. Employees ferried boxes of securities counted, and the required cash was shipped The next morning as JP Morgan was being driven to recognize his car as it passed, and they with the story of how he had rescued the entire his office that day hoping to catch a glimpse Unfortunately, the panic was not yet over. real work was still ahead. That morning the Treasury secretary George JP Morgan - and provided 25 million dollars D Rockefeller - the richest man in the world at The Union Trust, promising an additional business community was gathering around Morgan Everything appeared to be calming down at their money out of the stock and bond markets of short-term loan that was callable at any morning to over 60% in the afternoon. There seller, not a buyer. of failure, the President of New York Stock office to describe the panic, saying that Morgan told him that the exchange should not than an hour to go Morgan gathered the presidents office and in under fifteen minutes obtained of the esteem that competing bankers must for the ageing financier that he could have present, and just a hand drafted contract. when discussing JP Morgan. This would have 20 mins before the stock market is scheduled floor that there is enough money for everyone Newspapers of the day describe Morgans walk coat flying open with piece of white paper how the crowd parted to let him pass. They back into his office, the cheering on the it could be heard out in Broad Street. The next day the call rate did began spiking million dollars to calm the markets once more. - some banks had gone under, and while Morgan afford to keep doing this. Over the weekend important newspaperman is in the country was Clergymen, priests and Rabis were visited money should not be withdrawn from the banks something like that happening in this day Over the weekend, banks from around the world shipments were announced to the United States Roosevelt, who had been absent for most of (where he allegedly shot a bear) made a speech panic. In his speech he railed against greedy secretary contacted him after his speech urging Roosevelt published a letter in the newspapers businessmen who had acted with such wisdom" A Bankrupt City to the outside world, but the bankers in New The City of New York was entirely out of money. $30 million dollars, otherwise it would be the city from paying more than 6% on debt been interested in buying a bond with such high and volatile, ranging between 8% to 20%. astonishing speed drafted a proposal where in a special loan that could be extended out $20m more at the same interest rate. This and in the event that Morgan managed to calm fall below 6% and Morgan could profit from three years on fifty million dollars in the The story is not over yet though. The next of financial markets, a new problem was rearing brokerage firms was teetering on the verge 30 million dollars from various financial Coal and Iron - a blue chip stock known loans would have been fine, but because of being called in, and the stock was too illiquid quickly as was needed would likely have halved US Steel of US Steel. Morgan had helped bring the company out Andrew Carnegie and took the company public. at the time. valued at a billion dollars and capacity. from paying their workers in cash to depositing in order to reduce stress on the banking system. TC&amp;I (their biggest competitor) which would while also saving the brokerage house Moore crisis to an end. in doing this deal. Its management believed they wanted nothing to do with, but more importantly as the acquisition would be a clear breech put in place 17 years earlier to break up While these negotiations were going on, the a report on the Trust banks and found that Trust Company (The two biggest Trusts in New was talk that one or both of them would fail runs. Steel in one room, JP Morgan once again invited to his offices. They were still refusing to in the library and told them that there was on their own. There was no more money to be a solution on their own. till 3AM at which Benjamin Strong, the president to discover that Morgan had locked them in solution wasn't formulated that day, it would collapse. Morgan was not letting them After hours more of discussion, the Trust dollars to be lent to any of the subscribed This was the very solution Morgan had pitched with them as they signed a hand drafted contract, barely slept for a week. He is said to have he was so exhausted. The Trust deal mattered much more than you had structured a deal where US Steel would stock of TC&amp;I, but only if the problem with could be extracted from President Roosevelt to by the government under the Sherman Anti-Trust Everything was finally coming together, but a president who had no time for bankers like like the management of US Steel. A special kept on standby and took the management of on the line were instructed to let the train The men arrived at the Whitehouse early the would not see anyone until after he had had had to have Roosevelt's blessing before - with no time to spare - a telegram reached After the first half hour of trading prices and stayed strong for the rest of the day. The panic of 1907 resulted in significant and around the world. Commodity prices fell and imports by 26%. The dollar volume of bankruptcies unemployment rose to 8% from under 3%. agreement that a central bank was needed in and to be the "lender of last resort". run this bank, whether it should be public in 1912, he insisted that the central bank officials appointed by the president. put in place to coordinate money supply policy as Federal Reserve Banks. in the panic, but he would have likely lost the financial system. He later became the was called to Washington to defend his actions died in 1913, nine months before the Federal as the lender of last resort. panic of 1907. He fell out with his brothers later at the age of 44 of cirrhosis of the Charles Morse was later charged with misappropriating where he served alongside Charles Ponzi who scheme. Morse escaped prison by faking illness exam and then fled to Europe. He was later 1922 but was acquitted on those charges. justice department began an antitrust suit Anti-Trust Act when it acquired Tennessee in US Steel's favor. I recommend the books The Panic of 1907 by Kindleberger and Americas Bank by Roger Lowenstein content. I will leave links to each of these If you enjoyed today's video, you should out our sponsor The Financial Times using a great day and see you in the next video.