Hello, beautiful people, how are you? Today I was going to watch Ibn Lam Mahmoud in the beautiful and Hanaa series. Who remembers this series? When she said, "I am a son with dementia," I was in my country. "Dementia." Kanan is a far-away city and an area we don't know. It turned out to be dementia. It was present in the Emirates. Even on Snapchat, when I shared it with them, they told me that there was no news that he was senile in the Emirates. So go ahead and do a lot of nice things. Follow me on Snapchat. My account will appear on the screen in front of you. You can also follow me. I would like to share with you the milling machines that I do that help me a lot when my time is tight and I am very stressed. The milling machines make me very comfortable. I will share with you all the details. What do you think? Are you winter or summer? Because it's on the beach, God willing. Look at the vegetables. Ibrahim sees the vegetables. Why don't you let us go to the beach? There are people playing. You want to get burned. No, they're going to get burned. Now, these are going to burn. You're going to get burned. Then you'll get sick. You'll get tired. Go to the sea, Mama. But I want to swim with the devil. Come on, no, I say, Dad, welcome, we are on our way to a dementia that will cross your region and region. I would also like to tell you that the Kanan dementia, for example, belongs to any emirate of the emirate of Sharjah. All of these things that you see mean that it belongs to Sharjah. Many of the scenery were amazingly beautiful, God willing, and all that matters is that the weather is getting better and better, so I love it. The soul goes to such places. I mean, Hala, Azzah is very happy and has a good time. The kids are watching new things. Hala here, he was in a restaurant, but we missed it. We saw something. I mean, like a cave or something, there was a restaurant here. Whoever wants to miss something can miss it, and whoever doesn't want to go to this. The restaurant comes over the waterfall, then here we come to the corniche. We walked and watched this waterfall on a corniche on the sea. The color of the sea is so amazing. After we heard the children's stories, we laughed excessively here. We were at the cloud break. It is a very nice break. I brought my coffee. I made coffee and we put these snacks and we ate them and the children were happy. I brought them. They also have things to do, and I swear to God, a lot of time is beautiful, and the view is as you see. It is crazy. I mean, the seat is not high, so it becomes less humid, and the hobbies are better. Are they strange or anything strange, but some of them are reddish, and some of them are not red, many of them are strange. I swear it is good. The weather is cloudy. By the way, you can see the clouds underneath you a little bit. It's not raining here, it's raining here. The weather is better. By God, we tried on the sons of Umm Mahmoud, and we did not find that she was senile. She was old. I thought she was young. By God Almighty, she is very old. And between the cowards, I said to my husband, sure, sure, in the series, &quot;Put between the cowards.&quot; By God, then we got carried away and went to another place. This place felt very nice, and the nice thing about it was that it had activities, but the problem was that we came at sunset and we did not have much time left, so we could not ride like that, making ships or ships in the lake and such things. The atmosphere was really nice. There were also games for the children. Is this real or artificial? It is not water. Rain is accumulating and they are making a dam for it. Look, where is the dam? Glory be to God. Fish. We will go out to Ibrahim. Go and swim. What is in a lake? Go to the beach. What is it? This is the lake. It is called Al-Fais Dam. I loved it a lot. Frankly, I even had a very nice view. Mashallah. The seating area was comfortable and there were games for the children. I mean I loved sitting very much in the porch. You could hear the sound of the birds and feel yourself walking in nature. Whatever is in the heavens and the earth praises Him. What is its name? In Fluffy Candy, it says "ton of candy." It says cotton candy. What do you want? Let it choose. Here, me too. Come on, me too. Pay attention. The first step to starting a special day is waking up. In a positive spirit, before you open your eyes, take a moment. There are many things that you think about greatly. When you make your decisions wisely, you will be more satisfied and happy with what you have achieved after we returned. Praise be to God, I was very happy, and I am not so tired. She said, "Tasneem, go through the scans and get it together for a week sometimes, and one person a month away gets sick." He gets tired, he has the stress of exams, which is working. The freezers help her a lot. When she feels like she doesn't know what to cook, she looks at it and cooks it, so here I got the chicken. I put it in the refrigerator before, meaning in the morning, before I went out, I put it in the ground. The first recipe I made after I cut the chicken, as you saw, is shish tawook. Frankincense, I put olive oil, I put the spices that you prefer, but they are known. Salt, black pepper, garlic, onion powder, onion powder, a spoonful of tomato molasses and a spoonful of pepper molasses, and we stir them all together and put them in the row and prepare them. Now, with stretched sugar, it will be ready with the shish tawook. When I don't feel like going out and making it. I easily go out and make it with fried potatoes, rice, or pasta alongside it. What she prefers is the piece I got from Timo as a gift. When I always buy things for 100 and a few dirhams, here it is, you choose the gift you like. I chose a day and I chose, God willing, in the upcoming videos, I will show you the gifts that I always get from Timo. Every time I buy pieces, I get gifts with two pieces, but I am the one who chooses the ones I love. Many of the things I brought that I love and benefit me, they were the ones I chose. She chops the garlic very finely, so I said to myself, God willing, it will be fine. I mean, because if I return it at all, it won't benefit anything. I mean, either because it is good and excellent, I like it, or because it ended with something I will benefit from it. Here, I was also cutting the peppers, so what did I warn you about the heat? Here I was making shawarma, as you saw. We added vinegar, olive oil, lemon, milk, and garlic. You can also add shawarma spices, and you also add spices. Of course, I need ground cardamom, salt, black pepper, then powder for the flavors that you like. But thanks to the fact that ready-made spices are produced, by the way, these ready-made spices will be much better, by the way. By God, guys, I loved a lot of tools and chopped garlic as usual, but I haven't tried it. It still contains onions but garlic, and it came with two basins. If evil is far away, one basin breaks, then it's in a second basin, so that's the job. I loved it too, and it needs shipping. You charge it and then use it, so I liked it. As for the garlic, it is very terrible, as if it was grinded with a pestle to this degree. Here I make fajita kent. I have a lot of fajita recipes. Her recipe is simple, as you saw. We put olive oil, salt, black pepper , garlic powder, onion powder. Sometimes you add green wild thyme to it, which is what you prefer. Now, I added peppers and chicken on top of all the vegetables. There are people who will shout and say, "Is it reasonable to dissolve in a melt?" Even before I make a recipe, I can cut slices of onion, then fry them. Then add all these ingredients, and over a low heat, you can also add mushrooms and buttons. I will add them later. You know, so what you like means all. Someone is an innovator in cooking, which I also love. Here I was bringing fish, so I said to myself, I am marinating this fish from the Emirates. They told us that it has large oysters, so I love it that way. It does not have small oysters for the sake of children, so put pepper on it, molasses, lemon pepper, olive oil, salt, black pepper. I also put coriander, the most important thing is coriander and some. Cumin and that's how I season them together, with salt of course, and then I put them in the freezer whenever I want to cook it. What's nice about it is that it's exclusively fish. If it marinates a lot of time, it tastes better. A new day. Whoever follows me on Snapchat knows that we're early for school at 6 o'clock, and the bus has to come to pick up the kids. I'm five and a half awake. The important thing is that I started saying to myself that after the children leave, I won't be able to sleep and go back to sleep again. So I decided that when I saw people down on the corniche by the sea, they were lying down playing sports. So today I said to myself, Okay, I want to start now. I started to feel more and more cows, so I went downstairs. I swear I started playing and I can't find anything for you except this guy who does yoga and this guy who does Zumba so I went out like this, I swear I told you to myself, is it possible that it's pretty sweet? I mean, you feel drunk, you encourage exercise, you encourage a nice life. I don't know. I felt relieved. Believe you. Even the cat is sitting contemplating the sea while we are. I said to myself, "We are very lazy and we are going to sleep." Seriously, when I went out and played sports and came back to your house and took a shower, you felt like the beginning of your day was different. To be honest, after that, I did not drink coffee. I liked it here. I said to myself, start taking care of my skin. This is called an exfoliator. I got it from you. I will put their links in the description box a lot. It's nice, you know, remember, when we go to rub our body like this, dead skin comes out of it. This thing is so terrible that I use it on my hands and my face. I mean, the results are terrible. I liked it a lot. It's also a dry towel. You put it in water and you wipe the dirty place. It's only for the skin. It's used, I mean, after the masks that you use. You don't want to wipe your face , guys, after I took my evening nap, because it's compulsory if you eat lettuce and half past morning, you want to take at least two hours of sleep and that's how I woke up and found nothing but my muscles aching as if I had to choose a sport in the zone. I swear to God, I'm your agent. I felt very tired, so thank God I have this meal. The fish that I did not season and said I would make it for eating