The Andaman sea of southern Thailand. I'm going to meet the Thai sea gypsies, known as the Chao leh people. They dive up to 40 meters deep, using improvised air compressors to maintain their underwater fishing cages in pursuit of one of the most poisonous fish on the planet a puffer fish known as the porcupine fish, whose digestive organs produce a lethal toxin a 1000 times more poisonous than cyanide. my name is Raphael Treza and I'm going to taste a potentially deadly asian delicacy. Maybe it's worth the risk! I'm in Koh Lanta, an island in southern Thailand on the indian ocean. It's about 20 km long and covered with jungle, lined with long beaches. About 15 000 inhabitants live here, mostly muslim and buddhist. they work in tourism, fishing and rubber tree farming. Koh Lanta is a base to around 400 settled Chao Leh, which means &quot;people of the sea&quot;. these native peoples rely almost solely on the ocean to sustain their unique lifestyle. They are thought to be the very first inhabitants of the Andaman coast of Thailand, Myanmar and Malaysia. Today only a few thousand of them remain, and only a small number still live the traditional, nomadic life. In the 1970's, the Thai authorities pushed hard to convert them to Buddhism and Thai language, and in return gave them access to education and healthcare. the chao leh use submerged cages to trap fish. They also cast weighted nets to catch smaller fish. the big fish like to eat small fish, they come here and we catch them in the net The fish are then dried and kept or, sold to a local wholesaler. If you're looking for a fresh fish, check for black eyes and red gills. shark! shark! big one? on the boat, [while he was hauling in his net] [IT WAS ALREADY THERE] Oh my God! My God! He pierced the roof with his cap! Very good for sea gypsies! Tomorrow I'm going fishing with the Chao Leh, but today I'm drinking a blue tea with Man, who will be my translator. I'm also joining some locals, for some honey hunting on the beach. In the morning we leave with a team of 4 sea gypsies to collect bounty from their cages. I'm with Man, my translator. Bangwan the most experienced diver is 56. He has been Hooka diving since he was 16, He regurlarly dives to a depth of 40 meters, for up to one hour. using an old improvised compressor cobbled together with a rubber hose. the boat driver has to continually maintain his position among the currents, Fishing with cages keeps the fish alive for the haul, and allows protected species to be released. Bangwan detaches the cage and the team pulls it up. The Chao leh caught several of the prized porcupine fish. There's also plastic, even at 40 meters deep. The porcupine fish or Diodon Hystrix is a pufferfish. it can dramatically inflate its body by swallowing water into its stomach. It's digestive organs contain a toxin a thousand times more deadly than cyanide, which paralyses the respiratory system and causes asphyxia. and There is no known antidote. We sail to another location to place the cage back onto the ocean bed. To find the cage again, fisherman memorize the location's visual alignment with the nearby islands and mountains. National park rangers approach to ensure that the Chao leh aren't planning to fish in protected waters. We are cleared. he knows how to cook the puffer fish? yes you can buy this fish in the market? no, only for chao leh people, they never sell, they eat. this fish is very dangerous, I should tell you, the poison contained in 1 fish can kill 30 people. they had accident with this fish before? we have all learned the danger of this fish when we were children, so we know exactly how to avoid the toxic parts. Recently in bulon island, 6 or 7 people died [because they prepared this fish in the wrong way] this fish is especially good? He likes to eat it? yes we love it! It's delicious, we cook it in many different ways. he sees sharks sometime? near this island, there are really big ones! sometimes i see tiger sharks as big as my boat! he 's not afraid of sharks? not anymore. I see sharks often, but we never get attacked. the big ones are not really aggressive, we get more nervous about the smaller ones. The worst injury I've had is being stung by a red lion fish. I had to stay in the hospital for 4 months the first time it happened, and for 2 months the second time. he doesn't have problem with decompression? i often have issues with my air supply sometime I dive too deep, or the compressor engine fails. I've nearly died many times. Sometimes i return to the surface and i've got cramps. the pain starts in my legs, then arms, all the way up to my mouth. The weather is changing for the worse, so we decide to return to shore. there's poison here? yes The porcupine fish spines are also dangerous they're covered with tetrodotoxin Bangwan is now removing the toxic internal organs, seemingly without taking any detailed precautions. We are invited for a taste of porcupine fish at bangwan's house. His wife is preparing it. She's making curry with lemongrass. sometimes they're cooking fish they boil it and they use tamarind and they take it directly from the balcony The texture of this fish is delicate and it marries with the lemongrass