Ngoan and Mit-Tit say hello to everyone. Wishing everyone good health and peace. God bless I hope you enjoy watching the video - Oh, so you cut down all this bamboo bush? No, we only cut down old bamboo trees. They will cut down part of the bamboo trees here, which is good because it sheds a lot of leaves into the house - It's good to cut them down, too thick and I'm afraid of snakes. Yes, cut it down, just leave the young trees - Is it delicious Mit, let's share it with Tit to eat - There you go, I'll go get porridge for Tit to eat Mit is still tired, hasn't eaten anything yet I only like to eat fruit, especially watermelon. I love Mit very much. This is the first time Mit has been sick for such a long time. I don't feel comfortable taking Mit to kindergarten - Tit, mom, please give me breakfast - Let's go eat. - Is watermelon delicious, Mit? - Tit, is the porridge mom cooked delicious? Eat more - You still have a cough, Mit, take your medicine later! After I finished, my mother wiped my mouth - Come on, let go of your hand. I'm almost done eating, so good - It's very dusty, Mit, please sit inside. The street is also very dusty. Mom must have used water to irrigate. It's been a very long drought, we need some rain. Occasionally a truck passes here, causing a lot of dust to fly up. I water to reduce the dust . Mit is still very tired, unable to play or talk, sometimes Mit cries a lot - Oh my god, it's so dusty. The dust has gone into the house. Yes, it's so dry - Here it is, I'm almost done - What's wrong with you? What do you want? Tell me - Be good, I love you, and then I'll give you medicine - I can't hear you clearly, say it again, what do you want? - Do you want to watch the above children's program? Grandma's phone came and took it away - Do you want to see the duck? Do you want to watch cartoons? But there's nothing to see. Baby, baby. Yes, baby - When I have money, I'll buy you a small TV to watch. She's picking up these leaves to sell - wait a minute, I'm almost done - Where has my son been all day? I feel like I'm going home, or have I secretly gone to see the other mother and daughter? - Bao refuses to listen, keeps hanging out with that guy, I don't like it at all - Bao keeps refusing to listen, I have to get him a new wife - Where did you just go? Are you going with the other three children again? - Are you still stubborn about going back and forth with that guy? Don't listen to your mother. Why did you come to find her and her mother yesterday? What did mom say? - I'm not allowed to say anything, I'm just coming to get the phone! If you don't even listen to me, if you keep going back and forth with him, mom will come and curse you every day. Mom won't leave it alone - If you don't listen to me, I'll just curse you. I absolutely forbid you to have any contact with him again - What do I have to do now to leave her and her three children alone? I don't need anything, I hope you get married and come home to give me grandchildren - I've found someone you like, you have to listen to me - When it comes to getting married, just give me more time, don't make it difficult for me so. The director just sent me on a business trip. When I return, I will be promoted - Mom, stay at home and don't bother her anymore, then you can rest assured. Mom, promise me. Is that so, then you can rest assured and go to work, I hear you - Go and try to focus on work, no need to worry about them. Mom, remember what I said, don't bother her anymore - Mit, mom, please get some milk for me to drink - Go get some milk to drink, I'll leave it here - Mit, Tit! Dad is here to visit the children - What are you doing here, I already told you! You should go home - Just come here tomorrow when your mother knows she will come here to look for you, it will be very awkward for you. Don't be angry about that anymore, from now on my mother won't come here anymore - Where are you going with so many things? I came to say goodbye to the three of you. I have to go away on business for a while - I'll be able to visit you and the baby when I get back. Please stay home and try to stay healthy. How long will you be gone? It's good that you're far away. There's no need to see each other anymore. My mother forbids it anyway - I've already talked to my mother, she doesn't dare come here anymore, honey. I'm just worried about Tit-Mit. The other day, the two of them were scared and cried loudly - Mit, come here so Dad can hold you! Mit, go sit with dad, won't you go, yeah, just stay here with mom - I'll give you more time! This time, when I come back from a business trip, I will convince my mother. If I have a lot of money, I will build a house of my own to welcome the three of you home - Don't be angry with me anymore, don't think about what my mother said, I only want the best for you. Just me - I wasn't here the other day, I just didn't hear those words. I'm so sad - I know what my mother did wasn't right, slowly I will convince her, please try to wait for me - Don't be sad anymore - Then you can rest assured that you go to work and don't have to worry about us. We're used to living here - I'm afraid that you and I will get sick like last time Mit got sick. , luckily my grandmother came to help - Just rest assured and work, don't worry! Be good at home, listen to mom, eat a lot to get well soon, dad will be back for a while