Thank you to Brilliant for supporting PBS. Space is big. Really big. You just won't big it is. In fact, the near 100 billion only a tiny fraction of the greater bigness we will see more and more of that universe beyond until the cosmological horizons collapse on us and cut off our view forever. So how long do we There is an absolute limit to our access to the universe beyond our own galaxy. There's a limit to what we can ever and a very different limit to Today we're going to explore the latter. We're future view of the universe, and of the universe's around and ask: how much of the external universe But let's start by thinking about the light that we can see from the distant universe. We know that light doesn't travel instantaneously. we're seeing objects as they were in the ago, the Sun as it was 8 minutes ago, and Milky years ago. With our greatest telescopes like has been travelling to us for many billions of Although the night sky looks like you can imagine it as a set of shells, which us from a particular distance.The most distant background radiation - the CMB - which has age of the universe--13.7 billion years more hydrogen plasma around 300,000 years after enough to form the first atoms, and at Surely this is the limit of our Well, this is where things get confusing. When the universe was 1100 times smaller than it is emitted from particles of primordial plasma that region that would one day become the Milky scales. But that light was running the wrong universe forced it to travel 13.7 billion Meanwhile, the galaxies that those CMB blobs in the opposite direction to a distance of We often say that the observable universe is 46.5 the expansion now, that would be the current The CMB is the practical limit of our view the universe was opaque. But it's possible that one day we'll get signals from those times. For example, neutrinos can pass through the dense primordial And there are events in the first have created gravitational waves whose The earliest time we can ever in principle The big bang happened everywhere, but if we could as it happened on a spherical shell just We call that shell the particle horizon. It's At least for now. If we wait, signals from more The particle horizon expands, and the shell changing over time. But there's a limit to even if we wait infinite time. To figure out that Long-time watchers have seen these things with the spacetime diagram may Consider the spherical shells representing light of our 3 dimensions of space so we just see a pair with arrows for the light travelling to us. Now emitted. This is a spacetime diagram--one dimension through space and time towards us, forming a light cone--in particular, our past light cone. The boundaries of the cone are at 45 on our spacetime diagram. Slower speeds things inside or on this cone can potentially spacetime. Events outside the past lightcone Our particle horizon is at the bottom of the light problem here. Remember we constructed this light the current size of those regions. But the those regions were smaller. These lines represent The big bang singularity has all space expands. That expansion at first slows due to the but after a while dark energy takes over and the expansion begins to accelerate. And that started just a few billion years ago. While the lightcone encompasses more and more to encompass less and less physical space. It at the big bang, the particle horizon doesn't everything. It represents a finite portion of the It's easier to see that if we make Imagine we redefine the tick marks on the x-axis they represent points fixed to the expanding Currently those reference galaxies follow these at each layer to straighten the lines, so that now We'll label that axis with the distances But at the bottom of the diagram, each tick That distance approaches zero towards the very bottom of the plot, but at any non-zero time after the big bang, we can see that our particle horizon We just created a new coordinate system. These expansion of the universe. Our past lightcone in per unit time at the bottom but fewer going up. the time axis so that each tick represents less to the same degree that space is compressed. speed paths make straight 45 degree With our new tool in hand, we can really see how As we move forward in time In the regular coordinate system, it still we see that it encompasses more and more of the limit--if we want to see any distant point we be the case if it weren't for dark energy. The fact that the expansion of our universe is accelerating means there's an absolute upper limit But to understand the future limits of new horizons--horizons that aren't getting In an expanding universe like ours, more from us more quickly. A point that's far the speed of light. While objects can't space itself can move at any speed relative to other space, and it can carries objects with it. So, there's a sphere that surrounds us where the called the Hubble horizon, after Edwin Hubble, the The hubble horizon is currently 14 and a half billion light years away. Now you might think it would be impossible to see things further than this. After all, light emitted by galaxies in that distant space will be pulled away from us like fish swimming against a current. But we can see the cosmic microwave background, and that's 46.5 billion light years. So what gives? In fact we routinely observe galaxies that were they emitted the light that we see. To understand You're spat out by a bright star in a galaxy Way. Initially you find yourself in a region 3c -- three times your own speed of light. Milky Way seems to be racing away from you. But you escape that patch of space that's traveling to you. Now you find yourself in a region quickly away from your destination. You're still After billions of years of losing ground, you Hubble horizon where space is receding at exactly moving away from you, and as you struggle across You have to retrace a lot of ground--billions of Milky Way, then the Earth, then fall into a ancient origin to a group of bipedal apes that The reason that light from beyond the Hubble billion years after the big bang, the Hubble at a more or less constant speed, in fact actually the recession speed equaled the speed of light light from more distant objects to creep inside By the way this is great news by the way--otherwise we would never have seen the CMB and probably couldn't have proved that the Big Bang happened. But this won't always be the case. Like I said, the expansion of the universe is accelerating. At some point actually collapse back on us. The boundary of the local group of galaxies and stop there, Only the light that can cross the Hubble horizon before it collapses can ever reach us. So now we introduce our final horizon--the horizon the universe. This is the cosmological event horizon. It's the boundary beyond which no signal can ever be received, no matter how long we wait. Light coming make it across the Hubble horizon before it much larger than the Hubble horizon--63 billion light years in comoving distance, but it shrinks over time, because light released It's now around 16 billion light years in give or take--the cosmological event horizon At that point we'll never be able to But that doesn't mean the universe will suddenly view of the universe. Light from the most then cross the shrinking Hubble horizon just in the nick of time. Those photons will struggle against space that's moving just less than light speed, and bubble of non-expanding space. They'll carry horizon as it was in the beginning of time, And that will become the final We'll be able to see things that are currently 63 the size of our current view. But we won't continue to trickle in from the collapsed horizon for eternity, they will be increasingly redshifted--sapped of energy--from their long When we first get close to our our full the galaxies will shine mostly in infrared light. After a few hundred billion years, even the most energetic photons will be stretched larger than our contracted Hubble horizon So that is the extent of humanity's There is one way we can see further--and that's our collapsing Hubble horizon. We'll then be in a different Hubble horizon with different view. But we'll save that for next episode, when we and explore the universe. How far can humanity eventually expand and when we need to leave to avoid getting trapped Thank you to Brilliant for supporting platform for STEM with hands-on, interactive both young and old, professional and you how to think and solve problems Quantum Mechanics is foundational for Brilliant's Quantum Mechanics course you'll begin and understanding quantum states through on hairy mathematics, you'll see it work with that will help you understand superpositions, You'll develop intuition about how Quantum problems it helps to solve. To learn more