This is a Mazda MX-5 / Miata car achieved something that no other car Jinba Ittai in Japanese this means Horse and Rider as one. archery or Yabusame. And what it basically Rider act as a single being. They are connected each other's minds. When this state is achieved shoot the bow instead of holding the reins, and as the guiding principle behind their development instead of Horse and Rider we have Car and Driver. something unique to Mazda would be a blatant lie, before Mazda and doing it well without referencing much aware of this. So what Mazda did is that they during the development process of the Mazda the inspiration behind the first generation of the to young drivers and enthusiasts today but the is remembered by many as a car that delivered Back in the day Car and Driver described it like the market to providing a formula car for ordinary and handles like a formula Junior. Driving experience altogether. Most people tend to come So the driving joy is such that it makes and engineers of all times, Gordon Murray had it's still in my opinion probably the best If anybody wants to know what good steering is of the best handling and best feeling sports cars some nonsense with horses and riders so it looks Thanks a lot for watching. Of course to call the Over the years many Japanese manufacturers have inspired But these cars have always been more than just a The MX-5 does not. In fact it set and achieved the Lotus Elan. To realize what that goal is we So which cars sold more units, the original or the production the Lotus Elan sold around 12.000 And that's just the first generation alone. The four The obvious question is why? If the Elan made the world by storm and sell hundreds of thousands the Elan was essentially a hand-built car. backbone chassis with a fiberglass body on top. it made production slow and expensive. And although on the car as possible to keep costs down the car for the price of one Elan. And that was just The more powerful versions that would come later would And this is where the incredible ambitiousness What Mazda wanted to do is to preserve the driving feel while at the same time making the car affordable, That's the equivalent of saying I'm going to prepare of nothing but junk food. And this is where the is that this phrase was originally only used externally only later when one of the project So it wasn't originally conceived as some sort of between the engineers and I like to imagine that with Jinba Ittai on it .Post-its with Jinba Ittai everywhere, maybe they even wrote it on their hands, the engineers. So why would they remind Did they have early onset dementia? Of course no. I think why they used this and why they needed this so much is That they could resist the process of adapting They used Jinba Ittai so they would They were essentially brainwashing themselves think the mantra was there for a reason. And the than making a car suitable for mass production examined and re-examined until it fits the bill. If to manufacture it gets replaced by a heavier, adaptation always preys on the same victims: and light weight. And there are only two weapons And these two weapons are perseverance and if the essence of the car is to be preserved. [email notification sound] Oh, got an email Hmmm, what does it say? That's okay I guess. We can just use Oh what is this? Jin....Jinba..... Oh no you don't! But in a cold and windy Chicago day in February of It became instantly obvious that Mazda engineers was very fun to drive, very lightweight but also And here's the catch. The era is More equipment, more cylinders, more turbos, more In the time of more. And everyone loved it. 50% weight here. 50% weight here. Engine in here. Drive Double Wishbone here. You will notice there's No rear wheel steering. No automatic variable I can use all the adverbs and analogies I want to but you won't ever understand until So instead of adverbs and analogies I'm gonna tell you a An MX-5 is the car that got me into cars, that got enjoyable and fun driving. This happened was an MX-5 for sale near my apartment and zero intention of buying. Just to do a little So I went there and the owner met me and he told me you know go take it for a little drive And I did. I took it around a little drive around I think was about five minutes and I the It was the single most, car related, The first thing that I remember and I'm gonna remember it The end of the passenger cabin was there. I could for me this was incredible. It felt right. The I owned it and now I'm in it and it all just made with the road and the tires. The transmission It's like all of a sudden everything made sense. for me that moment I realized, okay this is what a car should be. This is how driving should feel Everything else all of a sudden very big heavy and boring. And by the time I that I didn't have to buy a car that I had zero Now I couldn't scrape the money together so the purchase benchmark for me, for driving, from that moment Everything I drove after that was compared find traces of the same feelings and sensations [MX-5 drives by] But you see the amazing feeling of of my little story. Perhaps a more important Accessible. And because of this hundreds of transformative experience just like mine. You could More capable around the track or whatever. But none to the joys of driving as the MX-5. And this is too intimidating, too heavy, too much of something. It manages to combine two seemingly antagonistic things and that is that it manages to entertain the experienced driver but also flatter the novice, without [engine starts and revs] The engine too, of course, is the embodiment of the Two cams. 16 valves. Naturally aspirated. Transversely that not only does the engine look like makes very similar power despite the 27 years This is because Mazda realized that you don't need User-friendly power that aids you in the process chassis and the suspension. You don't need too much the car at corner exit and driving the price up. true incredible achievement of the MX-5 and that at the perfect intersection of all the important Reliability and power. There are cars which can of them can hit the bullseye as well. And this a true competitor. There were other two-seater But eventually most of them faded from existence Eventually all other car manufacturers as perfectly as Mazda. So some decided to join and just re-badged it. It's a lot easier that the years Mazda managed to not dilute the recipe. Most other manufacturers embraced more but Mazda stayed with less In 2014 when they released the fourth I was honestly speechless because the base model the original from 1989. Lighter and smaller in the It was Mazda's way of saying &quot;You have either saying or implying that because of modern cars while keeping the price sensible. The ND was Over the years cars have changed and evolved faster and more effectively. But when it comes to We really haven't come up with anything better than front manual transmission. This is the peak of cars that Enjoyment and involvement. Right now we seem to be This is of course inevitably changing the car Towards screen and person as been reached and we're now maybe going down the But what I'm trying to say is that future car as fun as the MX-5 in the same numbers. And never be beaten when it comes to providing And this is why it should be enjoyed and driven as much