Hey, Vsauce. Michael here. This appears blue. This appears yellow. color vision can probably agree. Color, as we know it, does not exist in the protons do. Instead, color is created inside of the electromagnetic spectrum into color. but I can't measure or observe So, how do I know that when you and me look occurs, which I call &quot;red,&quot; that, in your which you have, of course, also learned to effectively and walk away, never knowing just really were. Of course, we already know that not everybody would be color blindness. But we can diagnose with the conditions fail to see things that most of us can. Conceivably though, there could be ways of differently in different people's minds, without could come up with. Of course, if that were the case, wouldn't than others? Or that some colors were more doesn't that already happen? This matters because it shows how fundamentally, in our minds. Let's say I met an alien from a far away solar but had never, and could never, feel pain. sent through A delta and C fibers to the spinal cell and pathway and process and chemical could pass a biology exam about pain and thing. But no matter how much he learned, the alien call these ineffable, raw feelings &quot;Qualia.&quot; to these raw feelings, our inability to explain as the &quot;Explanatory Gap.&quot; This gap is confronted blind their entire life. Tommy Edison has never been able to see. being blind is like. It's an amazing channel. strange and foreign of a concept it seems instance, that red is &quot;hot,&quot; and blue is &quot;cold.&quot; color, that just seems weird. And, as he explains, Some philosophers, like Daniel Dennett, argue because of a failure of our own language, going to be impossible to share. There may be an alien race that communicates in your brain without your retina having to to have ever needed to actually see the color given millions and billions of words used to adequately describe a color such that a Or you could figure out that, once-and-for-all, do not see the same red. But for now it remains the case that we as your red. Maybe one day our language will it never will. I know it's frustrating to you guys can ask me about my internal experiences, and we can all collectively wonder at the also quite human. Animals can do all sorts of clever things communicate, cooperate, exhibit curiosity, know for sure, many animals certainly act joy. Apes have even been taught to use language language that they've used to do everything or even produce novel thoughts. Unlike any language and form responses at about the level But, there is something that no signing-ape Joseph Jordania's &quot;Who Asked the First Question?&quot; for free online. For as long as we've been able to use sign never wondered out loud don't. Of course, this does not mean that apes, and obviously are. But, what is suggests is that that other people have separate minds. that you might not have. Even us humans aren't a famous experiment to test when a human child the &quot;Sally-Anne&quot; test. During the test, researchers tell children have a box and a basket in their room. Sally takes the cookie and puts it inside Sally is gone, Anne comes over to the box, inside the basket. Now, when Sally comes back, will Sally look for the cookie?&quot; Obviously, left it. She has no way of knowing what Anne of about 4, children will insist that Sally that's where the cookie is. The child saw also know? Young children fail to realize situation, her access to information, And apes who know sign language, but never They're failing to recognize that other individuals be used as sources of information. So, we are all alone with our perceptions. agree that chocolate tastes good. But I cannot what chocolate tastes like to you. I can never But I can ask. So, stay human, stay curious And as always, thanks for watching.