Club Penguin was great. It was a fun virtual world and as I was part of the lead creative I had the privilege of having many of my ideas I also had the privilege of helping others Almost everything that entered was something that I wholeheartedly approved of. Almost everything. There were a few little things that People wanted them, I said So let's talk about five of them! #1. Hair I had to start with hair for this video. Anyone who worked closely with me in the early days of Club Penguin knew Hair. On. Penguins. Looks. Weird. I don't even know why this Hair was a frequent request from Club As soon as they had the ability to put on a And I said &quot;No! They're The moment you put hair on a bird it hair humanized penguins too much. And, since in the early days of Club Penguin I was the one making clothing items, I After a year of avoiding the question of hair, in 2006 I made a clown costume If players wanted hair, there's your hair! (Problem was not solved.) Players kept asking incessantly FAN: &quot;We want hair!&quot; ME: &quot;But then the hats wouldn't look right. You couldn't wear a hat and hair at the same time, FAN: &quot;We want hair!&quot; ME: FAN: &quot;Rockhopper has a beard!&quot; ME: *disgruntled sigh* &quot;Fine.&quot; After two full years of weathering comments from people both within the studio and out, I But with conditions. #1. They would be called Wigs. It growing from their head - that this was #2. The hair would look like wigs. They'd be They would not look so much like regular hair. #3. There would be a vote in The Penguin I had hoped that once there were a few of (It was not enough.) The wigs were hugely popular. and they gravitated to the ones that looked So I relented. Realistic hairstyles got added including some inspired directly by hairstyles I'll, uh, let you guess which ones those were. WAS I WRONG? To this day, I think the more realistic admit that characters like Cadence just And most importantly, the players generally #2. Solar Eclipse. For the first year of Club Penguin's existence The bright blue sky color was But, by Halloween 2006, some were really passionate about Halloween It just wouldn't be Halloween, if it couldn't So they went to work changing all of the allow us to change the color of the sky, Which was a big deal in 2006 when some of *hideous technological nostalgia noise* However, night created a problem. How do we explain it? It's never We don't have a day-night cycle. One of our writers had a solution! An eclipse! Sunlight would be blocked out for Unless you happen to have a childhood obsession Astronomically speaking, total solar A solar eclipse from start to And here we were suggesting an It was unthinkable! That was astronomically But Lane, who you know as Billybob &quot;It doesn't matter! That's just how And that was that. Halloween. SO WAS I WRONG? Well, I wasn't wrong about the actual science But Billybob was absolutely All they really cared about was that it was dark And I've learned a valuable lesson Penguin don't need to conform exactly They can take liberties with that as long as the In the Club Penguin World, an eclipse #3 - The Human Voice Along with being a creative lead I was also able to work on Club *E-T* Some of its sound design. There was always this question, though... Well one of the early rules design on Club Penguin was &quot;No Human Voices&quot;. It kind of followed the same logic as hair. I did that having human voices in the world just made Now it's true early Club Penguin (&quot;I've Been Delayed) But in my mind, actual Club Penguin The only time I ever added anything was whistling in one of Club The lack of a human voice even contributed a bit movie &quot;Night of the Living Sled&quot;, presented in After leaving Club Penguin's started to really relax on this guideline. There were even cutscenes where the director spoke in the game. Whaaaaaaaaaaat? SO WAS I WRONG? Should Club Penguin have kept itself voice-free? To be honest, the way voices were pretty tasteful as far as I could the no voice rule on Club Penguin was Remember what I said before about dial-up sound - good quality sound - is a big file size and as they found good places to use voices in It still wasn't something I but I ended up not having #4 - Herbert P. Bear Whoa whoa whoa whoa... am I actually saying that I opposed bringing Herbert P. Bear Yeah. I was actually against that one. Look, here's my reasoning. Club Penguin It was an escape from the And one of the escapes that we built in was agents went on missions and those missions Mission #1: Find a lost puffle. Mission #2! Wilderness survival. By the time mission #3 hit, though, the creative team and said &quot;It's already getting put in the penguin's way without some sort of To which I said, &quot;We don't need and fun and huggy! Why would we add a villain?&quot; But in his mind, we could fit a villain and he kept brainstorming some ideas A boss bear, a skinny vegetarian henchman bear, and a big stupid one that would lift heavy Now, this was seen by some on staff to be too many bears and maybe we could squish all The compromise ended up being: put it into a single bear, but However, I personally still had concerns So, partially as a buildup of mystery, the story was developed where the villain of the You see, in mission #3, the only evidence This allowed us an Escape Route. If players really didn't want a villain in that everything was a misunderstanding and that White puffles hadn't been seen As you probably guessed, players wanted a so we gave a sneak shadowy peek and did a full reveal of Herbert WAS I WRONG? Oh man, I was so wrong about that. I was the wrongliest. Herbert became Me not wanting villains was way the way to some other memorable #5 - Member Minigame Levels Okay this last one's a little There was an update in 2010, where mini games You couldn't play all the levels in the up to some of the levels as a non-member, and Mini games were getting this massive overhaul that you managed to accomplish in mini games But it came with the controversial change available mini games behind this membership wall. I was against this. I wasn't against new content being created Membership was how the game made money, and I in Club Penguin where things previously non-members had experienced - were now being WAS I WRONG? I... I don't know. Honestly, I'm not a businessman. I don't to keeping a business afloat, or figuring That's not my deal. I'm more on the But I will say; taking content away that was previously free for anyone And it also seemed unnecessary. I created Astro-barrier. That was my idea. If they had asked make 40 more levels rather than taking the initial group of levels and It just didn't seem like and seemed more focused on giving But like I said, I'm not a businessman, that's just my opinion from a more OK, well that was five things that I didn't want also known as Screenhog. Thank Oh... don't ask in the comments section didn't want added to Club Penguin. It was originally going to be a top 10 list Five was a stretch, so this is going to be OK, Waddle On for reals. Bye.