A list of healthy foods with no carbs and If you want to lose weight and get healthy, that you eat. Junk foods are high in processed carbohydrates These have been proven to cause inflammation Such as in your liver, which then produces (Eating too many of these) Over time this leads to a great range of illnesses, nerve damage, heart attacks, strokes and many In this video I will share with you a list very low carbs and sugars (less than 3g) Eating these to replace junk foods will bring to heal naturally. Just my usual reminder, this video is for your doctor if you have any medical problems. 1. Eggs 0.6g Carbs, Per Egg blocks of life and contain only trace amounts Eggs are a great of source choline and lecithin and help to you lose weight. They are also rich in protein, amino acids, cells to heal and grow. Eat 2-4 eggs on a daily basis to boost your These will keep you full, feeling focused junk food. 2. Kale 0g Digestible Carbs superfoods on the planet. This leafy green vegetable contains 2x Vitamin more potassium than bananas. Start eating this lightly steamed as a side or blended into smoothies daily to see some It contains no starches or sugars, only healthy 3. Red Meats 0g Carbs. Choose high quality, grass fed animal meats These are essential blood building sources and vitamin B12. (they contain no carbohydrates) They are needed for the development of strong body. 4. Cheese 0.4g Carbs, Per 1oz Cheese is one of the healthiest sources of E, D and K2. Eating this helps calcium to be absorbed into It also contains healthy fatty acids and proteins levels. Make sure that your cheese is high quality, I recommend cheddar, camembert, halloumi, If your finding this information helpful so all notifications on to stay updated with 5. Pecan Nuts 1g Net Carbs, per 1oz Pecans contain a very low amount of net carbs, which helps to control your blood sugars. Pecans are rich in zinc, copper, Vitamin b1, feeling satisfied and less likely to crave Eat a small handful of these after a meal, chocolate 70% 6. Cauliflower &amp; Cruciferous 0g Digestible Carbs When improving your health or losing weight greens in the cruciferous family like cauliflower, arugula, and collard greens. These are densely packed full of phytochemicals your body. You need to eat these to meet your potassium that help lower insulin resistance so that 7. Wild Salmon 0-0.1g Carbs, Per 3oz When following a low carb diet, oily fish and omega-3 fatty acids that you can eat. Omega 3-s from wild salmon, sardines, mackerel your body and reverse oxidative damage caused Make sure to avoid the farmed fish however food colouring agents and are fed a very poor 8. Butter 0.1g Carbs Per 100g Pure butter than has not been blended with of retinol to protect and rejuvenate your It has a bad reputation, however the cholesterol hormones like insulin, estrogen, testosterone to help you lose weight. Start cooking your foods in REAL butter instead bones with calcium, To minimise your cravings, and also help your break down fat. 9. Sauerkraut 0.1g Net Carbs, Per 1oz Sauerkraut is a form of fermented cabbage C and probiotics in the world. You can eat this 2-3 times per week to boost helping to support gut health and lower your It's very easy to digest for those with digestive The prebiotic fiber will feed the cells in 10. Avocados (0-4g) &amp; Olive Oil (0g) Avocados When cutting out carbs and sugar, you'll definitely to help control your appetite. Avocados are one of the most nutrient dense fats which provide fuel and energy to your They are also rich in potassium, magnesium balance, insulin resistance and help your Similarly, extra virgin olive oil is one of It's loaded with anti-inflammatory chemicals which can get rid of pain, swelling, joint of your liver. 11. Nutritional Yeast your body uses up its B-vitamins to help break This can leave you depleted, causing you to anxiety and mood disorders in some people. Start consuming 1-2 tablespoons of unfortified This is rich in the B-Vitamin complex and (stress), and support heathy weight loss. 12. Herbs (0g) &amp; Spices (1-3g) Carbs, Per Tsp To heal any ailment or to lose weight, eat basis. Some of the best are mint, basil, parsley, These do not contain any starches, but are that support weight loss and blood sugar management. Likewise I also recommend spices, like turmeric, ginger. These are some of the nature's most powerful the pancreas, and the digestive organs. Spices contain a very tiny amount of carbs, and give your meals a delicious flavour. What's interesting about nature, is that the the most vibrant tastes and flavours. Here's a quick summary of some of foods that Eating a mixture of these foods to replace to burn fat at a rapid rate, and also trigger It's important that you avoid the conventional full of hormones, antibiotics are fed GMO You want to choose high quality grass fed pasture raised eggs and dairy produce. Also, choose organic vegetables and leafy pesticides that can damage your liver. Losing Weight Fast If your' goal is to lose weight there are can also use to help turn your body into a 1. Perform intermittent fasting at least 2-4 Eat all of your calories and food in a shorter You do this in a 5 hour window, and allow Fasting makes your cells more sensitive to to be burned so that you can lose weight faster. Fasting also stimulates autophagy, your bodies them to build new healthy parts. 2. Start taking a digestive enzyme supplement Choose a brand which contains bile, pancreatin These ingredients help your gallbladder and that break down fat, and clean out your digestive 3. Avoid all starchy, sugary and processed carbohydrates potatoes, soda, doughnuts etc.. These foods raise your insulin and blood sugars, 4. Eat lots of healthy fats that I've already and raw coconut oil. These help your body to switch from burning tissue). 5. Keep your stress levels low, because stress Taking long walks in nature, getting more be used to minimise stress, which helps balance 6. Drink at least 1 litre of a good quality mineral can contain unhealthy forms of estrogen that Choose a bottled brand which comes from a I personally drink Evian, San Pellegrino and to choose from. To learn more about which foods to AVOID to I wish you great health, wealth and happiness.