- What would happen if a star exploded near the earth? Well, the nearest star to and it is not going to explode, but if it had eight times the mass, then it would go supernova So what would that look like? Well, as noted by xkcd if you held up a hydrogen bomb right to your that explosion would still be than watching the sun That's how insanely powerful They are the biggest When we see supernovae in other galaxies, they are brighter than the combined light of hundreds of billions of that they appear to come out of nowhere. On the 8th of October, 1604, the astronomer Johannes Kepler and noticed a bright star It was brighter than all and about as bright as the planet Jupiter. On moonless nights, it was Kepler published his observations of this star in a book which means &quot;about a new star&quot; in Latin. Kepler thought he was witnessing but it was actually a Over the following year and a half, the light faded until it but the name stuck. Even once we learned what was the violent final explosion for stars between about 8 and 30 solar masses has been called a supernova. But how exactly a star explodes is not what most people think. For most of a star's life, it In its core, it fuses to make heavier ones, and in the process it converts a small amount This energy is really what keeps the star from collapsing in on itself. Gravity compresses the star, but that force is counteracted by the movement of and by the pressure of So in effect, stars are If the rate of fusion drops the temperature and the pressure decrease. Gravity starts winning, but this increases the temperature which increases the rate of fusion. It's a stable self-regulating Stars have a finite amount of fuel, which over time gets used up. Our sun is about 5 billion years into its 10-billion-year lifespan. There are stars dozens of times which you would think but they actually use up A star 20 times the mass of our sun has a lifespan of just 10 million years, and more massive stars burn but for much shorter lives. For 90% the life of a star, the core is only hot enough and when the hydrogen runs out, fusion slows, gravity compresses the core and its temperature increases at which point helium fuses into carbon. There's enough helium to a million years, but the core is, again, compressed and heated. Carbon starts fusing into neon, which lasts about 1,000 years, and then neon fuses into then oxygen to silicon for a few months and at 2.5 billion degrees, silicon fuses into nickel which decays into iron. Now, at the heart of this giant star, there is an iron core building that's only a few thousand kilometers across. Iron is where this pattern stops. Instead of liberating energy as it fuses into heavier elements, it Iron is the most stable element. So it actually takes energy both to fuse it into heavier elements and to break it down into lighter ones. Both fusion and fission reactions The iron core grows, but the crush of gravity becomes greater and greater as the rate of fusion drops. When the iron core is about which is known as the of gravity is so strong that Quantum mechanics takes over. Electrons run out of room to move, and they're forced into and they then become absorbed In this process, the protons turn into neutrons and release neutrinos. With the electrons gone, and fast, at about 25% the speed of light. So what used to be a ball of iron 3,000 kilometers a ball of neutrons just Essentially, it's a neutron star. With no outward pressure to hold it up, the rest of the star caves in. Also, falling at a quarter it hits the neutron star and bounces off, creating a huge pressure wave. But this kinetic energy isn't quite enough to start a supernova explosion. No, the thing that really kicks it off is the humble neutrino. Now, I normally think of neutrinos as particles that do basically nothing. I mean, they interact that right now there are passing through your body per second. It would take a light year of lead just to give you a 50-50 chance and that's because they interact only through gravity and the weak force but in a supernova, when by the protons, an unbelievable number of neutrinos is released, around 10^58. You would think they would just fly off at nearly the speed of light, but the core of a supernova is incredibly dense, about 10 trillion times and as a result, it traps and captures their energy, and this is what makes A particle that is millions of times less massive than an with anything is responsible for some of the largest explosions in the universe. In that explosion, only 1/100 of 1% of the energy is released as the light that we can see. Even then, supernova have enough energy to outshine a whole galaxy. About 1% of the energy is of the exploding matter, of the energy is released in the form of neutrinos, and neutrinos are actually the first signal we and that's because after they're generated in the core, they can escape before the shockwave reaches the surface, where the light that we see is generated. So neutrinos can arrive on giving astronomers a chance at the right part of the sky. I actually used to work at a neutrino observatory back in college, and I would work the graveyard shift between midnight and 8:00 AM. So if I detected a really big increase in the neutrino flux during my shift, it was my job to call so they could go look out for a supernova. Now, that never actually happened, but we did have some close calls. Now, I need to clarify a couple things. First, not all really As they collapse, some which means they do not go supernova and second, there's another Sometimes a white dwarf star, pulls matter off a nearby star, that Chandrasekhar limit the white dwarf collapses, This is actually the type in 1604, a supernova 20,000 Now, because the shocks are asymmetric, supernova explain neutron stars There's a neutron star we've of 1,600 kilometers per second, by a very asymmetric supernova explosion, sent it shooting off Despite only recently learning humans have been observing Ancient Indian, Chinese, Arabic and European astronomers but they are quite rare. In a galaxy like our Milky Way, consisting of 100 billion stars, there are only about one or A particularly amazing example when the light of a supernova reached the earth and was If we look to where that we see the Crab Nebula. It is a giant remnant left behind by the explosion. In the 1,000 years since the explosion, the remnant has grown to Supernovas produce a lot of cosmic rays. Cosmic rays are actually particles, mainly protons and helium nuclei, and they travel out at very, very nearly the speed of light. They have a tremendous amount of energy. So at what distance could a supernova cause problems The closest stars to us, besides the sun, are the three stars in Alpha Centauri. They are 4.4 light years and on average, a star of Earth every 500,000 years. So what would happen if - Yeah, so within a within a danger distance So I think even at that distance, you're looking at possibly - But we would also have other problems to worry about. Supernovae create conditions to fuse elements heavier than iron. In the months after the undergo radioactive decay, and cosmic rays. Less than 0.1% of the energy produced by a supernova is emitted as gamma rays from these radioactive decays, but even this tiny At a few light years from a supernova, the radiation could be deadly, though most of it would be blocked by our atmosphere. Now, the earth is protected by our atmosphere, and three oxygen atoms bonded together, but high energy cosmic rays and break apart nitrogen and then these bond with oxygen atoms, which can then break apart ozone, and so we can lose a lot of our ozone if there's too many cosmic rays coming from supernova events, to all kinds of dangerous We actually see an increase in atmospheric NO3 concentrations, coinciding with supernova explosions. A supernova within 30 light years is rare, only happening maybe once every but a recent article suggests the way out to 150 light years away, and so those would be much more common. We actually have evidence for a supernova that from Earth 2.6 million years ago. It would've been seen by like Australopithecus, and we know this because there are that could only have been In sedimentary rocks at the scientists have found traces of iron-60, in a layer that was deposited Iron-60 is an isotope of iron with four more neutrons than Iron-60 is really hard to make. Our sun doesn't make it, nor anywhere else in the solar system. Iron-60 is made, basically, exclusively in supernova explosions, and iron-60 is radioactive. It has a half life of 2.6 million years. So every 2.6 million years, half of the sample decays into cobalt-60. So all of the iron-60 that was of the earth, 4.5 billion years ago, has definitely decayed. So the iron-60 that the scientists measure is proof of a recent supernova. Scientists also measured in the same sediments, supporting the idea an explosion of a nearby supernova. The supernova that happened wasn't catastrophic for our ancestors, but some researchers hypothesized to the mass extinction, which is seen at the Pliocene-Pleistocene boundary in the fossil record around the same time. This extinction wiped out The idea is that the cosmic rays from the supernova hit creating muons, which like the electron, only The muon flux for years would've been 150 times and the bigger the animal, the larger the radiation dose it would've which is why megafauna were so and what's more, the animals that lived in shallower waters were more likely to become extinct compared to where the water would've Further evidence for these from our place in the galaxy. You know, if you look in the space between the stars in there are around a million That may sound like a lot, but it's basically a perfect vacuum but for hundreds of light years in all directions around our solar system, you find there are 1,000 It's like they've all and our solar system is inside a low density bubble. So that is evidence for that would've blown all but there are cosmic more deadly than normal Gamma ray bursts were discovered which were looking for but on the 2nd of July, 1967, the satellites detected a which were coming from space. There are two main sources mergers of neutron stars of gigantic stars called hypernovae. Hypernovae are caused by stars that are at least 30 solar masses Their collapse leads to an than a regular supernova, and The gamma ray bursts caused of their energy into beams which are just a few degrees across. If there was a gamma ray burst it would decrease the ozone level enough that it could be catastrophic. To put this distance in of 6,000 light years contains On October 9th, 2022, of the most powerful gamma It was powerful enough the ionosphere bounces radio waves. The effect on the ionosphere was around the same as a solar flare, but this gamma ray burst was located in a galaxy 2.5 billion light years away. Astronomers speculate could have caused the Late which wiped out 85% of marine There is no direct evidence, but gamma ray bursts are common enough that it is estimated that there has been a 50% chance that there was an ozone-removing, extinction-causing GRB in the vicinity of Earth in So if a supernova or to go off near the earth now, that would be pretty catastrophic we kind of owe our of explosions because it was probably the shockwave which triggered the and dust that gradually coalesced So the sun, the earth and all without the explosions of nearby stars. Figuring out how supernova It took a combination of astrophysics, particle physics, computer and if you wanna develop of our universe, then you should check out the sponsor of this video, Brilliant. Just go to brilliant.org/veritasium, and you can get started Brilliant is an interactive learning tool that uses a hands-on approach to teach you a wide range of STEM concepts. You know, watching a video can give you a good overview of a topic, to have a deep understanding, you need to learn interactively and test yourself from the foundations up. Brilliant offers simulations to manipulate and quizzes to master any new subject. There are thousands of lessons to explore, ranging from the foundations of math to cosmology and quantum mechanics, and there are new exclusive Brilliant is the best way to and there's no better time to start. The first 200 people to sign get 20% off an annual So I wanna thank Brilliant and I wanna thank you for watching.