[jazzy intro music] - Greetings and welcome to an LGR thing about something that I because I feel like it. And that is this right here, the lovely Microsoft from 1997. And it has long been one and in my opinion, it's still on the right setup. And with the force what this can do is still pretty special. So let's take a look at it. Yes, &quot;Push reality By the time this particular it was, indeed, the number-one-selling force feedback joystick, not that there was much competition. &quot;First there was sight. Then there was sound. Then Microsoft revolutionized with dynamic force feedback technology and earned PC Gamer's Indeed they did. Beginning with the SideWinder and Force Feedback Pro eh, pretty much around the same time, from what I remember And on that note, this thing when it initially launched. Or around $300, 26 years Of course, being the late '90s, both in the store with the and also just in the box. Like with mine here, which And I do remember specifically at the CompUSA in Greensboro, They had this awesome with the joystick set up and a computer that you and it would do different things, sort of mimicking different scenes that you might get in different games and you could see what all the And there were a bunch of 'em. I think 12 different were directly supported with But of course, game programmers could make use of all these effects, and mix 'em up and do all to create intriguing forces. And yeah, that CompUSA demo And I was super excited to find on Thrifts some years back in Greensboro. And, in fact, this actually has a CompUSA with January 5th, '99 as And yeah, this is very much that came from that exact that I first saw this demoed. [laughs] It's just, I don't know. like, all these things came And now here we are even more years later, and I'm really excited So let's go ahead and unbox this sucker. So like I said, I found this thrifting so I don't know if it's a but whatever. [chill piano music, general unboxing sounds] So, first up is the stick itself. A substantial thing indeed Pretty hefty for a joystick of the time and pretty good materials too, with their SideWinder products. So going from bottom to top which changes the It shifts between different layers. We have a little half and our four action buttons right here, a little hat and four with the fourth one being the trigger. So there are eight buttons in total, really becoming 16 with the Also have this nice rubbery around the bottom of All the motors are inside This right here always looked kind of like it would be a fan but it's covered up. Not really much to see along And then it connects to your And then you have this So yeah, this thing has its own separate wall wart power supply brick. It is a unit. A 12 volt, 1.3 amp, 30 watt power supply. You do get some software of course, with the SideWinder program and drivers and all that right there. And in this particular pack of &quot;Urban Assault.&quot; Others before this often And of course, some paperwork. This ad here for &quot;High-end A pretty neat looking speaker Digital Sound System 80, I've never heard one. Let's see, Microsoft Gaming Zone and this Fighter Ace thing A survival card, really for &quot;Urban Assault.&quot; Nice to have cuz it's if you can tell by looking at that. And a getting started guide for the Force Feedback which there's not much in here really. It's just like here's how to connect and plug things in and mount stuff. It really just kind of goes Doesn't really show much of but honestly you don't do except you're not mounting it to a desk. Although I kind of wish you And of course in a moment we're with an era-appropriate and the software and And really put this through its paces, and try out all those awesome But you know, I realize that these aren't really So just to clarify, force feedback is distinct and different or tactile feedback, or haptic This right here relies on physically pushing the controller So you really have to You feel this thing pushing against whatever you're trying to and gunfire, and explosions, and rockets and it's just a more I guess you could say, experience. As opposed to something And it does this by using two I'm not gonna take mine all But yeah, you can see in this video by heliflyer7 there are these big motors and a series of girthy lubricated gears that really make this when plugged into the wall. It has a 15-pin gameport adapter here. You just plug this into your on your sound card, typically. But you also have right here a place to plug in that AC adapter providing 12 volts at 1.3 amps. And it's then that everything kicks in and you know, you can still and whatnot just doing this. Just sort of, eh, it or anything until there's power. But when it kicks in, And the nice thing about is it doesn't rely on potentiometers as so many joysticks do, did. This has a digital optical using infrared and optics to digitally get the controls across. Which means that you don't have or gunking up or anything, but you also don't have to 'cause it just is what it is, with very high precision. Something Microsoft was in the marketing on the box. 16-bit processor with its &quot;Patented digital optical technology.&quot; Yeah, it's just highly So let's go back to the late '90s, and plug this thing into both Set it up with the stuff that and yeah, let's try out [jazz music fades] All right, it's all plugged in to the Megaluminum Monster, And it's already providing You can feel the motors when you do that, but Finally! This has taken, no joke, about three and a half hours Oh man, you know, where it's like, which is what the Megaluminum and the drivers and everything were fine, but the games wouldn't work. Like Urban Assault and that were specifically that came with the joystick. So then I moved over to and the games would work, but the joystick was Now I didn't get any footage of this, I didn't want the camera on. But yeah, it turns out that I have in there, this was and it was fine on 98, but on 95, the drivers from Creative don't like this, and it saw it only as a regular And it came with some driver fixes on here but those didn't work, it still just saw it in So I had to switch over to and yeah, now it sees over this one. Anyway, we can see that wonderful precision of those optical sensors in there instead of the potentiometers. It's really quite fantastic and there is no way to or anything like that So yeah, you can just, you know, test it and see that it's working It also installed this So it pops this thing and yeah that brings up a control panel and some read-mes and whatnot. But this right here, this includes profiles You can create your own, but it does come with A lot of good stuff in here. And even some things that like hey &quot;Duke Nukem 3D&quot; is right there, which is a DOS game that does so what's up with that? Well it's a keyboard mapper, like a keyboard to So mapped joystick button 4 to strafe and so on. Also lets you program and things like that, and to do different combinations of buttons. But you can't just go around to games that don't support it. Unfortunately. I wish that was the case! But that's not what this does. This is just a thing for different games that or this joystick in particular. So for instance, MS-DOS is treating it as just a And you can adjust the dead zone and what the twisting But back into the control panel though, and this is where things get pretty fun. So you can change the to off or all the way up. Yeah, let's make it high and rigid. And now this right here, I [joystick vibrating] [laughing] [joystick vibrating more] Yeah, you can mess around of effects that it's capable of doing. So, machine gun. [joystick vibrating] A diesel engine idling, [joystick puttering] a plasma fire [joystick clicks] [laughs] car engine idling, that's a Yeah, it's a light little, plasma cannon or just, you know, whatever, it's approximating what it in a game, I quite like its which pushes it forward like that and landing, ugh pushes you back. And if you hold down so cannons, shotgun, nice. Those are pretty similar actually. Just pushing back and back Lightning gun. [joystick vibrates] Gatling gun. [joystick gatlates] Pretty light actually. Plasma cannon, and let's see here. Wind shear. [joystick vibrates shearingly] Yeah that's neat. Torpedo, very light as Yeah that's that's an interesting one. Yeah if you don't really Like it'll push back. Oh yeah, that's just awesome. I love this little demo program. And this is pretty similar to what I first experienced with this [joystick vibrating] back at CompUSA back in the day. I don't-- [laughs] I don't remember if this I seem to remember there that went along with it, more but maybe it was just this. So you can really see the kind of forces you're getting here. This thing is intense, especially on the higher but really, I mean even it's kind of cool. [joystick rattling] Like that's low. [joystick rattles still] It's still a thing. That's also why I have On its own, there is not to keep it in place. Like this thing is gonna whenever you're in a game, And we gotta start with in this particular pack: Urban Assault. [Microsoft intro music] I'm so glad to see this running. It was like an hour just And then I was trying to get and then 3D acceleration 'cause I had a Voodoo 3 in to DirectX seven point Anyway, we're finally force feedback is enabled. And that's all it needs cuz it knows what to do straight away. So we're gonna play just one Let's do one with different And if you're not familiar with this game, it's actually pretty awesome. It's kind of a mixture and I guess first person - [Computer] All station systems online. - Right, so basically you can- - [Computer] Destroy any - She might get a little annoying... Lemme turn it down here. So basically you can at what's going on, or you can and do different things. So the objective in this one here is to destroy these three red objects and we'll just spawn some and then what we can do is jump into them. And now-- okay, let's get the So now we have direct So throttle forward and [joystick vibrates] Just blow up random buildings. So let's go find the objective. Oh actually we've got these so if we want we can just [laughs] and there we go. So now we're in that, oh, you can feel the [imitates joystick rotor feel] Ooh, nice little bump there. Okay, let's try to figure Oh that missile that you That's not what I wanted to do. [laughs] [joystick vibrating] Heck yeah dude. It's immediately immersive feeling these different types of vehicles react in different ways like this. Back up, there you go. [joystick vibrating, things exploding] Oh yeah, oh yeah. [laughs] And let's just go back to the station. You can also jump into random gun turrets that are just placed [joystick thunking] Quite a kick on that gun, like seriously. Oh here's the other thing too, if you're not really holding it, you're not gonna get any kind It doesn't do every single time, you have to be giving it some resistance. So if I hold it as light as [joystick banging the desk] Ohh that joystick is happy to see me! [explosions boom] Yeah, suck it random buildings! I don't know, may as well. Oh yeah. [gunfire rattling] [laughs] All right, let's move on to Another Microsoft game, to just use the joystick straight away. Force feedback right here, stick shaker, crash effects, ground bumps, and retractable gear Let's just do a random free flight. Anyone else like taking I think it was &quot;2000&quot; planes, You totally can do that. Let's go with a Sopwith Camel I suppose. And yeah, let's give it all the beans, 'cause I think we're on like [airplane engines whirring] A little choppy takeoff And now there's not much it's just a little bit of resistance. Which, I mean, this is some but if we really start Oh yeah, yeah, it's like [gun rattling] Of course you have some going and bombs, I don't know if we have bombs. Not on this thing. [gun rattling] [guns continue firing while plane crashes] I gotta say that was a little I think the game crashed too. Nope, it's just-- [laughs] Well let's go with something P-51, oh yeah, let's give Where do we want to take off from? How about Middle Wallop? All right, lots of beans, there we go. [engine revving up] Now I do have rudder control So just simple twisting here, since they don't have Oh yeah, in the air. [joystick rattles loudly with gunfire] Oh those are more powerful guns! [joystick rattling with force] Yeah, all right. One of the bombs, or Yeah we got rockets. I just like those guns. [joystick rattling] Do something with these flaps, I don't remember how to do the flaps. I can definitely feel the Gs. Much more force on the joystick there. Yeah, in fact it's pushing I think there's also some wind. Yeah, I'm not really moving my hand, it's just moving it for me. That's neat. Force feedback sticks are [gun rattling] Wish I had some buildings to blow up or some other planes but. [laughs] Alright, well bit of a choppy experience. Let's move on to &quot;MechWarrior 3.&quot; Wow, this is already like the centering is aggressive. [grunts] It is really, yeah. Pressing hard, it just Now this one, I don't believe or do anything in terms of But it is just on like, because it uses the API All right, we'll do some instant action Madcat versus Firefly. [laughs] A highly lopsided battle, that'll be. But you know, and this is actually a game that was bundled with the For a time was definitely with this in particular. Yeah, lovely Madcat. Extended range lasers, good ol' auto cannon, 15 double Okay whoa, throttle, throttle, throttle. - [Computer] All systems nominal. - Ya gotta remember Oh yeah, that's feeling so good. It takes serious like, bits of effort to just turn this thing, And then when you start moving forward each footstep it's like, oh yeah. [laughs] Ah that's gonna be a lot of heat. - [Computer] Linked fire engaged. - Let's do linked fire [machine whirring] [joystick clicking, missile firing] Ah, screw it. [laughs] Just dump [alarms beeping] How is this guy not dead? Oh I just straight up shut down. There we go, well you know what? It's been a while, but this felt amazing. It still feels amazing, just This is just about the of any of the games so far. This is force, forceful feedback. Like yeah you're shooting [missiles whooshing] [laughs] Oh dude, that's so good. This thing is so good still. Now, we got one more &quot;Star Wars Episode I: Racer.&quot; [Duel of the Fates plays, imitates it humming] I think it's already set. Yeah, I mean we don't 'cause it is the joystick than it is. [whistling Duel of the Fates] [Star Wars intro theme] All right. [computer beeping] Oh yeah, force feedback settings. &quot;Use the force&quot; in this game. Got everything turned up to max! Now we're gonna go with Ebe. This game is fantastic, Talk about transforming the experience. All right, so it was just a but immediately that kicks Okay, a lot right there, holy crap. And the engine rumble is just It feels quite good but nothing too crazy. This is perfectly just with some rumble, I'm not doing that like and very erect. [laughs] When you put that engine boost on. Let me get to a place where Oh man, yeah, even that, going this way and that way moves it. Whoa, wow, that's a lot. The feedback on this game is insane when you turn it all the way [engine whining] Yeah, look at that. It's, ugh, it's all the way back. Okay, let's just blow up, that's fine. Oh I somehow survived. It's so much force pushing [grunts] [joystick clunks] Good grief. This is, it's like arcade, if you've ever played or you know, whatever, any and combat games with a joystick where it has some serious force feedback. Okay, that was, I just blew myself up. How do I repair, I don't remember. There it is. Anyway, pretty similar to that. Feels like an arcade game on this, like 'cause it's okay, holy crap. It's just cranked up so high, like as high as it'll and as high as it'll go in game. Even hitting those. Oh yeah, I can feel it because of the engine [joystick vibrating] Look at all this, this is stupid. [laughs] Ugh, I wish they still Dude, I think I'm still with this terrible race I've been having. Hey, there we go. The power of force feedback baby. Or mostly just very, very Anyway, this is wonderful, Especially for late '90s games, but honestly I would still with modern stuff. Yeah, this thing is still 20 whatever the heck years and computers and hardware That does bring up the question, you know, why don't I just It holds up in terms of but you have the game port but there were, you know, later models the Force Feedback 2 and that So that would be an option, if you have one of those instead. But this, you know, I just have this one, so how do I convert this over? Well there are things like the It's kind of old at this was a popular solution for it just will not translate I don't think all of the inputs, because there are kind of a lot. And also the fact that the force feedback, the way that it works relies and things like that, The same unfortunately like the gameport adapter by Necroware. And this is awesome and it for the Force Feedback Pro, but again, you're not gonna get the actual at least not yet. I think it may be updated in the future hopefully to add that, but as of now it'll just let and that's kind of missing the point. And there have been there are things using Teensies specifically I'm thinking of the FFB-Vert. That was apparently a really good solution and that actually does for this in particular. I don't have one of those But yeah, it's kind of a and so I don't know, that really just gets me to the question of why the heck aren't really a thing at all anymore? Why haven't more companies After all force feedback is with wheels and racing sims, but it's a true rarity Well, online this has been speculated and I've seen discussions and things being held back legally with wranglings going on And while there are to that here and there, that is definitely not the full story. If you'd like a really I'd very much recommend going over the specifics. But to kind of sum things up, patents are only part of the story, but for that it does all go back to when Microsoft to spearhead the SideWinder product line and also partnered with to develop what would become the Force Feedback Pro controllers. Immersion holds many hundreds of patents on this kind of stuff. A majority, from what I gather, pertaining to force feedback technology. So they were a natural And so together Microsoft of FFB SideWinders starting in 1997, and ending just four years later with the aforementioned Force Which you might notice is right before the release of the Xbox, which Microsoft Game Studios And only two more joysticks that licensed their API The 2005 Saitek Cyborg Evo Force and the 2009 Logitech G940, The tech for Direct Input is tied to Microsoft and and all that are still out But it's just one of those within a niche things that there's simply not enough interest. And there have been other since '09 but all using Relying on plugins and specific software instead of simply working On this note, I asked about their own feedback and it's about what I expected. Most of y'all seem to enjoy the things until they broke or until of simply had to stop using and drivers or overall It makes sense really, unless you're willing to on something like what's we don't really have many options. Though there is a bit more with homebrew projects which does indeed support Direct Input, it looks fantastic. But it's another one of and there's only one guy making them, and orders are backed up into So as much as I would like one of those, I guess for now I'm gonna Force Feedback SideWinders which you know, all think considered, considering how silly this is, [laughs] it's not the worst position to be in. And if you had or have any of let me know your experiences, whether or not you still use it. Yeah, pretty much all the I really am interested in and what the future may hold. And I hope that you just farting around with one. I had fun making it at least. And as always, thanks for watching.