I'm finally going to be your bride It's your white moonlight calling again Goodbye He Hansheng Today is our engagement party Is there anything more urgent than this? You've been I'll really be angry. He Hanshuang, I have been good to you without hesitation over the years You are sick I went in the rain to buy medicine for you When your career needs me I stay up late to learn the expertise you need for you I can even give up my own life But you make me sad again and again Once or twice 100 times 200 times I can forgive you but today It's our engagement party. If you really want to end I will never forgive you in my life Brother Han Sheng My chest hurts. Can you come to the hospital to see me? I'll be right there Han Shang Are you sure you want to do this in front of so many people? Are you embarrassing me? Fang A Shou If you take one step forward I'll break up with you Xu Xinran You want to use this low-level method to keep my brother? Guess how many days he will be back this time. I bet tomorrow Mr. He, as long as you come back Xu Xuyan will immediately invite someone Humph, I don't think I can wait until tomorrow ten minutes Ten minutes later Xu Xin will treat us. Xu Xinran What did you just say? Say it again I said I have forgiven you countless times This time if you leave I will never forgive you I will break up with you good Break up if you want I hope you can hold on a little longer this time. Don't look back so quickly. He Hansheng I spent 7 years loving you But in the end Our Engagement Ceremony These 7 years are not as good as a phone call from your white moonlight Today's Engagement Ceremony I'm giving our relationship one last chance. Those people You didn't cherish this opportunity I, Xu Xinran, and He Hansheng have ended this life I won't marry him If this is the case He Han will not die a good death Xu Yiran Come give me a head pat Miss Xu hasn't come back since yesterday. snort You're playing this trick on me again. Qin An drives to Indonesia Apartment is the president County Magistrate Miss Xu did not come back all night Aren't you worried? Who does she think she is? He Hansheng You used to dislike my mouth. What should be said If you didn't always say that I have a bad mouth I wouldn't be so unconfident. This time I can finally get rid of you Come and sit gentlemen I want to ask you to do me a favor What are you doing, Brother Huashan? Marry me Xinxin, listen to me You call the traffic police? Something happened in France He left behind a child But the policy there is that you have to get married before you can raise a child I really can't help it. Jingjing, please help me with this. Wait till I bring the child back. I'll divorce you, okay? Sister Jiaojiao, what happened to her? she Dead Brother Huaqiang, don't worry. I will take my ID and go to the Civil Affairs Bureau with you now. Brother Han Sheng I'm sorry I didn't know yesterday was your engagement day I'm calling New Anjie now Explain it clearly. No, this has nothing to do with you. It's my own decision Besides Xu Xinran is the dog I raise It won't be long He will be the same as before Come back obediently you say But it hasn't come back yet Mr. He Do you think Xu Xinran will be really angry this time? I am angry that I have known Xu Xinran for so many years. No matter what I say or do Even if I trample on his dignity He will also make things difficult for me He is mine Not ugly No matter what I do to him He won't let go. Why don't you give him a call and have dinner together? Hello The call you are calling is Mr. He He didn't answer Find out where he is now. In Xiangcheng Go to Xiangcheng Brother Han Sheng Go with you You have to go too It's all because of me You guys have a misunderstanding I want to explain it to Sister Xie An in person Mr. He's flight ticket has been booked. Xiaoxiao Thank you Wait till I come back I will bring my lovely children to thank you in person Don't be so polite. Wait for me tonight. Master, why don't you tell Miss Shen the truth? Mr. He and Ms. Xu are here Brother Han Sheng Please send a message to Sister Xinran first. He actually blocked me Director Xu I didn't expect it. You really made a fuss for quite a while this time. The gifts are all bought It's time to ask me Who said this was for you? Dare to pull you and you say you are not a human being He Hansheng Do you think I can't leave you? Otherwise, what does this mean? This dress is not for you. Not bought for me Who could buy it for? You are always like this Away from home for a few days Block me and delete me Then come back with gifts and cook a few meals for me We are back to normal. You are too narcissistic. I bought this dress for someone else. Give to others I know you best over the years. Except me, I don't have any friends, lovers, holidays or birthdays. No one sends you blessings You are so pitiful here now. You just want me to coax you back. I am married What's the meaning I said I was married This dress is a wedding gift I bought for my spouse. May I say what I said this is a wedding gift I bought for my new partner Do you understand? Sister Xinran, please don't be angry. It was me who called Brother Han Sheng yesterday. I didn't know it was your engagement day. have no idea have no idea You will call He Hansheng at the engagement party Xia Qingqing, you are really accurate in your calculations Qingqing kindly comes to explain to you You treat her like this Apologize to her immediately Let me apologize to her. It's impossible in the next life I'll tell you one last time We have broken up Please don't bother me anymore. Xu Xinran, what do you mean? I asked Mr. He what did you give me? Do you have the right to bark like a dog when I talk to He Hansheng? Xu Xinran I'll give you one last chance. I count down to five Come back with me now I'll just pretend nothing happened I can also hold an engagement party for you. 5Xu Xinran Our president will give you a way out, so come down quickly Don't be ungrateful Sister Xinran, just go back with Brother Hansheng 4 We are not in the same group. Just come back obediently 3 I know you can't leave You still have to follow me. Who said not to follow you? What did you say He Hansheng I admit it There was no you before I really can't survive Even if I leave you for just one second I'm worried to death Just you know But now I find I'm better off without you. What did you say He Hansheng, I will tell you solemnly one last time We have broken up Please stay away from me from now on Xu Xinran I tell you Why should I come to thank you? Come back with me now, immediately He Hansheng, do you really think you are something? Sister Xinran Don't deliberately anger Brother Han Sheng anymore. You buy these clothes Isn't it just to give it to Brother Han Sheng? To please him? I please her, you see. This is Armani's latest model Brother Han Sheng has always been wearing clothes of this brand Just released today You bought it. You said you didn't think about him. Who said that the clothes I bought must be given to him? Is it possible that under the heavens Is he the only one who can wear this brand? Who did you buy it for? There has never been anyone else around you in these years. Never before But now no Xu Xinran, what do you mean? Who else is around you? Since you don't believe Then I can call him over now. Ran Jie You should stop being so impulsive. Where is there anyone around you? Brother Han Sheng and I are really just friends Why don't you believe it? A friend with whom you can talk about love A man who can abandon his engaged wife at the engagement scene Abandoned friends Don't make trouble It's just a party This banquet If the banquet is serious to you I can corrupt you at any time. It's just a party He Hansheng You still don't understand why I'm angry. Why don't I understand? I'm just looking for a sense of existence Xu Xinran has been making trouble like this for so many years Finally found out that I still left How many times will this trick be played? I don't have that much time Play this boring game with you I accepted the gift. I forgive the matter. You have 10 minutes now. Get your emotions in order and come home with me I don't have that much patience now. That's sorry. I don't have that much patience now. Mr. Xu You come with me How can Mr. He forgive you for doing this? Why should I beg for his forgiveness? You don't ask for his forgiveness. There are embarrassing things Is that so? If you continue to stay here Don't walk for a while It's you who's embarrassed If you continue to stay here Don't walk for a while It's you who's embarrassed Young people continue to pretend Who in the whole capital doesn't know As long as we each walk a little You'll immediately be like a pug Back to him Are you so interesting? Sister Su Nan Just give in. Xu Xinruan I'll give you the last bit of time. Excuse me The time I gave you is up. Hello, husband The clothes have been bought Come pick me up now. Yuqing, here I come Brother Huaishan, this is for you. Thank you Xu Xinran's dress The clothes were not bought for Mr. He What do you do for him? I've said I bought this dress for Huaichuan. Huaichuan brother You two have such a close relationship. Xu Xinran, let him wear the clothes you bought for me She wore Why don't you take a look yourself Who is this dress bought for? Mr. He, you wear size 185 How about we open it and see if it is your code? You will know It doesn't seem to be yours. Mr. He doesn't seem to be yours. Finished reading This is what Xiqing bought for me and returned to me. Thanks Xu Xingran If you go with him Don't ever come back. Mr. Pan Mr. Pan Are you okay, Mr. Pan? Brother Han Sheng Xu Xin, Mr. He flew over to see you overnight. I haven't had a single sip of water since last night. He had stomach problems. You made him so anxious. Too cold. Hello 120? Someone is dying here. one Two years has passed, isn't that too cold? Aren't you going to the hospital to take care of him? I'm not a doctor. What's the point of going there? you Go, go, go, go Very good Now Xu Qingnian finally left Brother Han Sheng completely. Brother Huaqiang, I'm sorry to call you here suddenly. It's okay. I'm always here for you Brother Han Sheng Brother Han Sheng You woke up The doctor said I should drink some millet porridge to warm my stomach. Let me help you up. Brother Han Sheng This is the porridge I made for you. Drink it while it's hot I'm not a doctor. What's the point of going there? What about others? Miss Xu went to Huacheng He runs pretty fast. Mr. He and Xu Xinran are clearly playing hard to get. He found an actor Deliberately tighten my business It's not your turn to say anything. I'm sorry, Mr. He It's my prison. go out Brother Han Sheng Don't be angry with your lover. You go out too I want to be alone Brother Han Sheng Good to go out All right Then you take a good rest. Miss Xia, I think Xu Xian did it on purpose Does he really think he has a place in Mr. He's heart? I didn't expect Xu Xian to be smart this time. Retreat to advance Miss Xia, what should we do now? Hey, Brother Tang Jing Are you in the hospital? I want to ask you to do me a favor Han Shao Qingqing fainted just now because she felt too guilty and too excited. He is weak How much care do you take Mr. Han, you clearly know that he needs you more I can't go find him anymore. For Xu Xinran? How come you are confused? Xu Xinran is just making trouble He can't leave you He will come back on his own. But Qingqing needs you the most here Youth should be the priority. I can no longer put Qingqing first I will go to Chen's house in the future Will have his own wife and children They are more important to me. Qingqing Qingqing, don't think too much. In Han Sheng's heart, you are the most important But this time Xu Qingran made a more serious fuss Han Sheng, give him a way out. I understand After all, Sister Xi'an will be Brother Han Sheng's wife in the future I'm just a sister. Xu Xinyuan If you know it, don't come back. Otherwise, the heartache at the engagement party is just the beginning. Hi Zhang This steakhouse is delicious Today I invite you Hello, number 9 Hello Please send someone to go in with me to register. One person yes There are so many rules for Internet celebrity stores Go ahead, I'll wait for you outside Do we still need a private room if there are only two of us? Don't you want to eat steak? No My friend is waiting for me outside. and I didn't sit at the same table with my ex-boyfriend Have a meal Off-putting etc. I haven't agreed to break up yet. Only one person's consent is needed to break up It's about the wedding banquet, right? Yeah, I have a problem with this. Ill-considered You've been wronged But don't worry There won't be a next time I'll give you a bigger gift. He Hansheng Please clarify the situation. I broke up with you There will be no more engagement parties. You and Xia Qingqing are a perfect match. I am the one getting in the way among you. You should also give him the engagement banquet. I beg you to stop harming me, okay? How many times have I told you Xia Qingqing is just my sister We didn't take you. Why don't you believe it? I don't care whether you are brothers or sisters. That's all your business. It has nothing to do with me He Hansheng I hope you act like a man Don't bother me after we break up Entanglement Don't you forget who has been bothering you for the past seven years? yes It was me who pestered you for the past seven years. I agree I accept all the bitter fruits I have received. But He Hansheng Start now I won't bother you anymore. I let you go. Let the man open the door Let's eat steak first He Hansheng You don't think I'll be the same as before Come back and lick you fry What's going on? Your bad mouth is back again Yes, my crow mouth is back. So you just break up with me Don't bother me Being your good sister Xia Qingqing will be in trouble You know how good my mouth is? Your good sister can't stand my weight As expected, Xia Qingqing is the most important in your heart What does Ge Hansheng do? Put me down What does Ge Hansheng do? You put me down He Hansheng, what are you doing? Let me go rogue I'm a hooligan You gave me the drug. When I climbed into my bed Isn't this what you want? He Hansheng, I liked you at that time But I want face I can't do something like this. You don't really think you are a hot pot I want to sleep with you so much Don't you know how bad your skills are? Brother Han Sheng How about a glass of water? Bitch Bitch elder brother Handsome guy, I'm off Xu Xinran, you bitch How dare you drug my brother? I don't I don't know how to get back Brother Han Sheng I trust you What do you say? Believe me You always thought I was the one who drugged you. I didn't expect that I was so unbearable in your eyes Xu Xinran What did you say Say it again He Hansheng You won't always think I'm looking forward to it When I went to bed with you on the first and fifteenth of that month Can't you sense my resistance? Father King Ji Rucha ah Don't touch me This is the first time I see you so crazy Keep going I like it He Hansheng, I curse you forever What did you say Xu Xiran Xu Xiran Of course there is my crow's mouth I can't curse the one I love. Otherwise, there will be backlash. Brother Han Sheng You are my most beloved person Coming Ranran, drink this bowl of porridge quickly Nourish your body Thank you, Mrs. Chen, for your hard work. Have a good rest Take care of your body Nothing is more important than your body Don't worry, Mrs. Chen I'm fine When I first came to the capital I came here with a clean record. You can't walk around with dirt all over your body. Since He Hansheng thinks that what he wants is what I did Then I will pull out the person I really want. Prove my innocence What happened? Drunk to drown your sorrows This is not like the He Hansheng I know. You drink less Bad stomach Be careful, your housekeeper might start nagging you again when she gets home. He'll be fine. You canceled the engagement. Everybody is waiting Think about how long it will take for Xu Xinran to come back I didn't expect that you were the first one who couldn't hold back Tie him up. He wants to break up with me Really, isn't this a good thing? Hahahaha don't look at me like that Isn't this what you wanted? Xu Xinran and I are not from the same world. Do you really want to marry her? You two are not equal in status. Just have fun. Juan You're not serious. As a long-time My friend, I have a piece of advice for you. You must not fall in love with Xu Xinran He said to leave you and let go Otherwise I can't do it Now whenever I think of Xu Xinran The thought of him leaving My chest is so tight that I can't breathe Han Sheng If you really care about Xu Xinran I can only say you are finished. I am speaking from the perspective of an outsider. You don't love him at all You don't even care about him I heard that he wanted to break up with you. My first reaction You're going to be free He's going to be free too. You two An Iceberg and a Flame We can't get together at all. Xu Shiran If you go with him Never come back Go Go Go Go I've sent the person to you. I'll leave it to you next. He drank a bit too much Remember to make him a bowl of hangover soup Mrs. Chen made him a bowl of hangover soup Hey, you don't cook. I'm not his babysitter. Besides, he drank the wine himself. He drank himself to death He deserves it. I hope you figure it out soon. Break up with Mr. Xu as soon as possible Otherwise, you will be the one who suffers next. Xu Xin Yes Open the door Xu Xinran Xu Xinran opens the door Open the door Open the door Go pick it up quickly Open the door If He Hansheng wants to get drunk, just go back to your room. Don't make me crazy like this You two are like an iceberg and a flame. We can't get together at all. I'll move out for a while. Wait until you digest it. I'll be back Happy Birthday to you My birthday wish is to be Han Sheng's brother's girlfriend Wow congratulations Your wish came true He Hansheng I've been following you since I was 18 I always thought you knew me best in the world The person who believes in me the most But I didn't expect You still suspect that I drugged you In this case In your heart, I feel like such a miserable person people Our relationship ends here. It's almost time to eat Thank you, Mrs. Chen I like the food cooked by Mrs. Chen the most. You will make me happy Ran Ran, um, is there something wrong between you and Mr. He? We broke up separate Yeah, we broke up. Is it because of the engagement party? I guess so. Don't worry Aunt Chen, I'm fine. Xu Xinran did not play tricks Since I chose to leave quietly Why come back? Ms. He is so powerful I won't know It was your son who came to pick me up personally, right? Don't be complacent Now that you're back Come to the old house quickly I'm entertaining people today Come and serve me Okay, wait. I'll be there soon hurry up Just wait You are my wife here I can't control you before I even get through the door Do you think this is He Hansheng's business? I don't take you, my former wife, seriously. Jingyi You have a good temper. A wealthy family like us How can I accept someone like Xu Xinran who has no background? A person without any background as the future daughter-in-law You're so nice to him. He doesn't take you seriously. You have to set rules for him. Call transferred to voicemail Jingyi, he has blocked you, right? You are a Xu Xing person How dare you block me oops Mom, I finally miss you so much oops You got it If it wasn't for Hele Hansheng finding you back I can't see you now Oh, Teacher Yu, please let me go and not mention him. well You are a famous person in the city now. Cancellation of engagement party Many people are interested in the Dark God's position I didn't expect He Hansheng to travel to several cities. Brought you back My heart is in turmoil Please don't mention him. All right Let's have dinner together at Quiti Restaurant in half an hour. Hmm, what a coincidence. This restaurant is Pepe Yeah, let's eat together Romantic dinner awaits Don't worry, I won't be here soon. hello Two KDs Heartbroken eyes, heartbroken eyes Going to a steakhouse is Brother Han Sheng He came and I saw him He's downstairs from my house. He wants to kill me Take it from your apartment Sorry, I have something urgent to ask you. Depend on This He Hansheng is such a scumbag You only sent this circle of friends to Xiang Tingting. The next second He Hansheng didn't come This woman is so scheming How special has He Hansheng been to Xia Qingqing in these 7 years I already knew it Han Shengge I recently discovered a really good steak house Let's go eat together If you don't have time, go by yourself. I've tasted this hundreds of times. Don't take it to heart Wow, sister, don't be sad. So I'll take you to find the puppy tonight. We'll find ten of them and there's always one you like. Then completely forget about He Hansheng, the scumbag Wow, it's so cold Sister, I was wrong You should have come out with you earlier when you called me Second Young Master Why does that person on the dance floor look so much like Xu Xianran? What's wrong Who touches me and breaks my leg Oh my legs My legs are safe. My legs Ahhh Isn't this Zheng Pengfei? How come he is so unlucky? Is it his bad luck? He deserves it. What's going on? He played a scoundrel on me I curse him You curse him happily You're a crow mouth. You were the crow's mouth at first The one who saved me from the gangsters Very good Three years Finally it's done Yeah, three years. It's time to find out who really framed me. Let's go and watch the show. Xu Qingyuan, this bitch, will not forgive him Drink and drive, be careful of getting hit Yeah, you seem to need help. You beg me Maybe I will show mercy and save you. Don't even think about it If you don't want to ask, forget it. Ling'er Don't go I beg you You can ask me to save you. But you have to Answer me a question first you say The medicine that He Hansheng put in his wine Is this your antidote? Xu Xinran, you bitch You blame me for what you did. roll The more malicious the person is towards me the more effect my curse has on him He Yunting just had a simple forehead bleeding The situation is not serious Isn't he the one showing off to me? If you lie The car will catch fire If you don't want to save me, get out No response, it really isn't him. rest assured I called the police The police will be here soon It's really not him If it's him The car caught fire. Don't be depressed. I know a fun place. I'll take you to play Let me show you some good stuff. Sisters have such a good place Why don't you bring me here earlier? I used to be able to call you out I was wrong. I was wrong. I also nourish my stomach. Report a little bit Let me squat Lift me down and squat This place doesn't look like a ghost You said earlier Nothing Same as before It's just an illusion. Take good care of her Don't worry, she is Xia Ming's sister Even if you don't tell me, I will take good care of her. It's you. You haven't slept for a few days. Dark circles are so heavy Can't sleep Can't sleep You still want to study? Hey Sisi Hey bro I'm playing in a bar Now at the police station Can you come pick me up? You were caught in a pornography raid Brother, I'm fine. I won't say anything more. I'll pick you up right away. Thank you, brother Uh, that Xinran is with me too Can you find someone to pick him up? This is probably not very convenient. You know it too Neither his friend nor his guardian Okay, okay, I don't want to cause trouble. elder brother It's okay, I'll try calling someone else. Hey yam brother I'm at the police station now. Can you come pick me up? Where to go Go pick up your sister Go, go, go Letting go Xinran, I'll wait for you at the door. Go, Brother Huaichuan It'll be here in a moment. You didn't let He Hansheng come to pick you up What is Huaichuan brother? Xinran and He Hansheng have broken up Of course he wouldn't look for He Hansheng. No, but he is clove I'm here to pick you up Brother Huaxuan, I'm sorry to trouble you. It's okay, it's just a few steps. Why are you here? Hey, when Sisi called me Han Sheng is with me. I said I would come to pick you up. Han Sheng, I'm really sorry to bother you with what happened today. You should go back and rest early. Why are you being polite to me? If you have any problem in the future, you can always find me. Then I'll go back first. Send me a message Why don't you call me I'm tired now I want to take a break Why Why You want to know why, right? Okay, I'll tell you why. Hello, I'm at the police station now. Let He Han come up to pick me up Xu Xinran is now in the police station. Such a shameful thing You're so embarrassed to ask Mr. He to pick you up Find someone yourself Mr. He is very busy No time to pick you up Qin An is like this Didn't you hear it all? Then you can call me Good question. Hello The number you dialed is currently in use Please call again later Did you hear that? No one called me. Why do you say I'm on the phone? Because you blocked me Xu Xinran, are you annoying? Call me all day long If you have any questions, go find my special assistant. Don't call me. Can I take a rest now, Mr. He? sorry I let you go Stop That's your business It has nothing to do with me I just want to rest now Have you arrived home? arrive Give you the phone Sister, do you have any flowers? I'm looking for you. Hello You look for me You are very familiar with Xu Xinran, right? What he likes Tell me not to tease him He wants freedom I want you to break up with him. If you break up with him directly He will be very happy He doesn't need anything else. Stop talking nonsense and speak seriously Am I wrong? When Xin'er liked him before He does nothing Now Xiner doesn't like him anymore He does these useless things The child died and he started to breastfeed. What's the use? What nerves are you pretending to have? I dare not even separate my hands and legs It's all nonsense Don't mind it. Please help me prepare a more grand engagement party Everything must be of the highest standard Do you want to re-arrange the marriage? With whom Who else but Xu Qian? Do it now Perfection in every detail I know. Mr. He is going to hold a new engagement party with Xu Xinran It will be even grander and more solemn. This has never happened before. No, I have to tell Miss Xia right away. Hello, Miss Xia I have something to tell you about. What did you say Brother Han Sheng is going to hold an engagement party with Xu Xinan Absolutely true Miss Xia and Mr. He personally told me Why is this Xu Jingren so haunting? Hello Aunt I have something to tell you. Qu Jingran Come out to me Xu Xingran, why didn't you come yesterday? Do you know You made me lose face. Ms. Zhang gave herself the face Not given by others You are embarrassed because you have no shame What does it have to do with me? You call me shameless You said this yourself. I didn't scold you. How did you talk to me? Look at you, you are not presentable. I also want to be the wife of our He family. You want to be my daughter-in-law? You have to listen to me Serve me well, otherwise... Don't even think about entering my house. Yes, it's your son. Your He family is very powerful. I don't deserve you Hurry up and match your son up. Xu Xingran, you are the only one who has the right to dislike my son My son is the best in the capital. The youngest person in power We are the He family He is also a famous ancestor of the imperial capital. Can you help my son? That is the blessing that your ancestors have cultivated for three generations. Yes, I know your son He Hansheng. The pride of heaven, He Hansheng, is amazing My son is so outstanding. What's your reaction? I know my son is excellent. What does he have to do with me? I won't marry him What did you say You won't marry my son. Um Back home Okay, that's what you said. Then please do it now Leave my son's villa immediately Well, you're the one who drove me away. I'm leaving now Where are you going? Your mother let me go My son Xu Xingran finally stops bothering you Let him go away I'll find you another one. Hey, haven't you always liked Xia Qingqing? That's perfect. I'll make arrangements for you Yes, yes, yes, arrange it quickly Who said I like Jiang Qingqing? I don't need you to take care of my affairs. Early in the morning, I'm fighting here What do you want to do? And drive her away Who gave you the right Son, it's not my fault. I asked Xu Xingran to go to the old house yesterday He stood me up My old sisters laughed at me. It makes me embarrassed He was right not to go. What did he go for? Being treated as a maid by you Humiliated by you Being despised by you I'm fine, don't explain it. Mind Yourself Be your good Grandpa He If you cause trouble again I'll send you back to East City son I am your real mother. You actually want to send me back to East City You're crazy just because of Xu Xingran You don't leave I'll take you back to East City now. cut What to do Follow me to the company I go You have to go even if you don't want to. Why Can't I go? Then I have to go upstairs and change my clothes. You can't go in pajamas. Okay, I'll wait for you downstairs. Since you are so free I don't mind finding you something to do. Yeah, Han Sheng wants to take me to his company to have fun. I'm so happy. Newbie looking for death Hello, President President Hand over the work You are destroyed President, did I do something wrong? Please, please tell me I will definitely change President, is there any misunderstanding? I brought the money I've been watching his work. Everything is done perfectly I don't even know where I'm wrong. What qualifications do you have to stay in the company? Rest assured, the compensation you deserve will not be reduced by a cent. Let's go It's you, isn't it? It was you who spoke ill of me in front of the president. Xu Xingran, the personal grudge between us You mess up my job Do you have any shame? This can also be blamed on me He Hansheng Don't you know why I fired you? Didn't you do anything dirty? And the one who fired you was He Hansheng If you have any grievances, go to him. What's the matter with you biting me? I look cowardly, right? You bitch Who gave you the courage to scold him? Get out of here now Brother Han Sheng What's wrong What happened Brother Han Sheng What happened Brother Haisheng You seem to be very angry. Little fairy sends money The CEO wants to fire me. Brother Han Sheng Is it Qin An? What did he do wrong? Why did you suddenly fire him? Qin An has always worked very hard He really has a hard time Is there anyone Brother Han Sheng Please give Qin An another chance. It's really not easy for him Hey, Brother Han Sheng Qin An works very hard Even if he takes private jobs outside Enter the cooperation base price That's not a reason for you to fire him. It was not easy for him to come out of the mountains. You have to forgive him Since you've gone too far In order to make Brother Han Sheng quit Qin An How could you say such irresponsible things? Do you know How much impact will your words have on Qin An He will be banned from all industries. You know this has a bad influence on people. When you open your mouth, When I asked He Han to dismiss Qin An Didn't you promise? I found you guys really interesting. If I can get He Hansheng to fire Qin An Qin An has remained until now If not Brother Han Sheng is fine. Why did you quit Qin An? Then go ask him. What are you asking me for? I'm not the worm in his stomach. If you haven't done anything wrong to the company You don't have to feel guilty. But if you do But it will be unlucky. He's out of luck you The one who beat me in front of me Are you tired of living? CEO I Brother Han Sheng This is not Qin An's fault. It's Sister Xin'an. She has been threatening Qin'an. I fired a person who was a scoundrel Xu An You know what you did. The company will also check I'll settle the score with you then. Go away, I don't want it I didn't misunderstand you, CEO. President President Let's go Miss Xia What happened? Why did Brother Han Sheng suddenly dismiss Qin An? Maybe it's because of Xu Xingren Why are you closing the door? Xia Qingqing hasn't come in yet. Why do you think I fired others? Didn't you find out that Qin An betrayed you? I'm for you He Hansheng What decision do you make? Don't involve me That's your own business. He is so disrespectful to you. I just found out yesterday He Hansheng, are you sick? You didn't explain or care before What are you saying this for now? You don't want to impress me, do you? That's not necessary. Xu Ye I didn't do well at the engagement party. sorry You can forgive me He Ansheng I forgive you for the engagement party. But we have nothing to do with each other. Isn't it good to break up equally? No breakup All the things I did to you in the past were my faults. So if you could give me one more chance I'll give you a bigger gift. I won't ignore you anymore, okay? I It's not good to walk away Miss Xia fainted Come in Are you okay? Come He Hansheng You're a scumbag Bad things die quickly Where is Xu Xinran? Not long after you left with Miss Qianjin Miss Xu left. Stop pretending Sorry, Brother Tang Jing I used you again Xiaoxiao, it's not a good idea to keep pretending like this You should be able to see He Hansheng no longer has any romantic feelings for you Why can Xu Xinran do it but I can't? How can I be inferior to him? He Hansheng didn't marry her because he loved you. It's just his luck. I just blocked a knife for him. Otherwise, why would he Don't worry, I will help you Thank you Mr. Han, do you know Qingqing's situation? Cannot be stimulated She is full of joy today How could you faint? Is Xu Xin willing to work in the company? Qingqing's condition is so serious You take her abroad for treatment. You want to drive Qingqing away Wouldn't it be better for her to go abroad? But You know he'll be fine by your side. You are still Tang Jing I'm going to get married I will have children in the future There will be a family I can't be with Xia Qingqing all day long You take her abroad. After Xu Xinran and I finish our engagement party I don't want to do it I don't want to go abroad for treatment Qingqing, listen Your condition is better treated abroad Wait until you recover I'll ask you to come back, okay? I don't want my disease to not happen Hancheng Brother I beg you not to let me go, please I really can't leave you Hancheng Qingqing's condition has been brought under control There is no need to go abroad for treatment I have arranged everything for you abroad. Of course Tang Jing will also accompany you You won't be alone I don't want it I don't want it good You are not feeling well Lie down and rest Brother Sheng, I beg you not to leave Brother Nansheng Qingqing, are you okay? Qingqing He Hansheng Qingqing fainted You went to He's. How do you know? You and He Hansheng have always been the focus of the imperial capital Especially after you guys booked your wedding banquet. When you and He Hansheng entered the group together The photo was circulated in the group. How long have you been stuck? I want to block it for three days But He Hansheng is going crazy and won't let you leave He Hansheng What's going on? I don't really like you anymore. I used to think he liked me But now I don't think so In fact, He Hansheng is a person with a strong sense of responsibility I blocked the knife for him. Let him be responsible for me But don't worry I know He Hansheng very well He's such a proud person. I won't keep talking down to me. After a while, he found me boring. I'll get some money. Let me leave him Xu Xinran What should I do with you? Ms. Xu, today is the day for your scar removal surgery. When will you come over Brother Haohan, be careful I'm going there now I'll accompany you Need not Don't let me accompany you I'm afraid I'll see something I shouldn't see. Are you sick? You wait for me outside Xu Xinran You must have whispered something in the president's ear. The CEO fired me. Why are you so mean? The groom ran away at the engagement party It tastes bad The president's attitude is already very clear. I don't care about you at all How can you be so shameless? Even if you take me away, so what? What can be changed The sad thing about people is that they have no self-awareness Such a reverse The president won't take you seriously. Check it for me right now What did he do with the money in the company? Gathering evidence Tell him to go to jail Xu Xinran, you bitch I was fired by Mr. He Hello Mr. Zhang You're stealing company secrets Mr. He decided to sue Mr. Zhang is not like that. Please listen to my explanation. Go explain it to Mr. He yourself. Hello Mr. He I have followed you since graduation. Don't listen to Xu Xinran's nonsense. I am loyal to you Please give me another chance. I saw all the text messages you sent to Xu Xinran So this is how much you respect him privately? I'll give you money Let you buy her a gift Let you take her on a trip You humiliate her. Provoke her and insult her Now I don't even pretend anymore. Do your best to scold him And let him die Mr. He, you misunderstood. Before I sent the message, it was Xu Xinran who provoked me He called me. He called me a bunch of nasty words. I just realized you scolded him Mr. He, please believe me Xu Xinran is a double-faced person People who can act He framed me Xu Xinran has always been with me My everything is over Delingge Hanxinge He sent me abroad I don't want to go I don't want to go Han Sheng doesn't want to send you away He wants to get engaged to Xu Xinyuan. Can you help me? Just consider it for my brother's sake. Okay, I'll help you. Thank you, Cheng Jing. Brother Changjing, I want to take a call first You should take more rest. Hey money brother Miss Xia blames me for stealing now Please save me How is it possible? Han Sheng is not that kind of person. Miss Xia is real Mr. He is serious. Did you do something? I sent a message cursing Xu Xingran Saw by Mr. He How stupid! You can't even do this little thing. Brother Qian, don't worry. I will ask Han Shen for mercy on your behalf. I'll contact you if I have any news. Okay, thank you, Miss Xia. Since Qin An already has prickly heat I can use the final value of this prickly heat Use He Ansheng Don't you want to hold a second engagement party with Xu Xinran? I want to see if this engagement party can be successful. Miss Xu, the scars on your body have become very light. Almost invisible Only once every two months I'll give you a little repair. Thank you, Dr. Kim You are simply a miracle doctor. The miraculous doctor is too exaggerated Mainly because of you. Very generous Everything in the hospital is state-of-the-art. Especially the scar removal device that treated you. There are only two in the world They were all brought here by Mr. He He has such a good feeling towards you. The scars on my body are from saving him. He paid for my scar removal It's just guilt. Not about feelings Dr. Jin, I'm leaving first. I'll treat you to dinner some other day Xu Xinran, why are you here? Xu Xinran, you were kicked out of the house by my father That's so mad What's your drink? Come here for medical treatment But you do need to do more After all, she's ugly It's not good to scare people. Xu Xinran Ouch Take it easy Don't tilt it either. Xu Xinran Dad asked me to ask you about your cooperation with He's Group Have you mentioned it to He Hansheng? That's your dad. It's not mine. If he wants to cooperate with He's Group, let him go to He Hansheng There's no point looking for me. What is Xu Xinran pretending to be? I'll test you. You really put it on. He Hansheng and your engagement party have been cancelled. Are you still in relationship with He Hansheng? Abandoned on the day of engagement Are you embarrassed? How can you still have the nerve to stay in the imperial capital? If I were you I've already found a piece of tofu to hit Why should I crash to death? He Hansheng and I cancelled the engagement party We just broke up. The couple broke up. Cancel Order Isn't it normal to break up at a wedding? At least He Hansheng and I have a legitimate name and surname. Unlike your mistress, your ancestors were so shameless. You bitch I split with you Be careful not to sprain your ankle in high heels ah Zhang Xue, you were face down on the ground just now The big fillings are all crooked. You bitch I ask you Were you present at the Zunhuang Entertainment Club three years ago? It's none of your business. If it was you who gave me the drug Your entire tablet will rot. Are you sick? how He Hansheng thinks you drugged me Xu Xinran Don't you think you're pathetic? Even I know you are not a drug addict. He Hansheng doesn't believe it Tell me about you I've taken your heart out, and you're still not yes I loved the wrong person at the beginning. I admit it. But your face is crooked and there is no way to recover You are now asymmetrical. Let's repair it now. ah I have a blind date with the little boy next door this afternoon. ah You scared me to death You didn't leave I didn't go to dinner with you yesterday. Go today Hey, Brother Hao Qiang Oh ok I see I'll be there soon Brother Huashan wants to talk to me Go eat it yourself Is he important? Are you sick? It's about my studies. I don't want to be harsh anymore. And don't you forget who I am strict with you for? If it wasn't because I blocked that knife for you I graduated a long time ago Brother Huashan, thank you so much today If it weren't for you I missed the registration for the competition. I'll treat you to a meal. You're welcome. You need to think carefully about what the teacher said. Xinran, you are the teacher's favorite student. How about taking a year off? Have you considered studying abroad? The teacher has an extra place for you now. I see I'll think about it. It's getting late Let's go eat I know a very Delicious western restaurant I guarantee that Huanshan will like it after eating it Really Now that you said so It would be my loss if I didn't go. Come on, take me to see the world. Please get in the car, sir. Brother Huaichuan, I didn't expect your internet speed to be so fast In your eyes, I am just an old antique. Although I don't often use video software But I also want to brush I also want to understand the way young people think To get close to the people I want to get close to Brother Huaqiang, please get in the car quickly Otherwise, the third sister should line up. good Help, it seems like I like you. You're really a nerve-racker. You won't see it until today. Shen Huashuai likes you, right? I saw it a long time ago. Wait until I have separated from He Hansheng and have cleared my mind. Brother Haishan, have you been here? No I am not interested in Western food. But this one tastes really good You must try it Since my junior schoolmate strongly recommended it Then I must try it If I'm addicted Then you have to be my dining partner more often. Of course no problem Since you are a familiar customer, Come and help me out. The steaks here are delicious. Then give you this. Listen to you Han Chuan is so gentle Unlike He Hansheng who always has a stern face Am I crazy? I'm actually comparing He Hansheng and Han Chuange Hello Brother Haishan's foie gras is very delicious Highly recommended You must try it Mmm delicious The taste is delicate and silky I recommend you, you won't go wrong. Look, a man takes me to dinner. Is that woman? Yunting, I heard Xu Xinran, your brother's engagement party has been cancelled. This engagement party has been cancelled. Did your brother break up with Xu Xinran? separate My brother and Xu Xinran have not broken up No breakup What the fuck is going on? Hey bro Xu Xian is cheating on you Brother Han Sheng is so nice The meal is ready Let's eat together No Loss of appetite But didn't we agree to have dinner together tonight? Brother Xu Xian wants to cuckold you I'll do it myself Didn't answer my call Brother Xu Xu saw your call He deliberately didn't answer Xu Xingshan has a Brother Huancheng, thank you for sending me home You treated me to such a delicious meal. It's my responsibility to take you home. When Huancheng arrives home, send me a message. Your phone must be turned on. Go home and say goodbye He Hasheng, are you crazy? He Huasheng, are you crazy? What do you want this phone for? No phone calls No reply to text messages You can't stand being angry about this. You didn't answer my calls before Isn't it common for you to not reply to my messages? If I do this, you'll break. I'm not afraid either Tell you straight away I just don't want to answer your call I don't want to reply your message You want to break up with me Do you want to have a relationship with your wild man? I tell you It's impossible that I won't break up with you What are you doing You let me go What to do Let me go Ahhhh Ahhhhhhh Don't cry rest assured Wedding banquet matters sorry I will marry you I will give you a bigger position. I won't marry you Never regret Sir The meal is ready No more cigarettes Thank you, auntie It's my problem to block you Remember to answer my phone call later Information to be returned I'm eating. Got it, I'll be there right away Let the vice president go on the business trip I don't have time Oh yeah Squeeze out my time for the next month What's the important thing? I'm getting engaged I have something else to go out for. I'll pick you up for dinner in the evening No need to refuse Grandma, Mr. He didn't hit you yesterday, did he? No Chen Sao Don't worry I've decided to go to Huaichuan to study abroad. He bullied you yesterday. No, I want to study abroad. Please help me with the formalities, Brother Huancheng The sooner the better Let the United States prepare as soon as possible. I want to eat seafood tonight Let's go to Mansion No. 8 Okay, I'll have someone reserve a seat. Send someone to pick me up then. I have a surprise for you I'll pick you up in person. You bitch Don't you want to give He Hansheng a surprise? Then I'll ruin the surprise. Hey, Brother Han Sheng My chest hurts Can you come see me If you are sick, call Tang Jing I'm not a doctor. Brother Han Sheng Don't you want me anymore? Do you hate me? I don't hate I didn't ignore you I just have my own job I have my own life too I can't always be around you. Did Xu Xinran say something to you? You chose Xu Xinran between me and Xu Xinran Yeah I have asked Hu Tejun to call Kong Jing. Tang Ji will come back to me soon I don't want Tang Kee I only want you Ahhhh Balls Balls ball You've had enough. Drink cold water without worry I don't want I just drink cold water I only want you Brother Tang Jing I'm hungry Let's go eat, shall we? Residence No. 8 Let's go eat seafood, shall we? well Wait a minute I'll clean it up. I can't go out like this Don't don't don't don't go up, don't go up, don't go up come out He Hansheng actually has time to pick me up for dinner This is outrageous. Could it be Xia Qingqing, the white moonlight, is no longer lethal Fortunately, I have double preparation. I don't believe I can't stimulate Xia Qingqing, this crazy woman. For you For me There's no one else around here. If it's not for you, who is it for? Quite unexpected I gave you a gift by accident. Yeah, you seem It's been two or three days since you gave me a gift. In the past, you would ask your assistant to send me gifts regularly. But you seem to have forgotten it in the past two years I don't expect to receive your gift anymore. You go in first. I'll make a call Xu Xinran said he hasn't received any gifts in the past few years Go check where the funds for these gifts went. Oh, what a coincidence Are you eating here too? Yes, I came here with He Ansheng. He's on the phone outside. I'm sorry. This is the place where Han Sheng always brings me. So I sit here out of habit. I didn't expect that Han Sheng would ask you out today. Will I disturb your meal? Won't Now that you are here Then let's eat together A lot of people That's great. I really like having dinner with you. It's just that every time I show up You don't seem very happy. Hallucination is definitely an illusion Look at my sincere eyes How do I show that I'm unhappy? I'm so happy What do you think? Qingqing is in a bad mood Ask me to bring her to dinner. I remember you came here before in Qingqing I didn't expect Xu Xinran to come in too. It was such a beautiful encounter. Han Sheng, please sit down and eat with us. You are lively I'm sorry, Brother Han Sheng I came in without permission. I didn't expect you and Xu Xian to date here Please don't be angry with me, okay? I'm not angry Brother Han Sheng Hey, ball, ball, ball How can Han Shengqing's body save you? Are you going to watch him die? You know Han Shengqingqing's body well. He couldn't bear it He Hansheng Xia Ming is a relative Holding the door like this If anything happens to him How are you going to explain this to Xia Ming? Xia Qingqing fell down Did Xu Xinran see it? Recognize the reality Where Qingqing is You will never be He Hansheng's first choice What you said is really interesting. Why is He Hansheng so jealous of Xia Qingqing? Don't you know this? Is it because of Xia Qingqing? Or because of Xia Ming Whatever the reason You have to be clear You will never be better than Qingqing If you're interested Just leave as soon as possible yes I am indeed not as good as Xia Qingqing It is very important in He Hansheng's heart. But I used my brother's life to buy a precious What is there to be proud of? I've always wanted to know Xia Ming's Death Are you sadder or is Xia Qingqing sadder? It's a blessing from God. Brother Han Sheng Don't go, I beg you, don't go I'm wrong I really know I was wrong, Han Sheng. Han Shengqingqing is in a bad mood Can't stimulate him anymore. You saw what happened today. Do you really want to kill him? Listen to you say I was the one who sent him to the doctor. sorry I'm abrupt Tang Jing You are just a doctor Do your job well Don't worry about things you shouldn't worry about Why did Xia Qingqing appear there today? Why exactly that restaurant? There are some things I don't say Doesn't mean I don't know I warn you Stop accompanying Xia Qingqing Doing those little things behind my back Otherwise you know the consequences. Mr. Ke It's my prison. Don't Mr. Ke don't want Brother Han Sheng, I love you Qingqing Hansheng seems to be serious this time Why was it I am really not as good as Xu Xinran Why did Han Sheng choose him? Don't choose me If you left Because He Hansheng just beat him up. Qingqing can't push too hard You are here Xu Xinran is over there He Hansheng can only choose one. I see Brother Tang Jing I want to be alone have a good rest Don't overthink it You want to snatch Brother Han Sheng from me? Not yet qualified Miss Xia, Mr. He and Xu Xinran will be in three days. Re-engagement Hey money brother Miss Xia, help me You must help me Don't worry about the money. Speak slowly What happened? I have been Mr. He always asks me to Buy a gift for Xu Qingzhan I bought it but I didn't give it to him. Qin An Today I had dinner with Brother Han Sheng and his friends During this time, Xu Xinran said he wanted a necklace He also said that Brother Han Sheng has been I never gave him any presents. I knew it must be Xu Xinran, the bitch, who was so noble. If it weren't for him I kept this a secret for two years. Everything is fine How could it be revealed? Now let me pay you back Where can I get money? I've already lost everything actually Brother Han Sheng said you have been following him for so long Or his direct junior He wants to give you a chance. But that's how it happened. But Xu Xinran doesn't want to. You also know that Brother Han Sheng was involved in the wedding banquet Feeling guilty towards Xu Xinran I want to do it for him again. But Xu Xinran He used Joe to say he would not deal with you. He won't hold an engagement party. Their engagement party seems to be in three days. Bitch, he won't let me have an easy time. He also wanted to I want to get engaged to Mr. He I won't let him have his wish. Hello Give me a box of birth control pills Check out there Still buying birth control pills? He Ansheng won't let you have his child Xia Bingbing Xia Qingqing's half sister How did she come? There is no way He Hansheng won't let me give birth I think she probably wants Xia Qingqing to give birth. Ranran, you are He Hansheng's girlfriend Fiancee, you should stand up. Xia Qingqing She is just a mistress who is not presentable. He Hansheng and I have cancelled our engagement Besides, I've persisted for so long. I'm tired too I'm going to give up You can't give up He Hansheng doesn't like Xia Qingqing's It's because of Xia Ming's death I took special care of Xia Qingqing. Since he gave The girlfriend's identity must be recognized by you If you give up Isn't this what Zheng Zhongxia Anqing wants? There is no way He Hansheng and I were wrong from the beginning And you know I slept with He Hansheng Everyone thinks I drugged him. Even He Hansheng thinks so He always thought I was a scheming woman. He will do anything to sleep with her How could he marry me? The engagement party was just to give me an experience. If you were the one who gave me the drug High heels will end It's you Plans for one week later Keep you first He was not in the hospital with Xia Qingqing today I am coming Come and sit down Take a look What to see You are not happy Why should I be happy? Choose a color you like. You want me to choose the flowers you send me? What do you think this is? So what is this? I don't understand. Please explain it to me. This is the overall layout of our engagement party. Look This flower hole He placed it at the entrance of our engagement party The flowers you picked just now are the ones above. We also booked a table for our wedding banquet. What style of tableware do you use? Which photo of ours will be used on the big screen? And all the decorations I don't want to marry you Why I don't want to marry him You said you didn't want to marry me Why did you give me medicine? And blocked the knife for me It has been bothering me for so many years. Now you tell me you don't want to marry me Yes, I have been pestering you for so many years. To protect you from difficulties Is it because I like you He doesn't care whether you believe it or not. Even if you are stabbed like a hedgehog in front of me now I won't stand up. As for medication This is the last time I tell you I haven't done anything like this at all good I trust you I said the wrong thing. Sorry. You didn't say Wrong words because in your heart I am the one who wants to get you A scheming woman who will do anything to achieve her goals I don't care about these things at all You don't care Or You have already accepted that I did this. You might as well tell me directly Say you don't believe me Why pretend to be so tolerant here? good You're right. Produce evidence. Produce evidence. You bastard So you have no evidence. No matter what the truth is I won't care I hope you don't mind. If you care about what others think I'll clarify it for you. Not angry anymore Han Sheng I will think of you What do you want to do? He Hansheng, if I had given you the drug, I'll take your life. you do not know You are a crow's mouth What if I get struck by lightning? That's not what I meant. He Ansheng You don't want evidence I'll put the evidence in your phone. you Brother Han Sheng How about a glass of water? Mr. Xu It's really not you Slowly open the door Mr. He fainted Mrs. Chen, please ask the security guard to take him to the hospital. Aren't you going? I'm not a doctor. It's no use going there Go call now. It's too late. He was so painful from the needle. It's strange that this stomachache is caused by excessive emotional fluctuations You said you are a person who would not be humiliated even if the sky fell My emotions fluctuate so much roll Are you angry out of shame? Let me guess It's because of Xu Xin I told you already. You are so soft-hearted towards others. Sooner or later you will regret it Did you swallow it? Shut up Oh, Han Sheng! This girl is for love Need to be cared for People give you pure and passionate love Unwavering love What did you give to her? This person will be tired. What's more, 7 years Think of you Good morning, Ms. Mr. Chen, what's going on? You should ask Mr. He in person. Hey, what are you doing? It's not you. What are you going to do? Don't touch me, Miss Xu This is Mr. He's order. oops He Hansheng, what do you want to do? The day after tomorrow is our engagement They are services Did you try on these clothes? He Hansheng, are you sick? We've all broken up. What kind of engagement You want to get engaged Go find Xia Qingqing Don't bother me Xia Qingqing I will send him abroad He won't come between us. You must make him try these things out today. yes My company has something else He Haisheng is leaving first. Hey, let's talk it over. Don't take off my clothes Damn He Hansheng It's impossible to force me to get engaged. Miss Xu, please stay in the room Before the engagement party Please don't leave So you want to put me under house arrest? Please don't embarrass me What happened to Ran Ran? I saw He Hansheng posted an invitation to your engagement party. Why didn't I hear about the day after tomorrow? I just knew it too You agreed Oh, please don't Don't fall into He Hansheng's fire pit again. I didn't agree But He Hansheng doesn't care whether I agree or not Now they have assigned a bunch of bodyguards to watch me Lock me in the villa Don't let me go out before Ding Hongyan arrives I go He Hansheng actually imprisoned It's so shameless. Where are you now I'll bring someone to rescue you. Forget it, there's no need for He Hansheng to go crazy Just let him post it. Don't join in. Adding trouble Anyway, I have already agreed to study abroad I'm leaving in two days. Did He Hansheng force you to study abroad? I I don't want to lie to you either. He Hansheng does have a big reason I'm in the country, he can really turn the tables Find it for me It's better to hide abroad Just go out and play. It's not been a long time since we last met. How come you can find me? Let's play together Mr. He This is the information you asked us to investigate yesterday. The employee in charge of the transfer is a temporary worker The cancer patient has been dead for more than two years. This is the result of your investigation It's been too long. Many clues are now lost. Han Sheng is not well The alert ran away We've all arrived at the airport. He said he needed to go to the bathroom. The person disappeared What do you eat? Hurry up and find someone to bring it back to me. And you go check for me To find out what is happening now What do you mean? Hey, what's going on? I don't know either. Jian sent it to me Did he say anything else? Didn't get back to me. Okay, okay, I know I'll be there right now Sister, where is this? What are you doing Qingqing Don't worry, I won't hurt you. Just cooperate with me. Didn't we agree to apologize to Xinran together? Why did you kidnap me? Me Of course, to torture him. I'll send him your photo first. Let him go first The problem is that tomorrow I will let He Hansheng bring back illusions What do you think he will think then? He Hansheng Sister, I will cooperate with you. I also want Xu Xinran to die You are funded by me You know my I totally believe it. Qingqing Because of your support, I was able to leave the mountains Did you know When I saw you for the first time You are like a fairy from heaven My goddess Qingqing I have been loving you silently Save him Didn't Qin An send you a message? No Did you check it? Where is the money now? You didn't do anything with the money. You are not going to deal with Qin An for me, are you? Please don't, please don't Don't wait until then Put the blame for Xia Qingqing's kidnapping on me I didn't do anything I didn't ask you to do anything. You said before that I never gave you a gift In fact, I have Qin An send me gifts for every festival. Then don't let him pay it back. He must have lost all his money long ago. He's a gambler. You force him so much He must be in a hurry. How do you know he's a gambler? I once went to a bar with Lu Sisi to drink At the door of the box, he met the debt collector. Forced to pay back Lu Sisi has a friend who knows the situation of the love case He said that he likes gambling privately. I lost a lot of money. You haven't received my gift in the past two years. Don't you find it strange? Why don't you ask me What am I asking you? If you don't give it to me, I will ask for it again. Besides, I don't like the gift you gave me. I don't care whether you send it or not yes I was wrong. Well, it's your fault that Xia Qingqing was kidnapped Don't blame me for everything. This matter really has nothing to do with you. Don't worry about it. Go take a rest Qin An, you beast What did you do to Qingqing? You ungrateful bastard. Qingqing sponsored you That's how you repay him. You bastard He Ansheng How about exchanging Xu Xinran for Xia Qingqing? What does this have to do with me? The one who asked you for money is He Hansheng The one who wants to kill you is He Hansheng You find him and ask him to change You kill him This has nothing to do with me We have no grudges against each other I won't trade Xu Xinran for Qingqing Qin An, if you release Qingqing now I can let bygones be bygones. Han Shaoqingqing So insightful and tossing He hurt Qingqing. Xu Xinran, he's fine. Return Qingqing first Find another way to save Xu Xinran I won't go Xu Xinran, why are you so selfish? Just asking you to change Jingjing I didn't let you die. Since you won't die What's the point of asking me to replace Jingjing? Besides, I heard that Xia Qingqing was kidnapped It seems that he escaped from the airport. This is because you are powerless. So you are the culprit for Xia Qingqing's kidnapping. Don't drag me down. Han Ansheng, what do you say? Do not change or not Qin An, fuck your mother Qingqing supports you You treated him like this Are you still a fucking human? He Hansheng, have you thought about it? I have three bad guys here. Xu XiaXu Xia Xu Xia Xu Xin'an Don't worry, Xiaofan I'm ready for everything I won't let anything happen to you. Xu Xinran He Hansheng really makes me sick I won't play with you anymore. Xu Xinran, I told you nothing will happen to you. Why don't you believe me? You just said you wouldn't trade me. How can you make me believe you? Catch him now. Be careful or you'll be struck by lightning Get in the car quickly. Qian has sent me the location. Now take it and change it to a machine gun He Hansheng I don't want to You know My Crow Mouth Can only be used once a day I no longer have the ability to protect myself Don't worry, nothing will happen to you this time. I hit him once I'll send you the bill later. OK, as long as the gun can be cleared Anything comes to me Get in the car Send me the address I'll drive myself I promise you'll be fine, trust me. If I'm fine, don't trade me. You really can't catch Qin An is only a matter of time. But you chose to sacrifice me So don't tell me anything to make me believe you Don't you think it's ridiculous? Qingqing I have always loved you I may not come back this time. The army should satisfy my last bit of faith Don't worry, I will dye it with a hundred times the serum for you. I let her disappear from this world In this way, He Ansheng is yours. Sister, you've done this to me. You must help me You must let Xu Glad to disappear Okay, I'll do it. You take Xu Xinran out of the car together Hand Xu Xinran over to Tang Jing Let him put Xu Xinran in his car Are you sure you want to hand me over to Tang Jing? Don't worry, I'm here Isn't it you who brought me to this situation? I'm worried when you're around This bitch How do you handle things when people run away? How can you let someone run away? Chase him, his leg is injured. He can't run far. It's dark here. How to find this? Send me the location Let someone go together Everyone search separately Must find I'll give you more money Tang Jian hit his leg He can't run far Search all I'll give each of you an extra 100,000 yuan in commission Whoever finds me will give me another 100,000 This is the deposit search The drone tracked here. Your woman has run into the forest. There were four of them who followed in to look for yes Please, there are obvious traces here. Chase Xu Xin I want to see where you can run. I want to see where you can run. Greetings I don't think I provoked you. Where does your hostility towards me come from? Is it because of Xia Qingqing? You didn't mess with me. I don't like you because of Miss Xia. But there is another reason. Xu Xinran, you are really unpopular. What is your identity? You are also worthy of He Hansheng Are you worthy of competing with Miss Xia? Who has treated you well in the imperial capital for so many years? Do you have any shame? What does all this have to do with you? besides You keep saying you did it for Xia Qingqing You didn't make him stronger. He let me sleep I'd die for him. Anyway, I have already offended He Haisheng I didn't think about quitting. As for you, you must die. You bitch I'm going to cut you into pieces. Catch him for me I won't play with you anymore. Squat He Han is crazy now So beautiful, you are here, watching me go find He Hansheng If there is an afterlife Please let me go Loving you is too tiring Director Xu Director Xu Wake up, Director Xu I didn't expect it would be the last moment of my life. I think of you in my dreams He Hansheng I don't want to see you again in my life Xu Xinran Xu Xinran Mr. He Turn around Give me clothes Walk don't want Why Was this a snake bite? I've dealt with it urgently. But he has a fever. It is normal to have a fever after being bitten by a venomous snake. I think he's a little weak now. I just need to give him some nutrient solution and serum. Next, just take good care of your body. Xia Qingqing's situation is also not good. Have you gone to see her? get this is here Brother Wang Jing Qingqing, I'm going abroad. Why No reason The treatment abroad is better Miss Liu, are you willing to go abroad with me? I I respect your choice But I may not be able to take care of you anymore. You have to be careful Brother Lan Jing Qingqing, I'm leaving This is also a look at you before dying. Brother Lan Jing I can't bear to part with you Qingqing is really leaving this time You can't protect me What do you mean you want to leave me at any moment? Mr. Tang Jian We suspect you are involved in some kidnappings. Please come with us. It hurts I'm not dead I remember He Hansheng seemed to jump down with me woke up Eat something when you wake up. Why are you jumping? Eat slowly, no one will snatch it from you. At that time, the money and the knives of the two men were all taken out. This is in their hands. What good can I do? Why don't you hold off a little longer? You should believe me He Hansheng Do you think you are worthy of my trust? Why should I trust someone who takes risks with me? I said you have zero trust in me. Why should I gamble? You're not worth my bet. I'm not worthy of your trust. He Hansheng I have a question for you You ask if I said if I was kidnapped by Qin An Qin An asked you to exchange Xia Qingqing for me Will you change? You take a rest first I'll go out Hey, stop drinking. What happened to you? He asked me If I were to exchange Xia Qingqing for him Would you like to I rely on This is really a question of death So how did you answer? You won't even lie to her. You can't even coax her. I mean I'm willing to coax her But the words came to my throat but I couldn't say them You won't trade Xia Qingqing for Xu Xin Xu Xin knows this. I won't trade Xia Qingqing for Xu Xin Because I know he can protect himself. But Xia Qingqing didn't If he goes there, he will be at the mercy of others. But women don't think so. I think he can protect himself. That's just what you think This weak woman In front of a group of vicious robbers Brains and action alone are not enough Why Women are naturally weaker than men. Do you think she can protect herself? What if she can't? Ah, she's still alive You have to admit When you face Xu Xinran You can stay calm Be sensible But when you face Xia Qingqing You can't be calm I can't be rational to be honest If it was Xia Qingqing who fell off the cliff that day I won't save him. What You said you have no romantic feelings for Xia Qingqing? No What about Xu Xinran? Do you like him? It turned out to be the claw machine you ordered when you were a child If you agree This matter can be discussed As long as you don't want This thing just didn't happen Give me two years to test him. What's the meaning If he doesn't bother, it's fine. I like it Xia Qingqing, don't you know to knock before entering? The dog ate this sauce Xu Xin, what did you do? Why does Han Sheng ignore me? Did you say something to him and he ignored you? Is it because you didn't do well enough? Was it because I wasn't gentle enough that I upset him? Impossible Han Sheng He loves me very much You must be going crazy. Did you tell him something that made him not see you? Maybe because he thinks you're dirty. What does it mean? You may not know yet. Qin An messed up your little video with him I also saw Tang Jing also saw it He ignores you Maybe it's because I'm upset. No way He won't have money. You are talking nonsense. You dare to talk nonsense You know whether it is true or not. And I have the video Do you want me to send it to you? Tell you the planet You deserve it. Want to collude with my lover to frame me Play yourself into it It's a mess. You said if I destroyed you Will Brother Han Sheng come after me? What are you going to do? If you destroy my face You can't even save your own face. Do you believe it? I don't believe it ah ah Strange, if it is sulfuric acid His background should be corrupted. Just ordinary liquid What are you doing Ahhh ah Ah Sheng brother I didn't mean to make my heart and eyes suffer. I came to see him specially Apologize to him He beat me up without saying anything. Xinran is innocent in this matter. You shouldn't get angry at him. You give him an apology. He Hansheng, are you mentally ill? Brother Han Sheng Don't you believe me? Okay, I'll prove it to you. Can you trust me now? What are you still standing there for? Send her back to the ward immediately. You don't still want me to apologize to her, do you? I'll take her back to the ward first. I'll come find you later Go quickly Oh, my quilt is wet. Ask the nurse to bring me a new quilt today. Sisi Are you okay? It's okay. I'm lucky. Can't die I heard you jumped off a cliff. Aren't I fine? I was terrified when I heard about it Who is He Han? He actually used you to exchange for Qingqing Has his conscience been eaten by a dog? He Hansheng is a dog man He became a madman for Xia Qingqing I was really blind before. Did he hear it? Just hear it. The truth is not allowed to be told Do you really plan to study abroad? I don't want to either. But you also saw He Hansheng is a bastard Xia Qingqing is keen on making trouble again I was lucky enough to survive this time. What about next time? I heard that He Hansheng jumped off a cliff for you. You really believe it? Who is He Hansheng? He can jump off a cliff for me If he could really jump off a cliff for me He can also exchange me for Xia Qingqing Contradiction So he didn't jump? It was a rumor. He did jump. But what about this problem? I thought about it carefully. I think it was when I jumped off the cliff. He immediately caught up Then he stepped on empty air. Yes, that's it. He Hansheng, that dog man He is a sophisticated egoist. I don't believe him even if he jumps off a cliff and dies for you. Whoever believes it is a fool. Sisters, don't worry about the dog man Happy When you are out of the hospital, we will go to dinner. Then I'll go visit you when you go abroad Yeah It's getting late. I should go home Please take care of yourself. Well, let's go. Bye bye Finished Why are you back again? Um My phone No thank you Xu Yiran You don't really think of me as an errand boy, do you? I think it's true for you Overkill You can ask someone else to send Xu Xinran Give you steps You have to get off or you won't have a chance Hahaha Hello Hello, is this Ms. Xu Xinran? Ah, it's me Who are you? Ah, that's it. Miss Xu, I found your marriage certificate ah Don't explain Explain what Telephone What phone? Are you talking about the marriage certificate? You haven't received any scam calls since you were a child, have you? Who would use a marriage certificate to commit fraud? How would I know? What's this got to do with you? Who is Xu Xinran marrying? With you? Did you two get married secretly? How come I don't know He said it was a scam call, do you believe it? I've never heard of this kind of scam call. oh I see Han Sheng, you are such a blockhead. Xu Xin, this is a hint to you, do you understand? What do you understand? Get married. Xu Xin hinted that you should get married. How come you can't even feel this? You think about it Did Xu Xinran answer the phone in front of you? So he didn't reply? Yes, he told you. This is a scam call. That's right Xu Xinran is hinting at you getting married Think about it, you two failed to hold your engagement parties twice. He must be angry. So Xu Xinran is just hinting that you shouldn't hold an engagement party. Direct marriage Thanks Don't you open it and see You are busy dismantling Do you like it? Yeah, I like it. So you agreed to my proposal? Let's find a time to get the certificate. Ah what Why did you suddenly propose to me? Because I got your hint. When did I hint to you? You think I'm stupid? Where is it The scam call starts with the claim of picking up a marriage certificate You're saying this because you want me to propose to you? You received such a subtle hint. I really admire you. Wow What a big one! Wow A big one Such a big one Selling it will be enough for my tuition to study abroad It can also be regarded as compensation for the loss of my youth caused by He Hansheng over the years. Since you agreed to my proposal Then don't worry about the past. Don't care You are the most sensible It's getting late. You should rest early I'll take you home tomorrow after you finish the drip. Stay here for another second. I'm about to vomit Can you find a channel to sell it? This big you bought Sent by He Hansheng He proposed to me. No, what does he mean now? Size does not fit He proposed I gave you a ring that doesn't fit. I didn't take it seriously. You really took it seriously. This ring is so big, it should be able to sell for a lot of money. Please find me a channel. You are also a talent Wait, I'll find you something now. Hey wait wait Don't ask first I leave the ring to you Sell it after I leave. I sentenced Asked Mr. Xiao He Hansheng knows He's going crazy again You reminded me that I can't sell it domestically. You leave the ring Come, I'll find you resources. Sell abroad I'll transfer the money to your account then. Hey, your sister oops Han Sheng proposed to me just now This is the engagement ring he gave me. Actually, I care about the fact that he exchanged me for you. I don't want to agree at all But he just knelt on the ground Crying and repenting, saying that you will only love me from now on And said that I always treated you as my sister If I don't like it I'll keep my distance from you from now on Well, what can I do? I can only be soft-hearted. This ring is so big and beautiful. At least 10 carats. That's tens of millions. Han Sheng really loves me the most Hahahaha so cool Han Sheng proposed to me just now This is the engagement ring he gave me. Xia Qingqing, this is the hospital Not your home Please keep quiet and maintain basic quality Brother Han Sheng didn't propose to Xu Xinya, right? The ring in this video was also bought by Xu Xinya herself Right? He Hansheng and Xu Xinran are an engaged couple It was normal for him to propose to Xu Xinran And that ring couldn't have been bought by Xu Xinran Because this ring is called the Heart of True Love That's Mrs. He's representative. There is only one in the world Han Sheng will not propose to him He just felt guilty. Xia Qingqing Your brother lost his life trying to save He Hansheng. This has happened for so many years He's always felt guilty. I believe you should have felt it He feels more guilty towards you than towards Xu Xinxin Longer than being soft on Xu But why didn't he give you this ring? It is like this Doesn't he want to? That's not the case. It's not because you don't deserve it. That's not the case. Brother Haisheng, he likes me He is special to me. Stop dreaming Xia Qingqing, you were kidnapped by Qin An You know exactly what happened. Video Police There are Just based on this matter You can't enter the He family. I was forced Maybe you were forced by Qin An But you were kidnapped by Qin An Is this collusion or coercion? You and Qin An both know very well besides Don't go crazy in the hospital Ahhhh I have used up these 3 bottles of water today. You can be discharged from the hospital. What about after returning home? Need to rest Oh yeah Remember to drink plenty of water Toxins need to be eliminated. Thanks Didn't you wear the ring that He Hansheng gave you? In the drawer You just put such valuable things in the drawer. I still want to wear such a valuable thing on my hand It's really true love. What is true love? What about this ring? It's called True Love She is the representative of the future wife of the He family. He chose to give this ring to you. It seems that he really wants to marry you This ring Every new owner I will change the ring setting again The initials of the new owner will be engraved on the ring setting. You can check to see if your initials are in there. Is your name in it? It's indeed my name. I'm so happy and excited Oh, good, good No more words needed I understand your joy and excitement at this moment. You Prepare to welcome the bright future of Mrs. He A bright future yes A bright and brilliant future besides Isn't He Hansheng's future bright and beautiful? Oh well I won't tell you. I have other patients. If you need anything, remember to ring the bell. Why Remember to keep it well That's the He family's heirloom. rest assured I will definitely sell the He family heirloom for a good price Hello Hello Is the water finished? Put a little I have something to do today I can't pick you up. I see You go and get busy I'll go back and have dinner with you in the evening Then I'm hanging up Brother Han Sheng promised to pick you up He was discharged from the hospital but he can't go. Because he wants to take me to worship my brother Xu Xinran, if you have self-awareness You should know He Hansheng will never let me go Let me help you Sea cucumber A few days ago Participated in an event I heard about you when I came back. Later I asked Sisi for your ward number I'm back Does it hurt? No pain But I'm in pain Huashan Brother Has the date for going abroad been set? It's settled Saturday night 10:20 Brother Huashan, please help me pack my luggage then. I'll meet you at the airport. OK Haishan brother Thank you for this time I'll treat you to a meal. Okay, what do you want to eat? Well, let's eat something light. After all, I just got out of the hospital. I happen to know a good meal What about the food inside? All are medicinal grade I'll take you there. There is also such a store Wait a moment Let's go Brother Han Sheng Is that Xu Xinran who got on the bus? Didn't you say you were coming to pick him up? Feed you Is the drip finished? Already finished filling I've been discharged from the hospital You take a taxi. My friend is coming to pick me up I went back with him. Who is your friend? He Han said to pay attention to the tone of your voice You said you would pick me up. You don't have time to stand me up. I didn't ask you what you were going to do. I understand and respect you again So don't interrogate me like a criminal. What qualifications do you have to be so confident? This candy? I'm not a child anymore Why give me candy? Because eating candy makes people happy. I'm not unhappy You broke up with He Hansheng So is it because of him that you went abroad to study? It's because of him Because he's crazy I have to leave Cherish life Stay away from crazy people You still it's me to realize You still know how to come back? I thought you would stay the night at Xia Qingqing's place today. Today is Xia Ming's death anniversary I accompanied him to pay tribute to Xia Ming. Well, today is Xia Ming Memorial Day. I understand that you accompany Xia Qingqing excusable I understand why you go to accompany her on my birthday I'm OK with you going to coax her on our anniversary You said you would pick me up I forgive you for turning around to pick her up. But He Hansheng I'm just an orphan I don't know anyone in the capital. You don't come to pick me up Can't I ask someone else to pick me up? Xia Qingqing is just my sister She is not in good health I took care of her for Xia Ming. There is no private relationship between us Why do you care so much? Xia Qingqing is just your sister Then she is just my Huaichuan brother I don't have any personal feelings for her. I'm just purely grateful to her Why are you so angry? That's different It's really different You showed concern for Xia Qingqing On call I just had a meal with Brother Huanshan I'm at a loss too Oh, my favorite star is having a concert again. Next time I will ask Huaichun to go with me Hi, you are busy I know I understand Xu Xinran Oh I'm listening Don't shout so loudly, boy. Director Xu, you must make trouble with me, right? He Haisheng, I never wanted to make trouble with you. There are more of these things today. What do you want to do with Xia Qingqing in the future? I will immediately find a man to accompany me. You are a freshman I'll do 15. I'll endure it if I can. If you can't bear it, just leave. You won't have this chance. He Hansheng's kitchen is on fire Xu Xinran, what do you want to do? Just giving you a warning This time it's a fire at home Next time it might be your commercial building. Xu Xinran, are you crazy? What do you want? What do you want? He Hansheng never does what I want But what do you want? People can't be too mean You can't be both a demon and a monster I will treat you the way you treat me You don't care about me I won't care about you either. My attitude is to break up The road leads to the sky, each taking his own side If you don't Just hold it for me. This kind of thing will happen countless times today. I still say that Endure it if you can If you can't bear it, just leave Tell me, what happened? Yesterday was fine. Why did we break up again today? I didn't pick up Xu Xinran What did I do when I accompanied Xia Xinxin to visit the grave? Are you mentally ill? He has said this is the last time The last time How many times has he said it's the last time? Which time is not the last time? yes I took care of Xia Qiqing a little bit But why does he care so much? I have promised to marry her. I've already proposed to him. What is he thinking about? Yeah, what about you? To Xia Qingqing Just some special care. This is the same reason Where is Xu Xinran? He just had a meal with his brother Huaichuan. Look at the stars and the moon Flowers and moon Can't you be more generous? Please help me call Xu Xinya over I have something to tell her Say what you want to say. You don't have to care about Xia Qingqing He has promised me Today is the last time And he is already preparing materials . At most, it will be in his one month He will leave I don't believe it What I said is true He Ansheng You know he's been in this situation many times. Why should I trust a repeat offender? And you who don't keep your word? You disappoint me Not once or twice But for 7 years good Whether he leaves or not From now on I mean every word I say. good Then I'll give you another chance Within three days Any time Between Xia Qingqing and I You must firmly choose me I'll forgive you, okay? good Help him pick out a dress. It's Mr. He and Ms. Xu. What are your requirements for the dress? It will be all right There is a fishtail skirt in the store that is particularly suitable for your temperament This dress is called Mermaid Love Designed by the famous designer Jack There are only two in the world What about the other one? In the hands of the British royal princess There is another one It's here This one Hello, Mr. Ms. Xu, do you want to try it? No I'm leaving tonight anyway. Pack the food for me. Thank you Mr. He and Ms. Xu for your support I wish you a happy life Miss Xia Mr. He will take Miss Xu to a cocktail party the day after tomorrow Choosing a dress Take a photo of Xu Xinran's dress for me I have a big surprise for you You must be surprised You are beautiful today Han Sheng, am I beautiful? Very beautiful I am beautiful, I know Brother Han Sheng Isn't this the love of mermaids? It is said that there are only two One piece is in the collection of a foreign princess Another one fell into the Empire So which of you two is wearing the real thing? Do you really need to ask? Comparing Xia Qingqing's dress with Xu Xinran's Obviously the difference is not one or two levels Besides, Xu Xinran was standing next to He Hansheng. She is He Hansheng's female companion Will she wear fake ones? Brother Ansheng What I wear is real. I'll go change it. I'll change it myself Not that you Here are I have spare dresses in my lounge. You go change it What if I don't change? good Stop making trouble Since we are going to make trouble Then make a bigger fuss Small fights are so meaningless Right Xu Xinran, you dare to hit Han Shengge Why do you hit him? Just hit it. What if I hit you? You two are such a bastard, one is a jerk and the other is a scumbag. Lock it up now Don't harm me Xu Xinran Brother Han Sheng Qingqing Doctor He, are you really not going to care about Qingqing? You promised my brother Qingqing was hurt because of you I wish you left today It's betrayal to my brother. This is the clothes for you. Wait for me to change it. Thank you, Your Majesty Hello, the number you dialed is powered off. Going abroad What mentality Quite uneasy After all, it's my first time going abroad. But he's very adaptable, don't worry. Don't worry, I will always be with you I won't leave you alone Thank you, Brother Huanshan Let's go Director Xu Mr. Xu, please don't leave. Mr. He and Ms. Xia were previously Dr. Tang. Doctor Tang knows the specific situation best You are doctors You don't know what's the situation of this patient? Why can't I detect vomiting blood? This is Dr. Zhou. A Chinese medicine practitioner Since they can't see Then let him try Dr. Zhou, please This patient is in good health No discomfort He is weak I often feel dizzy. I vomit blood anytime, anywhere. This is normal His body is indeed weaker than normal people. As for fainting and vomiting blood Doesn't happen often Will it be stimulated? No He was vomiting blood in front of many people just now. This is chicken blood Not human blood So Xia Qingqing has always been pretending A chicken blood bag in the mouth I will vomit at any time What you said is true I'll prove it to you You are pretending No, Brother Anren Listen to my explanation good I only like you I am not wrong There is nothing wrong with being a mistress There's nothing wrong with pretending to be sick There's nothing wrong with making trouble You hurt an innocent woman in the name of love How dare you say you stink? He deserves it. Can't tell Han Sheng doesn't care about him at all Han Sheng doesn't like him at all He's the one who did it. Take it again Life-saving grace To threaten Brother Han Sheng Brother Han Sheng just got engaged to him. He doesn't deserve it. Enough Who said I don't like him? Who said this? Who needs to say this? Everyone knows that you don't like Xu Xinran He Hansheng, I am so disappointed in you Xu Xinran told me firmly at the time You won't last more than three days. I didn't believe it at the time Now see what you did Who still believes that you like Xu Xinran Today's situation Who can't see The one Xia Qingqing is wearing is a high-level You actually asked Xu Xinran to change Your heart is really biased You trampled on his dignity. Who still believes that you like him? You deserve to lose Xu Xinran Believe me I'm being played around by you This feels great, right? It's not like that. I don't have any Han brother. Mood From now on I won't care about you anymore Don't show up in front of me again. Otherwise I gave you I will make you lose twice as much I don't want Ansheng. Don't go Brother Ansheng Xu Xinran, don't go I know I'm wrong Don't leave me, okay? What makes you feel He Haisheng I, Xu Xinran, can turn back if you ask me I know Mr. Xu, I know it's because of Xia Qingqing I'm indifferent He Hansheng, you still don't understand The feelings between us Not just because of Xia Qingqing What is that Because of you Don't love me at all Do you still remember what your grandfather asked you? Asking if you want to marry me You said if I wasn't a bother You marry me All these years I try not to be a nuisance to you. Whatever you say, I do I'll follow you wherever you go So many years I don't have a self at all Listen to me finish my words I tried to forgive you But every time when I'm about to forgive you You hit me hard again Because you feel that no matter what you do I will still love you I'll come back to find you He Hansheng I don't want to love you anymore I am also human I will be tired too I'll say it one last time us after Never see you again I can't tell.