In Star Wars, the term Superweapon refers Base that held immense power. Well there are 25 major superweapons in the we're covering them all. We'll start with the canon only weapons This list is specifically for Death Star-like Some ships like the Malevolence in the Clone are technically classified as superweapons major, planet-devastating, galaxy-threatening The earliest known canon superweapon is the It was powered by a massive kyber crystal. Thousands of years before the Battle of Yavin, attacked. The temple's weapon was fired, and petrified as the Scourge of Malachor. Next up is of course the Galactic Empire's A battle station the size of a moon, its primary giant kyber crystal. It had the ability to destroy an entire planet It was destroyed by the Rebel Alliance during Its successor was the Death Star II. It was larger than the original Death Star, same basic idea. It was also destroyed by the Rebel Alliance The final canon superweapon is Starkiller Originally an ice planet in the Unknown Regions, weapon with enough power to destroy entire It used the energy from nearby stars to charge called quintessence to fire a lightspeed beam and destroy an entire system. It was destroyed by the Resistance. Moving onto Legends, the earliest known superweapon 100,000 years before the Battle of Yavin, of the Force Wielders. It had the ability to project a tractor beam or even stars. It could then move its target, or destroy collapse its core. It wasn't destroyed until forty years after The Star Forge was built by the Rakatan Infinite Similar to Starkiller Base, it used the power of endless ships, droids, or other war machines. It was destroyed about 26,000 years later at the end of the Jedi Civil War. The Cosmic Turbine was a planet-sized structure Not much is known about it other than a group succeeded in destroying themselves and the Battle of Yavin. The Planechanga were Hutt superweapons that They were able to weaponize space rocks by open a planet's core. They were likely destroyed during the Hutt The Infinity Gate was a network of structures the galaxy. The gates could also be used to fire Infinity into infinity, presumably killing all life The Dark Reaper was created 5,000 BBY and Force energies. It would then convert that energy into highly Hammer Station was a prototype battle station It used a gravity cannon that could launch speeds. The Mass Shadow Generator was used by Revan It used the gravity of a planet to crush all the target planet in the process. The Desolator was a Sith, ship-mounted planet on the planet Uphrades, but was destroyed The Shawken Device was designed to be the It was intended to destroy the planet Shawken, the galaxy, which would in turn destroy more a chain reaction that could destroy all life It was never fired, and it's unclear whether The Trigon One was a weaponized satellite had the power to destroy an entire planet, The Infant of Shaa was a relic that could in one burst strong enough to rip a planet Jedi Master Yarael Poof was able to successfully The Death Star Prototype was the predecessor It was built simply as the frame and was only which still rendered it completely uninhabitable. The Orbital Nightcloak was a network of satellites Without access to its sun, the planet and The Tarkin was similar in idea to the Death that could destroy a planet. However it was the size of a warship rather Along those same lines, the Conquerer was same superlaser. The Sun Crusher was one of the most powerful It was small in size, but nearly indestructible. It had the power to destroy entire star systems it to supernova. It was destroyed by sending it into the Maw The Galaxy Gun was yet another planet destroyer It fired hyperdrive capable projectiles with The Empire's World Devastators used tractor apart. They could then collect the planet's natural The Darksaber was built by Durga the Hutt Its design was based on original plans for by Bevel Lemelisk, the Death Star's chief It was simply created to be a superlaser in Yo'gand's Core was a biotechnological a dovin basal to manipulate the gravity of The creature would pull a planet's moon the life there. And that's all the major superweapons of Again there are many other weapons that are have nearly the amount of destructive power I'm thinking sometime down the line I'll abilities. If you liked this video you might like the or every AT-series walker. You can see both those videos here. And if you haven't already please consider Wars videos every Monday through Friday! As always, thank you for watching and may