I'm sorry that Manping hasn't come down yet. I'm going to hurry her up. I'm sorry. Do n't be in a hurry. Thank you for some snacks. Thank you. Thank you. Tell me. Tell me. Chairman Yang won't even come to such a grand party. Is it so strange that he really didn't give his son-in-law any face? Is it so strange that a poor boy with no identity or ability married a consort like Yang Manping just because of his face? How could the emperor like Yang Manping? I'm talking about you. My uncle is really too much. He asked me for this job at the beginning and now he just left. What do you want me to do? I'm sorry. I'm sorry. He didn't do it on purpose. He didn't do it on purpose. Why are you yelling here? Did I tell you that tonight is an important party? Do n't make mistakes. I'm sorry. We had a little situation just now. I'm dealing with it. Uncle, I'm sorry. My uncle, he really didn't mean it. He really left because of something urgent. I'm willing. Finish all these things for my uncle. I won't charge you. Stop talking. You're a kid. How can you help us finish it? Foreman Chen, what are you doing? The guests who came today are all very important people. My name is Qian Dingzhu Wan. You can't make any mistakes. You arranged for such a dirty child to come over. Why don't you take me seriously? I didn't. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Didn't I just drive her away quickly? Go away quickly. You're sorry for me. Dad, who works for my uncle, has something to say. Why take it out on this child? Besides, you are holding a charity party tonight, which will make people laugh. Leave this child alone. Don't send her away. If anyone asks When you get up, say that she is the distinguished guest I specially invited. This will be more in line with the purpose of today's party. What do you want to eat? Ask the foreman to bring it to you. Don't go hungry. Thank you, Grandpa. It's really not necessary because I just ate it secretly. I'm now I just want to help my uncle finish these things. Don't worry, your uncle's salary will not be less than a dime. And you have to accept my invitation to attend this banquet. Really, foreman, don't forget what I just said to Man Ping. Let me tell you that this house is too noisy. I will go out for a walk and wait until the party is over. I will come back. Dad, the birthday boy is here. Everyone, please be quiet. Thank you for your generous donations today to help the poor and helpless children in the orphanage. Thank you for participating in this grand event. Now Let my little daughter play a song for everyone. It turns out that this is Ye Lin's home. Ye Lin was already like a princess in ordinary life, and now she is even more beautiful. Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday to you. Make a wish. Make a wish. How come you are so beautiful ? You play the piano so well. Thank you, aunt. Thank you, uncle. Yu Fei. Yu Fei, why are you here? My uncle and I work here. It turns out that this is This is your home, yes, Xiaolin's father. This is my friend Yu Fei. Yu Fei is my father. He is a very caring person. He is the one who organized the party today. My uncle, my good father, when Liu Xiaohui bullied me, it was Yu Fei who helped me. Yu Fei, I will also help you when you are in trouble. Ping Tao, why are you here? Everyone is looking for you. Mom, who is this? I don't remember inviting such a child. Dad invited her. Her uncle brought her here. Who knows her? My uncle left her temporarily and left her alone here. Dad thinks that since today is our Anzheng Group's charity party, we should treat this child with love and tolerance to make this party more meaningful. Dad really knows how to do it. I'm causing trouble and don't even look at what the occasion is today. Forget it, let 's go over there quickly. Chairman Wang wants to chat with you, Mom Yu Fei. In fact, my mother doesn't mean any harm. I know she doesn't mean any harm. She really loves you. I wish you the best. Happy birthday to you. Thank you. In fact, today is also my birthday . That's such a coincidence. I wish you a happy birthday too. Thank you . Let's go. Just follow me wherever you go. Don't let my brother find out or he will come to cause trouble again. Let's go. Yu Fei. Come in, this is my room. Yu Fei is sitting there. It's so beautiful. There are so many toys. My dad bought this from abroad for you. I don't want it. I have to help my mom work, so if I don't have time to play, just take it. My parents also I want to take my brother and I to live in England. I can't take so many toys with me. Just take them. I really don't want such a good toy. It would be bad if I accidentally break it. Yu Fei's pair of dancing shoes. I give it to you. I don't want it. Just take it. Even if I thank you for helping me last time, just take it. Yu Fei, today is your birthday. These dancing shoes are my birthday gift to you. Thank you, you're welcome. Yu Fei, it's raining. Lao Chen is holding an umbrella. You are a child. No one at home will come to pick you up. Thank you grandpa for caring about me. I can go back by myself. It's raining so heavily. I'll take you back. Thank you grandpa. I really don't need it. I can do it by myself. It's so dark and dark. It's raining. It's not dangerous to walk back by yourself. You will get sick. Besides, you are also my invited guest. I should send you back. Thank you, grandpa. Where do you live? It's over on Tiantong Road. You are Ye Lin's grandpa. Do you know us? Ye Lin, you and her are classmates, not me. I'm the daughter of her school vegetable aunt. I happened to know her, and she even gave me a gift today. I'm a little embarrassed to come here to eat, take, and earn money. I almost want to return my reward to you. You kid is so funny when you talk. That kid's eyes look a bit like Xiaolin's. Let's drive away. Mom, I'm back. Mom, Mom, I'm finally back. Your uncle is filming a movie in the middle of the night. Stop, why don't you turn around and look at me to talk? What are you taking? Sneaky, take them out. Who stole these dancing shoes? I didn't steal your things, Ye Lin. I forgot your things, Ye Lin. I forgot that they are so beautiful. Don't let your shoes get dirty in the kitchen and you said you didn't steal them. I've seen them. They are obviously Ye Lin's. You were a thief at a young age and you stole them. What will you do when you grow up ? Mom, I didn't steal them. This is what Ye Lin said. The place where my uncle and I are currently working as part-time workers is what Ye Lin's family said. If you go to Ye Lin's house with your uncle, tell me what nonsense your uncle is talking about. Did he make trouble? Uncle has nothing. He said that when the party just started, my uncle rushed off to film. Mom, believe me, I really didn't steal it. Ye Lin said that her family was going to live in England. She wanted to keep it as a souvenir for me, so I took it to England. Don't I even have the chance to see my daughter from a distance? Even if she doesn't want you, you are not qualified to take things that don't belong to you. You are vain at a young age. Do you really think that you can be like Ye Ye if you wear these shoes? Are you going to become a rich lady like Lin? Don't even think about it. I won't give you a chance. Mom, I haven't done anything wrong. Why are you being mean to me? Your existence is a wrong thing. If it were n't for you, I wouldn't be so miserable. Uncle said But don't you regret giving birth to me? How could you say such things? Why won't you like me no matter what I do? Why can Ye Lin's mother like her so much but I can't get your love? Don't compare me to Ye. Lin's mother did n't educate you well than she does today. You just can't recognize your own destiny. Get up. Mom, don't, don't tear it up. Mom, don't tear it up. If I draw a picture, I can win a prize in a competition. Then I will go to an art class, so don't tear it up. What is your destiny? You are not allowed to make a decision. Mom, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. What's wrong with Xiaofei? What are you doing? Sister, why are you tearing her things? Why did she mess with you? Should I cultivate her well and make her like her father? Will she become a wolf-hearted guy? It's impossible. I would rather she be like me and be nothing but a poor person for the rest of her life. Because your mother is in a bad mood today, uncle turned around and said to her, uncle, please stop saying what you said. It's all lies. I hate my mother. I will never like my mother again. Xiaofei, Xiaofei, where are you going? Now I see you standing in front of me and I think you are so strange. Do you know that you are still the sister I used to be? Since when did you become so vicious? Do you know why Xiao Fei is saving money so hard ? She's not doing it for herself, she's doing it for you. She knows that you have asthma and burning briquettes that don't work well can easily make you sick, so she wants to save enough money until winter. When I bought you better quality coal, she was only nine years old and she already knew that she cared about you and took care of you. Isn't she envious of her classmates who bought new stationery, new clothes, and new toys? She wasn't even willing to give them snacks. She bought it for herself with only a few cents, and helped you save and save, trying to save enough change for you. Why did she do this? Does she want you to praise her? No, she wants you to give her a hug, even a smile. Okay, is this too much to ask? I know you hate me, I know you hate that bastard, that bastard, Ye Pingtao, but that was your previous generation, you can't let her bear all this, you know, it has nothing to do with her, she is a child, she is innocent, you say your fate I think her life is more miserable than yours. She shouldn't be born in this family. She shouldn't be your daughter. I'm done. Xiaofei, Yu Feiyu, a nerd, came over and saw our family. Yu Fei didn't. What's wrong? Uncle Qiang was told by her mother. He ran away after saying that. Damn it, help me find her. Yu Fei. Did any of you see my house? Yu Fei. Yu Fei. Yu Fei. Yu Fei. Yu Fei. Yu Fei. Yu Fei. Yu Fei. Ye Lin. Ye Lin, you forgot your things. You have forgotten Ye Lin, and you have forgotten Dong You. Why, no matter how hard I try and obey my mother, she doesn't like my mother. If she is so unreasonable, then I will never like her again. I don't want her anymore. Your existence is nothing. It's a wrong thing. Your existence is a wrong thing. If it weren't for you, I wouldn't be so miserable. If my mother did n't regret giving birth to me, then what exactly she didn't regret about gave birth to me. I ca n't guess. I never expected it. His father is so cruel because of money. The child's life is at stake. Boss, who do we really want to give him to so that his father owes us money? He is unkind and I am unjust. Everything is going as planned. You dig it first and I go to the front to look after it. Where did you come from, you damn girl? Come on, come on, don't run, what's the matter? What's your name? Boss, they ran to the mountain pass. Such a useless thing, pull me. My feet are sprained. Hurry up and catch up. Stop, catch him, catch him. Stop. It's so annoying. Kill her. They have to bury her alive. Don't go, you stinky girl, let's go. I can't run anymore. Leave me alone. You can't run. They'll kill you. Come on, stop making trouble. I haven't eaten all day and night. I really can't run anymore. You can't leave quickly. Remember what my uncle once said to me. No matter how difficult things are for you, don't give up. Those who persevere until the end will never lose. Let's go. Don't make trouble again. I gave up. What's the use of persisting ? How can there be adults who don't want their own children? There must be a misunderstanding between you. There is no misunderstanding because I am not my father's biological child. I was just adopted from an orphanage. I thought that as long as I worked hard enough and was obedient, he would treat me like his own child and love me. But I didn't expect to be sad. In fact, I'm not any better than you. I came here alone today just because my mother doesn't like me. You who secretly came here to cry are not your parents' biological child. I am my mother's biological child. But because I look like my father, my father doesn't want my mother anymore. My mother will be angry when she sees me. I look like this now. I see. I will never get my mother's love in my life. I thought that as long as it is a biological child, parents will sincerely love it. It turns out that there are parents who don't like their biological children. I'm sorry. I shouldn't say these things to make you sad. It doesn't matter. I'm used to it. I think we should leave first. If the bad guys catch up later, we will be in trouble. Remember, even if our parents don't love us, we still have to love ourselves. Let's go. I found it. I didn't find it. I didn't ask knowingly. Look at me coming back alone. You said if you found it, I can't figure it out. Isn't it just a pair of shoes given by a friend? Do you need to be so angry? Is there something wrong with her? You need to educate her. Please, can you find a good reason? You are so scolding and so sad. Normally she is smiling. You forced me to run away from home. I can't say any more. I'll be angry. I still go. I'll continue to look for her. I'll go with you. Two people are better than one person. I hope you will know how to care about her. You usually do. In front of her, you need to give her a little more care. Do you know how happy she will be? How happy will she be? How brilliant will she be? Okay, just wait at home and I'll go find her. Anyway, there's always someone at home. Maybe she'll be back soon. Now that I'm here, I'm a man, we should be safe. The bad guys will definitely not chase us, right? This place is very hidden, right? Look, monkey, it's okay, monkey, don't be afraid. The monkey is not a lion, it won't eat. Give it to us, or let's find something to do. You're so wet. Oops, those boys will definitely default on their debts again. I'm sorry. You were calling me brave just now. Now let you know that I like making money. Do you think I'm embarrassed? Ah, no, really, that's fine. I'll do a little trick for you. You see, you see the three little pigs and the seven dwarfs. Then I will draw it for you. There are twenty people in total. Twenty people. See, hello. I'm the Three Little Pigs. Hello, I'm the Seven Dwarfs. You come too. This is your weapon. This is my weapon. Don't come over. Don't come over. Don't come over. Do n't come over. Who dares to come over? What's wrong with you? I didn't feel anything when I ran. Stop now. I feel a little cold when I come down. What should I do if you have a fever? Let's keep running. This way you won't get cold. I really can't run anymore. How can you run if you haven't even eaten? Either you wait for me and I'll help you. It's too dangerous to look for fruit to eat. It doesn't matter. I'll look for it nearby. Wait and put on my shoes. Don't let your feet get hurt. If there are monkeys, there must be fruits. When we eat cakes, sesame seeds will fall out. Monkeys must be able to do it too. What's your name? I said I don't know your name yet. I found it. I found the fruit. We have some fruit to eat. Where are you going? It's already dawn. Why is there no news yet? Brother Xiaoju is wronged. Today is the daughter's dance. If the day of the competition is not good, we must first find Yu Fei and then talk about Uncle Qiang, Aunt Ming, and Aunt Ming. What's wrong with Yu Yang, what's wrong with Ning Yang? I just went to school and heard my neighbor say, what's going on over there, over the river, over there, over the river, over there? Tell me quickly, over there, over there. Yesterday, when Yu Qiang asked us all to look for Yu Fei, I thought it might be here. The children just don't listen to the old love. Come here to play in the water. Sister Yu is here, is this right? Xiaofei's is Yu Fei's, yes, it was broken a long time ago. I haven't taken it to heart. Give, give, let. Where is Yu Fei from our family? My sister, Xiao Fei's shoes, Xiao Fei's shoes, it's impossible for our family, Xiao Fei. If she is so sensible, she won't be so stupid and won't do such a thing. I'm telling you, don't talk nonsense. Our family Yu Fei won't do such a thing . Yes, I can't tell. I can't tell. It's just that these shoes are here. These shoes are here. Well, if the shoe really fell off, you should have gone home long ago. It's been a day and a night, right? This river has drowned three people this year. Okay, stop talking. Xiao Fei, be careful. Yu Qiang, be careful. Be careful, do n't pull me. Let go, don't pull me. Let go. Xiaofei, Xiaofei, Xiaofei, Xiaofei. It will be fine. Xiao Fei, please don't do anything stupid. Why are you so upset with your mother? Isn't it just a drawing competition? If you can draw one more picture, it will be great. You haven't seen your uncle become a big star yet. Why are you so stupid? Mom, Xiaofei, do you know why I came so late today? It's because the teacher talked to me. She said she wanted to recommend me to participate in the painting competition. Mom, let me help you up. I do n't need you to help me when I get up. Are you sure you've got everything? Don't forget your dance clothes, shoes, etc. Don't worry, you've brought them all. Didn't you check them all just now ? Wait, there's one more thing. Mom Zhang, did you get the drink I asked you to prepare? I'm ready. It's not here. Let's take a walk with peace of mind. Why are you more nervous than Xiaolin? I think you should just stay at home and forget about it. How about that? She participates in every competition. Okay, okay. Just don't be nervous, okay, let's go quickly. It's too late. Come on, get in the car. Slow down. Slow down, good boy. Slow down. I'm uncle. Where are you? Yu Fei. Come back. Uncle misses you. Yu Fei. Be honest. Be honest. You have to rest assured. Ah, the nurse sister will give you an injection and some medicine in a while. You have to cheer up and you'll be fine. Come on. What's wrong with you? What's wrong with you? What's wrong with you? Tell me where he is. I don't know. If I don't tell you, I'll kill you. Tell me if you don't. Come on. Tell me. He said I don't know where he is, I'm here, stinky boy, let's go, stinky boy, let's go, haven't you hidden, why are you coming out? Boss, boss, hurry up, otherwise you will die. Where can you run? None of you can run away. Buried alive, don't move. We are the police. Don't move. Don't run. You saved me. I'm very grateful to you. Unfortunately, I still don't know your name. My name is Zhang Hefan. I will come back to find you. I will definitely come back to find you. Shi Gong's name v. Yu Fei is an eight-year-old girl. We couldn't find it no matter how hard we looked. Later, we found just this shoe by the river. Fill out the information carefully. We will send someone to find it. Old Liu. Borrow a place. Borrow a place for the little girl to take a nap. She's exhausted. No problem. Wait a minute. Xiaofei. Yes. Xiaofei. Yes. Xiaofei. Yes. Xiaofei. Yes. Xiaofei. Yes. Bingfei. Sister. Yes. Xiaofei. Yes. Well, she is so brave. She is still a child and she has to take risks like this. It must be because your uncle usually tells you about making movies. There are too many things about making movies. Idiot, that is fake. If you want to be a hero, you have to consider the situation. But it doesn't matter. No matter how brave and strong a child is, he is always bullied by his mother in this way. The pain is unforgettable and will be a lifelong shadow. If such a cute child is placed in someone else's home, he must hold it in his hand for fear of falling. Hold it in your mouth for fear of melting. It's too pitiful. You didn't respond when I said so much. I'm telling you. I really don't understand. What can you do if you care more about her and love her more? If you give me a reason, your Is the heart made of stone? Or is it because you can't forget the original hatred? But this reason is too far-fetched, okay? Sometimes I really wonder if you are her biological mother. The crew asked me to film a movie. I have to go to Yu Fei first. I'll leave it to you to take care of her. Sister, don't hurt her again. She's so pitiful. Classmates, let us congratulate Ye Lin with the warmest applause. She has won honors for our school and won the championship in the dance competition. Thank you, students, thank you to the teacher and the principal. Yu Fei Yu Fei Yu Fei Where is Aunt Wang Yu Fei She didn't come today I won the dance competition today I wanted to share it with her Since she didn't come I'll come find her tomorrow Yu Fei She won't come tomorrow either Yu Fei She wouldn't come tomorrow. Why, why did something happen to her? Mom, wake up. Are you hungry? Are you hungry? I cooked porridge, Mom, I'm full. Thank you, Mom. I'll wash the dishes first. You sit down. I have something to tell you. I haven't treated you well since then, and I haven't even really cared about you being well fed and clothed. This time I'm so mean to you for scolding you for a trivial matter. You must hate me. I haven't hated my mother. It's just that my mother doesn't like me. I really can't like you. I'm sorry. I was too selfish back then. I shouldn't have kept you by my side. I should have given you up for adoption. If you had followed those good parents back then, your fate today would never have been like this or even worse. I'll be worse than Ye Lin. Mom, I really never thought about comparing myself to Ye Lin. I said the wrong thing that time. Don't be angry. Mom, don't be angry. Mom, listen to me and never say it again. Don't you ever talk about adopting me and giving me away ? I beg you, okay? I beg you, Mom, didn't you say that, Mom, didn't you say that, you don't regret giving birth to me at all? I don't regret it. It's not this, what is that? I really don't know. This is not something your child should ask. Don't ask anymore. You are a well-behaved and sensible child. You have never complained or resented an irresponsible mother like me. Because of me, I can't keep you by my side to suffer. I thought about it for a long time and decided to give you to your father and let him take you away. Mom, I do n't want it. I don't want to separate from you. I don't want to separate from you. You must not want to leave me. Yeah, please don't let me go. You won't have a good life if you follow me. It's decided like this. I'm going to find your dad now. Mom, don't leave. Mom, listen to me. You listen to me. Mom, listen to me. From now on. I won't make you annoying anymore, okay? I can't possibly like you. Don't you understand? Don't you understand? Mom, I will really be good from now on. Mom, I will be really good from now on. I won't talk back to you, Mom. I beg you. After you marry me, you won't say anything or quarrel. Mom, I will listen to you. Don't do this. No, no, no, no, no. Mom, I just want to live with you and my uncle forever. I just want our whole family. We have always been living together. Aren't we a family? Aren't we? It's not you from beginning to end. You are actually you. It's me. I am me. Mom. Mom. What's wrong with you? Mom. What's wrong with you? You're okay. You're okay. You It's going to be okay, Mom, hold on, Mom, you're going to be fine, go to the hospital now, Mom, just be patient, I'm going to find someone to help, I'm going to find someone to help, aunty, aunty, save my mom, uncle, come and save me, mom, uncle, me. Please help my mother, my mother, she is dying. Auntie, my mother, she has asthma. She is dying. Auntie, come and save my mother. Please bear with me. Are you okay? Are you okay? Mom, hold on. Sister-in-law Yu, let me Grandpa, I really regarded Yu Fei as a good friend so I gave her shoes. Unexpectedly, it hurt her. Her mother even scolded her. I tell you, there is no need to be so unhappy when I see her mother later. I will explain it to her in person. Is it done? Okay, okay, Old Chen is coming soon. What happened to Old Chen? What happened to Old Chen? Grandpa, Yu Fei, hurry up. What happened to Yu Fei? Grandpa, my mother, she is asthmatic again, please help. Save me, Mom, get off the bus, get off the bus, get off the bus, mom, mom, you will be fine, hurry up, get in the car, get in the car, get in the car, go, go slow, go slow, Z. Dare you to come to my territory and cause trouble . There is a turmoil on the territory. Do you know that I am a spear? The lay disciples of Lin Temple come here and really do it, right? Okay, do you guys come together together or come one by one? Why don't you come together and beat another one? Let me see and give me a beating. Big brother is convinced. Take it, take it, stop it, good UITC 00122 40 Wrong technique, next scene, next scene, VITC 00 22. 42 VITC 00: 22: 4310 Thank you, director VITC 00: 22: 44198 The director worked hard, it's really good, it's really good, it's a good speech, maybe it can be a hit. Assistant Director Hong, the main thing is for you to give me a chance. Seriously, let me say something conscientious about your friendship to me. I will remember it for the rest of my life. Really play you well. You have worked hard. Slow down. Slow down. Happiness comes too suddenly. Who, who? I don't know. Hey, tell me. I'm very busy. Uncle, mom, she's asthmatic again. Come here, Xiaofei. How could this happen? How could this happen ? Didn't you take any medicine? Did you not take any medicine? Which hospital are you in? | Don't cry. Don't cry. Uncle, come over right away. You're waiting for the money. I haven't given you the money yet. Assistant director, deputy director, assistant director . I want to ask you for a leave. I have an emergency at home. Can you let me go? Can you let me go and drive something? It's a joke. Your scene hasn't been finished yet. Your scene hasn't been finished yet. I know it's my sister who is in the hospital. Her life is in danger. Let me go. I'll be back soon, okay? I'll be back soon, okay? Find someone else. Go find someone else. Stop fussing about marrying me. Stop fussing with me. Okay, assistant director, listen to me. Ge is just a sister. And my niece has no father. She can't live without a mother. I beg you, let me go. Can you do it yourself? I'm sorry. Yu Qiang Yu Qiang. Thank you. You are such a good person. You are so filial and strong at such a young age. This is admirable. I am really happy for Ye Lin. I can make such a good friend like you. I can make such a good friend like you. Yu Fei, don't cry. I believe your mother will be fine. Xiao Fei, how is your mother ? Don't cry. How is your mother? Yeah, don't scare me. Listen to me. Listen to me. Ms. Yu's current condition is not stable enough. Doctors are rescuing you. Don't worry. She is Ye Lin's grandfather. It is this grandfather who sent us to the hospital and this grandfather paid for us. Mr. Medical Expenses, Xiaofei and I will remember your kindness forever. Thank you, thank you, thank you. Okay, okay, don't be like this, don't be like this. In fact, it is the fate between these two children. Who is Yu Ming's family member? This is a family member of Yu Ming. I am a very dangerous patient now. According to the hospital's regulations, we issue a critical illness notice. You mean to say that my sister is in danger, mom, mom, let me go, uncle, I beg you, mom, please don't leave me, trouble you. Please sign here. Please sign here. Xiaofei, Xiaofei, please. How is it possible? I was fine when I left in the morning. Why did it suddenly become serious? It's all my fault. I made my mother angry because of my misbehavior. Don't talk nonsense. I really don't blame you. Your mother is not in good health. This is all my fault. If I had n't sneaked out after talking back to my mother and didn't go home, my mother wouldn't be worried. I was the one who made the mistake of having asthma. Why is it not me who is sick? You are talking nonsense. How could it be you? How could it be you? You are usually so good and so good. You are usually so good and good. God will not let your mother see that you are so filial. If something happens, I won't let anything happen to your mother. Don't worry, listen to uncle. Do you believe it? Your mother will be fine. OK, OK, OK. Mom, don't let anything happen. I don't want to lose you. Xiaowei, listen to Zhang's mother and let's have a good meal. Don't be obedient. Come on and eat. Okay, be obedient. Do n't stop eating. Don't give things to others. You have to explain how such a thing can happen in this world. It's a shame that I prepared so many dishes for Ye Lin to win the championship in the dance competition. Mom, I If you want to eat sweets, you are not allowed to eat sweets. I want to eat sweets. I want to eat sweets. I want to eat sweets. Eat sweets for me. Do you hear me? I want to eat sweets. I want to eat sweets. Mom, I want to eat sweets. All right. If he wants to eat, let him eat. How can he eat if he keeps making trouble like this? How can he just give it to him if he wants it? If a child is pampered like this, he won't be able to teach him in the future. How dare you blame me? Ye Lin insists on going to that wild girl's house. I won't let you. Didn't you agree with me like dad? You didn't just give me what you wanted. How can we compare these different things together? Man Ping, if you continue to pamper your children indiscriminately, don't tell dad that you think it's too small. Wei is spoiled by you. Even I almost think so. My daughter, I have been spoiling her since childhood. Is she bad? How can you do it? All right. I'm already upset enough about going to live in the UK. Please stop worrying about it. If you quarrel with me over such a trivial matter, okay? If he wants to eat candy, let him eat it. At least the candy has calories. It's better than an empty stomach. What does Zhang Ma mean by going to get it for him ? Zhang Ma, you don't even listen to me, right? Whose salary are you getting? Come on, I am the father of the child. Do I not even have the right to educate the child? Okay, stop crying. What's going on, dad? It's okay to quarrel. Dad, I'm sorry. I'm going back to the room first. Mom, Ye Lin, what's the matter? My dear, why are you crying? Tell your mother if someone is bullying you. Is that girl's mother bullying you? Tell her to stop talking nonsense. The child's mother is in danger. Xiao Fei, are you tired? If you are tired, Just sleep on the bench. I don't want it. I have to wait until mom gets better. Then your mom won't get better until dawn. You wait until dawn. You are a child who can't hold on. I can do it. I'm just as stubborn as your mom. What about Yu Ming's family? The patient's heartbeat has stopped. We are giving electric shocks. Be mentally prepared. Don't lock Xiaofei. Xiaofei, please let me pass. I still have a lot to say to my mother. Let go of my mother. Xiaofei really loves you. Even if you don't It doesn't matter if you love Xiaofei. Even if you want to send me away, I won't quarrel with you anymore, okay, Mom, I swear I don't want the shoes anymore. I will return the shoes to Ye Lin now. RESP X I don't want the shoes anymore, okay? Well, I won't participate in any painting competitions. Mom, please wake up quickly. I won't argue. Even if I have to be a useless person for the rest of my life, I am willing to do it. Xiao Fei Mom, Xiao Fei Mom, Xiao Fei Mom, please open the door. You will survive, right? No, Mom, please open the door. Xiaofei, you child, please don't swear. Your mother is just saying angry things and you don't mean it. She will get better. She will get better. Okay, Mom, please open the door. Please open the door. I beg you. Mom, you will survive. Is that right? You tell my mother, the patient's family. The patient has survived the critical period. The patient's condition has finally stabilized. That's great. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Good bye. Good bye. Come in. Dad, what do you want from me? Ah, close the door and sit down. Just now, I heard from Zhang Ma about the quarrel between you and Ye Pingtao. If this continues, I'm really worried that your marriage will be in crisis. So I thought about it again and again, maybe if I don't appear in your life, you won't. He doesn't have to worry about me being so accommodating and tolerant to you because I always treat him so arrogantly. Without these hidden worries in marriage, these hidden worries will be eliminated. The children will grow up healthily. Dad, that's what you think. Why didn't you tell me earlier? I didn't want to mention these words at first, but today I saw the sad and anxious look on that child Yu Fei's face, so I changed my mind. I think we should have a clear discussion. Don't wait until you arrive in the UK and still have a knot in your heart to complain about this. Why don't you love me, dad? Don't worry, I will listen to you. Take good care of the children and live their own lives. I won't let you down. I won't let you down. Go and see Ye Lin. Tell her Yu Fei that her mother is fine. I understand. You should be early. Rest, you go to bed early. Guan Che, Mom, haven't slept yet. Are you still worried about what happened in the afternoon? Don't worry. The hospital called Grandpa and said that the girl's mother is fine . Of course, she really wants to sleep well. Mom, I think. How about you sleep with me tonight? I want you to hold me so I can fall asleep. Mom, Yu Fei is so pitiful. Her father doesn't want her anymore. Even her mother almost lost her. Mom, then you can also accompany me to the hospital tomorrow. See if her mother is okay. Is there anything good to go to in this hospital? It's okay. Don't go to the hospital. Mom, my good mother likes you the most. Just go with me. Listen to your mother. Do n't go, okay? Mom, my good mother, take good care of yourself. Okay, but now Can you sleep well, my good mother, come and lie down, mother sings to you, good aunt, she is awake, uncle, aunt, mother is awake, you are awake, sister is awake, that's great, you're scaring me to death, you're scaring me to death, do you know you? I have walked away from the gate of hell. Xiao Fei, come here. Mom is awake. Sister, would you like to drink some water? Sister, would you like to drink some water? Sister, would you like to drink some water? Xiao Fei, get some water for your mother. The doctor said something about your condition. You don't have to worry since it has stabilized, but you still have to stay in the hospital for observation for a few more days. Now your task is to recover in peace, okay? Xiaofei, thank you, thank you for saving my life. She kept crying yesterday and blamed herself. Fei said She hurt you like this. I said it's gone. It's gone. I just don't believe it. No matter what I say, I don't believe it. I'm like a little lunatic and I ca n't stop you. Please talk to her. This is my problem. It's not your fault. I really don't blame your mother. I'm really afraid of losing you. Mom, don't want me. Mom, don't want me. Is n't this right? It's so good. Why do you say she is your biological daughter? If you don't love her, who do you love? Xiao Fei, mother loves you. It's true in the hospital. How can you squint when there is no wind? Okay, it's okay. My child, I know all your dedication and hard work. But you are Yang Manping's daughter. Forgive me for not being able to truly like you. Now I can only try my best to make up for what I have done to you. It hurts. I really don't understand why you insist on being friends with such a classmate in this school. She's a nice person. She's a nice person and she's also very strong. Mom, you know what? I have the same birthday as her, so what? Thousands of children were born that day. You should be lucky to be reincarnated in our family. Mom, I know, mom, hurry up. Mom is gone. Slow down, I don't even know what kind of disease they are visiting. Come and eat a small apple. You are so stupid. Xiao Fei is also careful. I'll come here too. I'll come here too. It's time for Yu Ming to be alert and check up. Yu Ming should be checked up. Hurry up and get the wheelchair. Empress Dowager Yu starts driving. Come on, mom. The elevator is here. Slow down. Slow down. Hurry up. What time is it? Floor, grandpa said, look at your happy look on the third floor. The elevator is here. Go slow, go slowly, mom. 1028-1030 Hello. I want to ask what room number the asthma patient sent to us last night lives in. The patient's name is What is her name? I only know that everyone calls her Aunt Ming. Can you check it for us? Okay, okay. Is your name Ye Lin? Yu Fei Ye Lin. Why are you here? My mother and I came to visit you. Is your mother okay? She's much better. Thank you, aunt. This is the Poor Children's Fund from the last fundraiser. It's for your family's emergency needs. Take it. Thank you, aunt. I can't ask for this money. Why is n't your family very poor? Mom, because grandpa is already You've helped us once, so we really can't take it anymore. Thank you, aunt. Let's ask aunt to donate the money to people who need it more than us. You're quite ambitious. No wonder my dad likes you. Ye Lin's mother is waiting for you downstairs. Don't stay too long. Yu Fei, I'm sorry, my mother. She actually means no harm. I know. Thank you for coming to see my mother. But she is undergoing a check-up now. It may take a long time before she comes back. I came back to pick up some data because I left them behind. Otherwise, let's do it next time. Yu Fei, that's really unlucky. I'm going abroad tomorrow and I don't have time to see your mother again. How could it be so soon? I'm going abroad tomorrow. I was thinking that I would wait for my mother to be discharged from the hospital in two days. Take the bag and return it to you. Why is your mother still angry with you? No, she is not angry with me. Anyway, I must return that bag to you. It does not belong to me. Yu Fei, do you not want to be friends with me? I really don't have you. Don't worry. We will always be good friends. We really keep what we say. You can't become good friends even if you hang yourself on a hook for a hundred years. Slow down: slow down. All of these have to be moved. Right, right, right. Slowly, carefully, carefully. Slowly. Hurry, there are valuables in here. You two must be careful. All the tests are fine. Okay. Sister, it's okay. Sister, it's okay. Sister, please be gentle. I know Yin Guan, I'll be discharged. The doctor said you stay in the hospital. After observation, I need to take nutritional injections. I'm good with my three classics. I'll just settle on this. Sister, are you worried about money? Don't worry, I'll take care of it. You don't have to worry about it. Mom, don't worry. I'm rich. I'm rich. I can go home now to pick it up and throw it away. It's an adult's business. You keep asking for money. Do you have the money? You are very heartless. I pay for the noodles every time, okay? Yes, last time you ate noodles, you owed someone money. In the end, I paid it back. I did it on purpose. I deliberately didn't give him 30 cents. I put four slices of meat every time. Do you know that he put three slices? He is stealing more and more now. You don't understand. I can't be selfish anymore. Tomorrow I have to leave the hospital and talk to Yang Manping to explain things clearly. Don't mess around. What money do you have? You are talking nonsense. Slow down. Put this in the trunk. Slow down. There are valuable things inside. You guys put it in front of the car and be careful not to run away. If Xiaowei is disobedient, please slow down and let me kill the horse. I will kill the king. Grandpa loses. Look at you. Look at how you won. Grandpa. Why is Grandpa so happy when he wins? Of course, I have never won. Grandpa's good granddaughter went to England to study hard. Grandpa knows that you are very smart. When you grow up, grandpa will let you take over. Grandpa will let you take over this position, this position. Come and hang yourself on the hook. You are not allowed to change mom, mom, etc. every year. What's wrong is that pair of shoes. I will return them to Lin. Yesterday when Ye Lin came to visit the doctor, I told her yesterday when Ye Lin came to visit the hospital. Why didn't I know that Ye Lin came to the hospital yesterday ? Mom at that time I was still checking my health. Later I forgot to mention it. But now Ye Lin can't come back. She is going to England today. England. What's wrong today? Mom, did she tell you what time the flight is? Mom, you can't leave yet. You still can't. I haven't finished the dialysis injection. Xiaofei's mother is hungry. Can you go and buy some food for your mother? Mom, please wait for me. I'll be back soon. I'll be back soon. Come on. Really, I'm wrong for you. Can you forgive me for once ? Madam, you don't remember villains' mistakes. Can you give me another chance? I beg you, I can't wait anymore. I can't wait for you. Can you personally lend me some money ? If you don't want to borrow it, don't lend it. Parking master. Master parking the car. When you get to England, be good and do n't let him speak English all day long. In the future, he will become a fake foreign devil. Dad, don't worry. Okay, Ye Lin won't forget grandpa. Xiaolin, grandpa loves you so much. You have to thank grandpa very much. I will I have all your photos with me. I will remember your voice. Grandpa, I will call you often. Master, please hurry up. I am really in a hurry. Master, God, God, God , God, I must let me catch up. This mistake cannot happen again. Go on, sister, mom, my Xiaofei, where is your mom, I don't know, she was still here just now, it 's strange U vuuuu0 un vUUJ00 Grandpa, bye, Grandpa, bye, UUJO0 1 UUUJO0 Dad, please go back quicklyn00000 000066 A 566586 A 586586 A 586586 A 586586 7A 586586 A 586586 A 586586 A 586586 Park the car. Yang Manping. Your daughter is here with me. Don't leave. Your daughter is here with me. Do n't leave. Don't leave. Your daughter is here with me. I regret it. I regret it. Your daughter is here with me. My daughter, give me back my daughter. You are not allowed to touch a hair on my daughter. Otherwise, I will leave Zhang Jianjun without a son. What are you laughing at? I am not joking. You are threatening me. My dad didn't even investigate the most basic information about the enemy. No wonder. It's a total failure. I will read this information and discuss it together in the meeting tomorrow. If there are monkeys, there must be fruits. When we eat cakes, sesame seeds will fall out. Monkeys must also fall off sesame seeds. I found it. I found the fruit. We have fruit to eat us. If you eat the fruit, do n't move. You are surrounded. Don't run. Don't move. It's been fifteen years. I still don't know your name. If I hadn't been sent abroad immediately, I would definitely come back to find you. No one expected that I would leave again. When I came back, everything was completely different. I'm sorry that the information from so long ago can't be found. Thank you for being so polite. Silly girl, what about you? Are you still stupid and don't ask who the other person is? Will it bring danger to you? Just save every person you meet ! ! , What's going on? It's here again. Someone must be scolding me. Time flies so fast. I'm going to retire in two days. I'm about to retire. I didn't expect that I would stay in this small kitchen for so many years. I remember when you first came here, little Yu Fei was so small, following you all day long and chirping. You said that little clever girl could make money by eating green peppers and tomatoes. She was like this, which is unique to anyone who has anything to do with money. She has talent, yes, and how good at painting she is. If you hadn't allowed her to develop in this area, she might be a great painter and designer by now. Those things are unrealistic. It's better to be practical. Why are they so unrealistic? You don't even know that today's society is short of such talents. Yu Fei has a boyfriend. I heard he's a doctor. When will he treat me to a wedding? Ning Yang is very busy as a doctor. Xiao Fei is still young. Let's wait until next year . Let's talk about it after next year. After I get my pension, I helped Xiaofei pay the down payment for the house so that she can stand up straight and talk at her mother-in-law's house. Look, look, look at this critical moment. You still love her. I owe her. Her aunt, I'm sorry. Since I made the decision that year, I cut off all contact with the Yang family. Now I shouldn't have any regrets. Come on, hurry up. Special assistant is coming. Special assistant is really worthy. He 's a golden bachelor, yes, everyone wants to marry him, fly up a branch and become a phoenix. Don't put on enough makeup. Come on, hurry up and smile. Everyone, listen, don't put on so much makeup on your face during working hours. The diameter of earrings must not exceed one meter. Point five centimeters. The reason is that we need a shopping environment with excellent visual experience to prevent anyone from having the urge to escape. Thank you for your cooperation. Where did I continue? The promotional activities of the daily necessities department were not effective. The performance of the women's clothing department on the second floor last week. It has also dropped by 0.3 percentage points. We have adjusted the layout of the store counters according to customers' shopping and consumption habits. Why has the performance not increased but declined? It is because our competitors are pursuing low-pressure strategies in order to defeat us. Don't hesitate to use cost price promotion to analyze and compare the other party's customer price counter goods with those in our store. I will see the report this afternoon. So you plan to merge with Anzheng Ji. If you are the same as other competitors. In the end, both sides may lose, so I suggest that you separate the level of the store from the opponent. Only in this way can there be room for profit. G But why is it the Anzheng Group? That old guy Yang Hua is not easy to deal with, dad. Although Anzheng started in the shoe industry, it has developed into the boutique industry in the past few years and has become the leading old dog in the domestic boutique industry. If we can bring in An Zheng, it will be easy to convince other excellent brands to come here. The chairman is really old and strong. His skills are so good that he just moves his muscles and muscles, not to mention any skills. Isn't this Chairman Yang? It's such a coincidence that he is free today. Playing ball, Chairman Zhang, I'm glad to meet you, Chairman Zhang, I'm glad to meet you, this is the dog Hefan | This is the dog Hefan, Chairman Yang has admired Chairman Yang for a long time, and dare not be Chairman Yang's ability and magnanimity Chairman Yang Ability and magnanimity are what our juniors, Peipeng, hope to cooperate with Anzheng if given the opportunity. I hope to cooperate with Anzheng and learn from Chairman Yang. That's so polite. An old man like me who is about to retire has nothing worth emulating and learning from. The way of doing business in Door C in Local C is to devour whales and encroach upon each other. It's better for everyone to have different attitudes and not to work together. Director Yang, rumors stop at the wise. Don't listen to those rumors in the market that will affect our cooperation. Rumors stop at the wise, but they don't. The wind never blows, you said that at this age, you said that at this age, it would really be ridiculous to end up like Mr. Liu. Sorry, excuse me. Excuse me. Sure enough, he is as difficult to deal with as the legend says. This old guy is difficult to deal with. Ah, but we can find another way. I just heard him say that he was going to retire. There must be Xuan Jian in this. He Fan, go check it out and see how to make things happen. The chairman seems to dislike Zhang Jianjun, the father and son of the Zhang family. His eyes are too cold, which is not a good thing. And his son, I think it's too deep. It's better not to deal with these people. When Ye Lin comes back, these people must not forget to remind her that she is the chairman, etc. After the young lady graduates, the young lady and her family will be back soon. By then, Chairman, your home will be even more lively. I have been looking forward to this day. This family is so lively. You said how wonderful it is. Yes, Chairman, get in the car. Chairman, you are back. Chairman, Miss Manping just sent a message to wish you a birthday. I know, just call her back tonight. Chairman, today is your birthday. I will help you cook a bowl of longevity noodles. No need to be alone. Nothing feels better f t#f t#t I 'm getting old t t#t t#i U#t t#I I've been solving this move for several days { but I just can't solve it [( #is Who can move my move? #f Why is this? Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday to you, grandpa. This is the longevity noodles I cooked for you. You, your grandpa. I miss you so much, so I worked day and night to write my thesis. Three days ago, the professors unanimously agreed to let I graduated half a year early, so I hurried back to pack my luggage and book a flight. After more than ten hours of flying back, my mother said that the whole family would come back after she sorted everything out in the UK. No wonder Manping told me on the phone that she would give me a gift. Dog ceremony, I, I, you, you all know today, just hide it from me. Did the little lady say that I want to give you a surprise for the chairman? Let alone the gift from the chairman, we are also looking forward to it, grandpa, whether it is playing chess or doing homework, you asked for it back then. My, I have done everything and now I can finally come back to live with you. Grandpa misses you so much. Good boy. This is for grandpa. This is the best gift for grandpa. Thank you very much for your money. I will definitely pay it back right away. Goodbye to you. Who else have I not borrowed? It seems that there is only a principal from the high school and a former boss. This friend has not been seen for fifteen years. You should just forget about me. Chairman, good chairman, good chairman, then we Let's introduce. This is the general manager. This is the business manager. This is the business manager. Ye Lin, please give me some advice. Hello, I will learn from them in the future. Please give me a lot of advice. They are all seniors. I will learn a lot from you all in the future. They are really young. Chairman, please ask Secretary Gao. Yuan Fan's special assistant is waiting for you. I know, Chairman Yang, are you willing to see me? I'm really sorry. Our director has arranged to inspect the normal work of the factory for the next two days, so I really can't do it. I understand that I have no time to meet with you, but I still hope to hand this cooperation plan to him in person to show my sincerity. Our chairman has specially told you that we must not neglect Zhang Teshu. As for the part of the plan, we have to wait for our business. Let's study with the marketing department before we can make a decision. I'll give you a satisfactory answer at that time. Sorry to trouble you. Sorry, Mashun. Is it disgusting that you can't visit Chairman Yang in person? Please help me convey my sincere determination to ask for help as a junior. I didn't expect Ye Lin to be so beautiful. I heard that she got her master's degree half a year early. The chairman loves her so much. Now that she is back, sooner or later she will take care of the company. What was handed over to her was yes, Chairman. As expected, Mr. Zhang didn't give up easily. He had to see you. He is well-known in the business world at such a young age. Naturally, he is outstanding. You can handle it as you please. It 's Mr. Zhang. This is the information you want. She's very good at checking it out in detail. What about the other thing? The person you're looking for has found Mr. Ming Zhang. Mr. Zhang, the clues you gave me are too good. Otherwise, don't be anxious. As long as I have a clue, I 'll tell you right away. Thank you, let's go, let's go. Silly girl, do I still have a chance to meet you? I want to meet you and thank you in person. What should I do? There's still so much left. Why is it coming? Who is coming? Who is scolding me? I really hope the boss is willing to lend me money and deduct it from my salary. Don't worry, I will definitely leave a place for you. Boss Yu Fei, I told you that the pet- free dating activity you launched is very popular. A lot of customers are rushing to sign up. That's great. I'm just trying to discuss this with you. Come on, let's go, let's go, let me criticize you. Sit, sit, sit. Boss, sit, sit, sit. Yu Fei has been here since you came. There is a lot more business in this store. I know you have a way with animals and are very methodical with customers. Thank you boss, just say that witch. If you weren't so angry with her, she wouldn't be here all day long. Do we come to the store to buy things just to talk to you? I don't have that many eyes. I just don't want to compete with others, but compete with others. In short, I must take good care of a business-minded employee like you, so I have made a decision to promote you to store manager starting from next month and give you a monthly salary of 3,000. Why are you unhappy? It's not that the boss thinks too highly of me and scares me. You have to have confidence in yourself. You are a capable person and if you work hard, there will be success. I do n't want the shoes anymore because I'm a good person. I'll return the shoes to Ye Lin today. Ah, Xiao Fei's mother, didn't you just say you came to me if you had something to do? Yu Fei is fine. Wait until I think of it and then tell the boss. Wait until I think of it and then tell the boss. Hello, hello, boss. Help us, Jiajia, take a bath. Come, come, please, please, please, please. It was Ye Lin who said that her whole family was going to live in the UK. She wanted to keep this as a souvenir for me, so I took it. I'm back, Mom. What's wrong with you? Are you feeling unwell? I'm fine. My chest tightness is just fine. What's wrong with my chest tightness? You'll be promoted from next month. I'll give you a monthly salary of three thousand for the store manager. I'll take you to the hospital. No need. Mom, I'm worried about your body. If you are really worried about my body, don't make me angry by drawing these pictures. Mom, I just saw these beautiful shoes in the window. Whatever. As for painting, I told you that I don't like your painting, especially shoes. Why do others say that I am very talented? Can this thing be used as food? Look, your uncle was also said to be talented at the beginning. The result is that these words have killed him and he has accomplished nothing so far. So I would rather you live peacefully and stop thinking wildly. I understand, my child, forgive me. I have to do this because I am really afraid that your talent in this area will be different from that of the Yang family. If there is anything involved, Uncle Hu, you have to remember that your hands should be in an arch shape, and the palms of your hands should be hollow. Pat Mom Hu like this so she won't get hurt. I'll demonstrate it once and show it to you. Look like this. Doctor, I'm really sorry. I'm sorry. It's okay. It's okay. Take it overnight. Just wash it and it'll be fine. Come on, Mother Hu. Is it more comfortable like this? You have to remember that your hands should be in an arch shape and the palms are empty when slapping like this. Remember that you have never seen such a stupid patient and his family members have taught him several times and still can't teach him. If it weren't for the fear of affecting my attendance, I would really like to curse Dr. Xia. Do you want me to help you? No, I can do it myself. Why are you so polite to me? You only made it so dirty for the sake of the patients. By the way, the hospital was right recently. Recently, the hospital is going to promote one of you resident doctors to the position of chief physician. You must have heard some rumors. Everyone said that it must be you. Don't say that. Other doctors are also very good. Like you, you are caring for the disease. If you are a doctor who takes care of patients, who will you be promoted to? Brother Ning Yang, congratulations to you. How come? I know you changed your work schedule for me. I was afraid that you would be hungry. I bought some snacks and came over. Come on, let's eat together. Come on, let 's eat together. I have prepared a lot. This box is strawberry flavored. You're welcome. This box is made of chocolate flavor. It's very expensive. Head nurse, do you want a piece? You don't want to be like this. Come with me and do this in front of so many people. I will. Sorry, I knew this day would come since fate arranged for us to meet last time. When did you say when to meet your parents? We have to catch up. I told you that I have a girlfriend. Can you please be more clear-headed? But my aunt also explained it. Yu Fei is not your girlfriend. Don't worry, I'm not such a mean person. Everyone has the right to make friends before marriage. As long as you make it clear to Yu Fei, I won't care. Liu Xiaohui, no matter how you please my mother, I will. It's impossible to like your brother Yuyang. Brother Yuyang refuses me. You will regret it. Do n't you want a promotion? I can help you. I can help you. I'm sorry. I want to rely on myself. Don't show off your wealth in front of me. Brother Yuyang. Brother Yuyang. Brother Yuyang, it seems that I can dance well. Let's go shopping for a while. When we get tired, let's eat. Think about what to eat. I have to kill you well this time. Why did you come here again? It's a long way from the school gate. It's a long way. I'm used to you walking this way as soon as I leave the kitchen. I don't even understand why you love watching that little girl dance so much. Come on, let's go quickly. Let's go. Let's go. Hello. Is Aunt Ming here? She's on leave. I just left. Thank you. What should I do with uncle's account? There is still so much money left. Please come out to me, Liu Xiaohui. I beg you, I have very important things to deal with during this time. Don't bother me again. Thank you. There is nothing I can do. I want to negotiate with you. I want to talk to you. Do you hear me? Yu Fei, please give me a price. How much do you need to let go of Brother Yuyang's feelings? It's about your feelings. I'm not willing to spend money. Stop, at least first. You are an eyesore. Kick it away. As long as I don't have you, one day sooner or later Brother Yu Yang will choose me. Brother Yu Yang will choose me. Don't think I don't know that you have been borrowing money from others recently. Seriously, you are better off than bowing down to others. Come back with me and I'll give it to you. Wouldn't it be great if I climbed up and I'd give it to you? I advise you to give up as soon as possible. You are not worthy of Brother Yuyang. You are not worthy of Brother Yuyang. Are you as rich as you? Even if you are someone with no money, no education, no identity and no background like you, sooner or later, Brother Yu Yang will dump you sooner or later. Brother Yu Yang will also tie you up and dump you. What are you doing? What are you doing? Just like this bag I don't feel sorry for throwing away the humble dog food. Liu Xiaohui, don't go too far. Is it important to have money? I will never give up my feelings because of money. If you have the ability, just let Yu Yang. You don't have to spend a penny when the time comes. I'm just not convinced that an ordinary woman like you, your mother is still a vegetable aunt, why does Brother Yu Yang like you? Liu Xiaohui, you are so embarrassed. It's not shameful that you 're such a big man, but you're still as hands-on as when you were a kid. Let me tell you, even a passerby like me can tell that Yu Fei is better than you. Yu Fei is better than you. That guy named Yu Yang would be called Yu Yang if he really chose you. Are you not convinced? Who are you? Did I know you? Fifteen years ago, you were not convinced. I was a better dancer than you. I was a better dancer than you. Do you want to compare yourself with Ye Lin? Fifteen years ago, you saved me. I gave it back to you now. You are back. You are back. You are back. It's great, so happy, so great, so happy. If you don't leave yet, do you really want the two of us to join forces again? Do you really want the two of us to join forces again to climb too much? Are you happy? How are you doing? Well, well, you are getting more and more timid. I was not afraid before and now I am being bullied by her. I just don't want to quarrel with her. I'm so happy. Just sit down and I'll call grandpa to see him. You will definitely be very happy when you arrive. My dear grandpa, grandpa, grandpa, you arranged for such a dirty child to come over. Why don't you drive her away quickly? I'm sorry. I will work for my uncle. Dad, if you have something to say, why bother to lose your temper? It's all happening to this child. It's so dark and raining. It's so dark and raining. It's not dangerous to walk back by yourself. You will get sick. Besides, you are also my guest. I should send you back. Yu Fei, is it really you? Is that you? Grandpa, look, you haven't seen this child for so many years. I don't even recognize this child. Grandpa, you are the same as before. I have n't changed at all. I haven't changed at all. Come on, sit down, sit down, sit down. This child is in a row. I've been there three times, but Director Yang refuses to see you no matter what. I never imagined that there are people in this world that seniors want to see but can't. There are also people in this world that I don't want to see but have to see. Who are they? Senior, I rarely see you when you are so embarrassed. You seem to have a lot to say. It must not be a business matter, because you are still calm and calm even when Director Liu stabs you with a knife and wants to jump off the building. So it must be an emotional matter. You acquiesce. Senior, I have been with you for so long and I have never heard you like anyone. Sometimes I wonder if you are in love with me. Do you want to play ball? Just tell the truth. What is your unknown past? Are you hurt too deeply or are you always giving up watching the ball? This is to remind you that sometimes you talk too much and you have to pay a heavy price to pick up the ball. Let me attack it instead. Little Miss. Little Miss, are you going to a branch? Yes. Just wait a minute and I'll bring the car. No need. I can just go by myself. But the chairman said that Secretary Gao is going out with you and I will only be served well. It doesn't help me at all. Just let me go by myself. Okay. If you know me, go and tell the chairman. From now on, you can just call me Ye Lin. Don't call me little miss anymore. You are much higher than me in terms of position. You know, I'll go first. Goodbye, Miss Ye. Okay , you and I are Zhang Jianjun, special assistant to the chairman of Yuanfan Group, Zhang Hefan. You are from Yuanfan Group. What would you like to drink? Two cups of coffee, one cup without sugar, and one cup of half-sugar milk. Okay, please wait a moment. That summer three years ago, we only had We have been together for twenty-one days. Do you still remember that I like half sugar and half milk? I'm sorry that it was my fault in the past. It's all gone. Have you found those eyes ? Have you found them? At the beginning, you said that my eyes were very beautiful. They were very beautiful, just like the one you were looking for. We have been friends for a long time. I should have become conscious at that time, but I still threw myself in stupidly. I only knew a person named Lawrence. Teresa called me Ye Lin. That name has already followed that paragraph. The feelings have passed, they have passed. Don't worry, I'm fine. Let's go straight to the topic. The purpose of you looking for me is that our company is really sincere and wants to cooperate with Anzheng Group. So I hope you can persuade the chairman not to do it because of your relationship with Anzheng Group. I still have my father's prejudice and missed this excellent business opportunity. At least we should sit down and have a good talk. You already know your grandfather's personality very well. Still don't want to give up? Or don't you want to give up? You won't take it lightly until the end. Never give up until the end, just like you did to that girl, that girl Ye Lin, I don't want my appearance to make you misunderstand that I want to take advantage of your past friendship, past friendship, I'm sorry, I shouldn't be looking for you Come on, Mr. Zhang, I have read your project. Your project is indeed good. From the company's standpoint, we should cooperate with you. But I am not sure whether my grandpa will be willing to see you just because I said these things. Wait for my news. Okay, I'm sorry. I'm okay. I'm sorry. Your eyes look like an old friend of mine. What did I do wrong? Why did you break up with me? You're not wrong. What's wrong is that I am. I'm so selfish. I shouldn't. I shouldn't. Because your eyes look like She's looking for her shadow in you, so I'm just a substitute, haven't you ever loved me, right, right? Theresa, I'm sorry, let's stop here, while you still don't love deeply, while I'm still sane. How do you know that I don't love you deeply? How do you know? How do you know? How do you know? I'm sorry. Why why? What should I do? The money is still not enough. No, no, no, absolutely not. You can't borrow money from Ye Lin. Xiaozhu will find a way, right? We can definitely do it. Come on, find a way. You are so rare. Come here in person. Little Piggy went for a walk and came back soon. He wants me to give him a call. When he goes out, Xiaoru tells them to come back early. Take your time and take care of you. Just look, the boss is back. Yu Fei is Xiaozhu's boss. Did you know that today the piggy learned new tricks? After the dragon dance and lion dance last time, it was even more powerful today. It was even more powerful today. It's two and a half weeks of back somersaults. Do you think it's great? Boss, are you okay? Boss, are you okay ? Why are your hands shaking all the time? Are you sick? Are you sick? Why are your eyes still blinking? Should you go to the hospital? Should you go to the hospital? My boyfriend said this is a sign of a stroke. The owner of Yu Li Xiaozhu is there. The owner of Yu Fei Xiaozhu is there. What a coincidence, we met again. I didn't expect you to be the pet store clerk who secretly taught the piggy tricks without telling the owner. I shook hands and fell to the ground to pretend to be dead. I can barely bear it, but it's like a dragon and lion dance, and even flipping in the air. This is a bit too much. How are you going to survive? Please tell me clearly. I sent it to a pet shop for a bath and a walk, not to a training center to learn skills. I told you that if it is so smart, I don't understand why you have to raise it like a pig. I'm sorry, I'm sorry . Just kidding, Yu Fei, what's the matter with you? You hate Liu Xiaohui the most, but he's so damn good. Boss, you don't know that there are too many personal grievances between him and me. Do n't worry about it. I'm sorry. There is no personal grievance between us. No matter what you said before. I have any misunderstandings, but please remember it clearly for me. I didn't raise it to learn some tricks to please people. Then why didn't you think that when you named it Three Little Pigs, the name was more impressive? It's funny. This name makes people laugh even more. Did you know that it is as smart as a five -year- old child? Every time others make fun of it, it will feel very inferior and unsure of you as its owner. Do you know that? I teach it these tricks not to please others but to improve its self-confidence. Do you understand? It's my freedom to name it. It's none of your business. Employees like you who don't know how to respect customers look at me. You should carefully consider whether to change the pet store. Don't threaten me with this matter. I tell you that if you are not the biggest customer now, the worst thing is to quit. I just resign. Yu Fei, please speak up. Why are you doing this | Boss The thing is that I am good, but the thing is that I am bad. I had a reason to resign in the first place, but now it has only strengthened my determination. I don't want to embarrass you, Strawberry Clan. What are you talking about? Strawberry Clan is like you who thinks she is beautiful but It will rot if you touch it. People who have no ability to withstand stress, let me tell you. If I were a strawberry, you would be a durian. How have you been shopping at these branches these days? It's not bad. By the way, grandpa, you said you would wait for your parents to come back. I want to invite some acquaintances to my house for a casual meal that day. I would like to invite Yu Fei to come. What do you think? Of course it will be fine. It seems that grandpa likes Yu Fei very much. The ancients said that her eyes are so beautiful. Look at her big, clear and bright eyes. I know she is an upright and kind-hearted good child. Grandpa, what can you see in my eyes? I can see that you are absent-minded and looking for a time to speak and want to say something to me. Originally, I wanted to visit all the branches tomorrow and talk to grandpa again. We've been talking about it for the past few days. Let's talk about it. I've seen Yuanfan Group's project. I think their proposal is indeed feasible. Now that the urban white-collar class is increasing, the consumer market cannot be underestimated. If we An Zheng are willing to enter this market Doing development is like many big international brands setting up sub-brands. I believe it will not affect the purchase intention of our Anzheng consumer group, and it will definitely be helpful to the growth of our company's performance. Your idea coincides with some people in the company, but even if If we really want to develop this market, we can choose other companies. We don't need to cooperate with Zhang's father and son. Grandpa, I understand your concerns, but there are so many thoughtful people in the shopping mall. Today we can dodge them, and tomorrow we won't be able to dodge others, grandpa. Just take this time as an opportunity to train me. Let you teach me how to deal with these people. Xiaolin, are you trying so hard to promote this? Is there any other reason behind it? Please don't worry, grandpa, I am completely We consider the issue in the interests of the company. Of course, everything depends on each other's cooperation conditions first. But no matter what, let's listen to what they have to say first. OK, I listen to you. If we meet him, will his face or mouth smell bad? No, what do you mean by durian ? Think about it for yourself. I won't praise you as the king of fruits, right? Every girl I know is either fascinated by you or frightened by your coldness. But only She in this pet shop actually doesn't take you seriously and scolded you three times in a row. I do n't understand. It's a pity that she has resigned now. Otherwise, I have to go to her to get an autograph to feed Mr. Zhang. Is that my grandpa? I have promised to meet you, but it is still undecided whether it will work out. Don't worry, I will try my best to show my sincerity. No matter whether this thing works out or not, thank you for helping me in business. There is nothing to thank you for. Maybe you will regret it after hearing my conditions. Thank you. As long as I am willing to talk, it's good. Let's start. I will be at my house on time. Goodbye. It's Miss Ye who called and said that Director Yang agreed to meet the senior. Congratulations, senior. Congratulations, senior. Watch. The charm of Lai Senior has won the day again with Miss Ye. Remember, business and love are two different things. Don't confuse them. You know, I'm a fool. Xiao Fei, uncle Yu Qiang, is a big fool. I'm looking for a job for a day and I can't find the reason. You're too stupid, uncle. I have raised 20,000 yuan here. I have raised 20,000 yuan here. Oh my God, where did you raise so much money? Just leave it alone. Tomorrow, I will give them 20,000 yuan. The rest, I will ask them to give them some grace. Oh my God, you don't have to worry anymore. Xiao Fei, thank you. But I should be the one to go. No, I'm afraid they will embarrass you. Look, you said it as if they won't embarrass you. No, I can't drag you down anymore. The worst is, let them beat me up again. Anyway, I have been an extra all my life. If nothing else is good, I can take a beating. Uncle, don't try to persuade me. It's my fault that this misfortune was caused by me. I should bear the consequences. I have to do something myself. If you really want to do something, just promise me. That's a good thing. You said you should stop putting band-aids on your eyebrows. That would really be unlucky. Haven't you? Uncle, you gave up a great opportunity because of my mother's illness. You didn't complain at all. Everything has been fine. Don't mention it after so long. I know what matters most to you is that mom and I asked you to exchange success and fame for this family affection. You would definitely not be happy, so I am the same as you. Please stop saying anything to drag me down. Niece Gang Uncle is like a sheep eating grass. It is natural for sheep to eat grass. In the previous life, you were a sheep and I was grass and you ate me up. So God is merciful. I think I did something good and gave me such a good niece. Is that something? Don't argue with me when I go tomorrow. Mom, why are you coming back so late? The school has a big event tomorrow and there are a lot of things to prepare for. By the way, Yu Qiang, can you go to school tomorrow and help me? I'll go. What's wrong, are you in trouble? Uncle Mom is afraid of him. Your eyebrows scared the kid, so why don't I go with you? Are you still not allowed to go to work tomorrow? I resigned. Why did n't you say that you were very happy in the first two days ? Just quit her job. Anyway, every time she comes back, she's all dressed up. I can't stand the smell. Is there any work that will smell good after you finish it? Tell me. I sell perfume and sesame oil. Come on. It's because your uncle didn't set a good example that you, my niece, can't do anything. It's your fault. Tell me what kind of job you have. You have a sister who has been working for more than a year. Do n't talk about her. In fact, she is doing it for your uncle. It's my own fault. I'm always unsure. So don't explain to me anymore. Xiaofei, Yuyang's mother won't let her. You have to open your mouth and stretch your hands. Besides, a woman must have a job of her own. That way, when she goes to her husband's house, she can be strong and not be looked down upon by others. I know I will find a job again. I will also find a job. I'm tired. I'm going to rest first. I'm sorry. I'm fine. I'm happy. I don't know how the conversation went with my uncle. Xiao Fei, hurry up and cut it. There are still many things to be warned about. There are still many things to do. Sister Wang's soup is ready but she's not here. Come on, be careful. Mom, the child is burned. Is it okay? Mom, are you okay? Have you been burned? It's okay, it's okay, hurry up, hurry up, it's really okay, it's okay, it's just a little burn, there are so many people today, it's such a big scene, we didn't make any mistakes, Mom, are you tired? You've been busy all day. I'm a little tired. Go back and I'll give you a beating. Does it still hurt when I hit your hand? My hand is fine. I was occasionally bitten by a dog when I was working in a pet store. That's much more serious than this. It's fine. I've been in the kitchen all my life. How to prevent it? I know better than anyone else how to prevent it in the future. Don't pounce on me again when you're in such danger. You know, Mom, you've been tired all day. It's been a long day. Otherwise, I'll give you a shoulder massage again. I learned a new trick last time and I think it's very useful. Mom, what are you looking at? Yeah, let's go in and see Mom, what do you think of men's clothing? This suit is pretty good. Let's buy this suit for Yu Yang as a gift to celebrate him becoming the chief physician. Miss, how much does this suit cost? It's three thousand, after it's discounted. Why is three thousand so expensive? Mom, I think you should forget it. Don't buy it. No, you have to buy it. I'll get the money. I'll put it aside for a while. No, mom, it's really too expensive. There's no need. Mom, forget it. Mom, really. It's not necessary. No, no, you have to buy it. Thank you for coming. Please go slowly. Xiaohui, I really spent a lot of money on you today. I bought so many things for Yu Yang. Do n't say that. For Brother Yu Yang, this is what you should do. You are so polite. Xiao Hui, about that. Don't worry, Auntie, about Yu Yang's promotion. The director is very good friends with my dad. As long as I tell my dad that Brother Yu Yang is the one I want to marry, everything will be fine. Mom, let's go back and let him try on these. Why are you the ones with good clothes? What a coincidence, Yu Yang's mother, you are also here to go shopping. Yu Fei and I are planning to buy a suit for Yu Yang. No need to bother. I've already bought all of Yu Yang's clothes from head to toe. I've bought them all. You asked me to introduce you. This is Xiaohui. She is the future marriage partner of our family Yu Yang and the only daughter-in-law I recognize. Yu Yang, he doesn't know about this matter. I will explain it to you when I go back. As the saying goes, it's better to choose a day than to hit it. I think we should take this opportunity today to make it clear to everyone. I will never let Yu Yang marry Yu Fei. I think you should also talk to your daughter and let her do it as soon as possible. Give it up. Young people's feelings are not something we, the elders, can have the final say on. Let's not get involved and let them decide for themselves. If you want to climb high, of course I said so. As a mother, I must consider my son. Yu Yang's mother was That's not what you said when Yu Yang was admitted to medical school and you came to lend me money to pay for his tuition. You said back then that you would not object as long as the two of them were interesting. Stop using the past to put pressure on our family these years. The medical expenses that Yu Yang paid for your treatment are more than enough. Maybe there is still some surplus. That's right. You mother and daughter are clinging to Brother Yu Yang. Don't you just want to live a good life in the future? How much money do you want with me? Just say I'll give it to you Liu Xiaohui, how many times have I told you that relationships can't be bought with money. I said yes, it means yes. There is nothing in the world that money can't buy. You can afford it to that couple. What about promises and trustworthiness? Can you afford it? I tell you, if Yuyang can break his promise to us for money, he will also turn against you and be ruthless when he meets a richer girl. Take care of your own daughter and deal with it then. I have to have an illegitimate child like you, and you still blame us. Mother Xia, my mother worked hard to raise me. Her dedication to me is no less than what you did to Yu Yang. You don't have to like me, but please don't humiliate my mother. I can tolerate anything, but I can't hurt you. Xiao Fei, look at what this looks like. You are so rude to your elders. Just because of this, I won't let our family Yu Yang marry her Xiao Hui. We are leaving. I'm sorry. Because I have wronged you because of my affairs. When I exchanged the two children, I thought that when Manping's children were tortured for their life experience, I would feel the pleasure of revenge. Who knew that the pain in my heart was the same? It was me who should say sorry. It's me who gave you such a small thing in life. Do n't worry, even if it takes everything from me, I will give you a piece of happiness. Mom, please don't say that. It makes me feel even more guilty. There is no one at home. No one is leaving. You are still here? Didn't the little girl agree to pay back the money today? What's going on? It seems that you are the one who can keep his word. Okay, we can talk to you. Can you go out? My mother is not in good health. Don't stay here. We can't hurt our family by making nonsense of the world. What kind of things are there? This old boy cheated us out of 50,000 yuan. The girl asked us to pay back 50,000 yuan, but she only gave us 20,000 yuan. What do you think this is? Didn't you say it was 5,000? How did it become 50,000? Yu Qiang, your brother is not up to par. You guys will close the door and come to beat or scold you. That is your family matter and I have no control over it. But before that, do you want to return our money first? Yeah, what happened, nerd, help me. I won't pay him back a dime of the money he owes you. If you have the ability, skin him alive. Don't embarrass us, mother and daughter. Don't talk about it for so many years. Let's help him solve it. How many problems are there this time? I can't say anything this time. I can't. Aunt Ming, what's wrong with you? Sister, get the medicine. Sister, are you okay ? Don't pretend to be dead. Don't think that you can't pay back the money. No, what else do you want? You have to force me. I'm begging you to get out of here. Mom, are you okay? Take a deep breath. It's okay. It's okay. I'll give you one more day. If you don't want to go quickly, go quickly, go quickly. Mom, I think you should call an ambulance first. Sister Gungun, I'm sorry. Yu Yang, my mother, is she okay? She hasn't had asthma in so many years. She should be okay now. Relax, Aunt Ming. What's okay? Nerdy, you'll be gone later. What should I do if she gets sick again? Sister, let's go to the hospital. I don't want you to leave. It'll be fine. Get away. I don't want to see your mother again. Don't be like this. Xiaofei, stop talking. It's all my fault. I deserve it. Xiaofei. Take care of my mother. Sister, do n't be angry. Your health is important. Uncle, strong, uncle, strong. Uncle Qiang, is everything okay? How did Yu Yang and Yu Fei find my uncle? I've searched all over and didn't see anyone. Where could he go? He doesn't have a penny on him. No, I have to look for him again. Yu Fei, Yu Fei, you found Qiang. What can uncle do? Even if you find him, he will feel very shameless and won't come back with you. It's better to let him calm down outside and explain to aunt that what she said is not wrong. Uncle Qiang should be punished. Yu Yang, you Do you know who you are talking about now? He is my uncle. He is the person who has loved me most since childhood. Without him, there would be no me. Do you know? I only know that you have been helping him before. Without you, there would be no him. I don't want to tell you now. I'm going to find my uncle Yu Fei now. Don't stop me. I'm thinking about you. If you continue to control me like this, it will be dangerous. You are too selfish to say this. You are selfish to me, but to me, you are my most important person. I can't control so much other people I care about. According to you, should I give up family ties for money? In the future, will you give up our feelings for money ? This is impossible. Where did you go ? It has happened that Liu Xiaohui paid me to give up on you more than once. This afternoon, your mother even insulted my mother in public. Do you know that if it weren't for the stimulation of this series of things, my mother would not have an asthma attack. It was because of this incident that I told Ming Don't take it to heart when my aunt apologizes to my mother. Can't you just say that since we were young, we have suffered a lot for money because our family was poor. Especially since I was studying in an aristocratic school and saw other people's faces, it was only because you helped me along the way. Do you know that I have endured until now? So I promised myself that I will only be good to you in this life, because only you are the only one worthy of me doing this. But Yu Yang, Yu Fei, don't worry, when I become successful, everything will be different in the future, Yu Fei. This is the second time I have seen Yu Fei being bullied by Liu Xiaohui. I never thought that money could hurt people so much. Now I can finally understand why Aunt Ming was so opposed to me making friends with Yu Fei, making friends with people without money. Rich people are humiliated because of money. Why do n't they worry about money? Xiaolin takes this opportunity to remind you of the people who are close to you. Are they doing it for your property or are they sincerely dealing with you? This question will eventually become a problem that you will never get rid of in your life. I have no doubts. Grandpa came here like this. I understand, Grandpa, I understand what you mean. Miss Ye Lin, someone came to see you. Is it Mr. Zhang? Isn't it Miss Yu? I'm sorry, I really have no other choice, so I came to you to discuss it. I want to ask you to borrow some money. How much do you need? 30,000 to 30,000. Okay, okay. I don't have any cash with me now. I'll finish things in a while and we can go get it together, okay ? Don't you even ask me why? Is this important? It's very important. We just met not long ago. Do you have bad intentions for not deducting the money from me? Or do I simply not have the ability to pay you back? Are you asking this because you think I have no ability to judge or that you have no confidence in yourself? If you were that kind of person, you wouldn't have hesitated to accept a pair of shoes from me, nor would you have refused without hesitation when my mother wanted to give you money. I know that many people will change their minds when they grow up, but I know You don't. Why can you be so sure about a person who will defend his feelings and defend his mother's dignity to the death? Why don't I believe it ? I'm sorry. I saw what happened to you and Aunt Ming yesterday. I originally wanted to come forward, but I was afraid. Instead of helping you, I hurt you. Thank you very much. Ye Lin, thank you very much. If you need me in the future, I can die in a place where you can die. No matter whether you are on a knife mountain or a fire, I am willing to go and warn you. This is really embarrassing for me. Where can I go? Go to the Mountain of Knives and the Sea of Fire. Anyway, thank you. It's so good. I can't breathe. I can't breathe. Thank you so much. Thank you so much. Chairman, have tea. I'll open the door and make an appointment. Is it inconvenient for me to be here as a guest? It doesn't matter. Chairman Mr. Zhang is here. Chairman Yang, Chairman Yang, why is it you again? Why is it you again? You guys know each other. Grandpa doesn't know him, but he is familiar. But who is that? What's going on? | Ah, Chairman Yang, this Miss Yu, we had a little misunderstanding before. I'm sorry. Grandpa, because I have accumulated too many personal grudges with this person before, I'm a little emotional, so I'm a little emotional, but I'm not I hope it will influence the two of you to discuss business. Yu Fei, please go upstairs and wait for me. Yu Fei, please go upstairs and wait for me for a while. I will come over to see your grandpa. I will go up for a while. Chairman Yang still hopes that Miss Yu and I will have a misunderstanding. I can do it with you, but I hope I can do it with you. Mr. Yu Fei is a very kind child. I have never seen her treat others like this. This is really strange today. I would like to hear what she has to say to you. As for business matters It's not that urgent to talk about it later. Do you think our company still hopes to cooperate with Anzheng Group? But because of Hefan's poor handling, you misunderstood and you misunderstood. I apologize again. I'll visit you again in a few days. Slow walking is a good idea. You calm young man, grandpa, grandpa, grandpa, grandpa, what's wrong with you, grandpa, grandpa, how are you, Yu Fei, grandpa, don't panic, lie down quickly, what's going on, grandpa, grandpa, Zhang, mom, here comes the medicine, grandpa, Jie. Grandpa, hold on. Grandpa, hold on. We're almost there. Grandpa, hold on. We're almost there. What's going on? What should we do? Grandpa's face is getting uglier. Grandpa, hold on, be careful. Yu Fei, Yu Fei, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, save us. Grandpa, please hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm really sorry, I 'm sorry, Uncle Li in bed 6 will arrange a physical examination tomorrow. Mother Lin in bed 7 wants to ask the nurse to pay more attention to her. He's in good condition and be careful when walking. Do n't pay attention to him. Who doesn't know that he is deliberately trying to be promoted to chief physician, but there is no hope for you. I think he is jealous. It's okay. He shouldn't be that kind of person. You look careless when you walk, right? Report, the dean and the leaders were particularly panicked. It seemed like something had happened. I heard that a big shot was sick. They should rush to deal with it. Let's go. According to the computed tomography data, Chairman Yang suffered an acute myocardial infarction. Do you need surgery? Director Yang is already old and I'm afraid he won't be able to withstand the ordeal. Fortunately, the treatment is relatively appropriate and the myocardial function has not been damaged. Currently, he only needs to be treated with thrombolytic agents. Please rest assured, Ms. Ye, that we will do our best to save him. Thank you, Chairman Yang. Please wear this air-conditioning. It doesn't matter. Now the only person your grandfather can rely on is you. What will happen to him if you fall?