Meet Jason. He's a middle-aged, white guy just like address, and even a credit card number. He's also not a real person. He's one of my pseudonyms. Before you jump away thinking, "I value further than I'm willing to take", consider number and you needed to give it to them even Or maybe you want to purchase something without identity? What about something as simple as getting opening yourself up to spammy emails or text And to top it all off, what if I told you less than 2 minutes? It's possible and I'm going to show you Pseudonyms are nothing new, and my favorite You've probably heard of him before, even Check this out: Bachman authored eight novels, settled in New Hampshire and ran a medium-sized He and his wife Claudia had one child who I mean, a serious back story here. And before you start feeling sorry for him, and his story are not real. Bachman was the pen name for renowned horror He's certainly not the first author to use Bachman's true identity was found out - by - Stephen King did two things. First, he personally called the clerk and suddenly died in 1985 of, quote, "cancer I love it! Now when we think of a pseudonym, I think It's either a pen name for the rich and Bourne-like spy or somebody in protective But with the internet and the fact that our by pieces of data like our phone number or on a different meaning. So for us common folk, what exactly is an The reality is, a pseudonym does not have an AI-generated photo, and their own address, you to create if you want to. That's what my pseudonym Jason has, but that it's mostly overkill. For what you and I need, a pseudonym is simply from people who may not need to have your That's important to note, because I want government or law enforcement, pseudonyms That's not what they're used for. But when a guy hits on you in a bar and asks Or your grocery story wants you to sign up You 100% should NOT give them your actual That's where a pseudonym can be valuable. Now before I share some of the tools and tips want to start by thinking about erasing some around on the internet. That's where a service like DeleteMe comes I've been using DeleteMe for years now and for a little over a year at this point. I use their service to search for my data address, that kind of stuff - and then make Now before, I started trying to make these possible, but it took me about 15 to 20 minutes and follow up to make sure the request had When you multiply that by 20, 50, 80 plus to sell online, I've saved a lot of time Learn more about how you can erase your sensitive 20% off by going to JoinDeleteMe.com/AllThingsSecured. Ok, when you're thinking about building what kind of data you're looking to protect. Most of the time it's going to be one or information. You can throw address in there as well, and for privacy in the past, but I'm going to like it's an extreme use case. There are two primary ways to create a pseudonym. One is manual while the other is other is The manual process is exactly what you think You come up with a random, fictitious name, up a virtual credit card and then buy a second I'm not talking about a true SIM card phone like what I've talked about before on this They're usually about $10 and work almost It's all through an app. With this, I would just keep a note on your so that you can easily access your pseudonyms For fun, you can create an AI-generated fake does not exist dot com, but really, unless media profiles for this pseudonym, which is this is way overkill. I wouldn't worry about it. The more automated process of creating online is a niche that is being served by companies just announced something they're calling These kinds of apps allow you to create and for different purposes. Perhaps you have one online pseudonym for that you sell online. The idea here is not necessarily creating your cloaked data organized by how you plan Honestly, this is generally how I'm starting still exists as my fictitious alter ego because email address of my pseudonym off the top one each time. Same with a phone number. I keep one dedicated second phone number that any text verification codes required by companies of security. When I sign up for a webinar, it's Jason When I give over my info to access Starbucks As with anything related to privacy, there to know the limit of how deep you want to But cloaking the email, phone number and credit all easier than most people think - which - and provides legitimate protection. Let me know in the comments how you plan to to remove the data that already exists about I even did a review of their service after it looks like.