Hi guys, thanks for tuning in to another I'm Ian McCollum, and in the interest of a healthier planet we're starting to transition to solar-powered weaponry. Alright, before we do any shooting with This is Arcflash Labs' EMG-02, and it is a real-life coil gun, or Gauss rifle. Rifle is not technically an accurate term, because it's not actually rifled, it doesn't spin a projectile. At least, not yet in its current iteration. But fundamentally what we have here is a device by using a series of electromagnetic coils to pull a projectile down and then throw it out the ... A lot of people will use this and and they're not the same thing, A rail gun uses a pushing ... the electromagnetic discharge It's a long story: this isn't a rail gun, this is a coil gun. So I did a previous video. I had an a little while back to take a look at Arcflash And did a video on that and if you haven't seen it What they've done here is take some and their EMG-01 (which was their small, and combine them together into a new So this has the same muzzle velocity as the GR-1, This is &quot;chambered&quot; for ideally It can also fire anything down So the ammunition from the and EMG-01 magazines fit in this. But you can also scale it up to 5/16, but you can throw a little bit heavier One of the interesting things about is that it's actually the muzzle velocity than the mass of the projectile. So as you add energy, you're able to fire a heavier projectile Firearms work a bit differently, with a And so if you reduce the mass of the That principle doesn't apply to coil guns. That was something that I think So there are a number of technical differences So let's grab an EMG-01 and and I'll show you what changed about it. Alright, so here's our EMG-02, here's our EMG-01. The biggest technical change between these is that on the 01 there were 8 coils Where each capacitor (or pair With the EMG-02 they've been able to make by having one really large capacitor on So where in this one each would discharge completely into its own coil, here each coil basically takes a one tenth bite Then after the projectile has exited the barrel, And that's where we get the second This used essentially something but like a battery that you had to have a It had its own charging system, and it wasn't And that's what they've added on the EMG-02. This uses off-the-shelf standardised lithium-ion, This just clips in right to the Easy to get extra batteries, super easy to And like you saw in that little intro, you can hook one of these things up Capacity on this, by the way, is enough So it's going to be more of an and source ammunition than it is to deal with The whole body of the gun is still 3D printed. This has a power switch That's your main on and off. We then have a single, sort of a mode button There's your display, that's going to tell It'll tell you muzzle velocity when you fire, Everything you need to know for running it, The magazine here is basically the ... There's a technical difference to them, ... the 01 magazine has a tall tower here, So this will fit in both guns, And your ammunition is either 1/4 inch You have a little bit of But there was a feature on the GR-1 Anvil where and use different sized magazines ... That was a cool feature, but frankly it and it caused a lot of logistical So they've left out that capability, you've just got a single magazine size now A couple of other technical bits here, So if anything goes really and it will prevent damage Conveniently, appropriately, located And that is in fact a 40 amp automotive fuse, so something super easy to This cable on the outside, this coax cable, ... essentially that's a high voltage cable that runs And the purpose of this is when you turn the You don't want that capacitor to be staying So when you turn it off it discharges it, ... that's Well, how do you discharge it, you And so they've routed that power into It's worth pointing out that like for me, my habit is to always put the thing into a safe So I had this tendency to turn the thing off That's actually not the best practice because ... every time you're turning it off you're dumping power into this resistor, So better to put the gun into safe, but leave it powered on if you're Up here ... under the barrel shroud you can So there's 10 of those. Up here on the muzzle there But it's a little bit less powerful and frankly I find it basically useless, That's the actual muzzle of course. However, you don't really need the laser, So for aiming it what you would want to do ... Personally, if ... this were mine to keep, Frankly, one of the red dots that has the The circle would do really well with the It's not firearm accurate. It's not bad, we'll take But a circle dot reticle I think would Overall, the balance and like an order of magnitude And frankly, I think it handles ... The capacitor in the back gives you something Having the battery right under the it keeps the balance of Same thing with having the capacitor back here So it's a better looking design, but it's also just a much better handling gun. One of the other nice improvements is the It's a 3D printed component, but it's On the EMG-01 here, the trigger frankly kind of flimsy sheet metal there This is much better. And now that I've got a battery in it, So I'm going to turn it on, It's going to charge up the So last shot was 0.0 metres per second. You can see we have our status, or And I can push this little button burst, which is 3 round limited, or just open full automatic. And then down here you have the number ... zero, because ... there And then the battery capacity, which is currently It is nominally a 60 volt battery. So when it's fully charged it's a bit over 60, Alright, let's do some shooting. The change to a just basically power drill battery I can snap that on. The whole design of this it's about 5 pounds lighter than the GR-1. I have magazines that hold 15 rounds, except for the one that I just bounced out of it. So this is 15 rounds of 5/16 dowel pin. ... We'll go ahead, and turn it on. Doop. The screen comes up there. Charging. We did a little bit of shooting out So the battery's had a little bit of charge Got my button on the side here to Let's go ahead and start with single. I don't have sights mounted on this. So The accuracy of this is about the So this is not a precision And you can't actually rifle it because, well, the barrel doesn't work the But I should have no trouble Too high. Switch this to 3 round burst. Alright, yeah, we got 71 metres per second So that's pretty good, that's 3 round burst. A little high again. And I believe I am But I have more magazines. So back to single, and I'm going to try ... shooting a group on one and let's just see what I'm assuming these projectiles Ah, once again I've broken the stick on So like an open bolt firing gun, you can There is no chamber to it, so if the mag's out, So that was about 15 yards. And I've And I lost count of how many But that's not actually terrible, I think that's with the GR-1 and the EMG-01. Alright, so here's a potential dilemma. However, the EMG-02 will fire either And we actually have some screwdriver and it's under 5/16 corner to corner. I can't load more than one in the magazine But this thing will actually fire Go to single, since we only Argh, I missed. Alright, try another drill bit. I'm a little off to the left this time. Nicked the top of it. So cool, improvised ammunition. There we go, that was Alright, let's go to auto. One of the cool things about the EMG-02 So the EMG-01 had a full-auto capability, This has substantially it's able to recharge the capacitor more quickly Where the GR-1 didn't even have an automatic Alright, so auto, magazine, paper target. That's pretty slick! Let's go take a look at that group. So there's essentially zilch for recoil, There are no moving parts to come hitting the And you can actually watch the and just kind of direct the stream Alright guys, so a big thanks to Arcflash for coming They've got this available for pre-order, with This is their next project. So I think it's a pretty cool Of course at the end of the video, what are And we'll do it on steel this time, I'm still on auto. I still have 78% battery life. So I got a lot more battery than That's just really fun!