Two monkeys have decided to become painters. And although they've had very different lives and have had different interests, they now have the same goal. They are going to be artists. The first monkey looks He carefully plans how he could lay down his lines, and achieve the ultimate goal of making a masterful painting. And the prestige of becoming a professional, famous, master painter. So he needs to take this very seriously. Very, very seriously. A lot is at stake here. And as he eyes the canvas carefully, he notices, ... that the second But it takes as long as it needs, and eventually the first monkey begins to paint. And things go well, until, one thing happens... He lays down one wrong line. The painting is ruined. The first sign that all of his dreams, success and aspirations are dying. He must have done something wrong, maybe he was never meant to be a painter in the first place. Or maybe he is fundamentally broken and flawed as a person for having laid down such a bad line. This mistake is evidence that he is awful, and now everyone can see it. So he decides, to start over. He will paint, and he will paint just as well as he did before the mistake. The second monkey is still painting, and &quot;How does this come so easy to you?&quot; &quot;Have you really not painted before?&quot; &quot;Nope&quot;, the second monkey answers. Very well then. And they paint on, until, The first monkey lays down a bad stroke again. ...but he is able to overcome it. No point starting over again, it's too much work. Fine, whatever, maybe this painting will have one bad line, and maybe that's not a big deal. ...until he starts to think about something. How well does this painting compare to other paintings? Oh no. Oh no, no, no, no. This is not very good at all! This is hardly passable compared to the painters he looks up to! He went too far away from his original direction, the kind of master painter he should be! But if he starts over now he can fix this, he can learn from his mistakes, and be the kind of artist he is supposed to be! So he decides to start over, and this time he will be a master painter, thanks to one genius idea... If he simply gathered every great painting he can find, and copied what they do, then he will end up with A painting that is the perfect combination of everything, culminating in the perfect painting! He lays down the strokes, he imitates the lines from other paintings, He keeps painting, and painting, and painting... ...and it doesn't work. He can replicate the strokes, but he barely understands why they exist there in the first place. Is he learning to understand, or is he learning how to copy? Why does this painting look so weird?! It doesn't look perfect at all! He must... have picked the wrong painting emulate. And there's only one thing to do... ...it's time to start over again. But then the second monkey says, &quot;I'm finished&quot;. And by God, it isn't perfect, but it's so much better... It has some quality to it; that the first monkey lacks. Some element of &quot;feeling&quot; or, &quot;communication&quot; or &quot;soul&quot;. Something that tells him that... Some can paint, and some can never Because some monkeys can live in the moment, and have a clear direction of who they are, and who they want to be, and what they want to paint and have fun doing it... The first monkey has to admit defeat at this point. He has wasted his time and it simply wasn't meant to be. And the second monkey looks at painting that he has made, ...and throws it away And starts another. The first monkey is shocked. &quot;How could you do that?!&quot; &quot;After all the work and all the sweat and tears that you put into your work...&quot; &quot;...How can you throw away all that &quot;Art is... terrible!&quot; &quot;Don't you realize how much pain it takes to make art?!&quot; &quot;You really are a painter, and you have painted before, and you were just faking being a beginner this whole time!&quot; And the second monkey is confused... &quot;I'm not a painter, but I climb trees for fun.&quot; Oh, right. I get it. This guy is not painting non-stop because he's some savant... ...He's an idiot! And he could paint on, and on, for as long as he needs... because he's stupid! He doesn't know any better! ....but the first monkey can't help but ask. &quot;Could you care to elaborate?&quot; Well, I climb trees for fun. And when I climb a tree, I have a very imaginary, but personal goal. The goal is to get to the top of the And from the bottom of a tree, the branches feel endless. And stepping onto each branch requires But with each move that I make, I see more paths up ahead. I see creativity. Where do I go next? The only way to get up there is climbing the branches. And I don't get upset if I fall, or find that after all the work I put in, I can't climb this tree to the top. If I did, then I would have missed the point. When I get to the top of the tree, I feel as if it was a lot of work getting up there. But I am finally finished, and I can let go. I can feel relief, or gratitude that I accomplished my goal. That all of the work that I put in led me somewhere. But creativity does not exist at the top of the tree. The branches. That is why I love it. The rules that I set for myself, the goal that comes out of those rules, and the creativity that comes out of playing within those rules. That is how I have fun, and if I'm having fun, then I know I'm on the right path. I'm heading to the top of a tree. I climb branches, and I do it for fun. And the first monkey starts over, and Climbing the branches. Each step leading to a thousand possibilities up ahead. But all he needs is one of those branches to move on. And before he even realizes it, the painting is done. There are flaws, there are major imperfections, It's not quite explainable other than Having reached the top of a And he throws it all away, and starts another.