- This video was made possible by Honey. Keep watching to find out when you shop online. Also, the reviews are in. &quot;That's some nice merch.&quot; Get your brand new character and more. Link down below. (medieval orchestra music) I don't have much longer. Tell me, was I a good King? - Ugh, you were okay. - Will I be remembered as the great warrior revolutionized English healthcare, and developed great park lands? - Um, probably not. - 'Cause of the wife killings? - 'Cause of the wife killings. - (gags) (takes bite) Sigmund, how did I get here? I still remember the good with a heart full of fire and Mummy would teach me. (whimsical clarinet music) this is a horse. Can you say horse? - Ho, ho, divorce! - What, no. Okay, let's try this one. Can you say loaf of bread? - Ll, off with her head! - No, Henry, that's wrong! You know what, last one. Okay, can you say soap? Soap! - Sss, sss. - Yes. That's it. - I'm the supreme head of the church! Screw the Pope! - You know what? You're my son and I love you, but you're freaking weird, man. (light orchestra music) (upbeat music) England has just come out of three decades of civil war in which a and one Richard had a little ding dong over which Royal house Finally, a Henry won, Henry (whimsical orchestra music) - My Royal lineage is full of Henrys, a fine name, a vigorous name, a tenacious name, a muscular name. - How about Arthur? - [Narrator] And so and next in line to the throne was born. Five years later, Prince Henry was born, but nobody cares about him. He's not the heir, just a spare. the King wanted to make So one day, he said to his &quot;you see that lady, baby? &quot;That's going to be your wife.&quot; - But father, I'm not - Listen, there's something You're my son, but more than that, you're - But you love me, right? - I love you as a - Yay. - Hey, pop. - Who the heck are you? - I've written you a poem. - Listen here, tiny man, - But I'm your son. - I have another son? - [Narrator] as Arthur was in to become King, Henry lived with his mother where he was being trained and not just that, Henry learnt languages. He played sports. He learned the recorder. What a nerd. Am I right? Wrong, Henry was the coolest kid around. (mellow jazz music) - So I told my Latin teacher (audience laughing) Anyway, here's Wonderwall. (crowd cheering) (upbeat xylophone music) and theologians from and teach the young Prince Henry, who by all accounts was a and charming young boy. (crowd cheering) and out of everything Henry he came to adore and respect One of Henry's tutors was John Skelton, who wrote that we still have today. In it, he wrote a number for the young Prince, &quot;loathe gluttony,&quot; and &quot;Do not violate widows,&quot; important lessons for (medieval orchestra music) Henry's older brother, Arthur, now 15-years-old, was married sealing the union between (crowd cheers) and then he died. (sad organ music) My poor, poor alliance with Spain. - And your son, sire? - Oh yes, of course, my son, but mostly my alliance with Spain. - Hey, pop. - Who the heck are you? Oh yeah! (whimsical orchestra music) an unprepared Prince to the throne. And how about that alliance with Spain? Well, the solution was simple. - Hey, Boy, see that full That's gonna be your wife. - What, my brother's widow? - Yes. - You're a fricking weirdo, man. - [Narrator] Now, in the Bible, there's a verse that says that's a big no-no. So the King needed to convince the Pope and get his special permission. - Hey, can I please have my - Eh, sure, why not? - [Narrator] And so it was. Henry's life was turned on its head as he was moved to the Royal court next in line to the throne, but tragedy struck when his mother with whom he was very close, suddenly died in childbirth. The loss of his mother almost on the young boy. (inquisitive orchestra music) King Henry VII went on a As was normal for a King at the time, Henry VII had had to quell and as he aged, he became of the nobility around him. To keep them in check, he began left, right, and center. Dukes, Bishops, Barons, no one was safe from his tyranny, and the nobility of So when Henry VII just after Christmas, 1508, (cheering) not only because the tyrannical but because his replacement and handsome 18-year-old, King Henry VIII. Henry married Catherine You may be wondering, if it's so weird to marry your brother's widow couldn't Henry just decide not to? Well, yes he could, but The thing about Henry of the time was he married for love, and he'd grown quite fond Historians say their and so he was coronated King and what a King. Compared to his tyrannical father, he was an absolute joy. Having the blood of two royal houses, he was widely supported. He was really, really, and those famous calves (cat calls) - Hey Henry, now that you're King, you know what that means? (group cheering) (whimsical orchestra music) around the palace playing He wrote plays. He sang songs. He danced. A true Renaissance man, very different from the gluttonous wife In his early reign, would come to ask favors - Hey man, could I gain near Upton Snodsbury? - Sure thing, pal! - Hey, could I be an Earl or something? - Anything you want, man. - Could I get like, just that has like freaking metal wings and eight legs and shoots flippin lasers and it can grow more pigs out of it for extra pigs? - Say no more. - Hey guys, I was just checking and what the hell? We can't afford this! - [Narrator] Henry's from his father weren't happy just throwing around and they worked hard to curb the king's spending. Since they controlled to get stuff done, at first, to control the young king, and for Henry, the most infuriating things of all was they wouldn't let him because it was too dangerous, nor would they let him do to go on a great, glorious, against England's historic enemy, France. - Please guys, I'll keep it cheap. - How? - I'm glad you asked. I've got a promo code! - For the financial burden of war? - Yes, Honey is the free browser extension that automatically finds promo Imagine you're on one of not that one, and you with some fresh new threads. Oh, hi, little dancing man. Got any sick promo codes for me? You do? Nice, you just saved forty You rockstar. Honey supports over 30,000 online stores and has already helped over $87,000. That's a lot of moolah! Not having Honey is literally like a crazy person. It's free, finds coupons with one click, and it's now part of the so you know it's legit. Get Honey for free at That's joinhoney.com/oversimplified, and you'll also be supporting my channel. So thank you. Now, where were we? Oh yeah. Sexy calves, excessive Henry wanted glory. He wanted to go down in history. If you didn't go to war in France was he even the King of England? - Man, I want to go to war so bad, but the council won't let me. - Hey, maybe I can help with that. - Whoa, it's Cardinal Wolsey, one of my best friends, - [Narrator] Cardinal Wolsey knew that if he helped King Henry, there'd likely be something in it for him. So what was his great intricate plan to curb the council's power? - You're the king, dumb-dumb. You can do whatever you want. - What? - [Narrator] Wolsey began writing bills that simply didn't require Henry was back on top. For his efforts, Wolsey and he became something of encouraging Henry to frolic and play while Wolsey took care of business. (Henry humming) - Hey kid, you want to go on an adventure? - Do I ever? - [Narrator] The Pope and he needed some help. He offered the young impressionable cheeses, some wine, and a golden rose if he came to the Pope's At this point in his life, and loved the Pope, and here was a chance for war he had been waiting for. He still didn't have an heir, a fairly big problem for but right now, the only kind in was smashing French guys in the face, (groaning) (intense percussion music) The English already held From there, Henry made a glorious victory at the Battle of The Spurs. He took the French cities Word of his victories spread. This was it. Here was the glory he Back home, his beautiful to victory in Scotland, and Soon, Henry would have an heir. All of Henry's wildest Oh, he ran out of money. As the French prepared to invade Italy, all Henry could do was go home. - Well, at least now I have (whimsical orchestra music) - Henry, this is Mary. - Mary? That's a funny name for a boy. - Henry, it's a girl. (screaming) - [Narrator] This was that had not resulted in a male heir. Happy Henry wasn't so happy anymore. - You still haven't given me a male heir. - Well, how do you know it's my problem? Maybe it's your problem, Henry. - It couldn't be my problem because I've been boinking and one of them gave me a boy-uh. I mean, sure. Yeah, you know what? Maybe it's my problem. I'll look into that. - [Narrator] Cardinal Wolsey, knew his job depended and so he said, &quot;Well, if you &quot;then how about the great peacemaker?&quot; - Not as cool, but okay. - [Narrator] And so the a glamorous peace summit between England and France was held. The king of France, Frances I, was essentially the French and the whole thing was measuring contest. The two sides did agree to a peace treaty. However, it didn't last long. You see, there was a third major player in European politics at the time, an exquisite specimen of Royal inbreeding, an heir to a huge inheritance, and a chin that could hit a home run, Holy Roman Emperor, Charles V. he was Henry's wife's nephew. Henry had helped him out in the past to put down a Spanish rebellion, and now, the two wanted and so a marriage was arranged. - Mary I'd like to introduce fully grown, adult cousin, - Ew, he looks inbred. - Mary, we're all inbred! (whimsical percussion music) Charles and Henry agreed to team up and relaunch a campaign against France. In 1522, the English landed as Agincourt, but Charles didn't - Whoops, sorry, man. Not sure what happened. I'll join in next year. - [Narrator] The next year, almost taking Paris, but once - Aw man, I'm so sorry. I promise next year I'll be there. - [Narrator] The next year came and a fed up Henry decided he and just as Charles ravaged the French at the Battle of Pavia and (whimsical orchestra music) - Yeah, I totally kicked France's butt. - That's great! So can I have the French - Mmm, no. - What? - And also I don't want to marry - (indistinct) Ugly? Have you seen your chin? - Mummy says it's a strong - [Narrator] As Henry's alliance Henry knew his days as This was a problem for Henry, but it was a bigger problem for his wife. Catherine of Aragon had two jobs. The first was to give Henry a male heir, but the second was to maintain an alliance with her relatives in She had failed and Henry's Home from all his wars, Henry ate up his daily as an infatuation began to grow in waiting, Anne Boleyn, She was exactly Henry's type. Now, Henry had had dozens of mistresses, including Anne's sister, but Anne didn't want to She wanted to be his queen. Henry sent dozens of In one, he proclaimed that he would like to kiss her pretty duckies. Henry's loins were on at just the right distance and push him to find a way to get rid of his current wife. (ominous cello music) and as the representative I expect you to sort it I don't want this to turn - You got it your majesty. Hey, big Papa, my boy, Henry, says he wants to divorce his wife. Any chance? (whimsical orchestra music) Wolsey deferred the case To make matters worse, after all the Wars in Europe, the Pope was currently under Now, everybody knew what was going on, and Henry's divorce of greater European politics. For Wolsey, the decision was a disaster. His job was to keep Henry happy, and Henry was very, very unhappy. Nevertheless, the divorce trial began. Henry's case rested upon that claimed marrying your brother's widow would lead to childlessness, and Henry was certainly having a hard time getting a male heir. He argued that the Pope had got it wrong when he allowed Henry to and that now divorce However, the Pope and Charles letters from an unknown source. - He wants to kiss her pretty duckies? - Man, this guys loins are on fire! - [Narrator] The Pope now may not actually be but in Henry's pants. After escaping Charles out one Cardinal Campeggio Campeggio is an old man racked with gout. It took him six painful months to travel from Rome to England, and when he finally got - Hey, I need you to take - I can't. My gout is acting up. - Hey, are you ready to take my testimony? - I can't. My gout is acting up. - Hey, can you please make a decision? - I can't. - Your gout is acting up? - My gout is acting up. - [Narrator] Anne Boleyn, and support of the reformation, suspected the Pope was just delaying. For two whole years, the and in the end, the Pope simply said, &quot;No, no divorce for you.&quot; Henry, the king that had militarily from France and intellectually from the reformist ideas of Martin Luther, who had once respected the Pope above all, now found the Pope standing - Your majesty, what will you do? - I'm the King dumb-dumb. I can do whatever I want. - What? - [Narrator] For his from the court, a decision by Anne Boleyn, who disliked the Cardinal. Having fallen from grace of treason over his head, Wolsey died of illness a year later. Then Henry set about removing England from the influence of the Pope. - Hey, if you do that, - Who cares, man? - Oh no, apathy, my weakness. - [Narrator] Henry gathered together to help him make Together, they argued that the Pope's rule over the church was basically a takeover of what had once been a self-governing and if that sounds familiar, some historians do believe this moment may have laid the foundations That's right, Brexit by Henry's explosive loins. By and large, the people and those that didn't were but for now, Henry assumed the role of Supreme head of the English church, and his next divorce trial Catherine of Aragon was Ara-gone and Anne Boleyn was in. - All right, I've upended to be with you, so you'd Now, did you get my - [Narrator] Having finally it was party time for Life in the Tudor court was nonstop. Huge banquets with each 5,000 calories a day and no vegetables. Those are for poor people. Rich people ate meat, and for rich people, constipation, but don't let that stop the party. the toilets are communal, was the center of everything. He ate the best food. He had 1,200 pairs of shoes. He didn't even have to Life was great. (upbeat electronic music) - Everyone, I give you your (recorder squealing) - [Narrator] But how Well, influenced by his since Henry had overturned the this is how they paid for it. (whimsical orchestra music) Selling fake fragments of the cross, vials of Jesus' blood using religion in this way! This is terrible! I must confiscate all this money at once. Yes, how awful. I must take all of this away immediately. Monasteries across the and their riches placed Obviously many weren't but Henry had a plan for that as well. Henry's descent into tyranny had begun. As any who rejected his of the English church found their heads on the chopping block, and he sang, he ate, he jousted. (metal clangs) - Be Mean! Love Gluttony! Violate Widows! (dramatic horn blows) (inquisitive harp music) Henry fell from his horse not for the first time, but certainly the heaviest Some historians believe by the incident may have descent into tyranny. Executions in England ramped up. During his reign, it's were put to death, rich No one was safe, and the most prominent victim of all was to be Henry's own wife. It had been three years Anne had been pregnant four times, yet she had only been able a girl. What's more, it's possible around insulting Henry's manhood. Henry's eyes, once again, began to wander. (intriguing jazz music) Thomas Cromwell, didn't want and so he came up with a plan. There was a court musician in public with the queen. Well, Thomas Cromwell and his out of him saying that it didn't stop at innocent flirtation and - Listen, Anne, we need to talk. - Oh no, you're gonna Just like your last wife. - Aww no, come here, shh. No, I'm not gonna divorce you. It's much worse than that. (intense orchestra music) with adultery, perversion, even incest, and plotting to kill the king, himself. The jury found her guilty, including her own uncle and ex-fiance, both fearing the wrath of the King, and on May 19th, 1536, Anne (inquisitive orchestra music) Henry married one of Anne's his third wife. After Anne had smack talked his manhood and since he still had no male heir, Henry went on a campaign to was virile as it gets. He had this famous portrait painted of the manliest man I've ever seen, and later, he would even declaration about his health. - King Henry is a fine specimen of a man, and, please don't make me say this. - Say it. - (sighs) And every time I look at him, I wish I was a woman. (whimsical orchestra music) after his jousting accident, the King had badly injured his leg and was no longer very active. Yet, he was still eating So by now, Henry was extremely unhealthy for the remainder of his life. He would incur a number of illnesses and his injured leg ulcers a fine specimen of a man indeed. On the church front, Henry's was a devout Catholic and to reinstate the monasteries. Henry was sick wives and he bluntly warned her to remember what happened to Anne Boleyn. (whimsical Jazz music) Henry had been hard at work of his new church of England. It kept many Catholic traditions, while on the other hand, such as requiring the use of a new Bible, not in Latin, but in English. The cover of Henry's new Bible to worship a giant King Henry, and in the corner, there's to death just for good measure. For any who opposed Henry's ideas, whether Catholic or Protestant, for any who rebelled against him, it would be off with their heads. In October, 1537, Henry finally got what he had been waiting for. His wife, Jane, gave However, the triumph as Jane Seymour died days during the birth. Henry mourned, Jane, the for two years. (sad cello music) - Your majesty, it's time - Thomas, not now! Can't you see I'm in mourning? That one. - [Narrator] The woman for Henry's next marriage was the sister of a powerful German Duke, but all Henry cared about was and Thomas Cromwell promised However, when she arrived in England, Henry was less than pleased. - Your majesty let me introduce Anne of Cleves. - What's that smell? - I think it's your leg, sire. - No, It's Anne of Cleves. She's ugly! This is treason! - What? - Off with his head! - [Narrator] Henry found that he never consummated the marriage and divorced her just six months later, and for bringing Henry along with additional Thomas Cromwell lost his head. The very same day of Cromwell's execution, Henry married his fifth Catherine Howard. She's believed to have only Henry was forty-nine Catherine Howard didn't last long. You see for some reason she satisfied with her 49-year-old and it's possible she engaged in a number of extra marital affairs, Thomas Culpeper. When Henry found out, he was devastated. - How could she do this to me? - But sire, don't you have - Shut up, Barry! That's not the point. (Henry cries) - Your majesty you're crying. - I'm not crying. It's just that sometimes when I get sad, water comes out of my eyes! (whimsical orchestra music) Catherine Howard met the same So, we've had divorced, beheaded, Look out here comes, survived. Henry married the daughter Catherine Parr, in 1543, and she appears to have been She cared for the aging King, it took several men to She acted as a mediator within the family and convinced the King to to the line of succession. Their marriage did have when Katherine dare disagree with the King over the subject of theology, - It's a miracle because when of institution, the bread - Well, if you put the bread is it a miracle that it turns moldy? - (gasps) Treason! - (sighs) You can't just call - [Narrator] The King as serious charges were However, in the end, she told Henry that she had not been disagreeing with him but simply learning from him, and so when the guards came to arrest her, the King told them to make Catherine Parr stayed with As he aged into his later years in increasing pain and ill health, he grew ever more suspicious and moody. The once generous, promising young King, was now feared by all around him. (sad violin music) I don't have much longer. Hold me. - Of course, sire, do you - How about one last conquest in France? (intense orchestra music) Henry made for Calais. The pesky French had been in their ongoing wars with England, and they also owed Henry some money. So the extremely unhealthy against the French city of Boulogne. The English dug tunnels under the castle, and on the 13th of September, a glorious victory for Henry. In actuality, the whole misadventure nearly bankrupt England and they ended up giving Boulogne back to the French a few years later, but Shh, don't tell Henry. He's having his moment. Finally, in 1547, a and out of consciousness passed away. His son, Edward, succeeded him, but died just five years later. His daughter, Mary, and steered the country but then, his second daughter and gradually transformed England Henry's desperation to marry Anne Boleyn and his resulting feud with the Pope had changed the course of English history and religion forever. Unfortunately, none of and when Elizabeth I died, with the house of Stewart So then you might think all that effort, a life filled with so much frustration, yet he never conquered France, he barely had a male heir, and his lineage died out. The egotistical man, Henry, grew sick and cruel and then died. So why are we all so fascinated Why not Henry the second or fourth? Well, without mentioning the did achieve, one of his biggest goals was to go down in history, and you can put a big because everything he did and how he asserted his over everyone around him as the epitome of the word King, - and also because of the wife killings? - Yeah, definitely the wife killings. (upbeat music)