[narrator] A barren planet It all began around four billion years ago. Life spawns. Gradually, it spreads Throughout millions evolution has brought forth of animals and plants. Yet, as different as they may look, all species are related. The first to discover this was an Englishman named Charles Darwin. Darwin completely changed the way we see the whole of life. [narrator] What is intelligence? Why do we have to sleep? And what's the difference between man and animal? The wall that divides us is becoming more and more permeable. Time and again, disaster wreaks havoc But until now, it has always survived. Scientists probe They come across astounding facts about the great moments in evolution. In the beginning, It's a hot seething mass, not only inside, but also on the surface. As yet, no water exists. Only when temperatures do the first rainfalls set in. Meaning torrential downpours. Finally, Earth is covered Just a few volcanic islands On the surface, our planet has evolved immensely. Deep inside, however, things look more or less just So-called black smokers Through them, minerals and boiling water Most of them are far too hot Yet, there are also white smokers, funnels which are merely pleasantly warm. A condition favorable for bringing the most important molecules Amino acid, sugar, bases and fats. They collide, compound and decay. In an endless dance, swirling for millions of years, they regularly produce RNA: which is closely related In the process, The sequence of colored bases But this is still just chemistry, But the chain It's able to replicate. So the formula, as a basis for life, is retained and can multiply. But this pre-life state protection against its surroundings. In time, there is a solution An envelope of fat It's called LUCA, The common forebear It began with a single cell in the ocean. Throughout the course it has produced that surrounds us. No one knows let alone how many more So far, scientists have discovered It may well be True, evolution had a slow start, but it continuously built up If we were to compress LUCA would appear in early February. Until summer, there would be nothing more populating the ocean. Life only explodes on November 20th, The lineage of man and chimpanzee Homo sapiens makes his entry a half hour before midnight. We are the new arrivals, yet we have changed the planet So what has happened in the last few minutes There's probably no one better qualified to answer In her pioneering work, the famous behavioral researcher From early childhood, All I wanted to do was live with animals and write books about them. That was it. I had no intention of being a scientist. You know, this was after I read and Doctor Dolittle and things. So... Of course, of what the study would lead to. [narrator] Jane was 23 She got the opportunity in the wilds of their native Tanzania. But to begin with, Their sleeping nests, for instance. Every day, but the chimpanzees fled as soon as Weeks turned into months Jane meticulously attuned the rhythm to the habits of the animals. She even spent her nights to get them accustomed When you start something, you just don't give up. [narrator] Her dedication paid off. By and by, the chimpanzees became familiar Now, Jane's work could begin in earnest. [Goodall] You know, the exciting moment was when a group of chimpanzees that I expected to run away, because And they looked up And that was... That was really magic. You know, they trusted me. [narrator] She learned that chimpanzees are much closer to humans [Goodall] You can trace right back to the beginning of evolution. The components of our bodies, for example. So there are no sharp lines. It's all a question of degree And that's what... That's what was so shocking It was felt that we were unique. [narrator] In fact, mankind had merely This revelation became obvious that chimpanzees A skill which, until then, had been assumed About seven million years ago, early man and chimpanzee parted ways. On the timescale of evolution, we're merely the blink of an eye apart. [Goodall] We were actually defined... This is 1960. ...man the tool-maker. And so when I first reported the first chimpanzee I saw using a tool, the first chimpanzee to trust me, not only breaking off stems and using them to fish termites but picking a leafy twig which is modifying that object, And so Louis Leakey said, &quot;Well, now we shall have to redefine man, or accept chimpanzees as humans.&quot; [narrator] The first to articulate that man and chimpanzee are related was Charles Darwin. In 1832, the young natural scientist is cruising off the tip of South America. Ashore, he encounters innumerable species All of them designed according to popular belief at the time, within merely one week. While collecting their samples, Darwin grows ever more doubtful. There are new discoveries everywhere. Among them, huge bones from species that had obviously been long extinct. Rounding Cape Horn, Darwin reaches the Galapagos Islands. His observations there were to become the foundation He notices that the Galapagos finches Some had different beaks, So what might have caused these variations? An outrageous idea gathers shape in Darwin's mind. Could it be that some species right here on these islands? And by adapting to their surroundings had incrementally evolved And that the miracle of nature, from nothing by an almighty Creator, but had developed Darwin thinks so. But he keeps his thoughts to himself, confiding them only to his diary. For a long time, he dares not publish that all species stem from a single Plants, animals and man. In 1859, the first edition causes a sensation. And, as Darwin had anticipated, he instantly comes under attack. His book challenges every concept The idea of evolution strikes [man 1] told us, told humanity that purely natural forces, working through this very peculiar process can produce all the beauty and the apparent design Before that, people thought They couldn't think It seemed almost obvious to them. So Darwin shattered that illusion. Darwin completely changed the way the way we see the whole of life. [narrator] The theory of evolution In the African savanna, the overall picture is relatively dull. Most of its animals roam about or coats barely distinct Not so the zebras. They stand out from afar. But what is the purpose of their distinctive It was long assumed that this pattern But for a lion, a distant zebra looks simply gray. The potential attacker to be evaded and strikes from the air. The tsetse fly like the sleeping sickness. But the flies' multifaceted eyes the stripe pattern into a coherent image. They simply fail to see their victims. In the tsetse belt of Africa, these pests have been out for prey Yet here they encountered horses that had put on a protective camouflage: the zebras. Their relatives outside the belt allowing them to remain mono-colored. On the fringes of the belt Its front half sported stripes, So how did evolution on a formerly mono-colored animal? Yet even the common ancestors of horse With each coupling, Some of their offspring Over time, a less distinctive pattern The flies would pounce and infect them with contagious diseases. The multi-striped forebears escaped infection and proliferated. A classic example of natural selection. Eventually, all horses A new species had evolved: the zebra. The flies As evolution ran its course, living beings all over the planet adapted to the challenges Life has come a long way since the first cell almost four billion years ago. Some habitats a whole string of fantastic creatures. Coral reefs are among the most of life on our planet. Reef diving is akin to a stroll New sights abound, although sometimes, Each coral is a tiny marvel in itself. They are home to microscopic algae Scientists assume in and surrounding a tropical reef can be as high as a million. While other places are almost barren. Deserts are especially hostile to life. Yet extreme conditions to produce new solutions. A ball of manure is guaranteeing the future for the next generation of dung beetles. This is where Evolution isn't merely it's also about modifying This beetle doesn't yet seem But give or take a few million years, his descendants to deal with trickling sand. There seems to be almost nothing Take the mimic octopus. It's able to switch its appearance to resemble a highly poisonous be they sea snake or lionfish. The mimic's superb vision enables it to imitate The vision of one is literally dim. The nautilus is hopelessly short-sighted. But when this species was young, its eyes were state of the art. And since then, it obviously Essentially, as soon as you can see your world. You have much more input You can see predators You can see prey from a further distance. You have much more information, So it may have controlled It may also have accelerated [narrator] Nearly all living creatures Whether it be a frog or mankind, we all view the world around us. We see and are being seen. The evolution of sight is truly one of nature's greatest achievements. And throughout each species developed Chameleons, for instance, They can move each eye independently, and once they have there's no escaping. The eye of an eagle. It's one of the sharpest An eagle's vision is three How could evolution develop something A question The eye. Darwin mentioned the eye as a problem, but only to knock it down. That was a rhetorical device. Because you can imagine, and indeed find a whole series of eyes representing intermediate stages. From almost no eye at all, or a light-sensitive patch, right through to a complicated eye like the human eye or an octopus eye. [narrator] The origins of the eye go back Even single-cell organisms have a spot which functions as a sensor and shows them the direction of light. Or take the flat eye of the jellyfish. It enables them Next step, the pit eye. This is how most mussels The smaller the iris, The edible snail is already provided with a tiny lens to gather the light. It doesn't take much more, and you have the highly-efficient organ with which we and all other vertebrates The lens eye We now believe that there was one prototype eye early on. And we assume that, responsible for the development of eyes, and that gene That gene is found that do have eyes. [narrator] Even trilobites They were among the first More than 500 million years ago, A worm like this, hadn't a chance. But luckily for him, there were other, prowling the primeval ocean. Anomalocaris Its excellent vision soon put it at the top of the food chain. Its eyes were as complex Each one consisted There are but few other inventions which played such a decisive role in determining and which were doomed to extinction. One solution is to seek shelter from the hungry eyes of the predators by hiding in the dark. But evolution pushed on relentlessly. Eventually, the eyes And if that were not enough, nature provided them designed to catch low light That's why their eyes glow It has long been assumed that spelled the end for nocturnal peace. Dinosaurs, experts generally agreed, spread fear and terror only in daylight. The giants of their age spent their nights soundly asleep. But does this commonly held view, published in numerous books and articles, stand the test of recent discoveries? Trossingen, in the Swabian Alps, is one of the most important sites for studies on the dawn of dinosaurs. More than a century ago, the first skeletal finds were reported. And to this day, is a treasure trove Nowhere else have so many The appearance of this plant eater But its way of life And as research has shown, it's always good for a surprise. About 200 million years ago, long before the region was home to large groups To cover they had to feed almost continuously. Like elephants today, they could indulge It must have been a strenuous life. But how can we know all that? Like forensic detectives, researchers extract from the fossilized bones. At the Natural History Museum Lars Schmitz was measuring the eye sockets of birds and reptiles. This enabled him and the eyes' sensitivity to light. Birds who are active in blazing sunlight, have smaller eyes in relation than nocturnally active birds. He then turned to extinct species And with a good few of the latter, the typical traits [Schmitz] The results We didn't expect to find I doubted my results for months and re-measured many specimen, Overall, it seems to be robust analysis. We can never tell for sure There's always uncertainty, but it seems likely that many [narrator] Among those were Troodons. The size of their eyes was huge and, what's more, their brain, in relation to body size, was the largest of all saurians. And they may have even used it Scientists assume that Troodons were clever enough and segregate a helpless young animal. Even long before the age of dinosaurs, eyesight had been a decisive factor in shaping the world. The Cambrian Era, more than 500 million years was one of the decisive periods Fossils tell Hunters and their prey Life was exploding. Evolution was turning out new species Opabinia: provided with no fewer Others donned armor. Like the trilobites There were poisonous spikes and bristles, still small, but highly effective. Hallucigenia's teeth It may have looked weird, but it's a direct forerunner The Cambrian Era laid the groundwork And ever since, has remained It's an impressive spectacle of confrontation and cooperation. Such as here in the ocean. These sardines are hopelessly trapped. This giant Sometimes you win, sometimes you lose. Both sides have honed For those at the wrong end it's clearly a massacre. But since their species still exists, For the hunter, this goes without saying. Yet it's not always a mere fight Among some species, claiming a habitat and its resources can lead to outright warfare. They already inhabit a paradise. The fig trees in their territory are the best far and wide. A patrol is sent forth Infiltrating a hostile territory Then, it's all for the charge. Battle is joined. [Goodall] When I first reported I was disbelieved, and I was attacked. And I was actually told that I should play it down. Why? Because if Louis Leakey's right, and if this primitive warfare is a shared behavior of humans and chimpanzees on the other, then that's probably been with us during our whole and therefore, [narrator] So we, and they, are capable of applying violence. This much is obvious. Yet we are able to keep it under control. And, as it seems, there is actually another, It's a side we can relate to Freddy is an adult male. He has adopted little Oscar, although he is in no way related to him. A motherless chimpanzee Sometimes, his elder siblings But Oscar has no siblings. Freddy shares his food with him and teaches the little fellow to survive. Researchers are at loss Perhaps he's intending for eventual power struggles. Perhaps he merely wants Or could this be Evolution has brought forth Yet also compassion Mammals need and this applies most of all to us About seven million years ago, man and chimpanzee each went their own ways. Today, their world Man has spread There are now seven billion of us. So what has made In terms of physical power, we're only average. It's our ability to cooperate which has made us thrive. We succeed by combining our efforts, whereas singly, we would fail. At the Max Planck Institute researchers are working to ascertain from anthropoid apes. They have set up a test for children. There is no way to get at the colorful marbles Their eagerness has been aroused. The marble monster demands to be fed. Nearby, at Leipzig Zoo, a group of chimpanzees With bananas in place of marbles. The chimpanzees, too, need no prompting. It's a welcome change Mission accomplished. Obviously, no verbal communication is required to succeed. But what if only one Three marbles for Karl. That's definitely unfair. None for Alma. But then, a sharing of the reward. And on they go. With the chimpanzees, No banana, no fun. Without any reward, he immediately loses interest. On his own, his chum promptly fails. In the end, they both go empty-handed. Contrary to children, cooperation among chimpanzees if only one of their group The difference in social behavior but it might have been decisive. While his primate counterpart man built on experiences like this, and opened new horizons for his species. [Dawkins] We have language, we have culture, we have the ability skills like how to make machines, how to make computers. So, we are hugely different and we are hugely different before we started to develop advanced technology and culture. [narrator] No other living being a means of communication Language allows us Unlike the bee, Yet animals, too, They communicate in numerous ways. [whale singing] [narrator] The humpback whale song. A concerto to lure the ladies. During the mating season, their suitors will sing Each song is composed of several verses repeated over and over again. Water is an excellent medium allowing them to travel unhindered and enabling the great loners of the seas to locate each other Yet whales are not Fish, too, are anything but mute. They grunt, shout and quake. A coral reef has a soundscape The louder the din, And for their communication, fish have a whole set of instruments When the gurnard it can deliberately produce a growl. Clownfish grind their jaws and teeth, using the clicking and creaking sounds Scientists have only begun to decipher the complex acoustic patterns The voices of birds, however, have been the subject [bird calling] It's the same song the world over. And most of the time, With others, signaling has reached Prairie dogs live in a system that can extend They have become the stars of communication research. Over the past four decades, scientists at the University of Arizona have been collating data to help them decipher the aural messages of this fascinating species. &quot;Beware, coyote.&quot; The animals react as if the dummy were the real thing. Test number two: a badger, another common predator of the prairies. To our ears, both calls sound identical, yet computer analysis shows that the sound waves for badger The prairies are the hunting ground each one requiring adequate reaction. So a diversified vocabulary can be most helpful. A woman wearing an orange T-shirt. The news is duly passed on. Same color, different gender. This, too, can be conveyed. Now for a lady in blue. And again, Newborn prairie dogs with the meaning of these sounds. They must learn them just as our children The extent of communication was a surprise to researchers. And as the study of communication only begins to broaden, there are definitely many more An altogether different approach was chosen by American psychologist In the 1930s, he hit upon the idea to raise a young female chimpanzee along with his son, Donald. Would both of them, when raised develop along the same lines? When it came to eating and drinking, And often, the chimp came out on top. But would Gua begin to speak? Back then, language and intelligence as being closely interrelated. But Gua never spoke. Instead, young Donald began to utter At that point, Today, we know that chimpanzees, due to their anatomy, are physically unable to speak. Even so, they're highly intelligent, but in their own separate ways. These days, researchers observe animals in their original habitats. It's only here that they will display This chimpanzee lady, for instance, uses tools to reach the tasty honey, that this is a stingless species of bees Her offspring observes and learns, clear evidence of intelligence. Some birds even know how to make The divide between mankind and animals seems ever more porous. Self-confidence and self-awareness were long regarded Yet experiments show that primates are also able Though sometimes, this may take a while. But then, they will react making faces and inspecting parts Only a few species But are others What's intelligence anyway? And how can we measure it? It's especially difficult [Dawkins] Any species could lay claim Swifts are extremely good at flying, moles are extremely good at digging. And so, yes, all species or many species And our uniqueness is one And it is a very important uniqueness. It has enabled us [narrator] But in evolution, We don't know some other being might replace us. Keas are among They'll investigate anything. They are highly inquisitive, but their urge to explore doesn't always endear them Near Vienna, researchers have set up an experiment to determine the true range Kermit loves a challenge. He takes the first hurdle in no time. The food is below, yet to reach it, he must climb upwards. That's better. Get rid of those bars. There are several obstacles in his way, and each time, When encountering a problem such as this, most other species quickly give up. But Kermit is determined, and finally uses his beak So, are there actually limits [man 2] There probably are, but we have not reached those limits yet. The biggest difficulty that test the more complex capabilities while still being self-explanatory, so that they can understand what to do without any communication from us. [narrator] The harsh conditions have taught the keas that close social interaction They live in groups of varying formation, playfully learning ever new techniques as well as strategies for solving conflicts. Birds were long denied any intelligence. Today, we know is densely packed with nerve cells. So, different lines of development In terms of sheer mass, the sperm whale, its brain weighing almost eight kilograms ought to be Among terrestrials, the elephant's five-kilo brain Yet comparisons only make sense Given that, it is humans who, relative to their body weight, have the largest brain. Step by step, researchers are retracing So far, many gaps have been filled, but an abundance of questions One of the most enigmatic phenomena There is no escaping it. Whether man or animal: At regular intervals, we pass out. No matter how hard we try, there comes a point Theories abound, but a definitive explanation for the meaning of sleep The fact is, no matter which path a species has taken sleep seems to have been indispensable. Irrespective of the circumstances. Dolphins must surface even when they're asleep. That's why they shut down while the other half maintains control. After an hour or so, this alternates, and the other half will take a nap. So, could duration of sleep give any indication as to its importance? Bats are dedicated sleepers. They easily manage 20 hours a day. More than most other mammals. Lions come a close second. When the hunt is over, a royal rest that can last 18 hours. Gazelles, any lion's favorite prey, can ill afford After just two hours, they're up again. This minimizes the danger, and it allows them Since plants provide lesser amounts gazelles must eat more. So, as a rule, But at what stage Presumably, Even low-life worms need to sleep, as do snails and bees. Originally, sleep possibly In due course, Dreams, for instance. During sleep, we process what we have done sifting and storing important information Our memory expands, and we learn. While our body is at rest, This also applies to our immune system, which produces antibodies Over millions of years, a ceaseless invasion of intruders by continuously upgrading itself to challenge new bacteria and viruses. Some viruses, however, manage to outwit our cells. They latch on to them, infuse them with their own genotype and thus take over the cells, inciting them to replicate But by now, our immune system Its special forces rush in to identify This causes fever Yet, mostly, we survive. Ironically enough, our survival is also Without their host, they too will die. All things that have a bearing on life and underlie the principles of evolution. Here's the embodiment Three hundred and seventy-five it was hunting in warm tropical waters. Tiktaalik was a lobe-finned fish destined to make history. Its species was the first A small step for Tiktaalik, but one giant leap Tiktaalik may have merely been but its bones are proof It had shoulders, upper and lower arms, This is the blueprint Evolution is casting the same body plan And so, by gradually expanding the human hand took shape. Evolution ensured that every species developed exactly the kind of arms And, given the results, it seems hard to believe that there Their diversity may seem astounding, but their common origins In adults, these beginnings are hardly recognizable any longer, but the earliest stages tell a different story. All embryos are basically alike. Be it fish, turtle or humans, we all run a similar course. The milk line of a human embryo Several weeks later, But not for long. The webs will wane Not least, the so-called lanugo hair, which also will disappear in time. The more developed an embryo becomes, the more evident the differences. By studying embryos Charles Darwin achieves the great transmutations, from fish to frog and, finally, to man. It is very convincing, but DNA evidence, molecular evidence is even more convincing. You can do the same kind of thing as Darwin did with skeletons. You can do that with DNA. And because DNA is text, enormously long strings of letters you can compare them and any other animal or plant. And you could get an exact measure And when you do that, The pattern of resemblances falls into a perfect hierarchical tree. [narrator] And this pedigree shows that Tiktaalik was a progenitor It is assumed that its going ashore Probably, its options for survival were running out. On dry land, it was safe. For the time being. Tiktaalik entered a world The continents Yet evolution It merely shifted up a notch, and the story of life Almost 150 million years would pass before dinosaurs made their entry Evolution brought forth The elephant and the gorilla. There is only one thing come to a standstill. Flying is easily one Over millions of years, birds have perfected their skills Yet, as simple and graceful flying consumes enormous energy. Before they could fly great distances, birds needed to develop very specific anatomical and physiological features. Fifty billion migratory birds By taking to the skies, they have spread across our planet. For birds, there are no borders. They negotiate ice deserts and vast oceans. Some species spend Each of them Yet, the things they all have in common are wings and feathers. Flight feathers Tiny hooks make them interlock This amounts to lightweight stability. Feathers and flying go together At least, But then, in 1995, spectacular new fossil discoveries Currently, no other site on earth provides us And many of these species Can these be classified And what purpose did their plumage serve? Their physical traits clearly show because they couldn't. Around 160 million years ago, Epidexipteryx climbed through the primeval forests. With a length of just 45 centimeters, it was one of smallest dinosaurs ever. What made it unique is an excessively long middle finger, an ideal tool for angling. Even back then, Another feature that distinguishes Epidexi: its four long tail feathers. Are they the first indication of vanity? Could it be that the little saurians We shall never know. Yet there were feathers long before An insight that is highlighted Several years ago, researchers unearthed the remains from a chalk pit in Bavaria. This specimen is in excellent condition. An examination using ultraviolet light has unlocked its secrets. Its species, Sciurumimus, was an original saurian. Yet their bodies But these were more rather than flight feathers. It's a sensational find, slightly more than 150 million years old. A discovery of far-reaching consequences. Until the discovery of Sciurumimus, basically all the feathered dinosaurs were close relatives of birds. I mean, to have feathered dinosaurs but all of these animals Sciurumimus is a much more basal and shows us were present in dinosaurs And based on our present knowledge, we have to assume [narrator] This doesn't mean were tromping around The larger the gap between the lineage the more their plumage resembled hairs Or possibly some decorative plumage, which might have graced But how then did the early birds their ability to fly? The answer continues to be One school of thought It would sit high in a tree relying on the feathers of its forelimbs and those on its hind legs and tail. The first flights might have looked as elegant as that. Evolution applied a veritable test range to try out a variety of models and approaches. In the primeval forests the feathered species of saurians were competing And some, to improve their chances, But some researchers They believe that the first fliers You start by running, and sooner or later, you're airborne. A similar technique some hundred million years later. They, too, went through a process of learning and of optimizing. Man determinedly advanced In contrast to nature, That's why it took a mere several decades until aircraft became to carry us from A to B. But there still is nothing that glides and seeming weightlessness of birds. And so, today, they populate our planet of color and shapes. No one knows how many species let alone how many existed It is assumed that 90 percent of them became extinct. Take Dimetrodon. Although its prospects looked bright. About 300 million years ago, long before the age of dinosaurs, it lived on a clod of earth where today grow Dimetrodon and its kin which are presumed to have been the pre-precursors of mammals. Even back then, the world was divided between passive vegetarians Dimetrodon was one Its prey are blissfully unaware Its flamboyant dorsal like the antlers of a deer Dimetrodon owed its success and to some decisive innovations. Its contemporaries while Dimetrodon due to a set of unequally shaped teeth. A common feature of all later mammals, and of enormous advantage. Another significant detail be they hedgehog, horse, ape or man, is an aperture in the skull, the so-called &quot;temporal fenestra&quot; It was probably the ultimate prerequisite to allow the mammals' brain However, Dimetrodon's time was up. Two hundred and fifty million years ago, When it was over, there was almost To date, has not been ascertained. Volcanism, on a gigantic scale, may very likely Especially since it wasn't The world over, earth spewed forth This spectacle lasted for more than a million years, until the deposits and covered an area More than 90 percent and almost as much upon land Among those vanished forever are... Dimetrodon and his relatives, almost all corals, the trilobites, as well as innumerable species Yet the extinction of species set in at least ten million years Was Earth hit by an asteroid? Convincing evidence has not been found. According to most recent research, the disastrous chain of events Deep inside the earth, the rocks of the Earth mantle The hot rock pushed upwards, Volcanic gases spewed forth even faster. In contact with water, they changed into sodium chloride and almost snuffed out Over time, It had become a lethal cocktail of poisonous gases, and dangerous ultraviolet radiation. Methane and greenhouse gases heated up the planet worldwide. That is why most species of animals and plants died out before the giant streams of lava poured over their habitats Consequences were global. Earth had become barren and empty. Almost. Some species had survived. Otherwise, there'd be no mankind today. Lystrosaurus They roamed an otherwise empty landscape Their humble way of life enabled them They were excellent diggers and would temporarily seek shelter The primeval bunkers offered protection against dust And so, with neither predators they proliferated Their migrations prove that back then, the continents were still unified, or at least closely connected. For several million years, Lystrosaurus was the undisputed ruler But again, Conditions for life began to change, much to the disadvantage of Lystrosaurus. Its reign drew to an end. Yet we reserve a place of honor if only in museums. Why does one species become extinct while another survives? What determines the winner and the loser? Paleontologists wish to discover what changes occurred in the world's oceans The Sierra Nevada is providing them with ample clues. And if you know how, whether it's a fossil [man 1] Most bones readily absorb saliva. If I lick it, and it happens to be bone, it will stick to my tongue. And, what's also helpful: It stinks. Knocking on it will set gas free, has preserved the organic material. Hence the stink. [narrator] Every single bone that has been collected here is a leftover from some aquatic animal. Where today 250 million years ago, you would have looked over After most of life on dry land this sea was devoid of life, except for a few mussels And it would remain so Fossilized bones prove that there And they belong to a kind of species that did not exist Ichthyosaurus, the fish saurian. Its story began long before [Sander] I came up along here When I went on, When we had assembled them, inside the ribcage of a larger animal. I knew at once inside his mother. We then took the whole set of bones [narrator] Martin Sander named the mother Martina. Evidently, which is most unusual among reptiles. Paleontologists have one explanation. Reptiles had begun a first in the history of Earth. They were amazingly similar as they adapted to life underwater. Which illustrates that similar challenges bring about similar solutions. The babies developed There's no way but one thing is evident. Since reptile eggs die off underwater, fish saurians gave birth to living young. Just like our present day dolphins, The devastation of most of the planet had made way for new forms of life. Evolution gradually filled up the gaps. Fossils tell of eras long past. Each discovery expands our knowledge. And the rocks of Nevada held another sensation for the researchers. These bones once belonged a fish saurian like Martina. [Sander] It's called Thalattoarchon, meaning &quot;ruler of the sea.&quot; It was up to 12 meters long, A top predator who would devour [narrator] Thalattoarchon because of its sheer size. It is proof that only eight million years life had made a complete recovery. Even the place of top dog For Martina and her young, its presence The giant fish saurian's other fish saurians. It was the first really huge predator Sharks and orcas [man 2 over headset] [narrator] The giant skeleton It takes a helicopter to carry it away. At the university lab, its bones will reveal many insights and the dynamics Finally, it was the dawn of the dinosaurs. For more than 150 million years, they were the superior species In time, they occupied all ecological niches. Again, species came and went. Until another disaster life on earth. 65 million years ago, Earth was hit by a devastating mass from outer space. For the dinosaurs, too, the end had come. Life on earth It would be a mistake to suggest that mass extinctions I mean, they are catastrophes which wipe out major groups And that clears the decks for a whole new flowering of evolution. [narrator] Some innovations of evolution have withstood all disasters. The egg, for instance. As different as these animals may be, they all lay eggs: fish, frogs, as well as insects. And since these eggs are soft and slimy, they must be kept in a fluid environment to be able to develop and hatch. Eggs with hard shells were only brought forth by reptiles, which then became independent from the need for water. Most reptile species leave breeding to the warmth of the sun. But that doesn't mean that is another innovative feature Even dinosaurs laid eggs, and although they didn't survive the egg, as such, did. Argentinosaurus laid them in vast nesting fields. Yet wisely, the colossal parents avoided sitting on them. A freshly-hatched Argentinosaurus weighed around five kilograms. That's nothing Thirty meters long and weighing up to 70 tons, they were the giants of their time. For reproduction, In the nesting fields, more than 10,000 hatchlings emerged at the same time. [ominous music plays] [narrator] An opulent banquet Most of the little Argentinosauruses would end up in their stomachs. But having reached maturity, nothing could pose a threat to them. Except, alas, a meteorite. The egg made reptiles and birds independent from water. For most species, For some, however, Each year, emperor penguins will travel up to 200 kilometers across Antarctica to reach their breeding sites, where the eternal ice never melts. Each female lays a single egg. Sitting on it is Daddy's job. The time in between is crucial. Should the egg be exposed the embryo freezes to death. Made it. It's cozy and warm under the belly flap. Outside, temperatures can drop even in summer. Nine weeks on, the offspring hatch, almost simultaneously This is definitively a cold start. It would seem much more convenient if the embryos could gestate But inventive as evolution has been no species of bird They all lay eggs. The success of mammals Although they account mammals, during the past 200 million years, have spread across the entire planet. Both underwater as on dry land. In the beginning, There are several features a coat, breast milk. But before all else, it's the fact that the offspring gestate But here too, it all begins This moves through the oviduct and settles into the uterine wall. There, and a new organ, the placenta, develops. The placenta conveys nutrients well-protected in the amniotic sac, a tiny reservoir of &quot;ocean&quot; all its own. And when danger lurks, it's simply carried along. The first steps. Having given birth, mothers do what gives mammals their name. Mother's milk provides the infant This is one of the truly decisive It's also the origin for the long and intense relationship between mother and child. Human infants, however, lack almost everything Left to themselves, Quite unlike A baby orangutan, for instance, is much less dependent on parental care. But why has evolution Scientists long assumed that walking upright narrowed the pelvis until the birth canal But apparently, It's the hunger of the fetus that, after nine months in the womb, Its demand of calories At first, the mother can meet the demand. But only to a certain level. When it can no longer be increased, birth will begin. As different there is one thing common More than 99 percent Sex is one of evolution. Yet a most enigmatic one. Why must we undergo Because sex is much more than mere coupling. First, one must find a suitable mate, then court and perhaps even conquer her. The male will always &quot;I'm the strongest your best choice to sire offspring.&quot; It's a ritual repeated since times immemorial. No matter how big you are or how small. It's a fight for exclusive access, so it's well worth the maximum effort. This is evolution's way of ensuring that the genes of the worthiest The winner may approach While others are merely glad You might think for a female animal, say, to pass on rather than throw away half of her genes and mate them with those of a male. [narrator] The theory of evolution Why we engage in such elaborate efforts remains an open question. Perhaps it's all about mixing to enhance our adaptability. But how can we know Our genes themselves Outward features of attraction aside, we are controlled by We smell one another. Smell is a decisive factor Evolutionary biologist Manfred Milinski's provide ample proof for this observation. And he's convinced mankind, too, [Milinski] Anything else that rushes Other considerations may come later. If, on the first encounter, even if he looked like Humphrey Bogart, he doesn't stand a chance. [narrator] Milinski has set up a test. He asks several men The following morning will retain the body's scent for some time. In preparation for the actual test, Milinski had blood samples taken from everyone involved and analyzed their immunogenic status. Now it's her turn. Which T-shirt smells best? This one was worn by a man whose immune system Unattractive. So are the next samples. As it turns out, she is unconsciously selecting the one candidate whose smell promises the most protection for her offspring. She opts for number five. She wouldn't mind a date. So, what has he He simply has the right tools. There are fragments encapsulated in our body cells, which are caught and fought Every human being Some pathogens will be defeated, others will survive. So, when choosing a mate, we're merely The wider the range of tools the better equipped they will be This mechanism motivates us to search for suitable mates to ensure that our children will be [narrator] Each one of us is equipped with our own set of immunogens which give us our individual body odor. So, smell-selectivity is the key. In this lab, they are creating perfumes made to measure. But can we actually recognize what works for us best? A: a synthesized perfume especially for her. B: a different feminine fragrance. She senses instantly A wrong choice It doesn't really matter But sooner or later, it will be critical And that's where, hopefully, our sense of smell will guide us. That's why evolution invented sex. To avoid diseases. At Boston's Harvard University, scientists are also pursuing this goal. But they have chosen George M. Church and a very transparent one. His DNA code is on the net, and even his illnesses. His so-called &quot;Personal Genome Project&quot; aims at 100,000 volunteers However, the &quot;transparent human&quot; still viewed [Church] Sometimes, If everybody hoards then each of us loses. We all lose. But if we pool them together... I mean, ours is just one to make a point... If you can share it, cause and effect and ways and cures. [narrator] Professor Church is experimenting with the cells of pigs with the aim of modifying their organs to suit the human body for transplantation. To achieve this, the pigs' genome must be modified until they are no longer identifiable as alien invaders by the human immune system. And it's possible, due to a breakthrough The geneticists' magic wand the acronym for &quot;Clustered Regularly It's a tool to excise predefined sequences of the DNA chain and to implant a new, different sequence. This procedure can be applied To manipulate mosquitoes Or to turn pigs into organ donors. Theoretically, it's even possible To eradicate diseases, Yet, is this the future we want? A biologist can certainly see, should see all the different futures the futures that happen if you do nothing, the futures that could happen and say, &quot;Oh, we're not going to use where you can go back to the caves. Or the futures that could happen if we do eliminating diseases, taking us to foreign environments where we're not [narrator] Life has always been under And lest they should turn you move on. A caravan in search of water. Driven by drought On the African continent, long-distance marches like this year in and year out. During the dry season, the arid soil turns the steppe into a life-threatening environment. Each year, more than 100,000 wildebeest migrate across eastern Africa. But between them there's a major obstacle: the Mara River. It's do or die. Yet hunger urges them on. The elder wildebeest They have already faced this challenge [dramatic cymbal crash] [narrator] Once the herd gets moving, Hesitate, and get run over. For the crocodiles, the annual migration provides ample food to guarantee their survival. One out of four wildebeest in the herd won't see the end of the long march. They fall prey to predators or simply die of hunger and exhaustion. But most of them will make it. So, for their species, on balance, it's well worth the ordeal. The feast is over. Lean times loom ahead. It may be months presents itself. Finally, rain. Life returns. The savanna is green, hard times are over. Be it the Serengeti or the Okavango Delta, the picture is the same all over. When there's water, There's food in abundance, at least for the time being. The factors which necessitate migration are mostly ecological, Birds migrate from Europe to Africa. From Australia to China. Whales will cover Fish, fruit bats in swarms of immeasurable size. Yet we know surprisingly little Many secrets of animal migration Perhaps these winged informants may help. Soon, the adolescent storks will leave their nest Destination: Africa. They'll be under surveillance Thanks to miniaturization, hi-tech transmitters are revolutionizing the tracking regardless of their species. Researchers at the Max Planck Institute of Ornithology in Radolfzell near Lake Constance have initiated Project ICARUS, an international effort Martin Wikelski is at the helm of ICARUS. He intends to collect as much What fascinates us during certain parts of their life And in most cases, we know very little Where do animals survive? What do they need to survive? How can we protect them? What's the ecosystem service All those questions are wide open. [narrator] they're installing able to collect data The system won't merely track routes and register stopover sites, but also record the animals' heartbeat Yet even without researchers have observed are returning ever earlier It's the tangible result If temperatures continue to rise, bird migration might cease altogether. This is already evident Take the blackcap. Only a part of its population The others just stay in the north, benefiting Some may not make it. The majority of birds, however, do find enough sustenance Furthermore, the long journey south is strenuous and fraught with danger. Some fall prey to airborne predators, while others become victims of hunger, thirst and exhaustion. Some clever birds They head west and fly to England. The British easily hold In due course, Those who still prefer Spain must cover 2,000 kilometers When they return in spring, they may find Those who stayed behind and will thus produce more offspring. It's simply a matter of cause and effect, proving that bird migration to changing conditions. So far, so good. As long as there are enough habitats to ensure the reproduction And as for changes, I'm not really worried about the fact because they have always But I think it's more a question of densities or biomass of animals that is decreasing or disappearing. And that is related to the fact that animals need to shift to are disappearing So the key, I think, that allow animals to install new migration routes and to have new stopover habitats. [narrator] As long ago migration was a common occurrence. Camarasauruses Weighing in at around 50 tons, they were the heavyweights of their era. During summer, So, driven by hunger and thirst, the saurians headed for the mountains even throughout the hot season. Back then as now, was the prime cause of migration. After five months in the highlands, and when the normal rainfall had resumed, the saurians It was a march across what's now the American West. Yet even 150 million years ago, dinosaurs were not the first to migrate. Doubtless, the earliest migration It still does. When the sun goes down, rise from the ocean depth to feed. Miniature crabs, larvae of mussels in a word: plankton. It constitutes the lowest stratum of a gigantic food chain, which keeps life on our planet going by migrating to the surface each night anew. The blank pages in the history book We have made great advances But which course will evolution take? We are at a loss to look ahead yet whatever the future may hold, mankind will have a decisive influence From a bird's-eye view, Mankind is shaping the planet Scientists the Anthropocene, the era of man. Our demand for natural resources makes us move mountains. Almost 75 percent is somehow or other affected by man. Some distant day, the traces we leave may enable archaeologists to reconstruct our life on Earth. It all began several millennia ago. But with the onset of industrialization, Take plastic bags. Year in, year out, six million tons of plastic waste finds its way into the world's oceans. They sink to the bottom and decay. Plankton and fish feed on them. In some regions, is already a layer of plastic waste. Soon, there'll be The zones of arable land And what once were tropical rainforests has been turned into pastures The diversity of species is declining. On land and in the oceans. This, too, will someday be rated of the era of man. But how menacing Species have become extinct before. So far, there were five great waves in the history of life. Are we in for number six? The list of endangered species The polar bear, the tiger If we act to preserve their species may survive. Once a species has vanished entirely, it'll be too late. In his Boston lab, George M. Church is determined to achieve nothing less In other words, The extinct mammoth By applying genetic technology, Church aims to mutate elephants During the last glacial period, the woolly giants spread across The last specimens vanished [Church] We humans greatly contributed which is very closely related to the If we could bring back some of that which we can now read into the computer, we could potentially help and in return, very important ecosystems like the tundra [narrator] Due to climate change, the permafrost soil Professor Church hopes that his recreations of mammoths will turn the inhospitable tundra back into fertile pasture. The giant grazers had been an important They helped to spread seeds Today, the melting tundra releases more and more carcasses Perfect material for the researcher. [Church] It's like fresh meat. The DNA has been broken So there are tiny, tiny pieces, millions of them. The remedy is, using software. And then you use the computer [narrator] Professor Church mammoth genes They would grow a woolly coat, their ears would diminish in size, while the tusks would lengthen, and they would develop As a result, which thrives in cold climates. So if people get excited about it, we could have, you know, tens of thousands [narrator] Whether man should interfere is a question of ethics. Most geneticists oppose Even if it were possible, there would be no adequate habitat Thus, we may not be presented but there definitely will be and new great moments in evolution.