On the roads of Europe and Africa, crisscross the continents Convoys which are to the reproduction of wild species Ewart is a Dutch driver, between the different European zoos. He works for the transport company Dries is a South African driver specialised in Transportation essential which exterminates populations Ewart and Dries live more than ten yet they have the same imperative, stop as little as possible, Ewart is not a driver He is specialized and that's why, Today, this Dutch driver is expected in the South of France, in the crocodile farm, 1,000 kilometers from here. It's there that he will recover to transport them Transporting wild animals neither for Ewart, nor for the zoos. Jacques is the veterinarian He arrived the day before to make sure with his French colleague. And, when we prepare weighing more than 400 kilos, we equip ourselves. When we go down You should always have a shovel with you. It will be your shield in case of attack. The operation is dangerous. Working with crocodiles Especially with this species Nile crocodiles. Among 330 specimens, they must capture It's an operation We will do for In particular, we will give them injections to give them a slight sedation, that is to say, to calm them down, that they are more relaxed. We always try to ensure but when we work with living things, there is always an element of uncertainty and you have to learn to live with it. Here, you have to know how to adapt quickly. At the time of capture, it's rarely crocodiles The choice mainly turns for lassoing To avoid stressing the animal The timing must be perfectly set and the teams, very well coordinated. Ewart knows well the urgency of the profession and the pet peeve of the transporter, Every minute is precious, counted. Capture and transport It should be as brief as possible. Ewart knows this well and does his best, but he still has 14 hours left The two veterinarians They are waiting for the transporters to arrive, but still nothing, everyone is waiting. Before boarding, crocodiles On the menu, one raw chicken each. The crocodiles will pass and it is therefore necessary the best possible. When transporting animals, we must go as quickly as possible, while remaining vigilant and attentive to them. Having two drivers because every minute is counted. They are living beings. They're not going to be comfortable but they will be slightly asleep and it will go faster With a full stomach, the crocodiles are ready but still not Plugs Twenty three hours, truck lights The park has closed its doors. The transporters, exhausted by the road, will spend the night, I don't know where to park the truck. It's closed ? This is our room. It's great luxury here. A luxury they know well, they are regularly They no longer have before taking action. 13,000 kilometers from Pierrelatte, on a South African ranch. Dries prepares to transport, three rhinos. First of all, animal papers You know, rhinos in South Africa For this reason, all papers must be in order. It's with Dou, a specialized veterinarian that Dries will team up for the catch. The two men know each other They have the same battle scar. -We have the same one. We worked together on a rhino capture. I was in an accident The male rhino came by surprise he pushed the door and it cut my finger. A story that amuses today both victims in the same way, See you now It is over there Dries, has already left his truck there At the same time, the helicopter It's so spread out which cannot be located Once the rhinos have been spotted, and intervene quickly. He has to be ready. We use special crates. There's one for every rhino, They are made of metal, because you know, Even if they are drugged, Rhino transport which requires a minimum of experience. These animals represent We first choose one. Once the job is done, It allows us The first rhino is spotted. It is now in Dou, He has to shoot a tranquilizer syringe to be able to capture it, The sedative works very quickly It's now in Dries and put him in a cage. It's Gaby, Dries' assistant, who handles with a sheet over his eyes, for it to be With a weight of over a ton, the beast is The cage is ready, Dries can now help Gaby to put the rhino That's a microchip When you transport an animal, In case of problem, The animal now identified, it's time to lift the crate to put it Dries will drop her off on the way while waiting to finish capturing the other three The first is done. There are only two left to capture. For the moment, everything is going well. The Rhino Veterinarian He knows well what he has to do. It always works better with somebody It makes our job much easier. Not everyone It's work, Six am, Ewart and his co-driver wake up. No time for both of us On the other hand, Super important. I really like coffee. It's normal. Every morning I have my cup of coffee. A long day On the program, capture crocodiles. It's Samuel, Good morning. After, First of all, you have to unload The task will get a little more complicated. We won't be able to get out especially those at the top. We need to find a tractor Quickly, a neighbor comes to the house The team is complete to unload the four crates, Ewart doesn't stop there. Today he will enter the arena, to lend a helping hand A great first for the young man who does not let himself be dismantled. It's fascinating. They are animals You don't understand who they are and I find myself For the choice of the first crocodile, fate fell on Ali, a young male. Whenever they want their reflex is to turn around. So we pass a rope a rope on the upper jaw, and then we wait for it to twist The capture is muscular, The objective is to channel The cloth allows and thus make him lose his bearings. An anesthetic product So he can before being able to On the other hand, for Ewart, baptism in the crocodile pit He even left him some traces. And this is just the first croc, there are three left. When you are an animal transporter, you can experience exceptional things like this one. What I just did there, It's the best part of the job. Second round for the crocs. Ewart is still present. It's impressive, The technique is the same with one difference: the 200 kilos Females are carried with bare hands. The injection must be done He will soon be asleep. It's full and then what's it like? This is the benchmark. Half. This young female The capture operation for the four crocodiles. The four animals in these big boxes It was a bit of a sporting operation. Now, with the help of a machine, and then they will leave for a trip of 10, 12 hours minimum, since they have Everything is ready, you can go. Let's go for two hours of transport, direction Lyon. The helicopter and the veterinarian We load the last one then we take off. The last rhino is quickly spotted. No question of making a mistake. Rhinos are sold to a buyer to expand his breeding. Dou, the veterinarian, to dose The operation takes place which suits Dries well, because he is behind schedule. But wanting to be too fast, They will miss the cage. They are obliged The tray that we put in front We got there a little quickly. Now he has to come out Its very important, the rhino can't rest his horn and with bad support, The board is quickly and the rhino rests naturally The animal will now be marked but all means We put them but when they are in the bush, we cannot scan them from afar. This is why that we cut them The three animals There is no more and check one last time For that, plays the role of bailiff. He even goes as far as The seals cannot be removed Latest papers those of the South African Ministry Thank you so much. It's time to leave for Dries. Everything is ready indispensable These are the sedatives We do it every three hours, especially to keep them calm. They are very sensitive to drugs. For comparison, we use on a big male rhino even if the rhino is much bigger. Dries knows rhinos perfectly. They are specific I am also a breeder. I also do business I'm not just a driver, but since it's something I like I often do it for others. Dries is therefore a driver for the transport of rhinos. His extensive experience with animals, attracts him The countdown begins They must now recover quickly, 175 kilometers away, antelopes at the Lyon zoo. The pressure is felt. Speed is limited which does not suit the carriers who must win For financial reasons, of course, because every delay entails a cost, but above all for the welfare of the animals who are confronted No way, for Ewart and Klas, Everything is done without ever stopping the engine, their toilet, No question of wasting a second. The road to the Lyon zoo has It now remains This is a crucial step. Arrival time at final destination will largely depend and the antelopes They are particularly stressed. No doubt they feel who they are for Their embarkation It was a difficult load. You must always be careful but I'm happy Now we're heading to the zoo in Holland. I will drive It's good. -Can we hit the road? Successful operation The animals are Another 850 kilometers before arriving A familiar road for Ewart, for his specialized company I work part-time for Ekipa. They call on me and mainly for long journeys I mostly work A transporter, he always was. First of all, cars but the transport of animals Transporting animals, For example, the crocs' temperature has dropped again. I will increase There, it went down to 15 degrees. It's too cold for them. She must be It's okay, I increased it. The crocs are good now. In addition to the temperatures to manage, animal transporters to traffic jams, and the well-being of their cargo, who is alive. Now we're going to change drivers. My driving time is over. Klas takes the wheel again. I think everything is fine. I smelled the crocs We check to see We felt them move. Everyone is alive. We can continue on our way. We don't have much time, The break only lasted five minutes. Home stretch A late arrival after a journey Bad news for us, the premises are closed. We can not That's it, we did it. We are all alive. It's 3:30 a.m. We must be up It will be another short night It's finally the start It was time He must deliver the rhinos in Namibia, in the Otjiwarongo region. Two thousand eight hundred kilometers so that the animals stay It will take him Thirty hours at high risk, because poaching because of the very supposed to be We still have guns in the truck, These are semi-automatic weapons. Just last year, 600 rhinos were killed Such carnage, We are the first to be affected. We must ensure the survival of the species. You must not be naive. We know it's a war, which must be carried out, It's not a game, After three hours of driving, the convoy will be obliged but she must not We stop just to And then also Then we take off again just as dry. For the rhinos, Barely awake from his nap, he will inject himself All is well. All that remains is to put back Obviously there is a problem. The tip is aging Precious time that is wasted, what doesn't help Dries who has left A time that is not since the rest take advantage of it to An observation which obviously been exceptionally It would be better People like them are fine. They have never seen a real rhino. You're kidding ? No, I assure you that's why. Not much can happen It's already gone again for Dries and it is in a truck that the whole team Night falls on South Africa. It's now been nine hours It's time to stop to inject their dose of sedative into the rhinos and above all, to change crew. It is Deguy who will replace Gaby. Their break is short, Every Dries assistant This is essential on which It was a long day of driving, Two conductors, It's OK. It's 10 p.m. and the convoy is at three o'clock Dries and Deguy will ride all night. It's early morning, that we find Ewart and Klas. It's another important day. We will now, free the antelopes in their new home. And their new home, it's simply More than 1,250 African animals The animals spent the night the aim being to The operation is a bit complicated. Klas is forced to maneuver backwards. Honor to the antelopes. They are the first to be released. In order to reassure them a makeshift corridor is installed Everything is done behind closed doors. Destabilized by all these changes, they remain frozen in the trailer. Fortunately, Klas, but an end to the paralysis of the antelopes by pushing them with a simple stick. The antelope van is empty. It's a successful mission. It's the crocodiles' turn to be freed. Handling is good No worries for our carriers, the Dutch zoo team is complete to support the operation. I don't have to carry We slept very little and we still have a lot to do, but they are sufficiently Same technique as at the zoo in France, a forklift and numerous, muscular arms. The four crocodiles Just arrived from France, Jacques is present for Their release is imminent. It's in this little paradise than crocodiles Private beach and 24 degrees all year round. These are the first crocodiles The show is obviously assured. For Jacques, the veterinarian, The journey between France There was a lot of stress for crocodiles, but also for the drivers. The result is positive and I am delighted with it. You also see that the until liberation. They also want to see the result The mission for OK, now the papers. One last little thing before departure, a stop at the zoo administration to return the transport certificate proving that the animal arrived alive The transport is really over The three long day journey comes to an end. Carriers while ensuring They can finally return home. Dries and Deguy They agree enough to buy a coffee and a sandwich. It's been a long night it's a new energy that comes with it. We will continue. We still have Everything is fine, Everything is OK. Everything is fine, but there is no question of wandering around, nor even to take We will continue, and we set off again on the road. A quick shower, A good, cool and quick shower, My breakfast is good. It's not quite But we can not We need to get to our destination and finish our work. Dries is more relaxed Poaching here Relocations between are booming Last injection before arrival. Nothing remains but The last part on the land of the new owner. It's happy It's almost done. One more last step Yako, the new owner This purchase is of great importance Before buying them, I wanted pregnant rhinos, yes. The three rhinos are An added value who breeds rhinos It's better because it allows me than if they came from Namibia. It's time now who are almost 30 hours old and which are beginning to become The first female, a little stunned, will join the group She will come and thus participate The job finished, Dries and Deguy Not entirely, because before, they have to take a little detour They must indeed pass for another rhino transport. Their life is the road, It's in Deventer, a small town in the east of the Netherlands, an hour away An isolated village far from the city and especially from trucks. A self-confessed bachelor, Ewart lives alone, His home, He shares his life with Welcome to my home. It's only when night falls, that Ewart finally returns home. Barely arrived, After a day of work, I always go see my animals. I love my animals. The first thing I do, There, there are the chickens brooding. I prefer company. It's more pleasant to work with them and you receive That's my little boy. Do not worry, Ewart carries and he is particularly happy I never stop with animals at home and at work. This is why Ekipa, is good for me. Good for him, not entirely. The road, its animals, its trucks, also took him away I live alone, I have complicated schedules. It's not that easy to live with me. Although it's hard to believe, He reveres his feathered companions, I love birds because I find myself in them. They are free, but I'm a little jealous, because they can fly. When Ewart escapes it's to immerse yourself in your books. Here are all my books. There are also plenty of them here, everywhere. He collects books A hobby that, A driver with books is surprising. Most people have an image The big-bellied, rude trucker. We can also be refined people. Moments of relaxation for Tomorrow I leave at six in the morning. I'm going back to look for crocodiles which I have to deliver to Morocco. I have left I go up to bed. Good night. Barely arrived and already gone. A short night's sleep before resuming Tomorrow, Ewart like every trip. The rhinos have just passed Yako, the new owner will, inspect the state of health of its animals, for this he has a way His property is so vast This allows him, in just 45 minutes, to take a look Early in the morning, and above all check that there is no I am very afraid of poaching because it's happening here. This morning, the three females The conveyor mission Dries, he just passed 700 kilometers away on his ranch, with his pet. Sagy was abandoned Christopher and I gave him We ensured that He is now a year and a half old. He was born in April, and as you can see, he has grown a lot in a year and a half. When he was born, he weighed 50 kilos. I think now he must And, like any domestic animal, what he loves above all, despite What are you doing ? I just scratch it. He likes that ? Oh yes, he likes it. After his little morning relaxation, to go back to work. He must in turn spot the rhino which he sold to another owner and take him. He has around thirty animals, and we must now When we work with them even if they give the impression They all have special signs. Some have a mark on their ear, see one less piece of ear. This way, we can easily identify them. You must know your animals Dries, even if he knows his animals well, go put It's this one ? Yes, the one behind. The rhino has just received Dries can start his conditioning, but it's never Gestures are daily for Dries, but he knows he can Today, the rhino sedative The team will quickly pay the price. The rhino has just pushed Deguy away, but it won't stop there. Dries in half a second, Fortunately, the rhino and does not know where to continue his charge. Dries and Deguy to lead the animal into the cage. They tie a strap and pulling on it, they manage to direct it The mission is accomplished. Dries' work He knows it, Our work it's a way of living, because we like it. We are privileged and we thank the Lord every day to enable us to work Dries thanks God for doing Animals that ask for these carriers Dries and Ewart are two 10,000 kilometers apart. Neither of them counts, because they are both the convoy of wild animals.