On the eve of the presidential election The country is on the brink of civil war. President Pierre Nkurunziza by forcibly running for a 3rd term - For the CNDD-FDD! - For all activists! Whatever happens, he will be a candidate. Whatever happens, he will be elected. - Kiss each other and say: On the heights of Bujumbura, the capital, the popular suburbs have decided to - Hold your positions guys. Fanni is a chief of the Musaga district. - Keep burning the tires. Don't put down anymore With that, the cars In 8 days of demonstration, he - Give me that, you, His neighborhood which has just suffered a week - That's my fuel. - Take a good look at this machete. Today it's going well We're going to sharpen it. It's necessary If we don't get along - And even the militia - We will work well together. Don't leave the neighborhood, - Come on, it's okay, now go! - We, what we want, Don't worry, Fanni's men but they have for them The revolutionary leader is at the head For the first time, Hutu and Tutsi, the 2 main ethnic groups of Burundi They want to bring this down A hundred police officers prevent them - We will fight until withdraws his candidacy for a third term. We want to continue downtown, - And you, the cop who takes photos, If you continue, We, what we want, What he hasn't done in 10 years Let him leave room for others That's all we ask for. - Calm down guys, - Wait, let's talk. I promise, my guys get it. - These are your men You better calm down, - Okay, that's okay, I'll tell them. - Tell your guys not to come any closer. Whoever approaches is dead. The police have orders: It is unthinkable that the demonstrators The risk of contagion through the rest The police enter the neighborhood But the protesters planned the attack. Posted in the alleys, they bring down - What happened ? The demonstrators are exultant. "There are policies The second police charge This time they shoot Tense Kalashnikov shots. However, the insurgents are not backing down. - We are being pushed What behavior is that? A man is hit. - This is war! The toll is heavy. - There is also another one that we shot - He is not dead ? This young man is called Arnaud. In one day of battle in Bujumbura, In the gray, Fanni is at Divine's side, - How did you learn - I was at home with his friends. They told me that the police They shot him in the back. Arnaud lived here - How old was he? - He was a student. We were a family of five. It's true, we don't have much. I can't believe he's dead. I had to go see him to realize it. Yesterday we were here together. And he said he was going to help his friends He left here running. When I pass by the police now, They never did anything good for us. How can we shoot Who only has a stone to defend themselves? - I am responsible And the death of this boy affected us all. For this family, Is beyond me... Kill a child who fought for If young people are ready to die it is that it allowed a return Since its independence in 1962, this former Belgian colony was regularly who made hundreds A civil war that never ended It provides that a president to thus preserve Violation of this rule Especially since for 10 years the president flouts Political assassinations, The first of them Since Agathon Rwasa introduced himself he is in the crosshairs of power. - Here, we have a regime that calls itself democratic, but where even the most basic rights are deprived to opponents, I can tell you for example, but we didn't even have the right The President is someone who try to be very nice. But which is not at all. And he always uses force. He goes to the countryside. He claims that peace and security are he leaves with more than 200 soldiers with rocket launchers All these are eloquent signs that he does not have this popularity The presidential election To launch your campaign, decided to rely He chose this May 6 to hold a first in Musinga province. To be sure not to lack support, the president candidate uses a method First, a free distribution of t-shirts. Here we live with less A new t-shirt is a godsend. For the women who are going to slap, the presidential party plans - We are only given EUR2.50 when There are 25 of us and the party We can't do it, it's too little! - We are hungry. In order to counter the images the president therefore chose a rural setting The foreign press made the trip. Christian Evangelist, President to entertain the farmers. Tradition is respected. The essential drummers In these difficult times, The crowd is parked and supervised by After 4 hours of waiting under the sun, By running for this 3rd contested mandate, appears more and more like a dictator. - For the CNDD-FDD! - For all activists! - All of you, my faithful, be strong! Under the refreshing shade the party's elected officials display their unity. - Dear faithful, do you accept - No ? Those who do not accept it, Show it to journalists. So ! It's all together We have security in the country, and that is why we can - Applaud! Did you see where We have foiled the plots! We are very strong. We have been through a lot. Hands up ! The president repeats to anyone who wants It's sure, nothing can stop - There are the funds allocated for the elections, and so we have almost 15 parties who And there are also coalitions, The conditions are well met. The Burundian population And we have security at least, we have 9% of the population and on Burundian territory, - No, these are the questions Once the message of peace has been delivered, A little further down the road, trucks full of young activists These young people, we call them Translation: &quot;Men who see far&quot;, According to a UN report, they were armed Their mission: to hold the villages. where on the walls is not displayed A political terror To understand the extent of this phenomenon, in Rwanda. This is where every day happens Gashora refugee camp who have just fled their village. A predominantly populated camp In total, in a month and a half, 100,000 Burundians fled abroad. - If we fled, it was because of the Imbonerakure. At home, I could no longer sleep. I didn't get any sleep again Throughout the country, these are Each time, these militiamen told us: Even with only two Imbonerakure, These militiamen, once they came to see us every evening &quot;We'll start with you, They told us: &quot;You, people of the ethnic group Their methods of intimidation Among these refugees, Anastasia For weeks they have been holding each other tight Their story is that Fear and the instinct for survival. - On the eve of our escape, On everyone's door the militiamen had painted a cross. In the morning, in the village, He told me that I had to run away if I was There are also his friends that we didn't recognize They gave us a choice: &quot;If you are an opponent, The Imbonerakure militiamen They are like a 2nd army They are little tyrants, who decides the fate of others In Bujumbura, the Burundian capital. Terror has changed sides. In the heart of insurgent neighborhoods, the Imbonerakure became There are regularly In red, surrounded by the crowd: Leonidas. With Sebastien here in black, they A court is improvised right on the sidewalk. - Surround them! The interrogation begins. Sebastien, terrified, - Where do you come from ? - Where is your bike? - I didn't come by bike. - And your friend ? - And my friend came - Who owns this truck? - Where is your ID card? While this trial is taking place, the The suspects are handed over to the crowd. Sebastien, basically, But Leonidas was burned alive. This lynching is not an isolated case. All over the city, militiamen One of them agreed to talk to us. The meeting takes place at night because this Imbonerakure had to flee his He also narrowly escaped death. - I was hit too. They punched me in the eye, And I protected myself They had gone looking But there are other young people there and they said stop with the gas In our militia, the killers, For example, But those who are lynched, They didn't kill them. And the white... It's a secret... The secret of the CNDD-FDD party, but impossible to get out of it. And if they knew I was talking to you there, Our party values, But when I look at all the evil that has been I tell myself that I don't love anymore Even a madman couldn't love him. In the Musaga district Fanni has transformed. He is proud of these new fighters - Three, four, five, six, seven, eight. There is the account. In this house, The revolution is being organized. - That's enough. Those who have finished, Despite the police blockade, the leader was able to to feed his troops. - Eat well, there will be Today, we are going to feed 600 people, But rest assured, everyone will have their share. - The objective now is that everything "The thieves have killed! The new recruits are in great shape. But opposite, the police line up Confrontation, escalation of violence, - Let them come, we're going to fight. The army, which was seems to have moved closer to the insurgents. - You, listen to me. Our men went to take care of the militiamen We'll take care of it, do you understand? When we're done with the militia, You and your guys will be at peace The most important thing is that you stay here. If you let go of your guys now, and we will no longer be able to recognize anyone. Wait for orders. Wait a bit. You stay here and you In a few hours, some of these It is Thursday, May 13. The situation seems to be changing. The city center, previously inaccessible, Pretending to go to the market, they They then regroup a stone's throw from Independence Square. - Let no one cross! Kitty is a well-known character here. Writer, granddaughter of the former king She is one of the organizers - We managed to get here. It is a place of enormous value, and I believe we are I'm not a politician, and I'm here in the street to say no, Dozens of neighborhood residents The demonstration takes Facing the police, they chant - We are at a turning point We have done a huge job We still have a little bit of the road left. We must not go back We are almost in a state of law. And I believe that if we do all presidents will know that they must respect and they are not above But for the police, - Get out and go home! Kitty tries to negotiate in vain. - Come on, move forward! Go! For hours, women will resist who wants to clear the place, not hesitating for a moment with only a white handkerchief as his weapon. We are citizens of this country. It is shameful that a police We had white handkerchiefs And look at me, I'm all wet. Look at me, I'm a mom. What could I have done to this - Come on, let's hold hands. Come closer. On the heights of the city, opened the way for other demonstrators. This time, no one stops them. It's 2 p.m. This is unheard of. The crowd exults. - Victory ! - We're happy, we won! This May 13, 2015, President Pierre A news then travels through the city. A rebel general is going to make an announcement. - We even hear that there is a new president The one we then call the new On the radio, he announces a putsch. &quot;The living forces of the nation have decided To overcome this climate in which Burundi is immersed. President Nkurunziza Pierre The government is dissolved. The rebel soldiers are carried Their plan: use the crowd like a horse to reach the building only station capable of broadcasting This is number 2, General Cyril. The television is only about ten meters away. - Are you generally okay? Opposite, other soldiers organize the defense - We must strengthen the positions. Close all access to the television. Someone draw a line The putschists are in the crowd. - Yes, It's them. If they come, you guys shoot! Shooting at the crowd, the soldiers hesitate. But on the other side, the putschists - We don't know what will happen now. We wait. With the demonstrators, the putschists The president's loyalists opened fire. In one minute, the thousands of demonstrators End of the demonstration, the streets empty. From now on, the putsch will be played out between For this dialogue of the deaf which is coming, - What can you tell me The soldiers don't waste a moment. They block all strategic access. Troops from both camps The next morning, On this Friday, May 14, the president He would be on the other shore of the lake, Bujumbura holds its breath. The residents are sheltering in place. The city is abandoned to the military always for control The fights will make At the end of the day, they forfeit. In the meantime, men to set fire First target: "Tele Renaissance", Come back ! I almost got shot! Confused, the journalists - Why are they attacking Tele Renaissance? - It's free TV and media The media denounce everything. so even the opposition does not arrive... It's the media that's trying and all the problems Threatened, local journalists take Sounding board of the insurgents, who wants to be the voice of the voiceless, Yesterday, she announced the putsch. Today, one of its leaders The military used - What do you feel when - Bitterness, desolation. It's going to be terrible because freedom What happened here, has already happened to others You understand that this is a way to silence everyone. So what's going to happen, So we fear the worst. South of the city, in the district Fanni finds his troops. - How are you guys? How is the fight going? Hold on guys, The president and his men The revolution has been crushed For Fanni, the disappointment is immense. - We heard this sad news The reason is that the army is divided. But this is an internal problem within the army. The putschists did not they wanted to spare the population. So maybe the fight is But we, the people, we will fight and we won't give up Fanni kept his promise. Every morning, residents Spearhead of a nation Respect for the Constitution,