In the northernmost city on earth. In the Arctic... Imagine, everyone who lives here ...there is this Norwegian island on which it is forbidden to die or be born. It is the world's island of depression. Long months of complete darkness... ...during which the sun never shines. It has a Doomsday Vault. If there is a world war and the world ends, you will find seeds even from North Korea. Oh, my lord! Where are we? We are going to an arctic archipelago called Svalbard. The only way to reach this island but no one in the world Anyone can work there. We are in Oslo, the capital of Norway, the capital of the richest country It's February. Its per capita income and its quality standards Its most important industry is, It's the country with the most after Russia. They also have shipbuilding, metals, chemicals, timber, textiles, and fishing, which is the most Many countries in the world because of its quality. We're going to Svalbard and it's scary. They say that Norway made of oil revenues, the largest in the world, through which it invests oil The person who discovered oil here... is an Iraqi man, imagine! Because the Iraqis have experience in oil and gas and exploration for them in Iraq. The man who discovered oil here The Norwegians are still grateful to the person who discovered oil here. As you can see, this is my room today. After two days in Oslo, we went to the far north of Norway, to the city of Tromso, also called the Paris of the North. It is the most beautiful city in Norway. It is called the Paris of the North. Okay, we have arrived in Tromso, the farthest city in northern Norway. From Oslo to Tromso and then to Svalbard. We are now preparing ourselves and the island that lies outside of Europe. -You're welcome, guys. I want to declare my love for Tromso. However, our mission which we would leave Europe to go to by international flight. Come to northern Norway. Let's go, to Svalbard. We're off. To the northernmost city. They say it's dangerous up there that might attack us. I'm not kidding, that's what they say. You have to be armed. They stamped my passport. We are leaving Europe for Svalbard. Oh, my God! This is amazing. Straits, mountains, and lakes, this country is amazing! Where are we? Storm in the Far Arctic. This is the first thing you see Where are we? It's 12 noon now. Look. This is just outside the airport. It's 1:00 p.m. now. You can take a bus or rent a car. This archipelago to any Norwegian province, but it constitutes an independent region administered by a governor Hello. This is the hotel. Why do the people in this city live here? In Svalbard, this is how we spend our day at around 1:30. We're in this town now, see? Longyearbyen This is the archipelago. The North Pole has polar bears but no penguins. Antarctica has penguins but no polar bears. All of these are in one building. Everything, all the government It's very convenient. There is a mall here, a cafe, and some restaurants, two or three. Let's try their coffee. This is the cafe. We went to get to know the city. This is the only cafe here. This entire town only has two streets and only 2,000 people live there. Look, they say, "No weapons are allowed." Because the people here are all armed, because of the bears. This is the only supermarket here. And of course, Let's see what they sell in Svalbard. We thought we'd start shopping What can we buy? This store has everything. Coffee. These tools are for snow. Look, they say it's tax-free. They bring everything from Norway. Anybody can live here. Whatever your nationality may be, It is forbidden for women and it is forbidden This means that they transport you Why do people live here? For the coal mines. Yes, all the islands of the archipelago Look, there's a cable car up there, but it's a coal cable car. ...since the Soviet Union era, and there is even There is one last coal mine left here, and they say it will run out soon, and then the city will be closed, it will be for tourism only. The only girl who spoke to us turned out to be Russian. This is the world's The second day we went to this vault, which is called the Doomsday Vault. This is the hidden seed vault in which all the seeds Inside the vault. Even North Korea put seeds here. If the entire world ends, they will open it when the seeds All this in an underground cave where the temperature is 18 below zero This is a bank, a safe seed bank in a remote part of the world. They say that in 2015 they opened the vault and took out the stored seeds after the ones in Aleppo's seed bank In 2017, they planted these seeds and stored the rest The idea itself... is frightening, that the world would end with a nuclear bomb or war, something we see This is their password lock, like the ones you see in the movies. The color of the lock is red and the vault's facade is green. The whole thing is scary. We've been here for two days, and show us what daily life is like here. In the end, we only found a Filipino girl, a Filipino and a Russian! I mean, I want to book a ticket Bro, they need to be more social,