A Student Was Matched With An Insufferable AC is a 24 year old man, presenting to nausea, and diffuse bleeding. By AC was only dry-heaving, because AC was a graduate student. He lived had the awful habit of slamming doors like weights were tied to his feet. Jason was disliked by everyone, AC nicely asked Jason if he could maybe quietly kind of obnoxious. He told Jason that his body. But as the weeks passed, it didn't One evening, AC went to bed early and Jason came door extra hard. That's what you get for trying to Enraged, he yelled back, but Jason just couldn't AC would scream at video games, especially on just to get back at him. The screaming wasnt very just enough to wake Jason up, but not enough with him. And every time this happened, sleep well the night before. In his mind, trying to control his life, and it was Months into the semester, AC thought brushing he thought the toothbrush smelled really bad. It was horrible, and he didnt know why. But a few saw Jason kneeling at the toilet, like he was with HIS toothbrush. Suddenly, it made sense was so awful. When he confronted Jason, there dirty. it really needed to be cleaned. and the swear to God I thought it was mine." This kind of typical disrespect that Jason normally One day, both students were cramming for upcoming if he smelled something, and he thought this was wasn't. He didn't remember opening it earlier, but it seemed like everything was ok. He took a sip. so probably nothing, he thought. But As the hours passed, AC felt the room was getting he took more sips out of the bottle but he was wrong. It tasted fine. It looked fine. But sure if there was a smell or not, but the room AC took a nap at his desk but when he woke up, his stomach. He felt like he was in a sweltering changing the position of his body. That standing around. But then he started to get lightheaded, into the ground, as he was brought down to the as his vision became dark. He was in a Jason turned around and asked, "oh no, what's he thought it felt hot in the room, Jason said too many games on that laptop, and it's firing you maybe you wanna get that checked out. Oh no. Do AC tried to go to bed that night, but at 3am, felt like his insides were getting scooped out would squeeze a little bit more out of his skull. to the floor. An ambulance was called and he's At examination, the medical team he has severe abdominal pain that radiated to that's everything that was wrong. Except, be happening to his liver. The lab maybe nothing serious. At least not yet. As periods where he'd seem ok. Nothing was wrong. pain. And every time this happened, the periods Two days earlier, AC was at the same hospital. He the doctors about his roommate brushing the toilet him IV fluids. And he seemed to feel better. They now that he's here again with similar symptoms, same illness. But, AC started to get confused in whatever was happening to his liver earlier, liver have died, and are now floating around in upper limit of normal the first time, but a couple This massive, sudden increase indicates but what could it be? This is both easy and any known health problems. At this age, sudden Doctors had tested AC for viral infections, but he didnt have any of those. That means then, this. That's the easy part. The hard part is Using a toothbrush that cleaned the toilet is a life-threatening illness. The doctors in his record. But no one else As the hours pass, AC starts to become he has hyperammonemia. Hyper meaning a result of protein metabolism in the body, ammonia presence in blood, because his Ammonia is a neurotoxin. It impairs other chemicals into the brain. AC's liver but this wasn't the only thing happening to him. While he could still talk, he suddenly told in his mouth that got more and more intense. His they noticed that the whites of his Normally we have proteins that will But these proteins are made in the liver, because large parts of it are dying, so A couple days after AC had presented to the doctors stuck a needle into his abdomen to take a The images showed that very specific areas of suggested maybe a specific kind of toxic somehow got into AC's body, maybe intentionally that AC was having a bad time with his details of his living arrangement, the Maybe this was a mistake. Maybe this was an The authorities quickly got involved. AC so he didnt have access to any laboratories. in a lab. One that does experiments on have the ability to cause the kind of specific experiencing. Authorities had a suspicion that But Jason was at the hospital. He and he got into AC's room. "Hey buddy, how's that's ok. I brought you a gift." He said. But AC was unconscious. The pupils will light coming in. This reflex is normal. It when doctors shine a light into AC's eyes, his in tact anymore. It's possible the bleeding in Earlier in his admission, doctors sent a needle cushions and protects the brain. Looking at happening. That fluid isn't supposed to have blood indicating that his brain was bleeding. A CT his brain. All of this happening because his But something's wrong. Right next to the liver be affected, directly. If anything is wrong not because a toxin is acting on them. Police obtained authority to enter AC and things. Before he became incapacitated, AC something was wrong with his water In the lab, they tested the water bottle chemical N-Nitrosodimethylamine NDMA. And this The liver breaks down chemicals that neutralizing them. This protects your body. A lot that is that the chemical is unstable, and it'll by either: shoving parts of itself breaking them, or by taking parts destroying them. Reactive chemicals need to be and the liver has all the tools necessary When the liver breaks it down, the result is into cells, and inserts itself into In small amounts, enough DNA is changed that into subsequent generations. Over time, these cells acquire certain changes, a tumor can start the cells just die, fitting the pattern that When doctors looked at the they noticed a pattern where the cells around were all dead. This explains why his liver shut blood clot proteins causing diffuse bleeding, causing ammonia to spill into his But how did NDMA get into AC's water they found a vial on Jason's desk. and knowing that NDMA causes tumors, they This isn't a common household chemical. Regular their dorm room. And it doesn't just magically police contacted Jason's laboratory and found for their experiments. And this is where Jason smuggled NDMA out of his lab. He wanted For waking him up and causing him to fail toothbrush wasn't enough. He knew NDMA would he used it to induce tumors. He knew it would time. By then, they won't be roommates anymore. undetectable in the blood after a few days, causing damage. Even in small amounts. He But, he emptied the entire vial into and so it was hard to tell anything doctors were monitoring AC's brain activity. It Even if doctors found NDMA earlier, the moment it was done. There's no known antidote theres only a handful of descriptions tumor causing ability of this chemical Something you might find in literature and I dont want you to be scared about including bacon and ham. That's why some contain nitrates and nitrites, because foods cooked. One of which is NDMA, and that's why cancer. But if you notice, the levels are so low That's not to say there's no risk, just be aware direct dose, equivalent to if he ate more than As the days passed, AC's brain activity on zero. At autopsy, they found that and bleeding was all over the right side. Every His liver had a nutmeg appearance, and that many parts of it had been starving of And they were able to confirm that this was Authorities gathered enough evidence. Jason found guilty of all charges, and he was sentenced. A lot of us have had roommates we really always had very good ones. But I remember unreconcilable differences with your roommates, best way is trying to find any way possible to not to do anything to them, needless to say Thanks so much for watching. Take