So guys, you must have heard the golden rule that opening. But in today's video, I'll show you this yes 17 pawn moves in a row &amp; he still won the from this, so that you can also surprise your And along the way, we'll also discuss how to push their pawns in the opening. There's a lot to this was a serious tournament game played in above 2000. Emil Joseph Diemer was playing as Diemer was a German chess master who also has Gambit. He preferred taking full control of the the idea of pushing e4. Black goes for g6, looking a damn, he just continues pushing his pawns. The develop his knights &amp; bishops, but Diemer is just the knight. Now a good option here for black but that would have allowed black to take charge got an oppurtunity, he could've jump into white's would actually have been a good move, but Thomas goes back to d7. Again, white moves another pawn Diemer. By the way, h4 would have been a better style. Anyway, black tries to break the center, open war &amp; you have to fight like a brave warrior. you need to be bold &amp; gutsy, you need to face especially when you have so much backup around throwing pawns at you &amp; eating up your space. You Thomas decided to play on the queenside, instead Diemer just loves this as it allows him to if you notice, we have this really strange pawn do you think? Let me know in the comments! Anyway, in case you're wondering, white can't take this which picks up the bishop. Even if he blocks, is still lost. Diemer, of course, was too so that didn't happen, and he just made another the queenside &amp; Diemer keeps advancing on the Diemer wants to suffocate black on the kingside. h5. Even if he captures en passant, you atleast on the kingside. The problem is that black is not the other side, where nothing is really happening. pushing forward. But now finally, black gathers e6. But Diemer is still unaffected, he continues to its home. And after dominating the kingside, Thomas tries to simplify the center, but Diemer black is just defending &amp; he keeps going back. Now can literally attack anything &amp; push your opponent pieces! This knight can't really move because this knight, he also cannot go anywhere because of locked themselves in their own house &amp; they have black, the best he can do is to somehow develop knights. So we have bishop to e7 &amp; no prizes for pawn move. Now Thomas realizes that he can't do kingside. Now if Diemer takes this, then he just recapture, he can castle short &amp; out of nowhere, on this naked king. Of course, Diemer doesn't on the other side. Thomas captures on g5, and this looks pretty good. Again, taking this pawn, option would be to tie him down on the queenside &amp; not go for b6. In fact, he's not even taking on pawn to f5. Now this is move no. 17 &amp; Diemer has these lazy pieces are just happily enjoying the If you're also enjoying this game so far, then video right now. Anyway, now after f5, we've you at it from black's point of view, this was his king. Even this rook becomes deadly, and pretty scary for white. But Thomas just couldn't diagonal is now wide open, which allows white his queen. And finally, we see the first move from it comes with a smashing check. King f8 is forced He attacks this pawn thrice. So, we have rook that it's been 2 moves since he last touched unacceptable, so there comes pawn to b6. is now completely handicapped, especially all Thomas tries to get his bishop out. But I think a go after the queen &amp; then develop towards the way around. So bishop b7 attacks the pawn &amp; this piece. Ultimately, black played knight f6, but different. Now Diemer finds this beautiful little but since this bishop is no longer controlling you fork the king &amp; his sweety. Black has to take threat. Therefore, knight takes, we have a Now both the knights are under attack, so this because you'll lose the knight for free. the rook, and then comes bishop to f4. Since this rook. White castles, the knight tries to escape. attack. Therefore, the king steps away. Now in even f8. But you might wonder what's wrong with the king can come to c8, pick up the knight &amp; that eventhough he is 76 years old, he is still this absolutely brilliant move, knight to b5. So is pinning down the black pieces from everywhere. can't be taken - just look at this. The bishop and the pawns control these 3 squares. So the only this checkmate is inevitable. Even if black king b7 &amp; bishop c6 still results in a checkmate. c6? Well, that also won't work! You guys can find comments. Okay, so going back, knight b5 is a we have knight e4 on the board - defending this surprise, he's just grabbing the knight with 'You can take whatever you want! But I'll expose sides!' As you can see, black is under serious the rook. Instead he comes down, going after this saving his rook &amp; defending the bishop. Now black so first rook takes on f1, white takes on f1 he can safely pick up the knight. Now if you pieces are much more active &amp; these passed pawns trying to get in through this open file. So king can pick up this pawn. Black captures, white to protect this pawn somehow, but its already too g7, king c8 defending the knight &amp; now simply rook simple for white - just push this pawn, promote not much black can do about this. So he just takes his rook for the knight, he can march forward &amp; he goes here, then he'll have to block with the in this position, black is forced to take the pushes forward with h7. Not much black can do to but the king just moves away. Now the rook after rook g7, black can play anything and after And ultimately, he ends up with an extra rook, in this position, Thomas did not even try to the queen was re-incarnated, king takes bishop, Heiling resigned &amp; Diemer managed to win this And can you imagine after all this drama, this b2 game! If you're a fan of unconventional chess, Alright, so it's puzzle time. In this position, it for white. Share your answers in the comments, do Subscribe to the channel &amp; I