The U.S. is creeping ever closer to spending with its goal being to both build and maintain the And that goal may be more important now than rapidly modernizing its military - spending record aggression highlighted by its invasion of Ukraine to be ready for anything. It needs to be strong. in this video - just how powerful is the U.S. we turn to Global Firepower, or GFP. Each year, assigning each with what it calls a PwrIndx low as possible, with a PwrIndex of 0.0000 being U.S. is closer to achieving this score than any 2024. What does that mean in practice? We'll start of just over 340 million people according with only China and India - both of which have it. That population translates into 123,977,768 a further 4.4 million reaching military age millions of people who could serve as part of its it falls behind a couple of countries in terms country that is unafraid to introduce a draft. It with the draft accounting for many of The Korean War, and Vietnam. Of course, the Forces moved to a voluntary system in 1973 and in a hypothetical situation in which the U.S. has over 120 million people on whom it can call, its numbers in times of need. But let's move away the U.S. military has been voluntary for over 50 GFP says there are currently 2.127 million U.S. actively serving. Again, that places the U.S. million active members and China's 2.035 million with 799,500 reservists - the 10th highest stock paramilitary forces. These are militarized that are often aligned with an official military's the U.S. doesn't have the largest military in there's an aspect of manpower that hasn't been The Military Times reported that the United States service member annually. That cost includes the receive and the costs related to deploying them. incorporated into that figure, showcasing that in terms of providing its soldiers with the best Contrast this with a nation like China or Russia. that an entry-level soldier in China's People's That's about a sixteenth of the $1,900 their soldiers, reports have been flooding in from Russia's soldiers are under equipped and often on minimal or even out-of-date rations. Of which we'll explore later, but the fact remains and equipping its members than many of the nations forces. GFP's figures show that the U.S. is For instance, it has 4,657 tanks - of which an it fifth in the world and behind other major in the world for self-propelled artillery with of which it has 1,267 units. Having said all of vehicles, with 360,069 available, 270,052 of which of land forces, for sure. But not the best in the there are caveats at play here. For instance, GFP of tanks the United States has - with a stock of number of those tanks are Soviet-era vehicles. Russia deployed T54 and T-55 tanks that were built grind of that war has caused Russia to use what Ukraine's ground forces, which have destroyed at 2022. By contrast, the United States' tank fleet tank, which began production in 1985. It's still World War II and Soviet-era tanks Russia has been factor at play, which we can again look to the against Ukraine, Russia has failed to establish its fighters have offered some support to ground Far more common has been the launching of glide thanks to wings built onto them - that can be Russia hasn't made great use of its navy, with of its Black Sea Fleet in the fighting. it would likely not find itself in a similar need to equip its ground forces with artillery by aerial and naval assets in joint operations. many tanks and artillery units as other countries capabilities in other areas. And that brings us the U.S. comes out on top in every department. GFP are fighter jets and 896 are attack-type crafts. The U.S. also has more fixed-wing transports special-mission aircraft, 5,737 helicopters, and of those categories. It's also worth mentioning refuel planes while they're still in the sky. which its manufacturer Boeing claims is the only by both the Federal Aviation Administration and 212,000 pounds of fuel, allowing it to and it's interoperable, meaning that it can refuel many of its allies. Why do these tankers matter? in the sky comes the ability to keep planes in the for an example of why this is important. Over man-made islands in the South China Sea, which it points for its planes should war break out in the with the odds being high that the U.S. would likely send aircraft carriers, with the U.S. also and Australia in the fighting. The key here is stops, either in the Chinese mainland or on one to refuel. That's not the case for U.S. aircraft. to America's tanker fleet, allowing them to outlasting their Chinese equivalents in direct understands that its potential enemies don't have China only has 10 tankers, with Russia being behind America's capabilities here, with aerial conflict between the U.S. and these two countries. isn't concentrated solely in the U.S. Air Force. Force has around 5,200 craft. That's followed the U.S. Navy with approximately 2,450 aircraft. according to the same resource, meaning the U.S. Force and U.S. Army - that have more aircraft than uses its aircraft for different purposes, as well as needed. That's another key strength, as we'll also the equipment factor that comes into play. At J-20 as its answer to the F-35, the United States the direct comparisons between the J-20 and F-35 the F-35 is stealthier - the fact that China is deployment shows that it's playing catch-up. Generation Air Dominance Program, or NGAD, in 2014 and development. Not only will NGAD lead to the the planned service entry being in 2030 - but operations. Solo fighters will be out. They'll fighter being developed as the centerpiece, that a jet the pilot flies, they'll be able to control capabilities. In other words, the U.S. is working strategy while countries like China and Russia fifth-generation fighters. Next up - the U.S. the U.S. doesn't quite top GFP's rankings in terms which is a long way behind the 730 of China - which has 781 assets. However, the United States It has more aircraft carriers than any other joint operations approach it takes with warfare. warships, topping the rankings in both of those place it second in that department, and it also U.S. falls is in its number of frigates - it has vessels. But therein lies the secret to America's navy in terms of assets. Instead, it's focused the amount of water a ship displaces, with larger it comes to this metric, the U.S. is a long the U.S. Navy displaces around 4.5 million tons second-largest navy in the world - lagging at two means the U.S. has the larger ships, but for what to more weapons on board as well as the ability to accounts for its role as a global protector here, because they're tasked with sailing thousands Hawaii, and Washington. Larger ships can weapons-based benefits they offer being icing too. That's according to Chuck Hill's Hill was assigned to four different ships during to complete the Tactical Action Officer course in guy and a grandfather," though he uses his blog to says that the U.S. Navy decommissioned several four Littoral Combat Ships, or LCSs, five patrol submarines, or SSNs. However, that decommissioning destroyers, five new LCS, a new SSN, and 55,658 tons to its total displacement. While that and 93,567 tons respectively - it still shows it stays ahead of the rest of the world. In simple but it has the largest and most powerful. It also and helicopter carriers. When combined, Russia and third of what the U.S. has - with America's focus combined approach it takes to naval warfare. it not only has to face massive ships but also the those ships. And even if the opponent can bring has an advantage thanks to its tankers offering even mentioning the U.S. Marine Corps, which had reserves, at the end of 2023. The Marines are responsible for both amphibious and expeditionary responders to developing crises. In other words, of ships. It combines having what essentially well-trained land forces on the planet to be a strong position. It's third in sheer manpower, and likely has the strongest Navy on the planet. each of its major branches having elements of the having aerial assets - that showcase America's there's an aspect of U.S. military strength that key to its achieving victory: Logistics. Starting maintains is designed to help it set up bases It has 957 fixed-wing transports because those practically anywhere while giving the U.S. more say that it neglects naval transport. The U.S. has are shallow-draft ships capable of transporting as needed. Each has a flight deck that can land a access and enough room to seat 312 passengers. knots makes it one of the fastest naval transports U.S. military maintains and you get a fighting and equipment around the world as needed. But advantage by building and maintaining military the United States maintains around 750 overseas bases range from small "Lily Pads," which are of $10 million or less. Lily Pads account for usually being to enhance cooperative security sites from which it can launch missions. The other 200 U.S. military personnel, along with equipment these bases, the U.S. achieves almost global Japan - housing over 53,000 troops - along with 73 collectively contain around 27,500 troops. That with the personnel at those bases likely being the for the Middle East, the U.S. has 10 bases in 2,500 troops stationed in Iraq. Again, the purpose anywhere while having bases set up to keep both during military operations. These bases are also its military, which brings us to NATO and the a NATO member, the U.S. is supported by another obligated to come to its defense should an attack the NATO charter, which says that an attack on of them. Through that membership, the U.S. has from countries like the United Kingdom, which and the 11th-placed France. America's NATO to set up military bases in Europe - ideal for the time call for it. U.S. cooperation goes more network. It also sets up partnerships that see it defensive strategy and running military drills. and South Korea is a good example - all three Indo-Pacific to "make the world safer and the Department of Defense. Of course, reading exists primarily so that the U.S. can keep an three-country agreement involving Australia this agreement was signed in September 2021 and a fleet of nuclear-powered submarines by the yet another partner in the Indo-Pacific region, as the United Kingdom. The point here is that when simply look at the U.S. alone. Yes, it already but it bolsters that strength by allying itself on alliances is why it has so many overseas bases, it to closely surveil other countries, and provide a member of NATO means the U.S. benefits from - deterrence through collective defense. If the U.S. countries ready to come to its defense. Then, with other countries - all give it more eyes U.S. to strengthen its military with the support States in terms of its military? While there's no strong as it's ever been during the voluntary that could diminish its strength. Key among in the video that we mentioned the U.S. defense much more the U.S. spends on the average soldier to the U.S. when it comes to building its military that budget that could compromise the country: its potential enemies. Take China as an example. defense budget by 7.2%, meaning it will reach place in terms of global military spenders. On the strengthen as much as the U.S. in 2024. However, on equipment than the United States. That's if power parity, or PPP. The International Monetary of one country would have to be converted into of goods and services in each country." In can spend less on its soldiers not because it's equipment it provides simply costs less than In short - China gets more bang for its military its military equipment from private companies U.S. will always go with the lowest bidder, that doesn't directly control the manufacturing of the reflect the prices its private contractors demand Russia have state-owned military manufacturing. confront: Recruitment. For as large as the U.S. declined over the last three decades. USA Facts it was at in 1987. While this is partially due to efficient, it's also indicative of a recruitment of the country's armed forces in the future. The the Department of Defense published an article in the commanding general of the Army Recruiting one of the toughest he's seen in more than 33 youngsters who could even qualify to serve in strong economy - leading to low unemployment need a job - and you have a key challenge the U.S. the U.S. military has set itself a target of a further 60,000 for its reserves. That target may Prize-winning journalist Walter Pincus revealed in the U.S. failed to meet its recruitment targets in 24 years. The U.S. military is shrinking. Whether is yet to be seen. So, there are issues that it manages its budget and how it recruits people change the fact that the country still has the certainly seems to think so, noting that the U.S. the pile when it comes to manpower (even with the largest in terms of assets, displaces the dozens of other countries that have allowed the point is crucial - it allows the U.S. to maintain soldiers are well-stocked and capable of fighting Is there any aspect of America's military strength covered? Will the U.S. be able to maintain the remains the country with the strongest military, catch up in the coming years? Tell us what you video. Now go check out U.S. Enemies Will HATE