20-year-old Takehiko Ena was prepared and he was making the final preparations for his mission that was designed to be his last. Once He had been trained to suppress his emotions and He and his fellow Kamikaze pilots had been ordered one-way mission that would only end when they had battleship in a suicidal mission that he had been him. And yet, the young student couldn't help By 1944, after nearly 5 years of brutal and had started to turn in favor of the Allies in they had repelled the Nazis from France in Allies were giving them hell on the Eastern Front, the Nazis surrendered, but the war was not yet who had entered the war late and would go on long after the war in Europe was over. but Japan had forced their hand when, on December Harbor in Hawaii, prompting the U.S. to enter battles of the entire war would take place in final years of the war as the U.S. turned their Facing the full might of the U.S. military way to fight the Americans, and so the legendary Wind, a reference to a fabled moment in ancient Japan from a hoard of Mongol invaders in 1281. fanatical fighters. They called them Baka bombs, since the Kamikaze planes were relatively easy the U.S. ships. The U.S. military couldn't many young Japanese men to sacrifice their Still, the Kamikaze were able to inflict some Though only about 1 in 5 Kamikaze pilots managed 34 ships and damaging hundreds of others over the of Okinawa alone, Kamikaze pilots were responsible the greatest loss of life in a single The Kamikaze's tactics were also an Every Kamikaze mission was a suicide Kamikaze pilots who took to the air at the from their first - and final - flight. The so many young Japanese men were willing to take and they lived in constant fear of History remembers the Kamikaze as for their emperor and their country, but those In writing his 2008 book on the Kamikaze, had expected to find a story of fanaticism but he was surprised by what his research not unlike their American counterparts calling them "extraordinarily patriotic but By design, Kamikaze pilots were not intended to most of what we know about the Kamikaze comes stories. So, what happened if a Kamikaze never had the chance to fulfil their glorious story of what drove thousands of Kamikaze Horiyama was 21-years old in late 1944 when he was elite force of airmen. Japan was losing the of their last-ditch effort to turn the tide in until the very minute that the war ended devoted subject of his Emperor, and he relished the name of his beloved country. Horiyama had his final glorious mission when the news came the war was over. Though he was grateful that the "I felt bad that I hadn't been able to sacrifice 2015 at the age of 92. "My comrades who had but I had missed my chance to die in the same How were the Japanese able to convince so to willingly and even enthusiastically these suicide missions? In short, they were training manual illustrates just how thoroughly "When you eliminate all thoughts about life and your earthly life. This will also enable you to enemy with unwavering determination, meanwhile Honor is an extremely important part of Japanese reinforcing this ideology and convincing these to them in the afterlife, and honor to their believed that their Emperor Hirohito and and they were conditioned to be willing to all emotions and made to believe that they a great honor in Japanese culture. In some the Kamikaze training school, attending their and personally requesting their services as pilots would practice the daring moves that repeatedly flying their planes almost vertically enemy target, before sharply reversing course them for the day when they would follow through on Their intense training was incredibly effective sacrifice their lives for their country and die at least 2,500 pilots had given their lives in number closer to 4,000. At the end of their of paper with 3 options on it - they could either or they could refuse - in theory, anyways. were simply told to try again and to By the end of the war, the Japanese were university students had been exempt from military like Takehiko Ena, found themselves drafted 20 year old Ena had been studying economics was pulled from school and thrust into Kamikaze first-born sons, and thus they were exempted from Ena, as a younger son, certainly had his but he welcomed the opportunity to bring for younger sons. Ena completed his training, and prepared to die. But, By the late stages of the war, the depleted but were using out-of-date and damaged and adapted for Kamikaze missions. These aging On his first attempt his plane failed to take off, even begun. His second attempt made it off the an emergency landing before he got anywhere close more engine troubles forced him to land in the to a nearby island, where they were stranded for 2 the war was over, and Ena would never Though the Kamikaze trained to die, not all of groups - those who were forced to abort their failure to locate targets, and those who were fear. The two groups were treated very differently to prove that they had returned for reasons Japanese could not afford to lose any pilots, and Those who had backed out, though, were shamed the depleted Japanese could not afford and the punishment was limited to ensure Even under these extraordinary circumstances, its limits. Surviving Kamikaze pilots recall the "final flights", each time unable After his 9th attempt, he was To combat this natural tendency the Japanese implemented a number of strategies their deadly mission. Pilots flew in a squadron pilots followed through with their mission, courage" prior to take off to help ease their with only enough fuel for a 1-way trip to ensure was made to compose a will and a letter to The Japanese Kamikaze pilots of World War 2 went Samurai of the skies, committed to dying for the to give their lives for glory. In reality, though, with most agreeing to volunteer at the risk of in dishonor anyways on the front lines of battle. back in their favor, the Japanese sent thousands Kamikaze missions. Despite this, a few Kamikaze tell their stories. Thanks to them, we know that but instead were desperate and afraid of If you thought this video was fascinating, like this one called "The Horrors of Unit 731" 2. Or, perhaps you'll like As always, thanks for watching, and don't See you next time!