What you are looking at is a visual comparison left to right, we have Zen 2 in the form of a Zen 4 based Ryzen 7 7800X3D. That's three with some pretty substantial changes in technology near infrared pictures from Fritzchens Fritz, 3600 and 5600 are pretty much identical and is not the chiplets, but rather the capacitors the same: one large IO-die and a single CPU ever since the introduction of Zen 2 in 2019, Ryzen CPUs hasn't changed at all. And from same design. after soon to be four generations on the same new: Zen 6 is supposed to introduce sweeping design. But what exactly is supposed to change, Zen 6 benefit? architecture, it was arguably the most impactful technologies are rather simple. Instead of AMD is connecting the individual chiplets that has been done in semiconductors for many also a flexible and very cost effective way This image of a Zen 2 PCB shows all the traces might look complex at first, once you - quiet becomes apparent. We can make out the area of the PCB and the IO-die below that in the to the IO-die, all of the other traces are handles input and output, such as system memory are placed in close proximity to each other, has to go through the IO-die first. the technology behind them is simple. On face embedded into the PCB, not unlike your motherboard circuit board. Sometimes, PCBs are also called is a even more fitting name, as they are a with tiny wires. its breakthrough chiplet architecture and protocol that is used to transfer the data PCI-Express, a proven technology. transporting data via the PCB results in low a lot of energy. It's so simple to design implementation. The positive aspect are only efficiency take a backseat. that is able to meet the demands of future lower latency and reduced energy cost when new technology will certainly be more expensive take a look at the available options, weigh the most sense for Zen 6. use so called silicon interposers, which are and the chiplets. This image from TSMC depicts any other silicon interposer packaging method. strikingly similar to AMD's current chiplet future? instead of using copper wires on the PCB, piece of silicon, with means data connections Running data paths through sillicon allows in more bandwidth and lower latency, while interposers provide a much larger channel of energy needed to drive the data signals. 1.5 to 2 picojules per bit, while a silicon of around 0.2 to 0.5 pJ/b. A huge increase So you get higher bandwidth, lower latency Well, there's a trade-off. This time the solution Not only does it take more engineering resources design, but the interposer itself also doesn't silicon interposer has to be big enough to special technology, so called mask stitching, reticle limit of 858 mm2, which further increases The packaging also requires more precision, easily. And then you have to completely rethink just connect straigh to the chiplets, because need so called TSVs, through-silicon vias, In a nutshell, silicon interposers are great but they are also very complex and expensive manufacturing capacities are limited due to and AMDs MI300, which all use silicon interposers. interposer designs, but in my opinion it's and even HPC CPUs. Zen 6 very likely won't The next best thing are so called &quot;silicon famous technology of this type. The idea behind the same benefits of a silicon interposer do you do that? concept: instead of one large interposer that you place smaller pieces of silicon right is short for Embedded Multi-Die Interconnect package substrate, while other solutions like bridge above the substrate, a technology used Fanout Bridge&quot;. benefits to a silicon interposer, without and the smaller bridges also don't block access the use of expensive TSVs. But placing the you need a lot of them, like when connecting Each placement becomes a potential point of fails, the whole chip might be wasted. leaked early Zen 6 design abstractions. In slightly altered versions of internal AMD server CPUs. In Tom's video we can see a combination which at first glance look very similar to are placed right next to each other and the a embedded or elevated bridge. from, if they want to use silicon bridges. and CoWoS_L, which are bascially the same Integrated Fanout, or InFO, is a chip first and then the interposer or bridge layer is where the interposer or bridge layers are in a second step. Placing the chips last is valuable for fragile chips like HBM, that's CoWoS packaging technology. Since Zen 6 very be the more likely choice for AMD. Semiconductor and Test companies (OSATs) offer example FOCoS-Bridge. The point is, using by high CoWoS demand and there are other providers is a much more likely contender for Zen 6 benefits as a interposer while at the same And while I wouldn't be completely surprised there's one more technology that I personally AMD's next-gen chiplet design: a organic redistribution This technology takes a page out of the silicon interposer that sits below all the chiplets. of choice, other organic compounds are used, The idea is simple: to achieve benefits like more energy efficiency, you need to increase channels for electrical signals. Basically, Yes, silicon would be the perfect material silicon is expensive and comes with a lot are using a less capable material the benefits a more dense connection nonetheless. interposers. Both Navi 31 and 32 use a form RDL, sometimes also called InFO_oS for &quot;on-Substrate&quot;. it works: a organic RDL interposer with at and the MCDs. At the intersection of each out&quot; the interconnects onto a much larger extra space the RDL interposer creates. It's point-to-point connections, these high density fan. at explaining how fan-out works. On the left are routed within the area of the chip, which you can create. Fan-out on the right side the chip, to build connection points beyond imagine the effect you create when you have density greatly increases. about 10x the bandwidth density of Infinity and also reduce power consumption (pJ/bit) presentation AMD even compared a current gen Infinity Links, which is a pretty huge hint on a standard organic package, like used by right shows 50 wires using the new Infinity The images are to scale, so you can see how actually are, the difference is staggering. with some of the same drawbacks as a silicon the drawbacks are also less pronounced. Like multiple times the EUV reticle limit, which sever CPU. Just like a silicon interposer, to the dies from below, as it sits in-between easier to run connections through organic In a nutshell, a organic interposer with fan-out offers higher bandwidth, lower latency and Infinity Fabric On-Package, while it's downsides meaning costs are manageable. Navi 31 and for standard consumer products without hurting likely contented, but solutions such as FOCoS interposer is definitely my number one contender Now, let's assume Zen 6 will replace the current Links, similar to Navi 31 &amp; 32, what would the packaging and layout look like? would be the placement of the CPU chiplets. they would sit right next to it, either one of how AMD designs the desktop IO-die. latency and efficiency, desktop Ryzen parts in latency. Just like Zen 3 improved latency of two separated 16MB blocks on Zen 2, Infiniy and CPU chiplets, improving performance in With only dual-channel DDR5 and not that many begin with and while a more efficient interconnect concern for Ryzen. It's the latency that will Servers on the other hand are a whole different will be the increased interconnect efficiency. Fabric On-Package consumes a large portion reduce the amount of energy required for the or leaving headroom for more cores and higher every additional watt on more cores. Zen 5 and 192 compact cores, Zen 6 could go well And when it comes to servers, bandwidth is have a lot more memory channels to feed its more cores. Zen4c increased core count per 24- or 32-core chiplets, these cores need the IO-die, Infinity Link would be a huge Zen 2 was a breakthrough for AMD and its legacy Fabric On-Package interconnect AMD has been think that Zen 5, which will release later technology. but deliver important benefits across the increased energy efficiency will allow AMD further while reducing the performance drawbacks There's always the slight chance that AMD and desktop, for example a more expensive organic RDL for Ryzen, but going by AMD's simple, which is why I think we will see the I'm convinced that a organic interposer solution, is the most likely contender for AMD's next-gen interconnects while still offering strong Infinity Links will be the future. technology you would like to see? Intel is Meteor and Arrow Lake, should AMD do the same, better choice? Let me know in the comments I hope you found this video interesting and