It's been called the ugliest building in Looming over the heart of Pyongyang, the Ryugyong pyramid and a retro spaceship. Standing at 330m tall, this concrete behemoth At the time it was built, the Ryugyong was a 99 floor skyscraper that would project North But that never happened. Instead, work ground to a halt in 1992, leaving The nickname the Western press gave this unfinished But what caused this grand project to go awry? What unknown calamity turned this socialist The answer to that question is even darker Today, Geographics is exploring the tallest and uncovering the forgotten tragedy that Sibling Rivalry In America, nearly 7 million people are joining In Europe, Chernobyl is spewing radiation Meanwhile, in Pyongyang, Kim il-Sung is a One that's been haunting his nightmares The North Korean leader is terrified that neighbor. For younger viewers, this probably sounds Like, North Korea is an impoverished Communist society. But it wasn't always like this. Less than a decade earlier, in the mid-1970s, Both were dictatorships, both relied on foreign economies. But then the 1980s had dawned, and North Korea's Korea strapped rocket boosters to its economy. In 1981, Seoul had even won the right to host In 1986, South Korean builders working in hotel. Frankly, the achievements of the South were look like hicksville. Kim needed a plan. Something he could do that would upstage the was where it was at. Ensconced in his Hermit Kingdom, the supreme Why not beat the South at their own game? That same year, 1986, Pyongyang announced Games and the world's tallest hotel. In three years, North Korea would hold its Oh, and all the participants would stay in Korean one. As plans go, this was practically up there your own, even bigger wedding just down the But hey, that's just how things roll in What were people gonna do? Tell Kim no? Ground broke on the Ryugyong hotel in 1987, 1989. The plans were insane. The Ryugyong would stand at 300m, with three rotating restaurants. It was built to last, too, forged purely from This is one explanation for why the hotel of all that concrete was distributed over But there's another explanation, too. By the mid-1980s, Kim was already preparing there are gonna be a lot of Kim's popping An integral part of the younger Kim's myth Paektu. What better way to remind the party faithful to watch over them? The same year work began, Kim decreed the vices like gambling and capitalism would be This was part of Kim's plan to attract over He even envisaged Japanese tour groups staying vast premises. Little did Kim the elder know, but none of In just five short years, the Ryugyong would ...But of its sudden decline. One Last, Shining Moment you might have thought you were visiting a As Kim's World Festival of Youth and Students on refitting the capital. New roads were opening, a new stadium was And above it all, looking serenely down on outline of the world's tallest hotel. Yep, half-finished. In a sign of things to come, the hotel had But that wasn't a problem. The government had just pushed the deadline the plan all along. Once again, this was a dictatorship. Who was gonna disagree? On July 1, 1989, the world descended on Pyongyang And we mean the world. Over 175 countries were represented, including If that sounds unlikely, well, hey, so does Nazi Germany. For the next week, Kim il-Sung smiled beatifically capital. This was North Korea at its best, glistening We can only hope Kim savored that shining It's likely that that one week in July, on Pyongyang. OK, let's fast forward two years now, to Already, the triumphal vibe from that 1989 On the horizon, the Ryugyong remains unfinished, The foreign investment Kim had predicted had To make up for the shortfall, he'd plowed into the hotel annually. And this was a problem, because the North's Not five months after Kim's shining summer crash felt across the world. Over the next two years, Communism had collapsed and the Kremlin's subsidies to Pyongyang Without those subsidies, the dream of the In 1992, in the face of a flatlining economy, tallest hotel. Work stopped. Although it had reached its full height of And now it wouldn't be. As the workers trooped out for the last time, overlooking a financially broken city. The only sign of Kim's grand dream that at the very top of the Ryugyong's pyramid. It would remain there for the next sixteen In the uneasy atmosphere of 1992, no-one in years would bring their country to its knees. A Taste of Armageddon come to symbolize the catastrophe engulfing mismanagement, and incompetence. A crisis known to the West as the North Korean But before we can get to the chilling part and explain how it happened. How the triumph of July, 1989 could turn to To do that, we need to go back to the very The Hermit Kingdom arose from the ashes of Annexed into Imperial Japan in 1910, the Korean after joint invasions from the Soviets and The Americans occupied the south, while the When it came time for the occupation to end, But neither was really a viable nation yet. Both relied on handouts from their patrons In the North, this mainly took the form of When the Koreas had divided, the South had North had been left with a load of rocky fields But hey, this wasn't a problem so long as The only trouble was, Kim wasn't totally Not long after North Korea became a Communist But rather than being all like "sweet, two We're screwed." The problem was that China and the USSR both world, and all other nations to imitate them. This was fine when Mao was basically a moustache-less and the USSR started steering in a new direction, You know how sometimes your friends have a not wanting to take sides? Well, that was Kim in the 1950s. Only instead of being unfriended by Khrushchev cut off. No, the only way to avoid a nasty shock in self-sufficient. But how do you take a country physically incapable Simple: you lie! In the mid-1950s, Kim unveiled a new guiding Juche (pronounced JOO-Chay) is hard to explain, it suited him, but a core tenet was that of Initially, it was really a piece of performance A way for Kim to demonstrate to his international Come the 1980s, though, Kim decided to implement Peasants were sent out to chop down trees Unfortunately, this led to two catastrophic One: widespread soil erosion, which would And two: it convinced the elite that North Key to this last bit were the new fertilizer They produced massive harvests, so when Kim like "damn, we can definitely feed ourselves!" By the time we catch up with our main narrative North Korea was in a very dangerous place. You had an economy nearly flattened building that had overworked the land and was now in convinced their nation could feed itself. When the USSR suddenly ceased to exist, taking piece of a very destructive puzzle fell into Despite Kim's best-laid plans, his country in a century. The Disaster Begins July 8, 1994 - exactly five years to the day Kim il-Sung finally died. As he went off to the great mountain in the last glimpse of the unfinished Ryugyong and If he did, it would've been just the first the hotel moved someone to tears. At the time Kim died, the storm clouds were hadn't yet started. It would fall instead on his son. Kim Jong-il didn't officially take over death. But, unofficially, he held all the power; And this was a problem, because Kim the younger While Kim il-Sung was at least a veteran who'd Jong-il was as spoiled, as pampered, and as He couldn't manage the economy. He couldn't even mismanage it like his father, grasp of the how the economy worked in order This was the guy at the top just as Kim il-Sung's Just as soil erosion, lost fertilizer subsidies, and an obsession with self-reliance all collided famines. By summer, 1994, there were food shortages In response, the regime coined the cheery Don't let the word "let's" fool you The government had complete control of food If they wanted you to only eat two meals a Yet even this didn't slow down the growing At first, Kim the younger tried to make lemonades him. He allowed food to be rationed on a loyalty Those who unquestioningly followed the regime of disloyalty starved to death. But soon there wouldn't be enough food even In 1995, catastrophic flooding ruined what Panicked, the regime accused the nation's food rations. And so began a cycle of deadly incompetence. Faced with lower rations for the false charge started hoarding it for real. This led to many farmers being executed even Those who survived were simply able to bribe Either way, the meagre crops stayed out the By the end of 1996, the state had effectively There was widespread starvation, and population In Pyongyang, a city only party loyalists so extreme that the skin began to flake from Throughout the entire famine, only the military a normal diet, a necessary precaution to stop But there was one exception to all this misery. During the height of the famine, Kim Jong-il across the world to prepare him the rarest As the dictator filled his belly a holocaust Buckle up, because this next section is going "Don't Sleep Outside" children fled the starving villages for the Hundreds, thousands, tens of thousands of Chongjin. There, they were forced to sleep out in the On streets, in train stations, in parks, anywhere Before long, these kids started vanishing. Snatched off the street in the dead of night. While most had simply died of hunger or exposure, According to rumors at the time, children order to be eaten. We have no way of knowing if this story is North Korea is so closed-off that it's impossible grim years, all we have are whispers from But the mere fact this story exists shows The government named the period of famine action Kim il-Sung took against the Japanese to march on despite the cold. But at least those men had been marching towards There was dignity in their suffering. In the Arduous March of the 1990s, those who There are tales, some backed up by eyewitness relatives to die so the children might survive. There are tales, too, of peasants reduced Of the frog population nearly going extinct It's said that infant mortality skyrocketed. That an entire generation of children grew on by extreme malnutrition. Overall, it's impossible to say what the The North Korean government contends 240,000 2.5 million and 3.5 million. That's equivalent to ten percent of the On a per capita basis, even Mao's Great This is why we referred to the Ryugyong as It may not have been the only factor, but devastate the economy, putting the North on Now, still in its broken, unfinished state, those dying in the countryside. A reminder of the nameless North Koreans sacrificed Finally, in 1996, Pyongyang dropped Juche's community for food aid. At first, the Western nations dithered. Then they agreed, but funneled the aid through all and resold it at inflated prices. When the aid agencies came to North Korea and dying out of Pyongyang. And that's what the west saw: a city that comparable to Ukraine's Holodomor. But the Holodomor this was. Out in the countryside, entire villages had The Arduous March came to an end in 1998. By that time, an entire generation had been In a better world, the Ryugyong would've happened. A monument to those vanished lives. But North Korea is like a backwards elephant It excels at forgetting, at covering up. And it wouldn't be long before the Ryugyong A Modern Building a surprise announcement. They would be building North Korea's first As part of their contract, they had agreed exterior. This raised more than a few eyebrows. By 2008, North Korea had become an international It had tested its first atomic bomb, and been then-president George W. Bush. And now here it was, suddenly determined to That same year, Orascom removed the rusting an end a sixteen year construction hiatus. Over the next three years, they slowly covered what had been a tomb into a sleek skyscraper. Even before they finished, the regime was On May 1, 2009, a spectacular fireworks display the night sky. From airbrushing the hotel out of official seemed to be actively embracing it; almost ghosts of the 1990s from history. Not long after Orascom finished the hotel's and power transferred to Kim Jong-Un. Just like his father before him, and his grandfather working on the hotel. Originally, the plan was to sell it to a luxury In 2013, German group Kempinski even declared deal quickly fell through. Around the same time, pictures emerged of empty as it had ever been. While the exterior was now done, it looked And that's how things stayed. As the third Kim got into his groove detonating continued to sit empty, its exterior gleaming, for the regime it was commissioned by. But it appears that the story of Ryugyong In 2018, LED lights were added to the hotel, flags and propaganda to the entire city. At first, the light show was only turned on By 2019, though, it was lit up most evenings, This, in a city where electricity is often A sign that the regime has plans for the hotel? With North Korea, who can say? Today, the Ryugyong occupies a strange place, useless. It may be that this latest Kim has some grand It may be that those international investors But don't count on it. North Korea is a state that has consistently failed to behave like other nations. Where it should have collapsed, it tottered Where its people should have overthrown their him, even as it's cost them their lives. In such a nation, any prediction we could would be bound to be proven wrong. But that doesn't mean there's nothing Like Ceausescu's palace in Romania, the a grand monument to one man's ego, built Unlike in North Korea, though, Romanians snapped. It December, 1989, they overthrew Ceausescu's and his wife against a wall. Today, the Palace of the Parliament is used No longer just a symbol of oppression, but shadow of Communism. North Korea may still be the Hermit Kingdom, the deaths of millions, but things won't It could be that the final chapter of the A chapter where it comes to symbolize something A chapter where it comes to symbolize hope.