In ancient times, tribes of humans would solitary campfire, wondering about what might things haven't changed. Our campfires might globe and even further; out to the very edges like the James Webb... and yet there is always to our imaginations to fill what lies beyond it. barrier. It is the section of space that nothing - not even light - can approach us from interact with us causally. So, unlike the darkness side of this particular edge seemed destined to and we could never reach it. hundreds of galaxy clusters were analysed to faster than science could account for. Almost like or had once pulled them, with a reach that extends lurking beyond that final dark. spans across the universe has a name What could be causing it? And what are its I'm Alex McColgan, and you're watching Astrum. and its model-breaking implications for our Dark Flow is a controversial topic, so we'll the Wilkinson Microwave Anistropy Probe was Background Radiation - the fizzling echoes of the space - to help us understand better the features although it released its data in instalments on cosmology as it helped scientists to answer "how much of the universe is made up of physical Alexander Kashlinsky was one scientist eager team of researchers at the NASA Goddard Space compare the Cosmic Background Radiation to see if there were any interesting It was a difficult task. To tackle it, Kashlinsky called the kinematic Sunyaev-Zel'dovich (KSZ) essentially makes use of the fact that when cosmic galaxy cluster, it gains a little of that energy. thus heating up the cooler cosmic radiation, or and thus has a lot of kinetic energy to impart. and you can use this information to infer things The problem is, this boost is so tiny, that it's statistical calculations to notice it at all. of the CMB to then be able to compare 1000 known And to their surprise, they found a pattern. A to the CMB, stretching 2.5 billion light years moving between 600-1000 km/s in the direction The mystery is, there is nothing out there source (or sources) of gravity presumably had but it was outside of our vision. Which led source of mass likely has to exist at just out of sight. And this But first, is it even possible for something gravitationally? You might think the answer would nothing that exists out there can now affect there. That's just what happens when space that the expansion outpaces the speed of even gravitationally. I talk about this in more But there is a loophole if you do time in the Big Bang known as Cosmic Inflation. essentially scientists back in the 1970's were very flat and very much the same in terms if you zoomed out enough - even parts that never the edge of our universe to our left, and the even when there was no reason this should this idea is known as the Horizon problem. An that the problems raised by this mystery all everything did interact with each other, evening when shaken around enough. But for that to be then explode out to where it is now, a period somewhere at the start, in addition to the already but physicists have placed this super expansion lasting only 0.000000000000000000000000000000001 But in that time, it would have expanded This mindbogglingly fast expansion is akin to of the Milky Way galaxy; all in a billionth The nice thing added by having this cosmic that it allows you to explain how everything had a universe, even the parts that are now unreachable theories about how it came about, involving terms but that's a little heavy on the physics side takeaway is this: Dark Flow could be explained wasn't even coalesced into atoms yet, there was a that our particular patch of observable universe much gravity. Cosmic inflation could have then from our observable universe to the point where but because things in motion tend to remain in pull are now simply drifting along in that But as I said, this is controversial, for two main large amount of mass to exist just outside our to be far more stars out there, concentrated predict... which flies in the face of the whole in the first place; uniformity. The universe as which means that mass is distributed fairly isotropic, meaning that if you add up all the it all cancels out. Dark Flow upsets this whole horizon things suddenly stop being so uniform. we just can't see it. And that's an idea that's whole lot of questions: if the universe is not get cosmically lucky to find ourselves in an our theories about the formation of the universe inflation exists is to explain a homogenised The second reason that Dark Flow is so at all. Kashlinsky's NASA team might be convinced existence of Dark Flow using an even more more advanced Planck probe, which launched in 2009 galaxy clusters, the Planck team claimed to see no team then took a look at the Planck data, and they there's still a lot of debate on the issue. paper that they would be doing an even more intending to establish more conclusive Until we have better proof/indications on this, and there is no bogeyman lurking just beyond the dragged thousands of proto-galaxies towards it. Science does not really care about what is the whether simple or complicated. Perhaps one day, what lies beyond the visible universe, and whether is the darkness will simply retreat a little causing us to wonder once more. humanity's hunger for knowledge The idea of traveling to distant stars is really day however I wonder if it will come with not like we get when traveling around our planet and while the country itself is beautiful on your phone when you're trying to navigate a your data plan is running out I should have it would have been much less stress s is great needs to be downloaded once then anytime you are your destination and a plan on your app and arrive which saves a lot of hassle no need to Wi-Fi hotspots and it's cheaper than roaming in over 160 countries s app is compatible with some piece of Mind next time you're abroad by asram in the description below using my link you a 15% discount on S eim CTA data plans give very close to our end goal of 1,000 Astron notes answered the call the closer we get the more it's here and bring back astr answers so submit your if you'd like to to become an astronaut you can you join you'll be able to watch the whole and submit questions to our team once again a team meanwhile click the link to this playlist