You know what could really help you sort through these important issues what ORANGE MOCHA FRAPPUCCINO [jitterbug] come on, man! [do the jitterbug] You put the boom boom into my heart (hoo, hoo) You send my soul sky high when your lovin' starts Hey, what's up guys welcome back to binging with babish where this week We're trying to bridge the very strange gap betwixt orange and mocha, an unorthodox Combination to be sure. But, first we have to figure out how to effectively make a Frappuccino at home Which is a little bit more complicated than you might think as you can see I'm combining iced coffee, milk, and ice in the jar of a high-powered blender, which yields this slushy nonsense That's because the iced coffee and milk have nothing to bind themselves together In fact, if you look here into the jar of the tub [bleep] damnit that's classic that's classic vanish Anyway after only 30 seconds or so, you can see this is separating into its base components So we need us a stabilizer and Starbucks accomplishes theirs by making a simple syrup with xanthan gum in it So we're gonna start off by making a simple syrup which is simple enough. Sorry I just mixed together one cup each sugar and water and bring it to a simmer. Make sure all the sugar is dissolved remove from the heat and allow it to cool completely. Once we got it nice and cooled off It's time to incorporate the xanthan gum. This is a thickener commonly used in gluten-free baking and you can find it in Whole Foods or in the ever-growing Bob's Red Mill aisle taking over most grocery stores. We're adding about one tablespoon to our two cups worth of simple and blending at high speed until completely incorporated and relatively thick. And, there you have it starbucks Frappuccino base. Our means to thicken, and heavily sweeten blended coffee drinks of all types. And as you can see the addition of just a few tablespoons into our coffee milk and ice mixture brings the three together into a menage a frappe, and almost as importantly keeps the three together in an emulsified mixture for a good long time after blending and there you go. We have achieved all the characteristics of a Frappuccino. Now, we just got to nail down the flavor. We're going to start with about two cups of ice to which we are going to add a whopping six tablespoons of our xanthan gum simple syrup because grande frappuccinos clock-in around 65 grams of sugar. Additionally, we're gonna add a tablespoon of chocolate syrup and a tablespoon of orange juice concentrate Then I've got one cup of actual Starbucks branded iced coffee and three quarters of a cup of milk. Blend on high speed for about 45 seconds or on your blenders totally unnecessary smoothie mode. Then while we wait, we just got to get the cup ready Go ahead and label that with my name spelled incorrectly and then they don't usually do this, but I like the look when they swirl the inside of the cup with chocolate syrup. Add our Frappuccino top up with a healthy mound of canned whipped cream and add the final touch of a light drizzle of more chocolate syrup on top. Top it up with the signature dome lid and a straw and there you have it a homemade orange mocha frappuccino. But how does it taste and... not that good. Orange coffee and chocolate are not the best of friends plus I think we can do better in a number of respects, starting with the coffee. Cold brew is the hot thing right now, so to speak, so we're gonna make our own cold brew concentrate. Into a French press goes 5 ounces of coarsely ground dark roast coffee and 24 ounces of water. Give it a little stir to make sure that everybody is moistened. Cover with plastic wrap and fridge for 12 to 18 hours. While that's going, we can work on the other elements of our future Frappuccino. How about we start with the chocolate syrup? 1 1/2 cups of sugar 1 1/2 cups of water and 1 cup of good cocoa powder joined together in a medium saucepn. I also like to add a pinch of salt and a few other things down the line for bringing that up to a simmer and I'm tiny whisking until everyone has dissolved. Then towards the end of cooking I'm going to add a little sprinkle each of instant coffee and vanilla extracts, both of which serve to enhance the chocolates flavor once the syrup is nice and syrupy go ahead and pour it into a glass container and let it cool completely before bottling. Next and last is the whipped cream. Into a medium bowl goes 2 cups of heavy cream 2 tablespoons of powdered sugar and the scraped contents of one pod of vanilla. It's also here that I think the orange flavor is going to be most welcome. So, after mixing these guys together, I'm going to add a little hint of orange extract. You could also use orange zest if you wanted to beat your whipped cream by hand but I'm not trying to mess with piping bags right now when I've got a brand new nitrous powered whipped cream dispenser into which I'm going to deposit this heavy cream mixture before affixing the nitrous canister giving it a little shake and doing a little test squirt to make sure that everybody's getting whipped properly. Last but not least 12 hours have elapsed and we're ready to extract our cold brew. First do the obvious and go ahead the grinds down and then you can optionally filter your cold brew through your coffee filter of choice for a cleaner cup. This recipe yields a concentrate that can be diluted with equal parts water. Once that's done it's time to use it in our frappe. Same deal as before with the ice and the xanthum syrup. A healthy squirt of our homemade chocolate syrup 3/4 of a cup of milk and 1 cup of our homemade cold brew blend for 45 seconds yada-yada-yada decorate the cup. Realize while you're doing your voice-over that you learn how to do this when you worked at the Godiva in the Mall and that they don't actually do that chocolate swirl thing at Starbucks but just push your feelings down. Top up with whipped cream hit it with one last drizzle and top up with the dome lid. Please look away as I violate health and safety regulations and serve to the unsuspecting customer. And I gotta say I'm a fan of this version better coffee better chocolate and the orange-y whipped cream is kind of like a nice treat at the end and hey, we've got all this ice coffee. We've got a nitrous whipper How about we make some nitro cold brew? Which is way easier than a sounds... just pour your cold brew into your nitrous whipper, affix nitrous cannister give it a little shake and dispense into your nearest awaiting glass with ice in it. Nitro cold brew is a little smoother, a little sweeter than regular iced coffee and it's got this nice beer like foamy head on top almost like a Guinness. And since I'm doing 30 days with no alcohol, this is the closest I'm gonna get.