This is 100 LEGO minifigures and today they're all competing a massive stadium to simulate each of the and we'll see which country wins the ultimate First up, let's build a running track that will separated by thin white lines--except the thinnest thick for this scale. So I had to get a little like this. *smack* Now the lines are the perfect I'm able to lay out some baseplates and continue make the corners a lot more complicated. Rounded I sketched out, are already hard enough to make 2 different directions was almost impossible. I geometry on this thing using a ton of tiny perfect--I don't like how jagged it is. But if we it is still kind of satisfying to see it all come and paste the exact same design on each of the the first running event to begin! The 100 meter Instead of using stop motion and basically events like I was originally planning, I to simulate each game with some quick IRL for running, each of us is gonna control one fastest while staying in the lines. "If you leave Set. GO!" After a tense race and France instantly Ok now it's time to do a full lap, where we all corners. "Who built these?!" But in the end, For the final level, we tried adding hurdles joins the 2 other countries who won medals the final round at the end of the video that But until then, all of the athletes and spectators 1,000 of these gray 2x4 bricks to build up the We'll start by adding several layers onto the half of the minifigures, and this railing to keep anyone on this front side so as to not block the we can at least fit the rest of the athletes... and for another several hours figuring out these But it was so worth it, because now especially this guy that the comments named but after his accident, he had to get it's been his dream to go see the Olympics in of the greatest athletes on the planet, even if under the 5 rings of the Olympics logo, and I last of my gray bricks to attach it to, along Now we're ready for the next sport, which is their aim for years, hitting countless Targets--and the best. I used some macaroni tiles to build with the goal obviously being to hit the bullseye. technic frame, we can make a simple bow from the cut off tips of Nerf darts. *twang* Look at that! Latvia is right on the money, she says SUBSCRIBE from all the way across the Speaking of which, yeah, this whole Olympic LEGO city called 25-Ville. During my lifetime, Beijing, London, Rio, Tokyo, and now Paris, and the thing literally takes up half my table! And to build the track from its pieces. And, since he's going to need a place to live But we have to make room inside the stadium marital arts. I laid down this wooden floor raised platform surrounding everything. I don't are to store all sorts of traditional weapons there's 2 fighters dueling each other and, like, to an event coming up, I had a different idea for breaking boards. Brown LEGO pieces are super if you look at them funny, so they're the perfect matter HOW many times I tried smacking each concussion after attempting it with the nunchucks... would have been less painful. Eventually Costa just teamed up to finish it off for him so we Let's NOT have them attempt to break metal and been able to keep a steady job without legs, and a bunch of grill pieces as corrugation. Hopefully this next event will cheer him up: mat to avoid any more head trauma with all the know how any of this is humanly possible, if it's possible for minifigures. We all tried (China took that one) and to make it even harder, people down. Couldn't get the transition between impossible, so instead we're just testing who Lebanon, alright! And, using a LEGO net as can bounce the highest. *boing* but the Philippines scored the gold on do with a pommel horse, but the next event, These jockey minifigures suited up and picked out and as funny as it would be for them I instead designed this special horse course for over. And here's the prize for whichever horse and Chile overtook Switzerland But enough horsing around, it's time for some dumbbell pieces, but you can build your own custom tires, round plates, tires, black minifig heads, bunch of tires. But to test which athlete can they're each going to hold a plate that I can most bricks without dropping any--oh wait we and she seems awfully confident for some reason. to train in that'll go behind Perry's shack. On lots of different weights to lift, a punching energy drink she recently got "sponsored" by. this machine by the oasis and the company I added the biggest weight of all on top of top of the roof as decoration for the "GYM" let's get back to the actual event! And after newcomer takes the victory(a) on this one! That Perry was absolutely smitten by her wanted to find a way to talk to her. But now and he knew it was impossible Well now it's on to tennis! I had to use even chunks to create all the different lines on the audience to make a super simple net. Like with but you can always create your own using whatever racket while I was trying to build this thing balls with it (which by the way were surprisingly see who can last the longest out there, ready? tennis. Yeah Olympic ping pong is a real thing, it's crazy! So hopefully this LEGO ping pong This is actually kind of fun. And after several got the gold . Now let's fix this carnage so that hey, where's Perry? He tore down the only home he heart was set on doing the impossible, and But next up is boxing. Where we actually get surrounded by ropes. To make it a playable building this groove inside the box, and that boxers around to "dodge his punch, then counter guy out like that Rockem Sockem robots game. I and eventually Canada won! (Probably But now let's speedrun through some miscellaneous discus, pole vault, basketball, soccer, beach and rowing down the river. I was going to hold the uh, let's build a pool inside the stadium instead. the thousands of clear blue studs I'm using for but I used even more studs to stack up as and it's good enough for what we need. Now for the pulling our swimmers through the water WHILE I think Guatemala drowned, and Ok now we're gonna have to modify the diving. It's a lot skinnier and deeper so that this super tall high dive. Although now if uh, that might be an issue. But the way we're studs to splash out of the pool. So well 8 13 21 Now for the final event to see which country wins completely separate competition for athletes with I'm having everyone who's won a gold medal so far compete in one final race to see who the ultimate deaf, in wheelchairs, and missing limbs who from every finalist team, except Victoria's. She have anyone to represent 25-Ville--except for he was finally able to run again for everyone on the starting line ready to If anyone out there has a physical and/or mental you. There are always creative ways to work around If you want to help amputees like Perry who research and donate to A Leg To Stand On through take apart their house like he did. But it was ultimate gold medal! Shoutout Philippines YOU'RE from down below, thank you for