This is a $100,000 yoyo. And I am going to show you the difference a $100 rubiks cube yoyo. A $50 motorized yoyo. All the way down to this $1 yoyo. The reason why this because I have to make it myself. But I have no clue how to put it together. So I flew down the brandon vu to be my t shirt today. First thing we are going to Dude, that tastes like ass I'm gonna put this screw I got you, bro. All we need to do is put the screw in. It's coming together. No way this actually works. So you just put the So if we've done this correctly, this is so fun. $1. And that was basically for the string. Well, that was a $1 bottle cap yoyo. Later in this video we a $500 titanium yoyo, But before all that, This is a looping yoyo. This yoyo has a really aggressive back and forward really quickly. Oh, I like this. I feel powerful. There are rumors that yoyos were made the trick that they refer to. Now let's hit some stuff. So now that you know how to loop, Accuracy before power. So you got this. you hit your first thing with the yo yo. Okay, it's time for target practice... Oh, he hit it. You just didn't break it. Yeah, yeah. it's time for the ultimate test. Can a yo yo break in a Guess we're gonna find out. Oh man. these are deadly weapons. Now, since you're learning all these I will make you a bet. Now, I will teach you one trick with each yoyo. If you can successfully learn each trick, But if you drop a yoyo, It's like all the money Alright, it is a deal. Oh, okay man. Alright, lets do this. So this is a competition This is older than my grandpa. Yeah, it is almost like 100 years old. So lets compare this old man yoyo yoyo. What is the difference? Well, this is made from wood and Aluminum. Thats how we say Aluminum in Australia. The biggest difference between old school yoyos and modern yoyos is that these modern ones, A yoyo that doesnt come back up. Why not? So it has to do with the Old school yoy tricks were simple. New school yoyo trick s involved the which uses up a lot of spin time. So to upgrade the design, they added a ball bearing at the center They widened out the gap of the multiple layers of string. The only problem was these yoyos were interference that they dont come So to get it back up, you have to do a specific which you are going to learn right now. So first off, throw it down. Yes. Perfectly. Then you are going to Yes. And you are going to string it over... Yes. And then you are going to Like that. Yeah. Then you are going to pull this loop down. Oh, you almost got it. You got it. These yoyos are actually so overpowered, Thats why its the competition. Yoyo. So this is the worlds biggest yoyo. Compared to a regular yoyo, Diablo is that it's not You use these two rods so you So this will be similar to the $150 But that one attaches to your hand. Alright we came out at night to show Alright, let's see some tricks. We've got some little Gonna do some stuff around the leg. Oh. let's go. Oh, man. Catch it, catch it, catch it, catch it. That's cool. Let me try. Sorry. We almost killed someone, bro. Yeah, that was a bad idea. So this is the $40 world's smallest yoyo. Before we get into this next yoyo. Give me 60 seconds to tell Betterhelp. So, these videos are incredibly This Yoyo video, has taken two months to produce. While talking to my friends I don't want to burden them all the time, That's where Betterhelp comes in. Betterhelp is an online platform accessible and affordable no It's easy to sign up and get There's a link in my description, Clicking that link helps support this your first month of Betterhelp so and see if it's for you. All you have to do is answer matched with a licensed therapist Betterhelp allows you to speak to a own home or through text if that's match well with your therapist. Betterhelp allows you to switch insurance or network constraints. Start your journey towards Go to betterhealth.com/hafu or click for 10% off your first month. Now back to the yoyos. This is the $40 world smallest yoyo, and what you are going to be learning difficult yoyo tricks to do with this. It is called a trapeze. So the reason we are learning it on we can essentially practice accuracy. I'm like Brock Lee having leg weights so It's Rock Lee? We're keeping that This is actually much thinner. All right, ready? Oh, oh, that's a. All right. All right. Oh, oh. One more. One more. He got the trapeze. He's got a high level All right, let's move on. All right, moving on. Now, this... is a 50 dollar... motorized yoyo. So the spin time is This yoyo theoretically is designed to And with this, we are going to be teaching This is going to be important for you need to adjust it midway So if it's tilting too far forward, you want to use to get this hand If it's pushing too far back, you want to push this back I'm going to start the spinning and I Okay. Just like the small yoyo land the trapeze. Just like the small yoyo. Now we tilt it. There we go. There we go. Yes. Tilt it. Oh, yeah. Tilt it back And because it's motorized, So one other cool thing about down because it's motorized, you can kind of treat it And bind it up. See, Yo I've always wanted a pet. My mom never let me get one, I'm walking the dog too. Moving on. So this. This is a $65 finger spin yoyo. This yoyo is specifically designed to from whatever direction you do it. That plastic cap is specifically angled to And then you can do really which, you're going to be learning. That's a viral TikTok trick. It's pretty viral, yo mom. I'm going to go viral on TikTok. This is also going to help you so we'll get onto that. If I do the DNA, you have to give my viewers a If you hit the DNA, like, 5%? Ten. All right. All right, fine. 10. 10 tries for 10% off. All right, let's do this. Oh, that's try number one. that's a one. slightly more to the side. Oh, here we go. Here we go. That was only attempt number seven. All right, go down, go down. Type hafu in the checkout link, Okay. Code hafu, offset yoyo. I got you guys 10% off This is a $100 Rubik's cube yoyo, and I'm proud to say It is the first ever working, meaning it's turnable Rubik's So I learned to solve a My first ever Rubik's cube solve. Now I'm learning to do the yoyo. I thought I combined the two Now let's give it a scramble. All right. I actually didn't know Hey SoupTimmy can you solve this? Yeah, I can definitely. It's not spinning. Dang. I should stick to Rubik's cube. Now you get the honor of doing the Yoyo. Let's check this out. All right. So now that I've learned how to do it, There you go. You learned the world's first yoyo trick So this is dollar 150 offstring yoyo. And this yoyo isn't attached to Kind of like whip it around and stuff. Now this does come back up to my hand. So this is technically still a yoyo and not a diablo. So what kind of unique tricks can Well there's one really cool yoyo It looks like this but you are going to be learning So the high toss looks like this. So as you guys can see this is not attached to the Yoyo string. Yo. The spider man thick! Now the high toss trick is important are going to have to launch the yoyo up. So you are going to need to be when it is high into the air. Alright. Alright. Alright. You got this. You got this. You are going for two. Okay. Thats it. Moving on to the next trick. So this is dollar 180 shot glass yoyo. Gimmicky novelty Yoyo. Look at that. It is almost like three times That is insane. What does that do? It just makes it easier to catch. So I got a shot measuring cup here. We will see if that is an actual shot. That is a perfect shot right there. This is bartending with our shot glass yoyo. Yeah. One side we'll make a matcha coconut water. On the other side let's do a Okay. Very nice. I have no idea like if this is All right. You're not pushing the boundaries Getting pretty hard in there. This is about to explode The other shot's still intact. Alright we gotta mix the matcha side. All right. Let's go. Put a chunk in there. The yoyo didn't do a super That tasted disgusting. Oh my God. It wasn't that bad to be honest. Alright, Who's paying $500 for a yo yo? It's expensive because Because the material is so hard. If you put lighter fluid on the ground. Kids, don't do this. And then spark it on the ground. It'll create a gigantic flame I love fire. We are not doing this. We are doing this. This yoyo is in mint condition, we are wiping all of its retail value. If you throw it and then you. Walk the dog. That, is kind of unimpressive, We are about to show my burning It's, like, pulsing. So now you are going to learn You are going to land on the trapeze. What we are going to do is we As this hand comes down we are going to launch the yoyo up. Then we are gonna catch I am getting good at this. You are getting solid at it. hold up. Okay, yeah, that's done. All right, I'll count that. If you messed it up on the $100,000 Yoyo, All right. The moment you have all been waiting for. This is inside this box, the $100,000 gold diamond yoyo. All of your training has All right, here we go. Oh, my goodness. It's got a box within a box, and the box lights up. So to give you guys an insight, It has 216 individual diamonds that have been And it has two two carat diamonds with a white gold stem This is a ridiculously And its official name is the offset Yoyo. Opulence. It is a one of one. It is the only one that exists. Oh, my God. I am holding something so precious in my hand. The diamonds were strategically be able to balance with all of it on. So you remember our bet. If you land the final Yoyo trick you get to keep it. But if you miss, I will give you a chance Now, actually touching and feeling this Yoyo, I am emotionally attached to towards it the entire day. So let's go attempt the trick. Here's what the final trick looks like. You throw it down a sleeper. You know how to do that? We're going to go around the world... Then we're going to land on the trapeze. And this is the hard part. You're going to bind, and then catch. No pressure. All right. that's very, very close. You want to go around? Yep. I think I'm getting it. Good throw. All right. All right. Around the world. Okay. Okay. And then time for the skyrocket. This is a moment of truth where I could Okay, I just lost 100 grand. I get to keep this. Yeah. It's yours. Guys. I just went from making a $1 bottle Yoyo comment below what you In the meantime, click here to watch level one to 100 video that YouTube thinks you'll love.