Hey everyone, and welcome to TopThink. Today, we wake up between two and four in the morning. Sleep disruptions affect an astounding 35% of per week, millions of people wake up, look at For some people, this is an easy question to the night. Perhaps your partner snores louder disruptions can explain a significant percentage is too loud, too hot, or simply uncomfortable, environmental stimuli from interrupting your for example, can reduce the likelihood of But what about the large percentage of in the morning all on their own? What steps consistently experience a good night's rest? you need to break down how a healthy Most people are loosely familiar with and circadian rhythms. You've probably heard vague night" or "wake up at the same time every day." advice. However, irregular sleepers may need changes require an in-depth understanding of why First and foremost, your sleep-and-wake cycle is circadian rhythm. Many people think circadian sleep and wake you up in the morning. That of your circadian rhythm is more complex Your circadian rhythm, also known as a biological to fall asleep. It controls your sleep-and-wake Those hormones are why you feel energetic But how does your circadian rhythm know when Your sleep-and-wake cycle depends on several and some of which you can't. For example, your Earth's day and night cycle. When the sun is active. But when the sun sets, your body Your circadian rhythm is impacted by the time of including your genetics, the place in which you you don't have much control over the sunrise or and consistency of your sleep schedule. If your there's a good chance you will Let's say you usually fall asleep between your circadian rhythm releases hormones like As it gets later and later, your body wants to You might binge a TV show late into the night Before you know it, it's 1:00 in the This is what happens when you ignore your helpful hormones that would have lulled you into sure whether to fall asleep or stay awake. to fall asleep and stay asleep, but that up between two and four in the morning. deeper into the structure of your sleep cycle. four to six complete sleep cycles, which sleep cycle consists of four stages, all of which The first stage is a very light sleep in which unwind. Your brain activity slows down as Next, your body enters stage two, also known muscles relax, and your brain prepares for called deep or slow-wave sleep. waves reach their lowest frequencies, and Of the four stages, deep sleep is the most If you're suddenly woken during deep and it may take several minutes for your The final stage of each sleep cycle is minutes after your sleep cycle begins. REM the side-to-side motion of your eyes during this considered a light or wakeful state, it's also Interestingly, REM sleep increases in duration sleep lasts approximately 10 minutes, while But how does all this information Let's say you climb into bed around 11:00 PM. You your eyes fly open. You may not realize it, but After experiencing your first and second periods stages, like REM sleep or light sleep, which Most nighttime awakenings occur between which take place 3-5 hours after you fall so you're more likely to notice environmental or uncomfortable temperatures. But there's middle of the night, and that reason is stress. which increases your heart rate and moderates cortisol. Cortisol is known for controlling your in your biological clock. Like melatonin, which waking up your body and brain. First thing in which makes you feel awake and alert. mornings, but it's the last thing However, high levels of stress can cause your disruptions to your sleep cycle. Night after your biological clock and interrupting your normal waking up during periods of light sleep because If you are an irregular sleeper, the quality of and lifestyle than anything else. While how well you sleep or how long, but you can For example, looking at your computer screen which tells your brain when to fall asleep. of watching TV or scrolling through social media but this small lifestyle choice negatively Taking long naps can have a similarly People who nap for 90 minutes or more during the Taking a long nap confuses your biological clock thus ruining the consistency of your sleep cycle. Small lifestyle changes like these can have a In the same way, stress-relieving exercises, stress levels and decrease the likelihood Ultimately, it comes down to this. If you're morning, your body is sending you a message. Your so you will continue to experience regular That might mean changing your environment place to rest. Perhaps you need to adjust your or learn how to manage your stress better. everything. More often than not, it's nighttime awakenings and daytime drowsiness. with your sleep. No matter how irregular your can take to sleep more soundly every night. the rewards of a great night's sleep. be sure to subscribe because more