Zelensky criticized Western leaders, in Russia they are talking about the collapse of the country, and Spain is going under water. NEXTA broadcasts the most important and interesting news up to this hour. Slovak Prime Minister Fico assures that the EU cannot exist without Russia. A scandalous statement about fatigue from the war and the desire to be at the parade in Moscow. Zelensky is irritated by the behavior of the West and announces the leak of secret information. What else angered the Ukrainian president? Vladimir Zelensky, President of Ukraine The search for those responsible and talk about the collapse of the country. Warning and statement from the State Duma of the Russian Federation. Hello everyone, friends. I will be glad to see your like, subscription and repost. You know very well that this is very important for us. Leave your comments. Thanks for your feedback. About current and important events right now. I'm starting. ZELENSKY CRITICIZES THE WEST when answering questions from Northern European journalists. The President focused on the fact that Ukraine received only 10 percent of the aid package that was voted on in the United States long ago. He admitted that Ukraine's Western partners say that Kiev wants too much when presenting its plans for victory. Zelensky largely does not understand the behavior of Ukraine's allies and speaks of an insufficient reaction to Russia's actions. In addition, Zelensky hinted that information had been leaked from secret annexes of the victory plan, which stated that Ukraine had requested long-range Tomahawk missiles. Vladimir Zelensky, President of Ukraine the media - they said that Ukraine wants or wanted to get a lot of missiles, such as Tomahawks and so on. But this was confidential information. Between Ukraine and the White House. How to understand these messages? This means that nothing is confidential between partners. Zelensky also asked the question, what will Ukraine, the West and the United States do if North Korea sends 100 thousand people to the Ukrainian front line? This question remained unanswered. At the same time, Seoul believes that Russia could become a real threat to South Korea due to the sending of the DPRK military to Kursk. Doo Jin-Ho, Research Fellow, Korea Institute of Defense Analyzes that if there was an emergency on the Korean Peninsula, the Russian military could intervene (to help North Korea), and that could pose a threat to South Korea. South Korea maintains a special relationship with Russia and develops bilateral ties with it through various diplomatic exchanges and cooperation as an allied country. However, Russia is becoming a threat not only as a neighboring country, but also as a real threat to South Korea." IN RUSSIA THEY TALK ABOUT THE COLLAPSE OF THE COUNTRY , mechanical engineer Volodin, in recent weeks, has been voicing the reasons why the USSR collapsed, while constantly hinting that the scenario could be repeated now with Russia. According to Volodin, the USSR collapsed because the party with a monopoly on power forgot about the people, Russian propagandists quote the speaker. Vyacheslav Volodin, Speaker of the State Duma of the Russian Federation those who allowed the collapse of the Soviet Union, why don't we talk about where they came from? They emerged from the bowels of the ruling party, the CPSU. Well, for the purity of the relationship, this must be said. It is for this reason that the Soviet Union collapsed. Because of the betrayal, Volodin assures that the Russian Federation must now take the best from the Soviet stage of the country's development and from Tsarist Russia. It's interesting, but Volodin doesn't talk about the current party with a monopoly on power. I note that just two weeks ago Volodin said that the USSR collapsed after the screening of the film "Intergirl". A year ago, the State Duma speaker cited three reasons: the inefficiency of the system, the economic model, and also because of an error in the USSR Constitution. In 2021, Volodin also thought about why the Union collapsed, again hinting that for these reasons it could Russia will collapse. Then the USA and Europe were to blame for everything. In addition, State Duma deputies like Volodin also draw parallels between the past and the present and believe that tight jeans, jazz and dudes also led to the collapse of the Soviet Union, and therefore there are already threats to Russia. Let me remind you that Putin considers the collapse of the USSR a tragedy and the collapse of historical Russia. What could now cause the collapse of the Russian Federation and why is the country so afraid of it? What do you think? Write your opinion in the comments. SOLOVYOV "IN FLYING" TV season in Russia. The publication "We Can Explain" writes about this. Since the beginning of September this year, Solovyov's program has never been included in the ranking of even the TOP 50 most popular television projects of the week. Although earlier they looked at Solovyov, but now there are no achievements. We can explain, clarifies that young audiences do not watch Solovyov's programs. And since the beginning of the new television season, his show on Russia 1 has never made it into the top 100 of the target audience aged 18 to 54 years. And the Solovyov Live TV channel in the same audience takes last place in all ratings. A SCANDALING STATEMENT that he may soon visit Moscow. He is ready to come to the parade in May, he assures that this is his personal duty. Fico, in his traditional manner, criticized Ukraine, not Russia, for the invasion, and said that the West was tired of war. Robert Fico, Prime Minister of Slovakia Ukraine will end one day. Any war ends at the negotiating table. Our duty is not to create conditions for the establishment of a new iron curtain between the Russian Federation and Europe. It is our duty to create conditions for relations between not only Slovakia, but the entire European Union and the Russian Federation to come into order, because the Iron Curtain policy is absolutely unacceptable to me. And the fact that we are blamed, I'm already used to the fact that I'm quite often blamed for my political views. But here in Slovakia, they sometimes say that lightning only strikes the tallest trees. And you, of course, understand this comparison in the Russian Federation. Meanwhile, in Germany, a new appointment is being discussed - the Secretary General of the ruling party, of which Scholz is a member, has now become an ally of Putin's friend Schroder, Matthias Mirsch. He has already managed to get into a scandal because of laudatory odes addressed to Schroder. The BILD publication stated that this behavior of the new Secretary General is a mockery of the victims of the war in Ukraine. HUNT FOR A DESERTER after refusing to fight against Ukraine and escaping from a military unit. Now the Kyrgyzstani woman asks the authorities of the republic not to hand over the man to the mercy of the Russian law enforcement system. Russia considers Samat its citizen and insists on extraditing the native of Kyrgyzstan. The suspect's mother said that she and her husband worked in Russia, received passports there, but retained Kyrgyz citizenship, but her son received Russian documents when he turned 14, but still lived most of the time in his homeland. Having matured, in 2019 Samat entered military service in the Russian army, and then signed a contract with the Ministry of Defense. He tried to break it before the start of a full-scale war, but could not, and after the invasion, the signed contracts, by Putin's decree, automatically became indefinite. That's why the guy fled from the unit. He is now in a pre-trial detention center in Bishkek. FIGHT AGAINST LUKASHENKO'S REGIME . At the plenary meeting of the Northern Council, she recalled that there are now political prisoners in thousands of Belarusian families. Half a million Belarusians were forced to leave the country and even abroad they do not feel safe, since Lukashenko's security forces are looking for them through Interpol, depriving them of their passports, while other citizens within the country often become hostages of the KGB. Svetlana Tikhanovskaya, Head of the United Transitional Cabinet of Belarus arena, on the agenda because there are so many crises happening in the world. But it is vitally important for us to free Belarus from the Lukashenko regime. Imagine a battery that wears out after four years of struggle - it's really difficult. Our battery is getting weaker and weaker. And every act of solidarity, every aid package is like a recharge for us. It is much easier for us to fight when we feel that we are not alone. TRAGEDY IN SPAIN in three decades. The cause of the national tragedy was heavy rains in Valencia. At least sixty people are known to have died. Ursula von der Leyen, President of the European Commission cars swept away by the fury of the waters. Dozens of people died. Thousands of people have been evacuated. And so our thoughts are with the victims, with the families and their friends, and also with the rescuers. Rescuers are working tirelessly to save as many people as possible. And Europe is ready to help. NO COMMENTS Valencia, Spain Strike of the elements In Spain, three days of mourning have been declared for the victims of devastating floods. Friends, that's all. Don't forget to leave your comment and like. My team and I continue to monitor the most important news; look for up-to-date information from NEXTA in Telegram channels or on the X platform. Thank you for your trust and for staying with us, see you again and good news!