This is Gylfie and Dryer, the barn owl pair here at Fotherdale. This is their first breeding They face some tough fights, but they've overcome these challenges, egg. Join me as I follow them through clutch and Dryer steps up his game. nest and the chicks develop into fluffy young barn owls. It's now early June and 4 days Stump. She usually lays eggs every 2 to soon. Dryer comes over from Ash and looks under egg. But 7 hours later Gylfie reveals a second and 3 days later a third. When Dryer seizes the opportunity to look had his own before, but as he steps off. Four days later on the 11th of June, the fourth typically lays three to four eggs each time. She the next 32 days Gylfie will take on the roll her. I spot Dryer hunting in a nearby field, and he dives into the grass. He brings in a freshly caught nest. While she consumes his catch, he inspects the eggs. Only last month Dryer didn't know chased female Gylfie around the food. But Gylfie's new partner, has unstoppable, bringing in a variety of delivering rats, mice and voles. Barn owls need about four items of prey each night, daily. Gylfie rarely leaves the nest because she warm. But one time when Dryer seen. He drops the food and proceeds to check the eggs. Making sure they're all fine, panic. But Gylfie is an experienced owl and she soon. The eggs are safe under her control. A couple of days later, the others. But she quickly spots it her. It's now 31 days since the first hard work has paid off. As helps the first chick out of it's shell. be. This chick comes into the world almost develop a thin layer of down. And will open stands to stretch over the next few days, owlet. Throughout incubation, brooding and chick development. Barn Owls continue to bonds. I notice a squirrel outside the chick. They won't like this, the squirrel's getting closer. Gylfie and Dryer dart out of the chick across the nest. This isn't able to move about. So I'm going be. I did it as quickly as possible, She returns 15 minutes later to the calls of her chick, and only the next day the second chick is hatching. And that evening Dryer sees the time and seems transfixed. Two days later, she's removing another her. And that evening, as she rounds up chick. Gylfie really does have her hands full. But one thing she doesn't need to fret about is worth. Delivering over and over, again and again, nest. He's keen to remind her one morning to show Gylfie, just how much food he has delivered. But maybe too much food, so he road. Gylfie's previous partner Finn was very side. Her current partner Dryer is a bit more hands Stump. Five days later the fourth chick strong. That night Gylfie pulls her. It's still alive, but it isn't looking good. Over the next couple of days the chick is getting worse. Intervening isn't possible here, it could risk. Unfortunately the chick dies, and Gylfie rare in birds of prey. They will eat their to avoid attracting scavengers to the fed. I decide to name the Cloud. Gylfie does a fantastic job of feeding all the chunks. But new parent Dryer is not as clued up and Giving the item whole to the chicks, they can't eat it. He waits for Gylfie to lend a helping hand, and the next evening I'm amazed. Storm at less than two go. You can see it in her throat, amazing. And she's still hungry. Barn owl chicks are in the nest are growing quickly. And soon the brooded. And clearly getting more nest. And with frequent prey long before all three chicks are too big to be brooded. It's Late July and the old, and they're able to thermo Gylfie to keep them warm. But Gylfie will barn owls. It's been an amazing couple pair, as they had a clutch of four Sadly they lost one of their chicks, but the care and Dryer's food deliveries. Join me next time to into beautiful young barn owls. They learn to stand, pounce and flap their wings and Jean Thorpe rings. Thank you for watching and I hope like, comment and subscribe to see more. Here's channel.