Transcriber: Miriam Panieri Imagine we're a hundred years The way things are going, let's You go through a difficult life event, maybe the end of a long relationship or a parent dies. Soon after this event occurs, a series You start to notice changes. You see ads to download Tinder where The local animal shelter is Odd for sure, but to be expected But now some new things start to happen. Your phone offers to show you Very realistic renderings of your But your phone knows your religion. So if you're Catholic, your dog is A company tastefully, tastefully reaches a phone conversation with your recently It will sound just like her. And they can promise you for that last fight that you had. Now many of you will hear these things gross boundary violations. But surely there are some amongst you who soothing. Now, whatever your appetite the point that I want to make is that a reality is technology They're generative AI systems, and the data needed to make this a reality is data that we already give You know that if you've ever uploaded or if you've ever left comments if you liked anything really, done free work for tech companies. And if you think that they are using that Well, maybe once that was the case, Let me read you the stated They're the makers of the image generator [OpenAI's mission is to ensure that by which we mean highly autonomous systems economically valuable work, We will attempt to directly build So their plan is to use your data for the benefit of you. Cool. Yeah. I wish I could say that this was all still but it has already begun. Of all things, automated art hit the scene with products like Midjourney, Open AI, Dall-E and Stable Diffusion These are text to image models, so they take input from the a natural language prompt like And then there's a complicated process, and they return an image that matches It automates art. It's exactly You type in some words in a picture No, that's good. You know, I have to admit I have yet to see any of those long but the internet is filled Do I sound mad? I mean, I am mad. but I'm just going to say: I'm mad. because I'm a visual artist. Lucky me. I've been a professional I love drawing. I don't know how I really love it. It has given me so many self-awareness, compassion. And art making can do that because for self transformation, and to share that transformation with others. But it's not the end product It's the act of doing it. It's In the age of automated art, We stand to lose everything that Now, these AI companies are going to All of this ethical, compliance, fair. They can just say those things. And the experience of artists with these Consider the way that these models are A text-to-image model needs to be trained images. Now these images are Some of it is art, some of it is photos, Some of it is more troubling. Much of it is people's copyrighted and all of it has been scraped credit or compensation being which is, that's really something, because it's the quality of the training the model. The better the creative inputs, Now, usually this is where the details about this training process, but I am not going to foolishly a room that probably has a lot of machine Fortunately, the task of determining what the precise nature of this training is fair use, what have you. Has recently In the past two weeks, lawsuits have been One is a suit brought in the UK by Getty and the other is a class action lawsuit Now that's very important to see, to see artists coming together for their content, their data, their We're going to need a lot more of that. These cases are going to give these and fair use their day in court, which is desperately needed because and data mining exemptions were not Of course not. This is some sci-fi but whatever happens in court. We as a society and machine need to establish the legal and ethical groundwork that is going to If we don't, if we allow the appropriation work for the benefit of technology, that is just going to turn around and compete directly against we are going to do untold damage to the for their work. People like me, and my because you don't know what they're I mean, they came for art sooner than My peers have had the dismaying experience the data sets that is being used to train them in the marketplace forever. Some of them have found that their the prompting side to elicit work Like Greg Rutkowski, whose name has been of times against his will. And then there are those, like Sam Yang, trained on his work and released that Now he has these models floating around, and the models have his I don't think any of us could imagine unless we've been put in that To have all of your hard work turned To think that every time you you are tacitly complying with This is a suffocating atmosphere And it's clear that they won't. I hear from the students, I get messages disbelief and discouragement They worry that they're going to teach an AI system their style good with it in the first place. I wish I could tell them that that wasn't They're hiding away. They're not They're going into closed communities. This is pretty antithetical to the and in this day and age, we need to be And the void that artists will a trillion times over by AI. It can produce work at unprecedented rate. And whatever it may currently lack it can certainly make up I actually expect that the people soon find themselves to in a process that could run In October of last year, I posted I talk about all of this. Don't don't read And in it, I speculate that these image text generating systems to remove In November of last year. That very next their shockingly naturalistic I mean, you know the one. The one that I used to write this entire I'm just kidding Man, that would have been messed up. I could have done that. I didn't do that. No, that was just a joke. Anyway. Yeah, it wasn't long before Yeah, you could use ChatGPT to write You need a picture of a person in a boat, but don't know what to write to get Just ask ChatGPT to write you a gutsy You don't need a person to write a prompt. It might just seem like you need a the first place. I mean, there's something Wanting things! You don't even need We live in a society where companies Facebook, Google. YouTube. They're investing billions and developing this ever clearer the one way mirror of their services. Every day we tell them more about what we It won't be long before those data the generative AI models and then those emit art. Images, music. Film, VR experiences about every about every global and personal event, and they'll just pipe them What are we going to do when within we can't tell what was made by a person After a while, would you even keep Wouldn't you just start to assume that That's a bad day for everyone, Is that the world that Do you think that you should be forced Against your will. Just because Clearly not. Models that automate creative work work need to be built on ethical grounds and that allowed them to opt in to systems rather than scramble to opt out. exciting and fantastical thing the current crazy models we can hope to I know people want these systems. I do think some version of these but we need to answer the tremendous them into our work and our lives without We need to figure out who exactly I think it's for people, not for machines. Well, first off, we need to acknowledge These systems would not exist without And if the people making the valuable data that they use to train they're going to have to help keep the Tell these companies and lawmakers and the websites that you use that you want This is an opportunity for artists, people of all sorts to come together We have never had such a desperate The very heart of creation And if we really want the future we need to remember why we got Because we get an experiential joy Is that something that we are really I'm not. Thank you. (Applause)