All right. Good evening, everyone. Welcome to tonight's event, We're very, very excited this evening and privilege For those of you I'm the CEO of Microsoft I am, in fact, your moderator. Where do I start with Fareed? I mean, a phenomenal global And some of you may recognize him show that he does every now and then. Fareed's written a wonderful new book, to have the opportunity to talk about it So, Fareed, We're right here and we spend most of our time here And when we get stuck, the future, solving problems today In your book, you've taken the approach and maybe where we're going Tell us why you started there. Sure. Let me first begin by saying You're it is a huge pleasure Not only have you done extraordinary but you have written on the future of artificial intelligence. But it's about much more than that. So even even if you were not interested in the technology, So the reason I started to write this book was about ten years ago, that our politics seem to be moving off kilter, by which I mean it was And so first you had the Tea Party And it's a very good study by a Yale for which pointed out that while they talked economics, there, They were really upset about immigration, multiculturalism, Then I noticed as the United States 2008, by 20 1415, it was absolutely clear the US had come out of it better than any Obama's approval ratings were absolutely And what it suggests, that had been around the economy got better, people's President's approval ratings rose, And so I began to think to myself, we were we were living through And I remember reading a speech we are moving from a politics of left This is all that way back. And it made me think, you know, something big is happening, And I did have this feeling, crazily transformational times. If you just think about the what the rise of the information has done to our conceptions of work If you think about the explosion or 40 years, much more than anything I mean, you had take China and India That's two and a half billion people. You know, in the 1950s, maybe maybe South Korea of 30 or 40 million And I also had a feeling that there was a lot of social change And so you put it all together So I ask myself, when in history have where everything seems to get upended, feel like there And I find myself going back with the Dutch who really invent modern I know this, has a bit of a second I said on which was But you go you know, that's Then you go to the the great failed the Industrial Revolution, which is the mother of all revolutions And then the second how does everything we're doing now And and I try to help people understand why we are going through what I call that I that I have seen in human history, in the last 30 years than we've had at So let's begin with some of the big concepts When you think about what is how did you sort of frame and really think conceptually Yeah, that's that's a great question. There have been like 200 revolutions What I tried to do was to take to try and do two things. One, I used the word revolution mission of a society which then has deep social, economic and political effects. So for that reason, that the American Revolution Why do I say that? You certainly changed the structure but what people were asking for was a return to the rights of Englishmen The third usurped them. If you remember the declaration how bad King George is taking away The social structure did not change In fact, in the South, structure The feudal structure So while, of course there are senses in which you could argue the sense I was using it in this deep it didn't didn't seem to fit. And the second piece was it had to have a kind of broad, So the Dutch revolution is important the modern merchant republic, it creates for the first time, which becomes the superpower of the world. So it's hugely consequential. There are obviously others that I mean, was the Bolshevik Revolution, but it's In fact, Lenin talks the French Revolution, It largely fails because it is a top down So, you know, part of it was also should be you should be able to read them And, you know, I'm not giving you I'm not I'm trying to get across I have in an easily digestible fashion. And when you look back at the revolutions are the sort of overriding characteristics of those that lost I mean, you of the industrial revolution you know, French Revolution, And so I wonder if you draw out that give us a sense for how things So the revolutions that seem to endure and transform them. Look, I'll be honest, you know, Transform societies this change You know, you have economics, changing technology, changing societies, And these changes are very deep, And they then change the social and the social and political structures So in the industrial revolution, it completely transforms the world. It was a world of agriculture, you know, I mean, most people But 95, 98% of the people in in between the United States and Britain I don't know, about 1850, and craftsmen and tradesmen. You know, you've created And for that to work It has to be enduring The French Revolution was really a case it was an effort to modernize society France was not It was deeply agricultural, deeply feudal. But the time of the French Revolution, was probably four times It was not urban, you know, Holland was by then almost 50 of, France was about 10% urban. So you see all these characteristics But the political elites decide we're going to put them in place, you know, we're going to enact And it doesn't quite work. I mean, the French Revolution fails This is a revolution begun How does it end? It ends with Napoleon So even on its own terms, it's failed. So when you think about up effects of the Industrial Revolution, Let's kind of drill into those. What are those characteristics? The industrial Revolution was fundamental, It was it was really a revolution found a way to use inanimate energy Until then, the only way you could get a machine to work or get a cow, a horse, a bull to push it. The horses were the most, most which is why when the invention you start to talk about them soon after a few decades the engine that what has it do the work of 1300 horses. And then you can go to Hyman Rickover, a modern airplane So so that is of the industrial revolution. And I think in doing that, you know, and it had probably comes in the second industrial revolution, If you think about the importance of the importance of electricity and I would argue that the information age fundamentally unlocking the information, and bytes that controls We've never. There's nothing other than the industrial revolution, When historians have long debated over in some sense it's really invention We create things and make things but then it's also social structures and culture back this interplay as it has, and forth impacted how culture is shaped, How do you imagine, given the insights through the previous revolutions, how do you imagine that as we have all the new inventions That's a great question. So let me first just talk for a moment which is you're absolutely right and innovation as being the key drivers And the way you can tell income of human beings around the world and we have good data, believe it or not, The a wonderful historian, Angus Maddison, for 1700 years, it's a flat line. It just does not go up. And for everything we know, if we have been able to go back and then around the time of the Dutch, you start to see it go and then it goes, a few hundred dollars per capita But but, you know, for most countries, is about 7000. Now. And what is that? It's that the Dutch figured out a few key innovations They learned how to use to tame the seas and to reclaim land. That's why there's a wonderful phrase They say, God may have created the world, because they reclaimed so much land that The tall ships which begin globalization Financial innovations, the first multinational corporation, richest company in the world at the time, And all of that makes Holland the richest country in the world by, And then you get the backlash, and you get people start to say, you know, this is this is too much. We've changed our old ways. This is terrible. Let's go back to the good old days. And there are politicians who tell you they're going to take you back because it's you know, it's. And some of those backlashes Absolutely. I mean, the Iranian revolution in 35 years of backlash to the Shah's You know, as a combination of the two, the the most you know, so what you're struck by I think that people have fundamentally because the truth of the matter have actually done better when once you put it in One is the dramatic changes for example, of technology, And the second is the degree to which reduced to the redistribution So, you know, once you take into account redistribution is taking into account that that picture of middle class more. And most importantly, there are hundreds all over the world who have had But everywhere there is this deep cultural unease about the world And you can you can tap into it And there are populists So it's not, again, Modi in India, on this sense of culture, you know, Erdogan in Turkey has played the same play Xi Jinping in China is a that things have gotten too crazy, too We need to go back. He has people singing Mao songs. Why? Because there is a yearning And you ask the question, well, how you know, what's Look, the thing that what I was struck by in in doing the research, One is of a of a counterrevolution, which can be very deep and undermine the entire structure But there is also the danger you know, kind of French Revolution style desire to get to push as far as you can, and to do it all by decree, You know, that is what the Jacobins did. And it doesn't work out very well that much change, And what you end up doing is you lose the And I do think there is a danger that the people on the left The degree to which, you know, pushing them on on a population comfortable And to give you a simple example, We both obviously I mean, the big story the rational story is the United States one of our greatest strengths compared is that alone among rich countries, If you look at every other rich country, I don't mean I don't I don't mean that statically. By the way, I mean, I mean, demographically, the United States, on the other hand, every year, which is more But we have there has been a lot of change In 1975, Today, 15% of Americans are foreign born. In Sweden. That number is something goes something Sweden has more foreign born people So does Canada, by the way. And I think so. So so what I'm trying to say is discomfort people feel, and therefore in a somewhat orderly fashion, and not not accept a situation situation, a situation at the border, but also to recognize that people do My view, they will all be overcome, as the parent of of three kids, you know, I can tell you you know, his children is not how are you going how can you hold on You know, is there like little thing they get they get Americanized so fast I mean, that's something But but people don't you know, and sounds different and worships and, you know, don't always st That that is Yeah. I feel like You talk about moving characterization which is a bit reductive the way the world currently works. And you use this frame kind of over Now, as we think about too fast how do you think about lessons Because the frame sounds correct. I'm sure it will resonate with everybody. And but just finding a mechanism by and make sure that it isn't moving ahead too fast seems like the key, It's it's the question. And I don't think I have, do it you know, be aware of how much reaction, you are producing And the and the degree give you that's taken place in our lifetimes It's the role of women, Right? Every society in human history going back some group is on top, You know, in there, it's caste, Some tribe is up, some tribe is down. But in all of them, women were second In almost every society in human history, women have been the property of men Right. And basically in the last 40 years, and thank God for it. But the but think about what Right. And you're taking something the family, and changing the dynamic, within that unit. That's big change. And so it is going to produce a backlash. And I would argue that if you look around the world, to Christian fundamentalism they all seem animated by this one which is to put women back in the kitchen. Xi Jinping gave a speech recently he said women need to return They need to have more babies. You know, So again, he's playing I think the one thing I would say as we've spent a lot of time trying to get the economics right, And I don't want to discount it at all. But I will point out to you which really has done an enormous amount of, you know, states and worker retraining and looking after workers They still have right wing populism. They I mean, Sweden's second largest party from the from the fascists of the 1930s. The Dutch have good builders This is a you know, probably on If France were to hold an election today, And that is, again, a party from a fascist past. So there's some, you know, a real is a reaction here because You can play, by the way. And so I always try to do this You try to vary the variables. So one more confirmation of this is that doesn't have right wing populism continues to rule? You know, pretty much undeterred. It's Japan now. Japan has every problem has except one And so they have no reaction to immigrants take them in the first place. And by the way, the second point in Japan remain very traditional So if you think about those as two key it's interesting to note that has not moved very far in that area that has been ruling now for 75 years. Talking about immigrants. There's a great quote early Trump, his primary message is the Chinese are taking away the Mexicans are taking away your jobs, I'll beat them all up and make America great again. Now, that sounds very much like a revolutionary slogan. Is he a revolutionary? You know, it's a very good question how you have this odd thing a number of the revolutionaries as revolutionaries are actually trying So he's a revolutionary who says, when before you had all these uppity women seeing all these brownface So this that something fast. And that is actually a pattern that as revolution at some level a counterrevolution Steve Bannon often talks Now the reason is, you know, again, goal was to destroy was to break Bannon's goal is also to destroy, the difference is what are you then trying You know, that's why I say Is that a movement forward It's movement for sure. There are some great questions here that may or may not be undergoing One comes from someone in the audience I just returned from my fourth trip and I don't see a solution or an end point What bearing does this have on the It actually, because one of the things we don't quite know how to celebrate because the essence of liberal democracy you know, how the church used to tell you and what a good life was and how, And the Nazis told you that we in liberal democracies You pursue whatever you think is your version of happiness, But the private pursuit of happiness. And that's very unsatisfying, you know, people want that sense of being part And that, one of the challenges How do you feel that that that sense of of emptiness inside, and nationalism and communism think about all the great art that have been built in the world Well, you know, it's not the same. But I think that sometimes you can and power of liberal democracy by looking at those who don't have it and how ardently they want it, you know, I mean, Ukraine and Poland are, 1990, Ukraine and Poland have the same per Poland goes west, becomes a member of NATO, reforms Ukraine is not able to do that. It wants to do that. But the Russian pressure is so strong stays part of the Russian sphere. Today, Poland's per capita income is four and a half times that of Ukraine. They started it in the same place in 1990. And it's not just about money. It's about it's what it has meant and to become a liberal democracy And for Ukraine to be stuck in this and see how hard they are See how hard are fighting I mean, the battlefield losses, the Ukrainians don't reveal them They are losing tens But I have been to Ukraine several times And I from my reading of the situation, is I mean, they they will because they do not want to be They want to be free and, you know, we should Now, the specifics of what happens, which is which is obviously not not one, can say the goal of Ukraine whether it does it or 94% of its territory, The goal of being anchored in the West in some sense part of the economic That should be the goal. And I wouldn't get Now, it's easy for me to say dying for the for that But that looking at it from where I sit, I mean, I guess this sort of speaks that is throughout the book, for how how do we How do we give in, And, you know, fundamentally this is going to become and concessions so that we can either And of course, on the Putin side, I mean, his narrative is very much around in order to kind of reconcile his interpretation of it. So how do you think about and how do you think we collectively help that drive compromise and forgiveness You know, I think one of the challenges, of being in this age of cultural reaction is it's very hard for people to understand You know, the earlier Left-Right It was, you know, based on how much money they made If you were blue collar and you made less than the median income, And if you were the other way around, And that was true in Europe. When we have had this rise of cultural politics, People's based on where they stand on what I call You know, that's a much better predictor But here's the challenge, though. You know, You want to spend $100 billion. Well, there's a number between those two. You want to cut taxes by 20%. Not at all. But there's a number between those. Right. How do you compromise on that are deeply about your, about gay rights, about abortion, about, you know, so many of these issues And that's what I think makes them hard. But the truth is, you know, living in complex societies, you do have to compromise. You know, Europe approached abortion, for example, We had the court ruling, which essentially made it a constitutional right, massive right wing mobilization And, you know, all of that, and found a compromise around 14, 15 weeks in most European societies. And they have had none of that poisonous through the system. You know, it wasn't a case Then people felt that their you know, that It's a tough it's a tough conversation, because I understand how and how insulting to say that this is going to be decided, But from a society's political health, the more you can have these issues talked about, discussed, debated I think it gives them greater legitimacy there is a sense that we went where we could get to. And none of these not no European that we had for 40 years, which, and thousands of very right all these right right wing in a whole bunch of other stuff So there's been a huge legacy beyond that. It's super interesting. Three of the questions here are really about the same theme, How do we take practical steps towards I mean, on this very question of abortion, election, President Trump, you know, a big song and about this, are the kind of practical steps demonstrate, compromise and demonstrate, middle ground that is hopefully going So, by the way, Trump, who is who is a don't he's a he was a bad businessman, like any good salesman, he understands, So on abortion, you know, the kind of right you want to have a federal ban, He's more in the 1415 weaker and And some states want to be more liberal. That's you know, that's because he can see that for the Republicans. And Trump, You know, he for the entire And so he's trying to find a place to go. I think that, you know, the challenge, to be honest, You know, we have to face the elephant in the room, has gone berserk. And and you can't you know, because I'll tell you what and this is what makes it so hard for this day in the 1960s and seventies, you got the rise that was fundamentally arguing in America since the New Deal was So they were promising and this is Barry and then Newt Gingrich. They were promising stuff like, and Medicare and the welfare state and, last campaign, which we forget he was Now, the problem with all these positions is they're nuts Right. And then and then and they're never going to get implemented that popular and by the way, you couldn't So what has happened there is a narrative of betrayal that if only our elites, And so it has become this this is what This is what produced the Tea Party, by our own and So the apotheosis of that is Donald Trump, not a Republican, and B, the 2020 The Republican Party had no platform The platform was one paragraph is is the Republican Party platform. It did not invite a single Republican former president, a single past but there were in primetime five So this is you know, this is not a there's something not a bizarre And normally when you lose an election, you know, there's a market that works. You kind of you try to change the policies The election. But if you think about the Republican they have only won the popular vote 24 years, 2004 Bush, Bush, v Gore. He lost the popular vote. Trump lost the popular vote. And of course, all the other ones. When a Democrat won. So you would think to adjust policy But because of two things. One of this this air of, you know, it must be we actually need to argue for eliminating which is a Vivek Ramaswamy view. And that's still you know, that's that, like our mistake is actually And then the second piece which means you don't actually face You know, I mean, there's something weird where it doesn't make you realize you're You know, people ask me what's going But what I think I can Biden will win the popular vote Right. Like you, you know, he's going to win, which we in any other country would mean but of course not in ours So in order to get a I do think you need the Republican Party that, It is now, for example, because it is trying to govern you know, it has a two thirds majority when actually it has a two seat majority Right. That's the it sort of you know, when you have a two seat I mean, do you think this has to do an anger and an anxiety that is driving Because often it's really that temperament of people in a majority or minority, I mean, take, for example, on abortion. I think that you're right, it's sort of shaped for decades And if you consider today like where anger of the political spectrum, how do you think about how that's going Yeah, that's a very good point. I should have made it You put it very well. It's the intensity of feeling often than the aggregate numbers on one side And look, if you think about it you do, we're basically in a world of open information system, You know, if you think of diversity that open side, there are a lot of people for whom this is and it feels like their world is disappearing And they feel this much more intensely than than the other side, yeah, this is complicated, We'll muddle through. Right? That of Will my God, my country is disappearing, And if I don't do something to save it, we're going to be finished. And I do think that that intensity animates a lot of the of this reaction. You know, I've been use some of it in the book at the research about the secularization of America, I think, again, religion plays in in And until very recently, among rich countries From 2007, America has become So the number of people who say they have nuns and or any snide nuance has dramatically gone up, roughly Now, the number of people the United States is today in the world, or at least of the 50 So it's it's very dramatic And again, just think about not with, you know, kind of a sense of, but a sense of, my God, my world is going Well, and fundamentally, about culture and the backlash, And one of the things sort of worry you know, as as automation spreads really drive and proliferate, it's also going to destabilize going to destabilize people's livelihoods And there's going to be a huge market pull improvements, which, you know, on going to be good. But, you know, at an individual level and disruption How do you revolution and think about, you know, just the impact Seems like this is going to be of the backlash. Yeah. And you talk about this in a super smart way in your book. I look and I think it centers now around I do think for the next few years you may you may prove me wrong I think we're still in the phase of trying You know, right now we're still mostly by which I mean I asked Chad It answers me back it's able to write, dance and the style Right. But the real transformation is when you tell the AI to do something with some piece of software that then and it actually changes I think we're still a bit of a away from and sort it out. But when that happens, that the transformation I think there's the number of people you'll need to run, The number of programmers, by the way, you need to move. The atoms around will grow and you end up with a new kind of, you know, a new kind of techno elite who are not just it's, you know, it's it's we thought we had the techno elite, It's the people within, you know. If you think about a programing unit we can produce the same amount of code, 30 of the programmers and we don't quite I think there'll be jobs and things But, you know, there will be less I worry that we have that happening that we are also to be having something that as the AI gets better and better, we won't understand the answers we won't understand And I think that in some ways that you have, you know, you, you, and you don't know why. It's because the machine is telling you, And and the truth is, most AI research will tell you they're struggling What are the weights being assigned And I the psychology of that is probably, to a pre enlightenment model Because there's a sun God, you know, In other words, you have some Well, why are we doing Well, because the black box tells us You know, you go into a doctor and the doctor says, And you said, well, you can No, but the machine said 100 million cases And based on previous history, we know that the machine is going to be But that's Yeah, And I think this is going to be is that much more We can actually turn to these machines just as fluently as you or I sitting here at this very moment Like, why is it saying those things developers It's still beyond reach What do you what do you think about that I assume you agree with that in employment. Is it you know, do you do you I mean, look, my take and the key question for our decade And we have to face the fact that labor and the value that labor produces is going to be converted into capital. And that capital in the past in commodities, raw physical atoms And in the future it's Yeah, and intellectual capital, and that really raises how do we redistribute I think this is talking and we have to just get I mean, from a kind of European more familiar to talk about the centrality being, But I think we're going to have to get Yeah. There's a great question here And the person asks, what is the biggest challenge journalists God, this is one. Where does one start? Well, journalism, of relating to all of this, which is the you know, if you thought the model and Facebook and all of that, it's in all kinds of different ways. And so there's big structural challenge, which, you know, how do you handle I trains on one But then what? Both by journalists, but then is able to mimic that that stuff So I think there's a kind of meta that that is very deep and profound. The way it manifests in this election is twofold. One, there is the familiar problem which is what to do about, you know, And what do you do, the people who support him That's actually a much bigger challenge because it's not that difficult The problem is having no consequence Remember, at this point voting public, believe Right. The problem is 85 And so what do you do? I mean, 50 states more, a majority of them 60 court cases But those are just facts and you can keep And so part of our challenge It is that there is within this country this deep sense of disaffection You know, gets back to your That means they don't trust institutions. They don't trust, that burn the house down mentality in a normal democratic and normal there is some shared understanding But none of these people have that. And, you know, if you ask me why is it confident that they actually believe was fraudulent. I think it's their way of saying F-you, it's their way of saying We're not going to buy We're not going to, you know, be be upset at the things And that is the the challenge. How do you how do you in you know, look, How do you do that with somebody with somebody who says, And so that's the bigger challenge, Look where, you know, the air is going to proliferate, all these And it's I mean, the subtle versions more about when you see Joe Biden he obviously didn't say maybe this the things I worry about is so, for instance, But I think it was not this one, was, you know, kind of there was a video crime and lawlessness and and, And it all looked very grim. It turned out they could have if they'd looked hard enough images. But It was much more vivid generated and it looked like they were We are, you know, the images are seeing But that was the implication. Right. And they were all made up. And here's the the fascinating problem So somebody told me about a an experiment a bunch of people, a focus group, I won't mention the having sex, you know, some kind of adulterous sex Then they tell the people that this was And then a few minutes later of the person on that? Ask them, what is your opinion in the favorability rating even after Because at some level, you know, you You say, Well, I just saw something We talked a little bit facing Republicans and Trump and so on. Do you want to say What Are the biggest challenges facing I think and for Biden in particular He's playing I mean, Biden has frankly done and competent job in managing the economy. We have come out of the COVID, you know, recession or whatever than any other major economy in the world. The US is you know, is the statistics We have unemployment at the lowest Inflation is now down to about 3%. If you look at some of the that there is something But black participation in the labor force is now slightly higher than white That has never happened before. Inequality has gone down So there's a lot of stuff Manufacturing is up, manufacturing is up. All these things that I mean, of making this point is if the UK Mustafa the UK would have joined on a per capita income basis, Wow. It would be below Mississippi. Yeah, you can look this up. Mississippi's about 47,000. It is 46,000. So doing just fine economically. But unfortunately, that's not what this It's being played on immigration, on the whole woke multicultural agenda, You know, on abortion, I believe, But on all these other issues. But my own view is Biden needs to be much, much more symbolically tough on him on immigration, by which this is a this is a kind of show of force, a show of are you willing to deal Because the truth is, the Republicans he needs But you got to deal with that. You are president. And so I would declare the National Guard to the border, Maybe the courts will overrule half of it. Maybe all of it. But Bill Clinton He said the American people but they want to catch you trying, and there's a sense I think he should do a Sister Souljah on the whole multiculturalism thing we want to down too far down this rabbit people on the basis of sex which, by the way, you know, we've gotten to a point all came out of a good place, You know, I mean, at this point, you know, going to see the next Hamlet, That's one thing I can be sure. Like, you know, and like, We need to of all these D-I bureaucracies Like that has to be the goal that we want And we're not there yet But I think the Democrats need to be able to express some of that in a way that is that I think is commonsensical you know, they see some of what I'm seeing a lot of this craziness and why aren't these guys And that I think the Democrats play But just take one more question which is how did the Republicans convince blue collar workers And what should Biden do to fight back? Well, it's the same thing, which is it was a wonderful book called which is basically making the case all these people are voting But I would argue that, to think that like being being And if only they knew, because my guess this room is voting against his and have been doing that for a while. You are consistently voting for the party Right. And if you are simply maximizing your economic advantage, But you are you have many identities, some are some or outweigh So do they do the honor of recognizing Fareed Thank so much for spending time with us Thank you. Thank you. Thank you for your perspective. Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you.