Visiting the famous Rabbits Island in Japan! The island is a paradise with about 600 rabbits. A one night solo trip to be healed by cute bunnies. Please enjoy this trip! The trip starts at Tadanoumi station. Tadanoumi is located in Hiroshima Prefecture, Today I will take a ferry from Tadanoumi port to a Okuno island called rabbit island. 10 minute walk. Arrive at the port. Lots of rabbit goods are sold at the port Buy a ferry ticket. Tickets are Y=720 round trip. Also buy rabbit snacks. Total was Y=920! The ferry has arrived! Today is a weekday, so there are few people. They say on holidays it can be full of tourists. Departure! Seats look like this. It's a big ferry, capacity is 300. From the port to the island takes about 15 minutes. The island comes into view. The island is uninhabited but there is only one hotel. There are about 20 passengers. We arrived safely at the island! Today I will stay at a hotel to play with the rabbits to the fullest. I'm looking forward it. Cherry blossoms are blooming so beautifully. The best time to see cherry blossoms in Japan is usually from March to April. Then I immediately spotted a rabbits. Cute. There are rabbits over here too. I'll give you some vegetables. Looks delicious. Brought tons of veggies and snacks for today! But, They don't give me time to introduce. lol How do you guys like the taste? (Delicious. Delicious.) Here you go. They also ate komatsuna. (Japanese mustard spinach) Vegetable buffet starts. Everyone is so cute. ! Sorry lol Please eat well together! Give me more snacks. Collaboration of cherry blossoms and rabbit. I make a snack sound and the rabbits come. The snacks I bought at the port are also popular. The rabbits are very friendly. Amazing. It's time to move on to the next place. You can take the bus, but I'm going on foot. There were vending machines and lockers at the port. Day-trippers can leave their luggage here. Walking along the seaside. There was a rabbit here too. They are basking in the sun. Rabbits are everywhere on the island. A little further on, I see something. This is a campground. You can camp while looking at the rabbits and the ocean. It is hot today, so the rabbits are cooling off. Time seems to flow more slowly on the island. Further on, there was a playground Cherry blossoms are in full bloom around here, too. Beautiful. Under the cherry blossoms, Of course there were rabbits. Drinking water. I wonder if it tastes like cherry blossoms. Cute lol Found a rabbit with an unusual pattern. You are fashionable. Finished eating in no time. Are you guys a couple? lol There were a thousand paper cranes. They are called Senbazuru, a thousand cranes made of paper. Japanese culture of wishing for peace. The only shrine on the island. There is a rabbit here too lol I feel a sacred atmosphere. Let's go a little further. There was a beach. The island is also visited by many foreign tourists. The sound of waves is pleasant. What a surprise, rabbits even near the ocean. A sight unique to this island. I call the rabbit by sound. Oh my gosh lol The rabbits are on a high. All the rabbits on this island are wild. A rabbit native to the western Mediterranean. Apparently rabbits that were once kept in elementary schools have bred in the wild. I reached a place with many palm trees. Okuno Island in the Seto Inland Sea, Hiroshima Prefecture. Once home to a poison gas factory, The circumference of the island is 4 km. In front of the hotel there is a vast square. Rabbits are playing happily in the square. I just take out the treats and a lot of rabbits gather around. Friendliness that is hard to believe they are wild. They even get on my lap. A big line of rabbits. Next please! Very cute. There are also white rabbits, although not as many. Rabbits live on food provided by tourists. Yawning cute. Vegetables keep going into the rabbit's mouth. They come one after another and I am very busy. They are also eating the grass in the square. A short distance away was another group of rabbits. ! People nearby are laughing too. lol Nice table. Rabbits have jumping ability, The rabbits fight easily, so I put food in various places. The sound of eating, good. It is soothing. I've seen this a lot in picture books, but it's true that you like carrots. Cute tail. (Don't touch me too much.) You are so cute, I end up petting you. Lying down video shooting, which I wanted to try. The rabbits approach me warily. He stepped on me as hard as he could lol They probably think I'm weird. Nice butt. Please look at the camera. Good! He sleeps in a funny position. Everyone has finished eating and it's time to relax. Found a baby rabbit. Baby rabbits are afraid of people, so I only set up a camera. They are wary but cute. Adult rabbits are very fast when they run seriously. ??? I couldn't see it because it was too fast lol ! I brought paper plates, so let's line them up and have lunch. Completion! Don't fight, eat well together. There is a baby rabbit in the middle. Compared to cats, But they don't fight, so the paper plate strategy is a success. The little rabbit is so cute. My vegetables were stolen.. Since you are young, treats should be in small amounts. I hold the snacks tightly Ah, my loss. White and brown baby rabbits ate cabbage too. But he is very alert. Meanwhile, the last vegetable buffet is being held here. Guests arrive at the restaurant one after another. Restaurant owner touching guests' butts. The vegetables, of which there were many, are gone now. After playing with the rabbits to my heart's content, There are people fishing. Today I will stay at the only hotel on the island. &quot;Vacation Village Okuno Island&quot; Let's check in. Rates were Y=14650 per night! Room number 208. Second floor. I wonder what kind of room it is. Here! It's my room. Oh! It is a Japanese-style room. I wonder about the view from the window. Cloudy but nice. I can see the rabbits I just played with. Ocean view. Let's look at the room facilities. Hot water pot. What is this box? It was a tea set. The rice crackers are free service. Wi-Fi available. I chose the plan with breakfast and dinner. Dinner starts at 5:30pm. It's almost time. TV in the room! I'm so glad. Japan-U.S. summit. They seem to be on good terms. There was a handy charger under the TV. Three electrical outlets and USB ports. And thankfully, it's very long. A chair to keep the view to yourself, Refrigerator. Closet, Japanese yukata. Some bath towels. Two hangers. This is a safe. In the closet were blankets and mattresses. And of course pillows. Toilet is simple. There is no bath in the room Let's go later. Hand soap and hair dryer provided. Air conditioning in rooms. It is safe for those who stay in the summer. There is a painting that interests me. Painted in 1981, 43 years ago. Amazing. Let's go have dinner. The dinner hall is quite crowded. Dinner is buffet. The centerpiece of the buffet is fish from the island. Shrimp. Deep fried oysters. Shumai is also looks delicious. Here the chef cooks it on the spot. Seafood, steaks, tempura, and more. Sushi and ramen noodles also available. I make my own ramen. Salad menu is also available. Variety of dressings. Too many delicious looking things to choose from. lol I think this is bamboo shoot rice. Curry temptation. Pickles. My first buffet looks like this. Mainly fish and steak, Salad and shrimp, also shellfish. Shellfish soup looks good. Fish is eaten with soy sauce. Delicious. Steak. Too delicious. Tempura. I am happy. Soup tastes gentle. It warms my heart. Following the rabbits' example, I eat vegetables. Y=14,000 per night is on the expensive side, I can recommend it with confidence. I also eat sushi with soy sauce. Delicious, of course. There were cake, so let's go get them after I finish this. First round completed. Sweets section. Ice cream and, Mini cakes, cream puffs. Straw rice cakes and fruits. My Second buffet! Ramen noodles. Lots of sweets. Ramen is delicious. Easy to make yourself. Oyster fries and steaks are a repeat. Sweets were also great! Full stomach. lol It's getting dark outside. There was a cafe on the ground floor of the hotel. Day-trippers can eat here. There was also a souvenir store. Lots of alcohol and rabbit goods. You can also buy sweets from Hiroshima. Let's go to Onsen (hot spring). Men's hot spring. Wow! The hot spring also offers a panoramic view of the island. By the way, there are two hot springs. A little wider than the previous hot spring. But the view is better at the earlier. There was also a laundromat. 18:00 PM. The area is getting much darker. Rabbits are hungry in the evening. If you want to be surrounded by rabbits, this is the time to go. After playing with the rabbits, See you tomorrow. Good night. Good morning. I brought breakfast for the rabbits. In the morning, as at night, the rabbits beg for a lot. I change places a little. Let's give breakfast to the rabbit in the back. Then everyone follows me. A man is attacked by rabbits. Surrounded by rabbits in front of hotel. It quickly becomes overflowing with lots of rabbits. They seem to get hungry in the morning and at night. One bag of rabbit food is gone quickly. I spread the food in different places Very nice morning. Greedy white rabbit eating food directly from the bag. Rabbits' stomachs are endless. (Give me more food!) Additional orders were placed. Rabbits relaxing as the sun rises. This is the last one, The rabbit in front of the camera is cute. lol Very nice view. Gradually others came out into the square. The rabbits look very happy. !? Nice jump! Rabbits show off by standing up like meerkats. See you all later. Then the rabbits was frightened Birds are natural enemies for rabbits. It's breakfast time. A sumptuous buffet. Today's recommendation, Hiroshima-style okonomiyaki. A traditional Japanese dish. Many other tasty menu items. This is hot tofu. Japanese food such as simmered dishes. Miso soup. Curry. French toast. Looks delicious. Western food was also available. Bread and ajillo. Three kinds of bread. Corn flakes. Fruit and yogurt. Extensive menu. Luxurious breakfast. Tofu and okonomiyaki. Rice and pickles. Egg soup. Hiroshima okonomiyaki is grilled vegetables, noodles and egg. Sauce and mayonnaise flavored. Delicious. Meatballs and fish are also delicious. This fish is called shishamo. I haven't eaten enough yet. The second part is bread, ice cream, etc. I am Japanese but I love western food. I put ajillo on my bucket. This was excellent. Eating ice cream even though it's morning. A bite of croissant. Eat the croissant with ice cream on it. Good. Thank you for the meal. Full stomach. Happy. Check-out time 10:00 am. I say goodbye to this room. Thanks room 208. it was a nice room. My plan for today is to go around the island. The weather is nice and the birds seem to feel good. From the hotel we continue north to circle the island. Places related to poison gas are located throughout the island. I walk, but you can also rent a bicycle to go around the island. There were also bicycles for children. A child's rabbit was sleeping lol Cycling looks feels good. Cycling with a couple is nice. Rabbits are playing around in good spirits. The first thing I found was the poison gas storage facility. Iberit, a gas so poisonous that it causes skin sores, Tanks holding 10 tons were placed in each of the two rooms. 1929-1944. In the past, when Japan was at war, It is said that 6616 tons of poison gas was manufactured. The little rabbit knows nothing about that. There are many rabbits now because of peace. It makes me think that this situation is really precious. Cute rabbits and the sad history behind them. I wish for a peaceful world. I want to go on, but I keep stopping at a cute rabbit. Eating standing up is too cute. Baby rabbits are especially cute. A little further on, there was a vast expanse of ground. Cherry blossoms are blooming beautifully here too. Rabbits are cooling off under the cherry blossoms. Nice spring-like feeling. Many people, both men and women, were traveling alone. A short break. There is a tennis court. Next came the largest poison gas storage facility 100 tons of poison gas was placed in 6 rooms. After the war, the walls are blackened There was a toilet near it. Thank God. The only restrooms on the island are at the hotel, the port, and here. The rabbits know people are coming. Let's give them the rest of the treats. Liquid treats. Popularity. But I can only give it to 2 animals at a time, so it's difficult. Giving treats in turn. Rabbits are surprisingly strong. You are glutton. lol Cats were also popular liquid treats, The rabbits here are fat and healthy lol I guess they get lots of treats from people coming to the bathroom. Finish. (Really?) I made it to the north of the island. Aiming for the power plant. There are many black rabbits in this area. Maybe they are family. The ocean looks beautiful. The rabbits here are not as friendly as those near the hotel. They run away when I try to touch them. Ruins of northern battery. A cannon firing poison gas was placed here. It has a unique atmosphere. After a while I found a man. He is carrying heavy water to refill the rabbits' water. Probably a volunteer. Amazing. Almost to the power plant. I'm getting tired because I'm not getting enough exercise. But the sea makes me feel better. Arrival! This is the power plant. It is amazingly powerful. You cannot enter the building. The atmosphere is eerie. There was another rabbit here. For some reason I feel relieved when I see a rabbit (lol) About an hour after departure I made it to the port. The wind and waves are pleasant. Rabbit getting lots of food, just like yesterday. Good for you. I'm tired. Let's take the bus back to the hotel. But there is one more place I want to go. I am back near the hotel. Okuno Island Visitor Center. This facility is like an information center on the island. Lots of cute rabbits pictures . Very nice pictures. LOL The big tree is even sticking out of the building. Tree looks like a squid. This is the poison gas museum. The history of the island can be learned here. Fees are Y=150. ($1.00) Give all remaining treats. Thanks guys. I am very happy with my first visit to this island. Back at the hotel cafe. It's hot, so let's eat something cold. Ice cream Y=500. ($3.19) It is April now, but it was hotter than expected. Don't forget to prepare for the heat when you come in the summer. Take the bus to the port. It was a great trip. I would love to come back. Ship timetable. I will return on the 17:16 boat. The return boat is smaller than the going boat. Capacity is 100 passengers. Seats are quite full. Thanks Okuno Island. I hope you all go there! Please like, comment and subscribe to my channel! Thank you for watching to the end