as any other members seek recognition. I'd say it recognizes Mr. Green. I'd like to know if any of the Democrats on this committee are employing judge Martians. Daughter. Oh, please tell me what that has to do with Merrick Garland. Is she a porn star? Oh, Goldman. That's right. He's advising. Okay. There was an. Do you. Do you know we're here for. You know we're here. I want you know what you're here for. Well, you don't want to talk about. I think your fake eyelashes are messing up. Ain't nothing out of this order, Mr. Chairman. Beneath even more, you gave the order of your committee. Order, please. This is a point of order. We have a point of order. Mr. Lynch, state your point. Mr. Chairman, I would just like to ask the parliamentarian if your conduct here in raising money in connection with this hearing is referable to the Ethics Committee. Within this hearing is a motion in order to refer your conduct and your abuse of. It's not a point of order. I do have a point of order and I would like to move to to take down Ms.. Greene's words. That is absolutely unacceptable. How dare you suspend meetings of another person? Are your feelings her words down? Oh. Oh, girl. Baby girl. Oh, really? Don't even play, baby girl. I don't. We are going to move and we're going to take your words down. I second that motion. Mr. Green, do you wish to strike your words? I have 4 minutes and 21 seconds to speak. I think we have to do the motion first. And then unless there's another motion, then. Then you'll be recognized again. But I believe there's another motion coming. So you agree to strike your words? Yeah. Okay. Ms.. Green agrees to strike her words. I believe. I don't know. Okay, hold on. Then after Mr. Page, you'll be recognized. I'm not apologizing. Okay. Reserve the right to your way. I am not apologizing. Let's go. Come on, guys. Why don't you debate me? Mr. Chairman. The minority seldom ever. You're not. Yeah, you're not. You don't have enough intelligent recognizes, Mr. Perry. Okay. Move to strike. Move! Move! This morning, ladies words again. Ms.. GREENE, do you ask unanimous consent? Do you agree to unanimous consent to strike your words? I repeat again for the second time. Yes. I'll use my words, but I'm not apologizing without objection, So Miss Green asked unanimous consent to strike her words. Mr. Raskin objected. I'm going to recognize Mr. Raskin for his objection. We're not counting against. Mr. Green has 4 minutes and 21 seconds left. This will not count against your time. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I reserve the right to object because the understanding of the minority is that the general lady from Georgia would move to take her words down and strike her words, and to offer sincere apology for having engaged in personalities against another member, offending her personal appearance and insulting her. We don't do that in this committee. And I think the major problem was that we allowed pornography in this committee and we've gone down a bad road. But in any event, we should not allow face to face ad hominem insults. It's totally contrary to the rules of the House of Representatives. And I would ask Ms.. GREENE if she would just make the apology. It's not that complicated. We don't want to get into face to face insults. You will never get an apology out of me. And then I object. Then I object. The Raskin's objects. you know, I think we don't want to see a complete dissent of our committee and the verbatim quote, the verbatim quote of the general lady was, I think your fake eyelashes were messing up your reading. That is what she said. I think you're fake. And that that's obviously engaging in personalities. It's an ad hominem attack. And I would just ask every member of this committee in a fair minded way, would you want to be talked to in that way about your personal appearance by another member of the committee? Because what we're doing is we're setting standards going forward. I'm just curious, just to better understand your ruling. If someone on this committee then starts talking about somebodies beliefs, blond, bad built, butch body that would not be engaging in personalities. Correct? What now? Chairman? I make I make a motion to strike those words. I don't think that's one part of it. I find clarification on what quorum is. You just said we're not going to we're not going to do this like you guys earlier. Literally, you just voted to do it. A person. You voted you in order. I'm trying to get clarification. Look at calm down. Calm down. No, no, no, because this is what you do. Proceed. I'm sorry. You're not recognize Mr.. I hear you with your yelling. Oh, right on down. No, please don't tell me to calm down because y'all have gone down in there. You're out of control telling me if I don't have a chairman. Mr. Chairman. Who wants to? Who wants to take a crack at this? I mean, these people are elected. But this is good for the whole thing we're talking about all day today. But where where, how far have we come? And like, why is this? Why are these people even except what this is like, mean it's disgusting that this is how they're behaving and why are they attacking each other personally? They have enough to attack each other on their views. They don't need to attack each other on their eyelashes and their hair. Here. What's depressing about this is that it's not that unusual for the house these days. I mean, whether it was Kevin McCarthy's many rounds to get elected speaker, people getting in each other's faces, I mean, they almost started hating each other during that. And so it's not just these three women. I've watched the men behave. I'm calling each other names. The house is in absolute chaos. And we have been electing a lot of clowns in this country. And we are getting a circus. I'm sure that it has always been true there. How clowns in the House of Representatives. There also used to be a career path where you put your head down. You did the work, your mask, maxims in your head, you built a staff, you built a reputation, you built partnerships, and you passed laws, which is what you were there to do. And this is the the comic and eye catching side of of the problem with the Congress of the past few years, which is they're remarkably unproductive. And, you know, when you think about problems that Americans have from the cost of nursing home care to how to get health insurance, to climate change, to are the taxes too high to the debates as we have this all party consensus that is building in favor of more protectionism and trying to enrich ourselves by keeping out foreign goods, that these are things that you would think that the House of Representatives should be having a voice on. But laws don't get passed. This stuff happens and so this you can see and it gives you an I mean, it's important as a clue to all the things that you don't see because they are not happening. One thing about this, too, is that it does come down to leadership. I mean, James Comer, this was his committee that devolved into this back and forth. Here was how he tried to explain what happened. I don't know if you notice the I have two hearing aids. I'm very deaf. I'm not understanding. Everybody's yelling. I'm doing the best I can. Can we not recognize Miss GREENE and we not because of the rules of the committee, Mr. Chair, I sort of wonder how he didn't hear this piece of it, which we're not going to we're not going to do this. Look, you guys earlier literally just voted to do the first thing you voted to in order not trying to get clarification and yelling, oh, why on down? Please don't tell me to calm down, because y'all have gone down in there. You're out of control. Back with them. Meghan I mean, it's like a circus. Like a circus that people are screaming. I mean, I guess Comer couldn't blame his wife because he didn't think of that excuse fast enough to solve this problem. That seems to be what are blame people for. I just don't understand how this is like acceptable behavior from our lawmakers who need to be passing laws. People actually have issues in this country and we need to have actual laws. You know, one of these is an interesting about voters are we ask about Congress a lot and it's funny, they very much want results, but they do not want compromise. And voters in this country seem to have lost the plot, that it requires compromise to get results, which is, I think, where you now see people reaching for sort of the strongman authoritarian types, because they have forgotten that actually the way this body is supposed to function is by doing the hard work, putting their heads down, reaching a compromise that makes everybody a little bit unhappy and a little bit happy. And ultimately you get something done for the American people. And so people want things done. They don't want them to compromise. They want them to be in opposition like that. And that's why we have all this dysfunction. Yeah, well, I mean, and to what you were saying, David, to when celebrity seems to be the goal of coming to Congress, you end up in situations like this. Well, I'll tell you, because it has a sort of an example of this, because, look, Marjorie Taylor GREENE has no choice but to be Marjorie Taylor. GREENE That's just there's no upper floor of the building there. But Ocasio-Cortez has potential to go in a number of different ways in her career and that the incentives are pulling her toward the Instagram influencer. The viral moment, the no, the no big bills path. I will say she Ocasio-Cortez is not always like this in committee hearings, but she was jumping in defending someone, and she actually was the one who knew the rules of the committee was using them to her. And she's usually very prepared for these hearings. But I think continue. Okay. So she actually has a path. I mean, I think we're also coping with this is this is a Congress that doesn't have a majority in the House of Representatives. And the inhibitions, what might happen under a different political culture is this The speaker would put together a working majority. You know, half of the his party, a third of the other party, and build a majority from the center out. But that is completely prohibited by the culture of the modern House of Representatives. That's how action things are often done in the past, especially in the fifties and sixties, when Partizanship was more blurry, you would have these dysfunction in coalition of the center of moderate Democrat, usually with a Democratic speaker in those days, always with the Democratic speaker. But putting some of the Democratic members out to the margins, putting many of the Republican members out to the margins. But our political culture doesn't allow that middle out coalition anymore. It does not.