This is my wife's old laptop... or actually, I thought it would be nice to see In case you've never heard of it: Haiku I have never used it before but I did use BeOS for Let's see if Haiku is as great as BeOS used to be! Before we start I take out the old harddrive so my wife can't be mad at me for overwriting Let's see if it boots. Right! The OpenMandriva Oh that looks a bit funky... Alright, we're in! So it's got an nVidia GeForce 310N GPU which Tuxracer runs great! Cool! YouTube video's seem to play fine as well! Since their latest beta release is I downloaded the latest nightly There we are! First impression is quite Only 364MB in use at the moment. The screen looks a bit off though, I Hmm, it's using a generic VESA driver. Well That looks a lot better! I tried connecting my capturing device to the HDMI I haven't tested it on Linux so I'm not sure if this is a Haiku problem or In any case, we'll have to do Wifi works, that's a big plus! There's a browser called WebPositive preinstalled. It seems to work quite decently. I can YouTube looks OK... oh... can't Cool! There are updates Can't seem to install them while running from the I'll first prepare the disk. I'll just remove all the Linux And create a new one with the Be filesystem. Let's run the installer! &quot;no partitions have been found that Right! I still have to format it! That looks a lot better! Damn this installation is FAST! Alright! Let's reboot! &quot;ror&quot;? Ehm... OK... I figured I'd try again with the main While writing that one to a stick I looked up the installation instructions to see if when I remembered that this So, I booted Haiku R1 Beta Clicked &quot;Setup partitions&quot; and Haiku apparently calls an &quot;Intel partition map&quot;. Created a partition and formatted it this time. Installed again, rebooted and... &quot;Operating System not found&quot;... What!? After sleeping on it for a night, I found that I'm a dumbass who didn't With that fixed, the laptop boots fine into Haiku! When the camera wasn't which is a decent little browser I can find myself online! Oh yeah! YouTube works great in this browser, but I think this is due to the fact that the generic VESA driver. Scrolling Facebook seems to work fine though. Instagram works good as well. Let's install Tuxracer! Well it's... OK, I guess. Fullscreen it's not much fun though. SuperTuxKart is a slideshow... again, hardware acceleration which is a bit of a bummer. When searching for a solution I found supported by the nVidia driver. I figured I'd try another system because Sadly it would not boot on the Athlon It did boot on my mother's 12 year old pc, but the onboard AMD gpu used the So, I figured I'd put my HD3650 that one works quite well on Linux machines. Booted Haiku and it actually Let's install Haiku on this one then! This time I didn't forget to tick installed and I had a working Haiku system again! The Haikuports repository for and searching for a solution I found repositories are already disabled, So I disabled the repositories and I couldn't find a way to edit the existing ones so I had to type over the full url for Cool! Let's update! Alright, let's reboot. It still works! Developers of Let's install TuxRacer and Falkon again Hmm. I'm not impressed... YouTube video's run fine Let's try TuxRacer! Right. Little underwhelming to be honest. While I was getting ready to edit this Dell Wyse thin client from 2015 Out of curiosity, I plugged in A more modern GPU with proper driver support! So, I installed Haiku on that one to Watching a Youtube video on that was a bit more SuperTuxKart was still a bit of a slideshow, but it's almost playable on this one. it performs in other operating systems. I'm I still think it's an awesome operating system but it seems hardware support is I guess it's a good idea to look into the before taking a serious dive into Haiku. tell you if it's working and not how If anyone knows a good place That's all I have for you today! I hope you liked this video. And if you Thank you very much for watching! Until next time!