Already in Genesis we read that, in the Universal Flood, the dove that left the Ark returned with the olive branch and gave it to Noah. It is precisely the fruit of the olive tree, the olive, the raw material from which one of the basic ingredients of the Mediterranean diet is extracted: olive oil. The olive tree is not demanding in care. A winter composting treatment of the land and alternative tillage of the land to remove weeds are the most important tasks to guarantee quality fruits. Starting in the month of June, the olive tree flowers transform into green, compact olives that in the summer months will mature to reach their optimal point in mid-autumn. In popular language, countless varieties of olives are known from which oils of different qualities are obtained. The most common variety species cultivated in this area of the Caroig are the "villalonga" or "manzanilla" and the "blanquilla". At the beginning of November the olives are already ripe and the farmers come to collect these fruits from the olive trees. Traditional hand harvesting requires few tools, one of them is the net. Wide, dense nets spread under the tree will prevent the olives from falling to the ground, making them easier to collect for packaging. The technique of harvesting olives in this region has changed very little compared to past times. Branch by branch, the farmers separate the fruits with their hands. In this way, the trees do not suffer as much as with traditional stripping, because hitting them with the sticks breaks the tips, which makes their correct subsequent development difficult. The olives fall onto the net that covers the entire surface of the tree crown. In the past, all members of the family collaborated in this task of collecting olives , including children. Once the tree has been stripped of its fruits, the stairs and nets must be taken to another olive tree. Again the process continues. The skillful hands, sometimes protected with gloves, will continue to separate the fruits from the branches. When the nets contain a sufficient amount of fruit, the olives are collected in the &quot;barchines&quot;, containers traditionally made of esparto grass. Day after day, these farmers will go to the olive groves to collect the fruit of their work. They will endure the cold of these days with some discomfort, but the quality of the oil obtained will compensate for the effort of harvesting. The barchins have a capacity between 30 and 40 kilos. In this type of packaging the olive is more protected because, being ripe, if it were carried in larger containers it could be crushed by its own weight. In addition, the barchins have the appropriate shape for transport on horseback riding. Once the barchins are placed on the animal's back, the load must be secured to transport it comfortably to the oil mill. Some in the stables and others in trailers pulled by the tractor, at dusk, the farmers transport the fruit they have collected throughout the day to the oil mill. Navarres is a town of Arab origin surrounded by natural landscapes. The traditional oil mill that the grandfather of Eduardo Sanz, its current owner, modernized in 1911 is still preserved here . The farmers of the Canal de Navarres and the neighboring regions take their olives to the olive mill, where once weighed they are stored in the &quot;atroje&quot;, separated from those of the rest of the customers to be ground independently. So that each farmer can have access to the oil from his own harvest, the olives are crushed individually. Once the grinding system is connected, Eduardo pours the olives into the &quot;tramucha&quot;, a type of hopper that facilitates their lifting and transport, by means of an endless conveyor, to the grinding stones or &quot;rollers&quot;. Dosedly, at the operator's will, the olives fall onto a large stone platform. Before starting the campaign, Eduardo has chopped and reviewed the surface of the stone to enhance its roughness. Above it, three large conical granite stones rotate and crush the olives. that remain between the two surfaces in contact. This traditional system of obtaining the oil is called cold, because during the process there are no sudden variations in temperature that could alter the quality of the final product. The paste obtained in the grinding is displaced, little by little, by the conical shape of the &quot;curlers&quot; towards the outside. The paddles, which rotate with the stones, guide the dough through the channel to a hole that communicates directly with the mixer. The mixer has a warm water coil so that the pasta stays a little warm and releases the oil better. The pressing of the pasta is carried out on a small cart in the center of which an axis called a "needle" is placed vertically. The esportines, which until recently were made of esparto grass and now made of artificial fibers, have a hole in their center to insert them. on the needle and that they maintain their verticality during the pressure. Eduardo, helped by his son, pours into each esportin two cubes of pasta that are kept in the mixer at a temperature between 6 and 7 degrees. As the esportines or capachos go stacking full of pasta, the liquid begins to drain over the surface and collects in the container of the car. In one press, about 60 esportines fit, which represents a total weight, approximately, of 900 kilos of pasta. When the pasta of a peasant is finished, Eduardo places a separating plate, so that the oil that falls from the following esportines is conducted through another tube to a different container, without mixing with that of the lower half. During the time that Eduardo and his son spend To fill the esportines, the press works intensely to squeeze the paste and extract from it all the liquid matter contained. Once the press has finished its entire journey, the pressing process must be stopped, but first, it is advisable to soak the surface of the esportines with hot water so that the oil that has adhered to it dissolves. Little by little, the press is lowered until the wheels of the cart reach the rails. Driven by the rails, through the rotating platform, these oil artisans take the pressed esportines to another room reserved for storing the pomace: the solid part that remains after squeezing the paste. Using the same rail system, they transport the car full of pasta, oozing its juice, to the press. The 450 atmospheres of pressure at which the press must work are produced by a hydraulic pump that injects pressurized water into the piston to raise the carriage and squeeze the paste in the esportines. When the pump reaches 450 atmospheres of pressure, the press will begin to work slowly, for two and a half to three hours. Depending on the intensity of the rains that fall during the year, the olives will be more or less loaded with moisture, and the proportion between water and oil will be different. Normally, at the beginning of the season, olives usually yield between 16 or 18 percent oil because they contain more water. At the end of the season the olives dry and produce 30 to 32 percent oil. The liquid obtained by pressure, which is a mixture of water and oil, passes through the outlet tubes until it is stored in separate containers for each client. While the press squeezes the dough, the Sanz family can dedicate themselves to emptying the esportines. The resulting pomace will be stored and sold to manufacturers of inferior quality oils, which can still be obtained by chemical procedures. In the past, this waste was used as feed for pigs. After cleaning the cart, the process is repeated: Again, the esportines must be filled again, separating the pulp from different clients in order to provide that personalized treatment typical of the Navarres oil mill. The oil has been collected in separate containers and has been resting there for approximately an hour. By decanting, the solid materials will fall to the bottom along with the morca or alpechin: which is the water mixed with impurities. The oil floats on water, making it easier to separate. Farmers who have brought their olives to be ground can collect the oil that has been extracted from the paste. With a container called an arroba, each person fills the containers with their own oil to store it at home. The ideal storage for proper conservation of this natural product is in ceramic containers. There it should rest so that the solid remains that still remain fall to the bottom, forming the so-called sole. The oil has to move as little as possible, it must always be left calm, it relaxes, the dirt is released and the flower always remains on top. The end result of this patient process is a natural product of excellent quality: cold-pressed olive oil. The centuries-old olive trees of these lands of the Caroig massif, which have produced thousands and thousands of kilos throughout their history, still offer their product to the farmers, who do not hesitate to continue this tradition of picking their olives by hand. Meanwhile, in the oil mill, the next generation of the Sanz family or &quot;Barcha&quot;, as they are familiarly called in the region, will continue to offer them the quality of their meticulous work. I am Eugenio Monesma, director and producer of the documentary you just watched. If you liked it, I encourage you to subscribe to the channel by activating notifications from the bell and so you can enjoy the hundreds of documentaries that I already have on the channel and which I will be uploading weekly.