Translator: Paola Benedetti How does your brain fall in love? Is it something magical or is there something biological that causes us to fall in love? That was my question. This is what we know about love: we know some neurotransmitters Your cortisol level, the stress hormone, while your oxytocin level increases A woman's testosterone goes up while a man's drops And in both, their serotonin level drops And, although we know what happens, There are certain chemical including the tipping point, and also an enzymatic reaction, Either of these would fit nicely So I was pondering this, I was visiting my family, and I have a cousin so I decided to use I told him what I knew about love. I said, &quot;Certain neurotransmitters go up, I think it may be biochemical.&quot; I looked at him, and he gave I said, &quot;Some may have He said, &quot;Plausible,&quot; or looked plausible. And then, I said, &quot;Others may be Again, he gave me He's not a big talker, so I thought (Laughter) But before I could formulate my then 95-year-old grandmother &quot;You, youngsters, don't know I was shocked, and I said, &quot;Yeah, I know. She said, &quot;Your problem is you, (Laughter) You fall in love, but a boy And I kind of looked at her, and I said, &quot;OK, let's talk a little bit more. And she said, &quot;Back in my day, a girl knew if she wanted a boy she couldn't sleep with him right away.&quot; Now, I had heard that stuff before: there's the 90-day rule &quot;Act like a lady, think like a man,&quot; but I always thought those were anecdotal. I didn't think there was so I looked over at my cousin. His face no longer said plausible. I decided to continue with my grandmother because of the date; I said, &quot;How long do you need She says, &quot;Ah, you wait &quot;OK. Well, Granny, how She says, &quot;Oh, that's easy, you know I looked over at my cousin, and he hung his head, (Laughter) He said, &quot;OK, Granny, I realized he was not buying any of this, and my research had to I returned home, The problem is there's not a lot of research out primarily, because of the way Imagine a guy saying, &quot;Oh, I love you.&quot; He falls in love, and a researcher &quot;Congratulations! Can I inject this into You're not going to get many volunteers. So we had to rely on But what animals fall in love? Well, we know when humans fall in love, so they started looking at And they ended up settling on these guys: When a prairie vole finds a mate they will, basically, mate for life. So they started looking at to see what was going on, and what they discovered was one of the first things And if they block the dopamine, So they thought, &quot;Oh, dopamine,&quot; Dopamine couldn't be it because dopamine goes up It goes up with gambling, (Laughter) so it couldn't possibly be dopamine. So they said, &quot;Well, we know that's involved in bonding; And oxytocin goes up with mothers So they said, &quot;Let's take a look at that,&quot; They found that when a female her oxytocin goes up by 51%, and then if they block it, So they said, &quot;Ah, it must be but there was a problem. It can't be oxytocin for a man, Testosterone blocks So they said, &quot;It's got to be They looked at another one and that is vasopressin. So they did the study again. The voles would meet. They'd inject an antagonist, he would lose that loving feeling. So they said, &quot;Oh, then it's got to be and possibly some testosterone So they said, &quot;Ah, perfect.&quot; What does that mean for us? To find that out, I wrote to one of the Head of Studies &quot;Is the vole study applicable to humans?&quot; His response is a little embarrassing; The exclamation point is his. I didn't want to write back That was a little embarrassing, Fortunately for me, Tiffany Love, came out publicly, that the vole studies So, great. Now what does that mean? Well, if we look back at the mechanism, that would mean dopamine increases Dopamine increases when we're dating, we are excited: we're going to win As long as you're dating and you're happy, Oxytocin goes up; it's called so when you're kissing, cuddling, And as you're dating a man your oxytocin increases. But there's a catch. Oxytocin slowly builds up that way, In other words, my grandmother Remember what she said? &quot;You girls, jump into bed It was starting to look like the science was panning out So I looked at the other part: If we look at it, dopamine... If he is having a good time, but how does his vasopressin go up? Vasopressin goes up So if he's dating a woman the vasopressin increases. But here's the catch: unlike oxytocin, vasopressin So how important is that? Well, I looked into it further; and they said it's not just You have to have the receptors. You get the receptors with the presence Neurotransmitters tell your body so you have to have to build the receptors So that means it takes some time. But there was one other thing &quot;You know a man's in love with you Could commitment To find that out, I found a study The Air Force followed over taking various tests. One of test that they took What they found is, when a guy his testosterone is relatively high, Remember what I told you It blocks the effects of oxytocin. Oxytocin is a bonding hormone, so it was kind of looking like but it needed further clarification. Was it marriage? Was it They did a study at Harvard University. They took married men, single men, They tested their testosterone. This is what they discovered: like the Air Force study, the single men had high testosterone, where the men that were married And here's the catch: and in the men that were the testosterone level did not differ. That means that the testosterone it dropped prior, when he committed. So that means my grandmother Women take a bigger risk and men tend to fall in love So that confirmed something for me not just that women and men with commitment, something even more important, and that is: my grandmother is brilliant. (Laughter) (Applause)