Rubinstein at Steinway's Documentary film by Lucian Neitzel When Arthur Rubinstein played a ...in his native Poland, the critics They wrote: &quot;Language alone cannot Would you please take a picture now? I am quite nervous ... What is that? Won't it get in the way? - What is it? Aha ... But I really don't want to be It's just for speaking. Will the music also be recorded? - But I really wouldn't like that ... Later, after playing for 2 hours on ...Arthur Rubinstein gave us And that is how this unique It's even more beautiful than before! - Just beautiful! The action parts which were ...but the hammer heads Thank God! That was the most important But this part was destroyed ... - Yes, the action was all bent up. No, that was OK, but the We had to repair that as well as ... here, where the tuning pins It feels lighter somehow ... No, that is the same. I recorded the Liszt Sonata on this. We made the keys a bit heavier in the bass. I say, just wonderful ... ... and that is for the record! We tried to do our very best, Let's get a higher bench ... That one's higher. I played this just the other day -- It still has all of the clarity and Thank you so much! - &quot;A tone is like a comet, dying away in the sky.&quot; He adds: &quot;Arthur Rubinstein is the only pianist ...but can see them as well.&quot; Thomas Mann called Arthur Rubinstein Albert Einstein remarked after &quot;Now I am convinced that there Of course, this recording can ...of Arthur Rubinstein's I had three wonderful concerts ...last autumn, it was... ...with a marvelous young ... Reinhold Peters. Yes, of course we know him... He was VERY good! We played programs The first: ...the best ones, for example The second: the last three And the third: Nice programs, weren't they? Here in Hamburg, the first concerto ...practically never at all. Twice in one season we had ...then once again the next season. The more often I play the 1st concerto, It has more depth. The second is perhaps more elegant? Yes, it is completely different. That is why one can play them One couldn't do both Chopin They are much too similar... Mozart concerti can always be ...the last three Beethoven, also. But sometimes it just doesn't work. I would never do two of Rachmaninoff You know, I own something You all surely know the famous The Americans even made ...and made more money than Chopin - The melody from the middle part? That was published posthumously; He didn't think they were good Even though he needed the money, Then I chanced upon... - How do you say that? Yes, an auction! In Paris, an album was being ...which had belonged to Baroness I told my wife that it couldn't ...but the hotel, auction house So I went there, and I bought it. It cost me a LOT of money! And I didn't know what was ...because I read about the auction ...and one could only view And I discovered the most Chopin composed this for the She wanted to have an original Chopin probably had a sketch of it ...and just had to add I edited it for G. Schirmer; it is It is much more detailed in the bass lines, He was so impatient to get it ...that at the end of the piece And it was his own manuscript Yes ... you see, he dedicated ...the &quot;Andante spianato ...you know, the &quot;Spinach Andante&quot;! That one he dedicated But on this manuscript he wrote: It's not the same, one wouldn't ...Chopin wrote: So I had it published, and it Chopin couldn't publish it because ...he didn't have the rights So it lay around for more than Probably a nephew of hers It was the manuscript, wasn't it? Absolutely! There was also an - ...a composition by Moscheles... Yes, original, and also 11 fabulous In between the music and the paintings She wanted only the best. I own several different ... I have his only passport, - And now you have it? Also, I have 89 unpublished ...to a woman who almost You may have read about ...which were auctioned recently The Polish government protested, ...that they were legitimately And I have those now. - Now you own them? To whom did the album belong To a Baroness d'Este... The same d'Este as the &quot;Jeux d'eau&quot;? Yes, that's the one, the same family. She was a student of Chopin. But these letters [of Chopin] He writes to his family about I was able to visit the former They were sold a long time ...to a musicologist researching He showed them to me at his home. Afterwards, they belonged to a ...and that buyer brought them - They get around in the world... - But now they are in good hands! So, collecting is a hobby of yours? Not a hobby -- never call it a &quot;hobby&quot;! I detest the word &quot;hobby&quot;! &quot;Hobby&quot; has the connotation of But I love collecting books. Once, Arthur Rubinstein said: &quot;...is not much more than a ray &quot;My dream, after a good concert, &quot;'Please be patient, let me &quot;'...I hope it will be better Arthur Rubinstein is never satisfied Perhaps this is one of the He never repeats his solutions to musical For example, his interpretation of Every time this man sits at the &quot;If I play Beethoven and then follow &quot;...then my whole musical nature changes, Yes, the touch is heavy, not light. If we made it any lighter, Then the keys would run away No, I wouldn't like that! It's still just a bit heavy... A wonderful tone! Arthur Rubinstein: ...of the grand musical traditions A period so much richer ...personality and character -- No other artist brings to life the ... more than he does: a student of Unfortunately, Arthur Rubinstein ...in Germany in public again. The quality is just wonderful! Now show me that book of yours...