- It's the international crisis that changed the way It's the reason people lined up for miles in front of gas stations literally fist fighting just for a drop of that What caused it? How did it change cars forever? You've asked for it a we're finally giving it to you. This is everything you need to know to get up to speed on the gas crisis. (upbeat music) - I like cars. You like cars. We like cars. Celebrate your love of cars with the new jewelry of cars t-shirt also vintage black. Get it for the low, low price of $29.98. Only at donutmedia.com. Check it out. It's my favorite shirt to date. - This episode's gonna There are no sick cars, no but this story is just as important, maybe even more important for the history of cars than any story But before we get into because it really helps You want to help us out with The early 70s were pretty good times for American car companies and Cars were big. V8s were big. Gas was cheap, like 36 So cheap. Everyone had muscle cars it was great. It would've been an but good things don't last forever. And soon there were EPA restrictions in place that sucked the power The solution American car Just make the engines bigger, dumbass. So that's what they did, All right. This is a 1973 Cadillac El Dorado, and as an eight liter V8 of those liters to make 235 horsepower. That's like almost three Faygos and that's a pitiful amount of power. Now, as you can imagine, Detroit's inefficient power creators weren't exactly fuel efficient either. That caddy got eight miles to the gallon. That's one mile per liter, but because the US still at the time and gas was, it didn't really matter. Until it did, in the 1950s, the government put of foreign oil that could Restrictions that helped Thanks Eisenhower. Think you're cool, because Yeah, right. Not fooling me, pal. By 1970 uncle Sam's oil What does that mean? Well, they produced the and it was all downhill from there. America's domestic oil Luckily there were plenty a bunch of oil and they to sell it for cheap. And because of that, Americans didn't notice And oil demand kept climbing Now thanks to the US's oil price controls, gas prices couldn't go up, noticed that America's oil That demand just kept rising and much like my take on bananas foster, this was a recipe for disaster. You can't sub beer for brandy. It started with a minor then another one in 1972. And that was enough to huge piece of (bleep) Nixon that it was time to ditch the oil import quotas put in place Why not import what we need like Egypt? Syria? Saudi Arabia? They have gobs of oil and they like money. We have gobs of money and we like oil. It's a match made in heaven, the middle east plus America forever. Things were going great for a while. But then something happened in 1973 that poured sugar in the gas And that sugar was the Yom-Kippur war. Now to make a long, complicated the US and some Western to Israel's aid during the Yom-Kippur war. A ceasefire was eventually signed but the oil producing about which side the Americans chose. They were all members of the Organization of Petroleum You ever heard of it? I'm sure you have. And they decided to band and its European cronies a lesson by setting up an oil embargo Now this was bad news for people who guzzled gas like a freshman guzzles Natty Light. Suddenly the massive the cars that people relied on to get to work or go to school or they were way less practical than before. It was a brutal reality check. People actually had to choose between going to work or That's a decision that no American should ever have to face. Gas prices went up, nearly doubling and the Middle They won the breakup. They're already dating someone else. Europe fared a bit better than the US probably because they already Now if your mini Cooper gets 30 miles to the gallon going from $2.50 a gallon to $4.50 a gallon sucks, but But if you're floating back and forth to work in an land yacht with a 27 gallon tank, you are going to feel that price hike. And even if you could afford it there just literally wasn't Now remember 2020, the Well that same sort of panic happened, instead of at the dumps, Now as you can imagine, sketchy scenes going down There were lines for gas, lines People would wait in them for hours only for the gas station to run dry. There was a lot of yelling and a lot of straight up street fights, just like with the toilet paper in 2020, it was not humanity at its best. OPEC's embargo didn't last for very long. They lifted it in early 1974 but the fresh horrors America experienced at the gas pumps had changed the country. The US government saw how turned off the taps, to them, going back to chugging gas seemed like a national security risk. And to the government's credit, they decided to actually They formed CAFE, and no I'm not talking about place where open mics live and die. Talking about the corporate Something that played a big part in the changes to the over the next dozen years. In 1973 the average American car got a whopping 11.9 miles the government mandated that the average had to rise to at least by 1985, seems like a good idea, but American car companies But still they figured 10 years, that's a pretty long time, and they had a lot of money, money that had helped sway And as long as they started to work on making their cars more efficient making it look like they they wouldn't get in trouble. Plus they were pretty confident the new standard wouldn't last long. They were wrong, dead wrong. Average fuel economy per gallon in 1973 to 14 So, you know, baby steps. As long as another gas everything would be fine, right? But the eyes of the American public much like that scene when the guy's eyes are pried open and all of a sudden their crazy neighbors with those fuel efficient and Hondas didn't look so crazy. Speaking of Honda, they brought the Civic to the American market 1972, it was called the CVCC back then but pretty much everything that has always made the Civic a Civic, great little car, this thing had it. It was practical. It was well built. It was fun to drive and affordable in the thousands of Americans driving cars like this, and they liked it. They weren't the big of V8 torque that they were used to but they had their own unique charm. They were nimble, zippy, and fun to drive in a different way. They were also much better on gas. Now that's not to say didn't build any cars to and the Volkswagens that were They'd rolled out their versions of these compact fuel with amazing automobiles the Chevy Vega and the AMC Gremlin, they were just kind of really crappy. The Ford Pinto was infamous for exploding in rear-end collisions, which is obviously not The Chevy Vega's engine and was plagued with Well, it did have a denim To oversimplify it, besides denim, the engineering just with the foreign competition. So the cars the American to ward off the rising ended up making the import So if, for example, Ford or if it just didn't explode so much, American roadways might Now we're gonna jump to 1979. (upbeat music) The phrase gas crisis has OPEC sourced oil is used around the globe and it's pretty cheap. Everything's good. Cars are generally getting better thanks to the widespread adoption of newer tech like fuel injection. American companies are but with gas prices cheap again, there wasn't a serious like there was in 1973, and they'd settled back V8 comfort zone. And then something happened to reignite that butt fire, revolution in Iran. oil production plummeted, crude oil prices more than doubled, Americans were back to honking, back to yelling and gas lines. They were fighting in the streets. - And I'm out of gas. Dead out. - This second oil crisis as the first, but it was a big (bleep) just got real moment They were still taking week was a long time away and to get a handle on the CAFE standards. This smaller crisis woke them up. Suddenly everybody was with something that could deliver a comfy powerful American car experience that was also good on gas This was their time to shine as in punch themselves in and give themselves a shiner which is what your grandpa All right, let me give you an example. GM thought that maybe they get better fuel economy but money actually developing from the ground up. So they basically converted into a diesel and called it a day. The result was probably the but when it came out, the American public they were excited. Here is an Oldsmobile '88, a traditional full size American stand. And it got 30 miles to the gallon? Sure they we were slow as hell, but guys, they were big, comfy. - 0 It's like sitting in our living room. - And American. So they sold much better Then they started failing It was such a huge problem say the diesel V8 is GM getting rid of Oldsmobile in 2004. Back in Detroit, 1979, the Cadillac guys heard And they were like, hold my steak. They whipped up a V8 that into a fuel sipping four A four cylinder dragging of dead weight around in the engine block. Now as you can imagine that didn't work super great lots of modern cars use to increase gas mileage, of 40 years of engineering Now it's hard to be ahead of your time. Believe me, I know. Fast forward to now, the American cars of than they were in the 1970s. In fact, they're generally but it pretty much took the big three the whole 80s and a good chunk of and 90s and a lot of 2000s to And in the meantime, already had their game an increasingly large chunk And it's still going on today. Just last year in 2021, Toyota became the number one Now there is no way that if not for the gas crisis. Like I said, it changed cars forever. Thank you guys so much of &quot;Up To Speed&quot; and If you like it, let me know, hit that like button, also hit the subscribe button Get yourself some Donut merch. I'm really excited about dropping a new item every week. Go to donutmedia.com to get in on that. I love you.