So, the title of this video might be a bit disasters and a lot of deaths in the Dead Of course, the most famous of these is the and the USG Ishimura, which is where both the first Dead Space game The point of this video is to count every I'll be updating as we follow the events While that may sound simple enough, the story spin-offs, and even an online ARG, ALL of And, yes, this includes the puzzle game from Luckily for us, the Aegis VII incident is and the Dead Space remake manages to stay So, with our death counter set to 0, let's First, let's cover a bit of background. A few hundred years into the future, a company or the CEC, runs its business by mining the Following the invention of faster-than-light developed a handful of deep space vehicles These massive ships were designed to help that have long since been depleted from Earth. Nearly forty celestial bodies across the universe process, with 34 of these being done by the as the USG Ishimura. Around the turn of the 26th century, the CEC of its planets seems to be especially rich However, the Earth's unified government, this a restricted region over 200 years ago Being the morally-gray corporation that they order, and around June of 2506, they set up to get away with one of the biggest hauls And now, with all that out of the way, we so now we just need a rough estimate of the use a bit of math to figure out. To support a mining operation of this size, vehicle bays, medical labs, and of course, In the dead space prequel comics, published release, we see that the living quarters are divided and a 2-dimensional array of labeled rows. Throughout the story, we're given 5 different If we convert all letters to serial numbers, a rough estimate of each parameter's max can guess they had about 26,000 apartments. Most examples are shown to house a single married couple can live in one apartment. To keep things simple, let's just bump this is equal to about half of 2022's olympic of 2022's largest furry convention. Over the next two-and-a-half years, the colony's smoothly. They only recorded 3 work-related deaths, begins to cause some unusual tremors around 30 meters. Whatever it is, it's just up ahead. Any idea what "it" is? Not a clue. Protocol says we are required to check it This is Jennifer Barrow, a geologist, surveyor, There's something strange about these walls. There's evidence of chemical weathering. I'm gonna radio the colony. Somebody's been messing around out here. Jen, you're gonna wanna look at this. Barrow, this is Cortez in P-Sec. Is that... Can that possibly be what I think it is? And here is Vera Cortez, currently working basically the police force of the mining colony. This seemingly alien artifact is catching in the year 2214, a nearly identical object by a geophysicist named Michael Altman. The origin and purpose of this marker were it held deeper truths about human evolution, This, in addition to the prophetic visions founding of "Unitology," a religion that believed the marker would bring an age where For reasons unknown to the public, Michael shortly after the marker's discovery, and destroyed. Altman's mysterious death led to him becoming since the Black Marker never resurfaced from hope for the day that a marker would be discovered This is Aegis Colony. Artifact discovered. Could be a second Marker, please advise. Unitologist Church has been notified. They're awaiting specs. My God, we found it. Launch of Ishimura on schedule. Arrival on station, one month. Prepare the Artifact for transfer to the ship. Altman be praised. The news of this discovery quickly spreads a mixture of confusion, curiosity, skepticism, For 200 years, Unitology has sought the truth. When Michael Altman spread his word, few people Now, finally we have proof that we have been Here on this very planet, we found another Yeah I thought the marker was supposed to Neumann. I'm just saying, this guy's a.... What, a priest or something? Deakin Abbott, VTM engineer, first class, Who are you? Neumann, P-Sec. Abraham Neumann, also known as "Bram", He's another member of planetside security happens to be a Unitologist herself. Neumann has a bit of a distaste for her beliefs, divorce with his ex-wife. You can't hide the truth, Mr. Neumann. That's what they tried to do when they killed But we're still here. Ah, don't be stupid. Bram, that's enough. Oh, come on, this is the last straw, you can't We already conquered heaven, and guess what? God wasn't home. Your god, perhaps. Our god is very much in residence. Lot of it going around, how long you been Since day one, why? I've seen this before. Say hello to Dr. Tom Sciarello, chief medical For the past two and a half years you guys Done all the excavation prep. Yeah, so? And then the Ishimura shockpoints in at the to make anyone depressed, really. I ain't depressed, I just can't sleep. This patient, named Brant Harris, is suffering since the marker's discovery. Try to keep the names of Harris and Dr. Sciarello Sure, sure. Look, all I can do is prescribe you some sedative That's 20 cases in three days, have you Something damn strange is going on around In the month leading up to the Ishimura's even violent assault began to skyrocket. Some would brush it off as a coincidence, by the marker's discovery. You know what I think? I think the thing is cursed. I mean look what's happened since they found I don't remember you getting paid to think, Ok, while Jackson doesn't end up being significant, to the story. His name might sound familiar, since the new Colin's wife. Try to remember these two characters as well Now, about 3 weeks after the red marker's Assault in progress in surgery one, west sector Repeat... Neumann and Cortez responding. Oh, thank God. Hurry, he's got a line cutter. P-Sec! Drop the cutter. This quack tried to con me. He said the pills would make me sleep, but Every night I lie there and these things... These things I think about... I don't want to, but I can't stop it. Hey, Hey! Listen to me. You're stressed out, I know, but this is Just give me the cutter and let's talk about No, you're lying! Neuman dodges the plasma bolt and Harris is realizes that Harris wasn't aiming for them Katie! Katie was my assistant for 5 years. She was devoted to her job, but that devotion Katie saved my life. If she hadn't called P-Sec I'd be lying I'd gladly make that exchange and I- I know you would, Tom. Katie? But there are more important things you have No... No, this isn't real. Tom, are you alright? Sorry folks, Tom's not feeling too good. Thanks for coming. Determined to get to the bottom of the whole him to the marker's dig site, where he'll causing the colony's hallucinations and But, once they arrive, Neumann is surprised Abbott, since she was supposedly taking a Cortez!? Abbott said I should come here, instead. You're supposed to be laid up sick! Is there a problem here? No, Carl, my partner just hasn't seen the Seen the light? You're coming back with me Cortez, I'm No! Hey! You guys! You're supposed to be guarding this thing! Give me some backup here! You're disturbing the prayer group, you What? It's these idiots who should leave. Ugh, what just happened? I don't know, but I don't want to be around Neumann is escorted out, but the encounter information he needed. Not a thing. Alpha, beta, gamma, blackband, shockpoint, As far as science is concerned, it's just I've worked with Cortez on 3 colonies. I'm telling you, that just wasn't her. And the miners? Whether you can detect it or not, that rock This can't go on... Hey, Bram, have you seen this? Marla Janssen, a talented systems analyst her own approach to unraveling the marker's Look at these symbols. Do you think they're carved into it? It's like they're glowing. A lot of the symbols are repeated like it's This is incredible. I mean, it looks like there are similarities *chuckles* What? Sorry, I know this stuff gets you hot, but, black marker for centuries, and they've So they say. A fresh perspective might be all it needs... A few days later, local day 916, the same prayer group kills someone over a dispute Things are becoming increasingly clear to so he brings the issue directly to the colony Let me get this straight. This operation has already cost hundreds of Aegis VII has trillions worth of saleable But now, less than three weeks from planet of miners died? I'll be very clear, commander. Not a chance. In four days' time, the artifact will be When the ship arrives, it will be transferred You're bringing it into the colony? Are you Blind? Good-bye, gentleman. Thanks for your input. Within the next few days, the USG Ishimura to shockpoint to Aegis VII, and on day 920, Sam? Honey, can you hear me? That's better. Sorry, Lexine, I was next to the recharging I'm mad at you, Sam Caldwell. Why? Because you somehow forgot to tell me what You're extracting a marker! This is a big deal! We don't know if it's a marker or just That's why we're doing this. Sam Caldwell, if you had an imagination you'd We'll see about that tonight. Oh, I look forward to it. Gotta go, honey. I love you. I love you too. Later. Now we finally get to see the events of Dead my favorite gags in the whole series. Sam, come on! Get suited up quick, or the only date you'll Ahhh, that wasn't the player character, This trio of engineers, named Egan, Sterling, into the colony for extraction by the Ishimura, Get suited up quick, or the only date you'll Say no more. Lexine's already mad at me, she'd kill Well, everyone else is standing by. All we're waiting on is you, so don't working tonight. I actually really like this game, even if didn't sound that interesting at first. Just one thing to note is that for hostile the torso or using weapons like the flamethrower, compared to the intended limb-based combat. You seen that vidlog of the Marker that's Looks just like the one back on Earth. Just like the one the Unitologists claim is I mean, come on. What are the odds? And there it is. Huh, it's bigger than I imagined. About time. Give Banks a hand fixing up the track and All three of us? Damn straight. If this thing gets so much as scratched Chief Before the marker is moved, your team has those assigned to guard the marker. But, after Sam Caldwell bolts everything down whispering. Her Grandfather manages the shuttle convoy wing cafeteria. Gauthier is actually a character from the Jane Gauthier was a colonist whose fingers but her story isn't that important, and by those who come into contact with the marker. Meanwhile, another Unitologist crowd forms Bram, you might want to get down to Union Abbot's holding one of his sermons. Right now, the foreman and his team are about A glorious day! And we all know what it can do. What awaits us. Because it's told us. We won't be here, but we'll be waiting. Cortez! For the last time, please, just go home. Stand by. I'm starting a 5-down. Now, prepare yourselves! No... Vera, No! Don't worry Bram... See you soon. Fifty vital monitors cratered at once! Bram, talk to me. Oh, she's dead. She's dead, Marla... Sterling to Central. I'm outside - can you tell me what that The flash must have knocked out comms, too. The marker violently reacts to being removed Communications, life support, and several are now either damaged or knocked out entirely. The colony's gravity tethers are meant to to the Ishimura, but in their current state, black hole and wiping out all of Aegis VII. Egan, Sterling, and Caldwell rush inside to that the nightmare has only just begun. Sounds like someone's in trouble. Hold on! Wait a second, we don't know what's going Zochenko! What in God's name are you doing? Get off him! Zochenko, stop! I'll... I'll shoot you! You know these rivet guns pack a punch! Sterling! Oh, man. I can't... I can't believe this... Sam, get that Rock Saw - we may need it. The crew pushes onward to the gravity tether calling for help, leaving Egan and Caldwell It's death, Sam... Can't you see it? It needs our help... Egan, what the hell are you talking about... Get a grip. But, Zochenko... We killed him! I know! But you saw what happened in there! It's - it's like it wasn't really him! This part is really tricky for counting deaths. Several more crazed miners attack Caldwell, and we can't be sure exactly what is real the chaos dies down. You don't understand. It's not right! We have to end it! Egan, stop, what are you doing? You can't stop it! You can't fight it! Don't - don't make me shoot you! Egan, please! Oh, God, Egan. I'm sorry... I was just trying to help... It needs our help, Sam... With no time to process what just happened, fights off anyone in his way, and manages Sam! Are you OK? Lexine! God, it's good to hear you. Things are pretty bad right now. No, I mean did you hear? Some Unitologists just killed themselves in There are pictures, It's horrible. People are flipping out all over the colony. We've been attacked, and Egan went crazy... I killed him, Lex! I'm scared... Somebody just told me some sectors are losing Hold on, that could be from the blast... Just hold tight, baby. I'll fix it, I promise. One more round of crazed miners and life-saving back to the colony and make sure his girlfriend The air's cycling again. When are you getting back? I'm on my way, baby, don't worry. Just stay out of sight, okay? Be careful! I love you. Why did you let me go alone, Sam? Why? Hello? Who's there? Death... is You'll see.. We can't... stop it... Sterling? Oh God, I thought you were... I've got to get out of here. Back to Lexine... We're all going to die down here. We're not going to die! No... No! Leave me alone! I have to get to Lexine, do you hear me? She needs my help! No... Lexine... Help me... What? You're... you're not... Hostile is down, repeat, hostile is down! Good shot, sir. Shooting one of your own is never good. He's not even packing a gun. You're kidding me. This is the guy who slaughtered his entire Why'd you do it, son? All these people never did anything to hurt L-Lex... The total death toll of extraction day is 48 of these were from the Unitologists in self-inflicted in the following hours. Of the remaining 11 deaths, Sam Caldwell is Egan, Sterling, and 4 that can be seen from Another 4 can be seen in the Ishimura's incident to Caldwell himself, shot dead by a detective These numbers seem to work out really well that was, since that would mean almost every than a hallucination. He's gone. Call Commander James, and get Doc Sciarello He's going to have a busy day. Sam... I love you. Where are the bodies now? Apparently we have a morgue. I assume they're in there. "Assume" isn't good enough. I want those people on ice. They must be in top condition when we arrive. You really think the condition makes any difference? Better safe than sorry. All Recumbents with the church are treated I know. Don't worry, captain, you'll get your I'd better. Our future is riding on this, Mr. Carthusia. Don't let us down. Back in P-Sec headquarters, Neumann discovers since the marker was extracted and prepared But, soon, he's called in for a new issue. An undefined, fleshy growth has appeared in that it moves when touched. Despite all of these developments, Carthusia is retrieved by the Ishimura later that day. One really small, but important point to make notably including the one that killed Dr. to the Ishimura to be detained somewhere around The marker is on its way to you now, captain. A second shuttle is carrying all murder victims. And the suixides? They're on a third shuttle. The crew are set, just waiting for me to get Join us? That's not possible. You are to stay on the colony. What!? But, Captain, I've given you everything I demand to be a part of this! You don't demand anything. Your colony is out of control, and I won't Once the bodies are on board, I'm issuing That's outrageous! It's my decision, and I am in control of Then if you want those suixide bodies, captain, get them yourself. Carthusia out. And that's exactly what the captain does. Detective Nathan McNeil. Well I'll be damned. Gabe Weller. When I requested help from the Ishimura, I Since the player character from Dead Space: introduces a pair of new protagonists: Gabe Weller, a member of the Ishimura's leftover bodies, and Nathan McNeil, the P-Sec It's been a long time, Nate. It's good to see you. You know, it's been hell down here. Some extra hands will come in useful. Sorry, no cop duty. We have an errand. An errand? Gabe, we've got assaults, murder... Almost sixty dead and dozens injured. Nobody here's seen anything like it. We just can't cope. Cope? Wasn't it you who pulled me out of a three-way in to plant limpets? And now some crazy miners have got you losing It's not that simple. So what is this errand, anyway? On the morning of local day 925, the same Mathias sends a 4-man crew to retrieve the own shuttles. Officers Baines and Hutchins stay behind to Private Karklins make their way to the morgue, directions and drop off Sam Caldwell's rivet Meanwhile, Neumann, Janssen, and Dr. Sciarello the marker start writing in the same code Janssen in particular tries using this to I think I know what the marker is. Yeah, I'm thrilled. Come on. Planet Crack's in less than an hour. We should go. Bram, Listen. It's some kind of code, like an instruction Instructions for what? It has to do with DNA, I think. I'm still working on the specifics. If we're gonna make the OB, we have to leave You coming, or not? Marla! Damn it... Control, this is glider one, we have confirmed All units standing by. Alright, Mr. White. Pop the cork. Roger that, control. Planet crack initiated, 1200 local standard We are go. Repeat, we are go. Planet crack goes smoothly at first, but something hiding beneath the planet's surface. So you're the rookie, huh? McCabe to McNeil. Nate, you there? McNeil here. What's up? Multiple assaults in the mess hall in your Sounds like a riot down there. Told you things were crazy down here. You sure this is the right morgue? We only have one. I was here just yesterday, it was a full house. Not anymore. I'll need to see a manifest. The Captain won't like this. Sir, there's a toe tag here... Abbott, D. Ring any bells, McNeil? Hold on, I'll pull him up. He's on file, but there's no record of He should be right here. You! What are you doing here!? Get out! Doc? Are you alright? He's lost it, help! With the colony's dementia ramping up more we see on the day of planet crack. That look in his eyes... Reminded me of a kid that went crazy last Just an engineer, but something in him snapped... And, just like when the marker was extracted, plunging the entire colony into darkness. Bram, It's Marla. You there? Yeah, they just finish- Monitors down! Marla? Marla, come in! The hell? Is that normal? Not really, no... Hold on, I've got a glow worm. Whatever it was must have knocked out the Great, no lights, no elevators, no bodies. Sir? What's going on? Keep it together, private. Sgt. Weller to Ishimura. Come in, Ishimura. Dammit. We can get up through the Medical Hall instead. Let's go. Where the hell are the backup generators? Ah! Katie... There's no time, Tom. I tried to warn you. Now it's too late. At this point, a lot happens all at once. Neumann manages to meet up with Janssen, but 6 crazed miners, and the growths found in the tunnels have lashing out and killing the 2 colonists tasked This adds another 8 to the death toll, but exact number of victims. Sounds like your rookie's losing it. Yeah. Reckon whatever's gotten to everyone else Shouldn't you take his firearm? Tch. If he cracks, I'll deal with it. The day I can't put down a rookie is the He sucker-punched me. Can't believe Karklins did that. With the rookie dead, McNeil and Weller are to escape the other colonists. At the same time, colony manager Cathusia morgue. So undignified. I'm so sorry you couldn't join the others. I don't know if there'll be another chance. With a little luck, we might... Ah, at last. Carthusia to the Ishimura. Ishimura, can you hear me? Damn it all to hell... This is Jones, open call to all P-Sec officers! Listen up! Body shots don't put these things down! Aim for the limbs, take out the joints to What "things"? What's he talking about? Don't know. He can't mean the colonists. Is there something else in here? Either that, or he's flipped like everyone Dr. Tom? It's John Welland. Do you hear me, Tom, are you there? I'm here. What in God's name is going on? Hell if I know, but we've got mass panic Say what? More murders? People are dying here, but I don't know What the hell? Hold on, John. Huh? Nobody here? So who... I don't... I can't believe this, I- Don't touch them! You're right, I should call the M.E. No, I mean we have to get out of here right You remember I said the carvings were some DNA doesn't just get up and go walk about It does if it's recombinant, a DNA that a cancer, or a virus. But it only spreads through a specific target What? Speak English, for God's sake! Necrotic flesh, Bram! It infects dead bodies! Altman be praised. I think now's a good time to explain what's A restricted log in Dead Space describes how from the Black Marker research project, and he was later killed to stop his public Before his death, Altman himself managed to the Gulf of Mexico, but some of his work was recovered by the was known as the Sovereign Colonies. They believed that with Altman's research, energy production or warfare, but to keep a level of secrecy, they created known as Aspera, Kreemar, and Aegis VII. By the year 2299, all three locations managed to the original outside of their red hue. The scientists on Aegis VII eventually noticed DNA instructions, which they used to create While it appeared dormant at first, the microbes it came into contact with. This included stray dead skin cells in the the station's air vents slowly filled up with the transport tunnels, which would later become This log also kind of makes it sound like and dementia rather than the marker itself. In some kind of unexplained accident, 2 scientists transforming into what we now know as necromorphs. The infection contorts the muscles, bone, weapons meant to stab, slash, and tear through This outbreak quickly overtakes Aegis VII, around the marker known as the "dead space." The explanation for this field has sort of to understand is that all recombinator cells One of the few remaining scientists has a dead space, which the Aegis VII research crew After the completion of this transmitter in dies down, and the remaining crew are assumed 15 years later, the Sovereign Colonies realize in a similar manner, and in order to bury survivors of Aegis VII are all executed as The Sovereign Colonies are then dissolved, the Aegis system as restricted space. Within the next 200 years, all of the dead massive life form known as the hive mind, which has the power to telepathically control by the marker and its pedestal. This is why the colony later moving the Red in the tunnels and vents, but it wasn't mind was revealed beneath the surface. Now, history repeats itself as a recombinator What makes you think anyone will come to the It's chaos! Because that's where people will expect Where people will come when they're injured! You're right... But if we get too many in here, we- What the hell? Now what? The bodies! Where the hell are they? Nevermind... Everybody wash up and get some gloves on. From what we've seen so far, it's going What was that? Don't tell me we've got a leak, too. Oh... Oh, no. Back on the Ishimura, communication systems to catch small glimpses of what's attacking Within minutes, more than half of the population showing a sample of 48 colonists, 34 of which If this sample is applied to the total population, to the death toll. Over in P-Sec headquarters, McNeil and Weller all while still unaware of the necromorph Weller, look out! So aliens do exist. And they're trying to kill us. Isn't life dandy... I love these guys. Anyways, after fighting off more necromorphs to find one survivor. Thanks for the help! Who the hell are you? Easy, Weller, she's not P-Sec. I'm McNeil. What's your name? L-Lexine... Lexine Murdoch. Well, Lexine. You're a lucky girl. Lucky!? My boyfriend was killed last week. My Father's gone missing, and now this? Wait a second... I recognize you. You're Sam Caldwell's emergency contact. What are you doing here? My father's missing. He disappeared at the same time all those I came to see if there was any news, but then things came in and started killing everyone. Ishimura! The colony is under attack from unknown hostiles! Orbital comes must have gone down with the We're on our own. Wait... You're from the ship? You must have a shuttle, right? She's right. Baines and Hutchins will be waiting for us. Come on, McNeil. Wait... What about me? You should come with us, right, Sergeant? She's your responsibility. Fine, let's go. This next part is another one that's a little also happens in P-Sec Headquarters, so let's the building. Neumann and Janssen witness an officer's type of necromorph that can inject a sort transformation, which usually creates the Neumann and Janssen narrowly escape, and much the shuttle bay is their best hope. At this point, another half of the remaining and all remaining notable characters are heading All of them except for Colin and Jennifer Luckily for Colin, he currently has access crack, but with communications down, he has surface. It's a ghost town in here. Where the hell is everybody? I'm gonna check on Jen. Catch you later. Jen? Where are you? These symbols are the same as- Honey, what are you doing? No! Shuttle bay's just down the hall! Go on! With both Neumann and McNeil's groups narrowly is right within their reach, and Colin Barrow Refusing to accept his wife's death, he shuttle. Hold on Baby! We're going home. This is the Unitologists' fault, isn't Why couldn't they leave things alone!? I'm not sure it would have made any difference. But all the people that have died! What if we're the only ones who... Made it.... I remember this area. The Shuttle Bay's just off the square, right? That's right. Good. Baines! Hutchins! Give me a sitrep! In the shuttle and standing by, Sarge. It's bloody chaos down here, though. I had to break a few noses to stop people Everyone's looking for a way out. Wait! One, Two... There's only five shuttles here! One must have left already! Then I guess there is a chance. Everybody with me! Stay close! How long until we reach the Ishimura? We've got some injured back there. Buddy, with this payload, we'll be lucky Look! There's one taking off now! There's a sight for sore eyes. Wait, something's wrong... It's no good, we're carrying too many I'm taking her back down! What? No! Turn around! Get us to the ship! I can't! Then I will. What the hell are you doing! Let go! She's going to crash! Get down! This is Sergeant Bram Neumann. P-Sec evacuation report: The shuttle's gone. Took off, and then crashed right back down Took a whole crowd with it. Must be a hundred people dead. We've lost the rest of the shuttles - God Anyone hearing this, do not land. I repeat, do not land on Aegis VII! They left us to die. At this point, the death toll includes over around 100 survivors left. 50 of which would be on the shuttle that made be those who survived the crash or are hiding Although, there is still one character that currently approaching the Ishimura on his Shuttle seven, this is the Ishimura. You are ordered to return to the surface immediately. Do you read me? You cannot land onboard the Ishimura, over. Landing, crashing, or shot down, pick one! But there's no way in hell we're going Colin Barrow is now the 4th person we see But, as he'll soon find out, an infector Barrow's body is now the perfect target While Colin probably doesn't last very long for surviving Aegis VII specifically, so he Back on the surface, only a handful of colonists Bram... Here. What the hell happened? No idea, but that was every last shuttle we You said you'd get us out of here! You said we'd be safe! Hey, hey! I'm sorry, kid, I really thought we could Maybe we still can. We just need to call the ship. How? Comms have been down since planet crack, remember? So we go to the source. If I can transmit directly through the needle the Ishimura. You don't seriously think that's going No, but I'm not going to sit on my ass and Coming? Right outside of the shuttle port, McNeil's find our final notable character. Wait! Lucky man. What's your name? Warren. Warren Eckhardt. You're lucky to even be alive after that. The shuttles- They're all gone. We're stuck here. Not necessarily. There's a surveying shuttle in the sector You sure? Qutie sure. I hitched a ride on it yesterday, from the You're from the ship? What are you doing here? CEC business. And none of yours, Sergeant. Who cares? Let's just find the shuttle and go. Now every notable survivor has a set goal Neuman and Janssen aim to contact the Ishimura group makes their way through the underground the planet. Sarge? This is Baines. Are you there? Baines! Jesus, I thought I'd lost you. If we hadn't been inside the shuttle, we'd It's a wreck, though. We won't be flying anywhere in it. Where are you? We're in a megavent, heading to the sector There's a shuttle we can use, but we sealed Can you find another route? We'll do our best, sarge. See you there. With no other route, the group is forced to in the lead, all 4 characters arrive safely There's your men. Baines, this is Weller. We're right behind you. I see you, Sarge. Hit a spot of bother when we got here! Sir, the shuttle's locked. We can't get inside! My access code will open it. Then let's go for it. Everybody ready to run? We'll meet you halfway! I'll take point. Eckhardt, stay close. Go! Oh, and, just as a quick check-in, you didn't What the hell is that? Eckhardt, with me! Run! Everybody get inside! Now! Eckhardt, hurry! Don't just stand there, sergeant, come on! Good work, soldier. This is bigger than we thought. Relax, it's dead. Eckhardt, get up here and second me. I can fly, but I don't know survey craft. Thank you, Nate. Without you, we wouldn't have got this far. Don't mention it. What was that? It's not dead! Go, get her up! Close that damn door! Hold on to something! USG Ishimura to all shuttles. You are violating a direct no-fly order. Return to planetside immediately. This is shuttle C-S-Oh-Four. The colony's overrun! We can't go back! I repeat, clearance to land is denied. Any approach will be considered hostile. Hostile? Is he insane? No! Oh, my God... It's coming right at us! Hold on to something! Main thrusters are fried! We're gonna die... I've landed in worse shape than this. McNeil, intercept that cannon fire! Brace yourselves! We're too fast, brace! All 4 members survive the crash. Using the 4 suits left on the shuttle, Nathan Eckhardt all manage to enter the Ishimura's escaping the outbreak on Aegis VII. Come on, let's get you inside. Thank you for not leaving me. You're not like Weller. Heh, amen to that. Now, only 2 known survivors are left on the You sure it's this way? Seems a little off the beaten track. It's unmanned. Only engineers come out here. Wait... that door... It should be locked. Then maybe someone got here before us. Or something. Jesus, look at this stuff. What is it? Does this stuff grow outside, too? Because if it's growing over the needle, Let's just find a terminal so you can do This is where the power router should be. Oh... Is that... Cortez!? Oh, no... Bram, we have to go, this is no good. Vera... Bram, snap out of it! Abort, dammit, abort! Marla! Bram! Ah! Marla!!! Oh, Marla. Oh... ...And that's the whole story. They say there are no atheists in foxholes, like the other way around. I'm gonna leave this recording. Who knows? You might see something that convinces you. Don't come looking for me. You may not like what you find. The total estimated death toll on Aegis VII 8 characters were added to the population by the 8 people that managed to escape. As for what happens next on the Ishimura, this video. This is already the longest video I've ever have been over a month since my last upload. I super appreciate you sticking around to the channel, then all the algorithm-supporting be a huge help. And, again, thank you so much for watching,