Alpha Centauri Secrets: Is it anything like In our galaxy, exist billions of stars that relatively close to our solar system. However, system. linked stars, and in the future, it will undoubtedly when I manage to leave the solar system, but... without colliding, and what similarities does also have rocky and gaseous planets like the Join us to find out! Despite Alpha Centauri is the closest star to visit this place for at least this century enormous distances in a human lifetime. spacecraft created by humanity that have gone of the solar system traveling at a speed of per hour, but although This speed is surprising probes would take tens of thousands of years So if you were considering visiting this star That will not be possible now. our most powerful telescopes. Thanks to this, we now know that this place is very different Location Earth, the Alpha Centauri star system is moving Sun moves around the galaxy. around the galactic center is estimated to miles per hour). Both stars and other stars 200-250 million years to complete one orbit It is important to note that the orbital motion but a motion in an elliptical orbit. Also, due to gravitational interactions with other Due to these speed differences, it is expected system and the Sun will be much closer, shortening years. technology by then, travel times between the Origin to the Sun and Alpha Centauri are unknown. both systems arose from a giant molecular galaxy, the Milky Way. the gravitational contraction of a cloud of matter accumulates in its central core, forming form simultaneously or in sequence. in age, both are estimated to have formed estimate is based on measurements and analysis activity, and other factors. However, it is stellar ages can be challenging, and the calculations with more powerful telescopes such as the Furthermore, it is interesting to note that in different parts of the same giant molecular they could have experienced slightly different influence their characteristics and currently luminosity, and chemical composition. Although it was previously believed that Alpha it is a system of 3 gravitationally anchored In this type of system, there is always a having a greater mass and, therefore, a greater is the one that owns the domain of the system; The other less massive stars in the system planets, but sometimes the two most massive the central star's mass is not enough to make happens is that the two most massive stars mass. The largest and most massive star in the system and mass is Alpha Centauri B; these two stars every 80 years. At the orbit's farthest point, away, while the closest distance between them These two stars orbit so close to each other eye. It is only possible to see them separately Alpha Centauri A in the system and shares some remarkable similarities Regarding its similarity to the Sun, Alpha which means that it is a main sequence star mass and chemical composition, although Alpha than the Sun. Sun and a mass about 1.1 times the mass of more extensive and more massive than our Sun, of the Sun we would see a slightly larger eclipses since all eclipses would be annular to cover the entire solar disk. brighter than the Sun. Its luminosity is about more energy and light than our Sun. Also, similar, hovering around 5,500 degrees Celsius also contributes to its brightness and Sun-like Regarding the existence of exoplanets around the presence of planets in its system has have been conducted to look for signs of exoplanets and radial velocity measurements. Although continue to investigate and conduct more precise around Alpha Centauri A. that if there were a planet similar to Earth further from its star than Earth is from the significant, brighter, and hotter; a planet hot to support liquid water. to our channel if you haven't already ... you don't miss out on our daily videos! ( video bell of Insane Curiosity) As for the similarity to the Sun, Alpha Centauri an orange dwarf. This classification indicates and chemical composition to the Sun. However, size and mass. Alpha Centauri B is about 90% in diameter. slightly less luminous than the Sun. Its luminosity This difference in luminosity is due in part The temperature of Alpha Centauri B, an orange Sun. While the Sun's surface temperature is Fahrenheit), the surface temperature of Alpha degrees Celsius (9,572 degrees Fahrenheit). environment, until now, no conclusive evidence B has been found. However, research and studies system. Some observations have suggested the but no definitive detection has yet been confirmed. B and the Sun, in addition to the differences there is one crucial age-related difference. is estimated to be about 6.5 billion years Sun. This means that Alpha Centauri B formed evolution. B is older than the Sun, Alpha Centauri A have been born 2 billion years before ours. the Sun and is also slightly cooler, its habitable zone of the Sun. This means that if this star be much closer than Earth is to the Sun. Before me move on to the exploration of Alpha if you havent' seen our earlier release on Alpha Centauri C / Proxima Centauri B, the third star in the system is Alpha Centauri is the most minor star in the system and the The reason Alpha Centauri C, is also known star to the solar system. This star is at Regarding the similarity with the Sun, Proxima It is a star of spectral type M5.5V, which Proxima Centauri is much smaller, with a diameter of about 1/8 the solar mass. It is also much that of the Sun. provide light to exoplanets near it. is considerably colder than the Sun, with Celsius (5,432 degrees Fahrenheit) compared degrees Fahrenheit). Proxima Centauri emits meaning it does not emit as much visible light Regarding exoplanets around Proxima Centauri, known as Proxima b. This planet is a super-Earth Centauri, which means it could have the right Proxima B is an exciting candidate in the our solar system, and we have already made of this world; we invite you to see it. of the videos about Proxima Centauri.&quot; and the Sun, in addition to the differences mentioned above, there is a notable difference to be a very active star with frequent and can release large amounts of energy and radiation, planets and their potential habitability. Centauri A and B at a distance of 13,000 Astronomical years to orbit Alpha Centauri A and B. Yes! complete one orbit around the other two stars. up the Alpha Centauri system, the one most shares physical and chemical characteristics have not found a single exoplanet orbiting While Proxima Centauri is the most different the closest to our solar system and the only have been found. in Alpha Centauri A and B? We do not know being developed that could give us that answer: This consists of a space telescope mounted and private institutions, which aims to deeply of habitable exoplanets. There may be life on Proxima Centauri B! Proxima-b is an exoplanet very similar in zone of the star Proxima Centauri, the closest recently discovered that it has very favorable on this exoplanet? Let's start our journey to the Alpha Centauri other; the largest is Alpha Centauri A, a than the Sun. It is classified as a yellow by astronomers, Alpha Centauri A has 10% more 23% larger. Alpha Centauri B, a very similar star but are gravitationally linked and are separated terms, it is a very small distance; consider the farthest planet in our solar system, is B could fit within our solar system without Because of how close both stars are, astrophysicists were born at the same time and have always Then we have the third star of the Alpha Centauri this star bears that name because it is the years from our solar system and is getting in about 27,000 years Proxima Centauri will that while it is still a considerable distance the distance it is currently at. B, is the most distant star in the system, away from its two stellar companions. stars is so eccentric that it closely resembles even at its closest point, every half a million at a maximum distance of 4300 astronomical Due to the nature of the Alpha Centauri system, that in the remote past, many billions of Proxima Centauri as it passed close to the the system. The star Proxima Centauri has some planets is the one that steals the limelight from using the radial velocity method, where periodic host star, Proxima Centauri, indicated that were made using two spectrographs, the HARPS Large 8-meter Telescope. of Astrophysics of the Canary Islands (IAC) Astrobiology (CAB) participated, confirmed they also discovered that it has 1.17 times habitable zone of its host star, plus it orbits Because of this, Proxima B is located extremely units from Proxima Centauri, so you can get astronomical units from the sun. with an infernal climate like Mercury or Venus? case because the star that orbits Proxima Centauri. mass and a radius of only 15% of the solar temperature is 2725 deg C, which is less than Because of this, Proxima B receives only 60% the sun; in addition, the habitable zone of the star. As Proxima Centauri is much smaller so although Proxima B is exceptionally close habitable zone, one of the most important is highly likely that life can develop on PROBLEMS FOR LIFE requirements for hosting living things, many still missing. Proxima Centauri in just 11.2 days; because of certainty, that the axis of rotation of plane of its orbit (so there will be no stations) rotation or better known as tidal coupling, is gravitationally bound to another so firmly body, just as it happens to the Moon, which This means that it will always be daytime the other, there will be a perpetual night. of the planet will depend, to a large extent, (if it has one at all). Also, of its composition Proxima-b has physical characteristics similar what is called an eyeball planet. were limited, the hemisphere facing the star would have an accumulation of frozen water. twilight could enjoy optimal environmental amount of water were considerable (on the if the atmosphere exerted a surface pressure the primary constituent, we could be facing the region facing its star. planets in much more detail; we invite you PROXIMA B, AN OCEAN PLANET? a planet completely covered with liquid water the same amount of water, and an atmosphere with a more massive CO2 atmosphere, there So, the exoplanet would be an exovenus, that our false twin in the solar system, which, and being the closest, is the least suitable temperatures. B had an atmosphere, it could have a temperature not have an atmosphere like earth, it would in both cases, the temperatures are not so things could develop in those conditions. Planet, despite all the favorable conditions something that could destroy any hope of finding LIFE-DESTROYING SOLAR FLARES astrophysicists discovered that this star plasma and radiation that would sweep away these eruptions would not only sweep away any trace of life. these radiation eruptions if its atmosphere our planet. movement of the planet's core protects us the sun; if Proxima B has a magnetic field that helps it to have living beings. is difficult, if not impossible, to define Earth; the only way to find out will be when into operation, which will be the largest We have also already made a video about this All these are nothing more than conjectures are facing an exoplanet of terrestrial mass life; yes, a potentially habitable world, In any case, the term habitable must be a better definition for this type of exoplanet conditions, uninhabitable for us, but not What do you think? Do you think Proxima B living beings? this video.