The Buddha's Path: Awakening 57. What's Wrong in What's Right. put it, will someday have to break. This plate, break. But we have to teach our children to wash away safely. We have to teach children in line for a long time. This is a sign that we understand If you see that the bowl is going to break it. When you've finished eating out of it, it doesn't matter. It's not really for it's ready to break." If you speak If we understand conventions, then when we we feel hot, we take a bath. When we feel warm. When we're hungry, we find rice to the body's still going to die. But at the moment, It hasn't yet broken, so we take care of it 58. Feeding Through the Mouth. You don't have to teach a lot. People who are not they don't understand. But this depends we teach when we're in a bad mood. As when we with them that we "teach" them, and then it's just to teach them nicely. When people are in a I'd say not to teach at that time. Wait until the other person is, put it aside for the time Remember this, okay? From what I've only when they're angry with them. And so giving them something that's not good, your children suffer. That's the way things are. enough. If you try to give someone something good a sense of your role, nothing good comes from it with your mouth if you're going to benefit Will it give any benefit? Will that delicious openings. You have to look for the other person's 59. Potters Beating Pots. you need to have discernment. Have you pots all day. They beat them to make them into the same with your children. You have to keep with them, be fierce only with your mouth, suffer. Even though you may be in a in the same way that a potter beats his pots beautiful. He doesn't beat them to break them. 60. Forcing the Fruit. who can't yet do the practice. Just keep on they'll be ready to accept what you say. If you It's like a fruit that's still unripe. You can't unripe, still sour. It's still small and unripe. let it be. When it matures, it'll grow large on can think in this way, you can be at your ease. 61. The Turtle &amp; the Snake. and a turtle struggled to get away from the it forgot all about death. It felt sorry for the and the turtle felt sorry for the snake. so how was it going to get away? The turtle was so turned around to help the snake. The snake didn't the snake uncoiled itself and slithered It couldn't walk fast enough to get away This is a comparison. It was all because it thought that only if you had legs move. When it came across the snake, it saw that and thought that the fire would burn it to but instead it died. Even though it had kept its cool. When the fire got close, 62. The Cow Knows the Field. like a cow eating grass. If we it eats grass. If it won't eat grass, it's You don't have to teach them a lot. Just let Sangha--and they'll follow your example, practice 63. Barking at Leaves. put on your robes neatly before you go. Exercise and novices who don't know anything. When they all over the place. Why do they have to look than lay people. It's because they've been anything like this for a long while. When they and it pulls at their eyes. They look all around When it stays in the village market, take it out into the wilderness and the wind So this is important. You have to be 64. Dye in the Mind. which is water that's clear and clean. Its clarity dye into it, the water will turn green or yellow. a preoccupation it likes, it's at ease. When it it's ill at ease. It's like a leaf blown by Flowers and fruits also get blown by the breeze. tree, they never ripen. It's the same with blow them around, drag them around, pull them 65. Not Awfully Anything. placed right here in front of us. placed right here in front of us. Its weight It's normal for it. But if we go to lift it, it "This rock is awfully heavy!" That's how we anything. When it sits there, it's perfectly it doesn't cause anyone to suffer--as long It's the same with our preoccupations. When as long as we don't pick them up to carry them--as no heaviness. If you had no attachment to things, Even though the rock would have its weight, not carrying it. Your preoccupations, whether If you know them for what they are, you you don't latch onto them. They dissolve into 66. Playthings for the Mind. Suppose your child is always getting it won't stop. It won't stay still. So play with. It's content to stay engrossed in its Why? Because you give it something to play It's the same with the mind. When give it a meditation topic to play with. What recollection of the Dhamma, recollection recollection of generosity, recollection 67. The Balloon of Tranquility. Whatever else it's been playing with, it puts grows quiet. It plays as it likes with is quiet. This level of quiet is just the Its mind is all tied up in the balloon. But sees the balloon floating in the air and it's whether or not the balloon is going to burst. in the air and it's engrossed. This Vipassana or insight is a matter of that. You know what's going to eventually burst?--that sort of thing. balloon is inconstant. It's sure to burst. Tranquility doesn't have any discernment. and just keeps playing with it. When the it think? It doesn't have the discernment doesn't look into inconstancy, stress, and and it feels satisfied. Engrossed. This is With concentration, the mind is quiet, but the moment no defilements appear in the mind. a balloon for the time being. There's still air just there to make the child happy over made-up 68. The Balloon is Already Burst. playing with a balloon. You see "What's eventually going to happen sure. It's inconstant, stressful, and about it. Eventually it's sure to burst." This of discernment. It doesn't trust the balloon. sure. It sees clearly. Eventually the balloon Why is it at ease? Because insight has arisen, because it sees that the balloon is already burst. It bursts after it's burst It's the same with our body, or any We have to understand that I'll give you an example: a lovely cup or plate. glad. That's the way children are. People that it won't break. But people with when they get it and happiness arises, and a vessel that one day is going to have to doesn't break and leave us, we have to break the mind has gone to a high level. It's trying After a while, as we use the plate and it Why? Because we know that it's When this glass breaks, it's no 69. When You Know How. texts. Don't focus on what all the different It's like being a student in school. We study we study books in school. We read in school, we can pass the exams. We now can read and write. can read it at home. We don't have to carry it to we can read the letter anywhere and understand we can write it at home or at the side of the road It's the same with our practice. When we the precepts from monks, because we already we listen; we take them. They still 70. The One Mango. in this way. Tranquility is right in here; out. We can separate them in our speech, but we You can't separate it out. You can't separate one point in time it's sour, and then after go? It's turned into sweet. At first its peel Where did the green go? It's turned into the 71. The One Mango Explained. then it's half-ripe, then it's ripe. When it's When it comes out as a flower, it's this mango. it's the same mango. When it's half-ripe, it's the The same with virtue, concentration, and is abandoning evil. A person without he cools down, for he has no the reward of virtue. It makes the mind When the mind is concentrated, it's clear and like water with no ripples: If you look into face. You can see all the way to the roof above So these things are all the 72. The Mango in Harmony. discernment, and virtue all together they develop together. When your perfections reach When your discernment sees rightly, every If it's right only ten percent, then each of It's like a mango. When the fruit is ripe, that isn't ripe. It's ripe all together. When It doesn't separate into different parts. we don't understand anything and we So we're taught to train ourselves in virtue, concentration, and discernment all at the same and our discernment will be in harmony with one it's all unripe in harmony. When it's half-ripe, it's all ripe in harmony in just the 73. The Fluttering Mind. a leaf that flutters when stirred by a breeze. In is dark and then bright, back and forth. It's like his teeth. When he pries it out, he feels better. another piece stuck in his teeth. It hurts again. 74. The Snake under the Cloth. has other things mixed in with it. It's still but it's not aware of them. That's why it's still. are on has a poisonous snake living under it. I don't see the snake. But actually, there's a so I can relax, with no fear of anything. The don't know that there's a poisonous snake right there are defilements there? I feel peaceful without the defilements being still. It's called in the next step, the defilements will be 75. Healing the Wound. only for a little while. The stillness is the understanding more clearly than you did The stillness of tranquility is like running no noise. If you have lots of children, you children. When you don't see your children But that kind of stillness is like having a wound, until it looks like it's healed. But actually infection flares up, you cut it open, stitch it over. But there's still infection inside. With insight, you have to remove all the infected Don't stitch it up. Wait until it's free from of medicine so that it heals from the inside to The inside is already good, so it won't get 76. The Stillness of Insight. of stillness, it's not enough--the stillness through insight. You have to give rise to it's like not being able to be still in a to be still. When you go back to where it's hot, tranquility are only on this level of stillness. it's hot in the mountains, you can stay there you can stay there comfortably. You and the mind doesn't run. It knows pleasure; it 77. Rocks in the Way. ahead. It doesn't matter how many kilometers it find a log or a rock obstructing our way, we pick We're trying to make the mind quiet and still. ears, nose, tongue, and body all come mind gets involved with these things, It interferes with our walking, so we The preoccupation arising at that and not-self. We throw it off to the side. and keep on walking. If love comes, we let it 78. Killing Your Meditation. and lying down, keep your mindfulness practicing meditation (kammatthana) correctly. is because we don't do it. "Doing it" isn't does it. If we do our mindfulness so that it's it's like drops of water that flow continuously If you can train the mind in this way, your But these days, people go practice vipassana for and then they come out of retreat. They and they're already good at it. So they go to their vipassana is gone and they don't have things that stir up the heart and damage it a mode of practice like planting a tree where you pull it up and plant it over there. Then, after tree is going to die and you won't get to eat the 79. Staying at Home. and alertness at all times, you'll come to with other things, suffering will arise any mindfulness. Your alertness If you leave and don't close the door, dogs Thieves will come in and steal all your things. Actually, you have mindfulness, but it's mindful You're still there, but you're not there in the with mindfulness. You have mindfulness, but your things you have here, but you're not here. Your working somewhere over there. It's not working then you'll sense when a preoccupation you'll know--and you'll see that it's inconstant. suffering and stress. You'll see: "This is That means that you're practicing the Dhamma. This is why people who practice have all times while they're standing, walking, knows what we're doing right now. This is the Dhamma. You'll have the opportunity to chase away the thieves that have come to You'll have the opportunity 80. Fix It Right Here. of the Dhamma. If you can see every day, if you even if you're doing work, you'll see. Try to see Father, I don't have any time to meditate. I can't see things. Actually, where you're busy is the there's coolness right there. You don't there's nothing but heat there. No coolness there's stillness right there. Wherever there's there's turmoil, there's stillness right there. are you going to correct it? It's as if something this spot. Where are you going to fix it? You fix it'll go right, right there, that's all. Wherever practice right there: "Oh. This isn't for sure. experienced pain many, many times. This won't but suffering." If you can think correctly like 81. A Fish on Land. hide pain. When you've been sitting a long time the pain disappears. That's why we don't age inside. The mind is taken with the tastes of youth, but if you stay with it The mind is like a fish in water. When you catch to get back into the water. If you simply let the mind and make it sit in meditation, it'll it won't see pain--like the fish in water. it's like a fish caught and placed 82. Overcoming Pain. Suppose you're sitting in concentration you come out of meditation. Then you meditate some and then you come out again. This is why you suffer. Wherever you sit and meditate, can I do to overcome this?" You have to make a You depend on what the Buddha said: why won't it pass away? As soon as you sit, Sweat starts flowing in drops as big as corn "Hmm. No. Let it die." You have to take it pain disappears. Once you've gone beyond death, thought that you wouldn't be able to stand it; you training yourself with a heavy hand. It's not for you understand--because you've seen how far the If you can't overcome pain, you fall out of concentration. You die every overcome it someday in your practice. Once it--because you've seen what it's like. It's like you're afraid. Once you've boxed in the know what it's like. You have to experiment 83. Why Study? you won't see any light. Things won't you don't see light and The Dhamma of study is like your eyes. Your you walk, you have to depend on your eyes your feet keep walking at the same time. depend on your eyes to open the way, to forge a It's the same with the Dhamma of study. it serves a purpose. If you don't put It's like having a knife that you hone until it won't serve any purpose. No matter how sharp it won't serve any purpose. So when you've benefit from it. If you study but don't put it field but not harvesting the rice, or growing You have to study first. Only then should the forest. You have to study what the aim of you go practice in the forest. It's like knowing or the purpose of growing vegetables the purpose, of practicing in the forest. 84. The Name of the Fruit. The fruit that you offered to the monks: I is sweet and delicious. That much I know, but I necessary. All that's necessary is knowing that really necessary. "What's the name of this fruit?" you can remember it. But if you don't know the knowing the name doesn't increase the The knowledge that comes from the practice: We knows all the way in. Once you know all the from the practice, once it knows all the way in, doesn't let go, you know. It fills us up until 85. Counting the Rootlets. "What is the mind? What is the keeping at it, back and forth until they go don't have to think that far. Just simply ask are physical phenomena and mental phenomena; or Some people ask, "I've heard that the Buddha They practice the Dhamma and start arguing: "How that it has taproots and rootlets. "But how many right? They want an answer about the rootlets: are there?" Why do they ask? "Well, the Buddha all the way to the rootlets." Who would be crazy would be stupid like that? He'd say that there are It's like cutting our way through the forest. If trees and all the small trees, we'd be getting out to get through the forest? We'd cut back just 86. Mr. A &amp; the Letter A. it's all a matter of strategy there. It's matter of suppositions, a but it's something you can't see. We have to It's like a teacher teaching her students, isn't there in the room, so what do you do? You and you suppose that it's Mr. A. Is it Mr. A? It You can take the letter A and suppose that it's It's Mr. A on the level of supposition, but it's just the letter A. It's a letter A that we that the actual Mr. A isn't there, so you have 87. What's That? it's not the case that you'll awaken because know that you can't get serious about this. These things are really personal. We It's like a child who's never seen anything. He "Daddy, what's that over there?" He sees a duck. what's that over there?" The father gets tired child keeps asking--because it's never seen these "Hmm." If you keep playing along with the The child doesn't get fatigued. Whatever never comes to an end. Finally the father says, That's the way it is with meditation. I used to be there are none of those questions. You've you understand, and things will gradually Keep watch over yourself as much as you can. to see if you're lying to yourself. That's 88. The Farmer &amp; the Cobra. that whatever suffering arises will this. There's just suffering arising and which is why we suffer, why we're in a turmoil turmoil? Because we don't know this truth as it you feed it, thinking that it'll be pleasure. But It's like the story of the farmer and the and the farmer feels pity for it. He help this animal find some comfort." That's doesn't recognize that this is a snake that can he picks it up and holds it to his chest. 89. Awakening to the Cobra. "awakening to the Dhamma," understand that it's won't awaken in this lifetime. That's how we and we don't clearly see that it's evil, then we much to the Dhamma. But if we listen, contemplate, the drawbacks for sure that that thing is evil store it up as seeds to plant again. We'll have to Before, we heard that it was evil, and we even still did things that were wrong. That was When someone awakens to the Dhamma, it's like We know that this snake is poisonous, and that person will die or suffer horribly. we know that its poison is fierce. Anyone it he'll be close to death. This means that we don't dare catch hold of it. No matter who tells awakening to the Dhamma--awakening to the cobra, It's the same with all forms of evil. If we We know for ourselves. All I ask is that you keep yourselves. When you awaken to the Dhamma, the 90. Our Responsibilities. He goes out and gets a tree, digs a hole, puts waters it, gives it fertilizer, and keeps it safe And that's the end of our responsibilities. The grows fast or slow, don't force it. If you force "Hey. When is it ever going to grow so that I can you suffer. Why? Because you don't You take on the responsibilities of others. The tree doesn't want anyone to take on its The person has the responsibilities of the person. to keep on watering and fertilizing the tree, our duty. If we do the duty of the tree--"Oho. pull on it to make it tall, to make it grow, It's the same when we practice our precepts Discernment will arise. We keep at it able to think like this, keeping this principle tree look after each other. The tree will grow with our practice. As for whether it'll grow perfections. But don't abandon it. You have to 91. Cleaning the House. then when it's finished, only the right? The next step is that you have to it. It's not the case that when you finish ease. That's not the case at all. You have It's the same when you practice you can't think that you've finished doing your knowledge and mindfulness to be aware destroy your concentration. You have walking, sitting, and lying down, you have When you finish constructing a house, you can't When the house gets dirty, what will you do? all kinds of things. It's the same when mind into concentration isn't hard. But to keep a house isn't hard. In just a few years cleaning the house for many, many years until you have to keep on cleaning 92. Better &amp; Better. you can abandon your defilements. As your You'll abandon your old ways. It's like going into some fruit that's not especially good, but even your basket until you find fruits that are better basket. It's because you see that the new ones The same with the mind: When you see you keep on abandoning them. The more you When you practice, you'll think, "This is further--"Oh. What happened then wasn't 93. The Compass. a compass that points north and south. You go and it will still point north and south. But forest you open your compass and decide that and the north end of the needle is pointing east. matter of your own thinking. You're thinking south all the time, but you understand that you follow this kind of knowledge. But it's an an issue of your feelings, which you can dissolve. north and south, but you feel that it's 94. The Saltiness of Salt. Whoever eats it will find that it's always salty. In the same way, Buddhism can't degenerate. Some people see monks behaving in It's like a person who doesn't eat salt and the saltiness of salt is there all the saltiness will appear. That's 95. Lead vs. Gold. Suppose there's a hunk of lead weighing one kilogram. If you were to ask people to It's the same with your son deciding to ordain He sees the whole world as a hunk of lead with the same as your wanting the kilogram of gold lead has less value--or no value at all. 96. The Thinking of Earthworms. and less. I don't know why. Whether it's because I don't know. In the past, people would ordain for people ordaining for seven days, fifteen days. and disrobe in the evening. It's because of Some people say that if people five years--the country wouldn't develop. there wouldn't be anyone making a living; world. So I tell them that this kind of Earthworms live in the dirt. They've been eating keep on eating, they're afraid that they'll they put it up next to their heads to eat, This is the thinking of earthworms. People that it'll come to an end: That's 97. Neither Large nor Small. [A layman answers: "Small, sir."] Small, eh? It's not large? Hmm. Is that how you feeling about it is a mental phenomenon. There's a mind, your intention. Craving can want to make All of you sitting here: When you look don't know whether it's large or small because you put an alms bowl right here, you'll see more. But if there's no alms bowl, the bell says the bell is small wants it to be larger than if the bell stands here by itself, it's not as it is. What makes it large or small, smaller or larger. The bell itself is neither 98. Why. that the movements of the mind have to be the are. They don't "why" anyone at all. The problem flowing. It flows along in its water way. If you to suffering. If you understand that it flows in 99. Grabbing Hold of a Dog. you can't grab hold of it. It's like a dog: Try and it will turn around and bite you. Or a hold without letting go. It'll simply bite It's the same with conventions. but we're taught not to grab hold of them. They're that we can live. They're not there to grab of giving rise to suffering and stress. The you latch onto them, you separate your mind into 100. When the Bees Leave the Hive. can't catch up with us. Death can't reach us. Why? form, piles of feelings, piles of perceptions, that's all. So where's the person? Like that you try to take the hive, will you touch any bees? the beeswax. You don't know where the bees That's how the Buddha taught. Take your and you run out of questions. And there are also no answers. No questions. No one runs out. You know what it's like when things run 101. Eating Out of the Shit-pot. that there's nothing there. You see that this and the cup and the plate are there. It's not that They're empty. If you ask this spittoon what it You can call it a spittoon if you want, could call it a pot--it's still just actuality is there's nothing to it. But I'll give you an example. Suppose there are two group stupid. They go to buy things in the market. buy a shit-pot and use it to fix rice--because they see that and they get disgusted--"How can they Why do they find it disgusting? The so it's like an ordinary pot. It's still Because they hold onto the idea that it's a ordinary pot. They suffer and get disgusted So with these two groups of people, which really stupid? The pot is just an object, an so people get disgusted by it. If you put in it and they get disgusted--because of 102. The Parts of a Knife. It has the edge of its blade, it has the of its parts. When you lift it up, can you lift the back of the blade? Just the handle? The of the blade is the back of the knife's blade. blade. When you pick up the knife, you also and the edge of its blade. Could it split This is an example. When you what's bad comes along with it. You away what's bad. You don't learn about what's you won't come to the end of things. When you take keep coming together. If you want pleasure, 103. Knowing In-between. or coming down to the floor. When someone climbs he comes down to the floor. If he climbs he falls down to the same floor. That's all that because there's nothing to measure it. When they we can't point it out. We can't point it The questions we have to answer are the questions to know what merit looks like, what evil looks how many roots. If you want to know that say you're stupid, because all you really on a rubber tree is just the same. The same with It's the same with knowing people. that's enough. You know every person in the world. 104. When the Cabinet is Done. there's no more endurance. In other words, as soon you see peace arising. When peace arises, you practicing. It's like a cabinet. Before, it was making a cabinet. The tree was cut and shaped cabinet. Once the cabinet is finished and we've that's the end of having to do anything. Before, this cabinet was a tree; say that what once wasn't beautiful It's the same with all of us. All of And not just us--even the Buddha was just the came to know. Wherever there's dirtiness, there's the cleanliness doesn't arise anywhere there's peace right there. Wherever there's They're together, both of them, right and delusion, there's lack of greed, lack 105. Our Own Affair. out. When you know causes, you let go of causes. where will you stay? Above causes and beyond where you stay. You stay where everything away from causes and results; at peace away from and pain. It stays in peace like that. Once you're above causes and beyond results, aim right there. That's why the Buddha taught only affair. Where we continue to go is our own affair. and he gives it to us: both the boat and go forward. If we don't paddle with it, the 106. In the Cage. feel pleasure or pain, cry or sing, these things happen in a cage. We don't we're in a cage. If we're poor, we're If we dance, we're dancing in a cage. Which cage? It's like a mourning dove we keep in our home. "How pretty, the sound of my dove! My dove has of thing. We never ask the dove if it's enjoying drink, but everything is in the cage. And Have we ever stopped to think: If someone would we be happy? In the same way, we're caged that"--all kinds of things. But we don't understand stress and suffering into ourselves because we way that we don't look deeply into the dove. It water and eat food, and we think that it's happy. pleasure and comfort, once we're born we'll then to grow sick; when we're sick, we'll then have to 107. Filling the Glass. that, having been born, they don't want to die. Is If we pour water into it and yet don't want it to yet don't want to be full--can we get what we want? they're born, they don't want to die. Is that kind way, with everybody born and not having to die, born into this world ever died, we'd all be eating It's like the water in this glass: Can you glass to be full? That's the way into perspective. You can't want not 108. Mindfulness of Death. and in seven days they were going to were sentenced to death, and in seven days you do? I want you to reflect on this. As you simply that you don't know how many days you've you have a sense of this? You're already sentenced but if you don't know, you don't feel anything. authorities were to catch you and execute This is mindfulness of death. Death is going to aware of this, you relax. You have to think in needed to practice the Dhamma. That's why the at all times. Normally, when you think of death, it. And when that's the case, how can you not be but you have no sense of yourself. So you relax. mindfulness of death at all times, you'll hurry How can you just sit there? If you were to break execute you, could you simply take it easy?