Professor Paul Bloom: days - our methods, our ideas - are shaped, by Piaget's influence. begin this class that's going to by talking about his ideas. active thinkers; the world. little scientists. to know where he's coming from and ambitious goal. was interested in children. interested in the emergence of It was a discipline he epistemology - the origins of But he studied development of was convinced that this the development of knowledge There's a very snooty phrase heard it before. It's &quot;Ontogeny recapitulates And the idea of this--What that individual mimics or repeats Now, it's entirely not true, Piaget was committed to this. saying, &quot;Look. and that will tell us about the generally.&quot; a scientist who developed this these schemas, miniature theories of the And they did this through two assimilation and accommodation. act of expanding the range of Piaget's example would be a breast might come to suck on a That's changing the scope of Accommodation is changing how A baby will form his mouth he's sucking on. you take in--I'm giving this in but in a more psychological at the world. encompass new things, But you could also change your accommodation. two mechanisms of learning drove stages. which was quite different from we have been introduced to. children to solve problems and And his discoveries that--they different ages led to the So, for Piaget, sensorimotor stage or the For here the child is purely a The child has no understanding world. past, no understanding of the no differentiation. sees, but doesn't yet reason. And it's through this stage acquire object permanence. Object permanence is the when you no longer see them. you're looking at me and I go. great magic trick if I then But no, I'm just here. If I went under here and then &quot;Where the hell did he go? a lack of object permanence. permanence. is that kids don't. Piaget observed, likes like a rattle, you put it behind something, And he claimed the child really Things don't continue to exist anymore. surprised by peek-a-boo. reason why they're surprised at at a kid, &quot;Oh, peek-a-boo,&quot; and you and the kid says, &quot;Peek-a-boo.&quot; He's gone.&quot; claim. older children fail at a task task. psychology textbook refers to it problem, which is probably a And here's the idea. for Piaget a nine-month-old is objects and their permanence. it here in a cup where the kid but it's in the cup. kid, will reach for it. You do it again, reach for it. Then you take--you move it over Piaget observed kids would It's like they're not smart not there anymore, And this was more evidence that objects, and that this thing to develop. preoperational stage. the world only in a physical but when he gets to the capacity to represent the world, head, comes into being. limited in a couple of striking One way in which it's limited Now, egocentrism has a meaning be selfish. technical way. this age literally can't the world differently from them. was the three mountains task. there. the mountains and you ask him to five-year-old can do it easily, as it would appear from the this extraordinarily difficult. grasp the world as another Another significant finding development concerns what's The notion of conservation is things such that some aspects of the same. if you take a glass of water glass that's shallow or tall, water you have. and you spread them out, But kids, according to Piaget, of the real cool demonstrations. four- or five-year-old, a sibling or something--Do not but if you have access to a do this yourself. The first one has no sound. sound that's going to come on at But there's two rows of She asks the kid which one has The kid says they're the same. which one has more, So that's really stupid. kids will do that and it's a Here's another example. So, it's a cool finding of that in how you deal and make sense The next phase, from seven to twelve, problem, extent you're capable of So the mathematical notions of logical entailment are beyond a The child is able to do a lot, stuck in the concrete world. at around age twelve, scientific reasoning. theory in very brief form. than did Freud or Skinner for One reason is these are claims about child development. failure of conservation in be easily tested and and in fact, them. framework, pulling together all different ways, articles and articulated his And most of all, striking findings. nobody noticed these Before Piaget, this problem tracking and At the same time, in Piaget's theory. theoretical. to whether he really explains thinker to an abstract thinker, object permanence to There's methodological Piaget was really big into but one problem with this is with language, underestimate how much they And this is particularly a Methodology is going to loom science and that includes Often 90% of the game is through which to test your We're going to talk a little I'll give you another example There was a set of scientists So, when you tickle somebody, they laugh? them? Does it have to be a surprise, It turns out very difficult to You're not going to have your You come into the lab and say, I'm the graduate student. And [laughter] methodological attempt was done of Pennsylvania, which was this box with these &quot;r-r-r-r.&quot; people could not go near the convulsing in laughter. have a lecture on laughter a bit And finally there's factual. really know? methodological limitations of underestimated what children and And in fact, suggesting that this is in So, I want to introduce you to cognition. something studied for a very And there was a certain view tremendous philosophical and And it's summarized in this And the idea is that babies are know much about the world. Onion headline is studies, suggested that on the contrary, you think. intelligence of babies we have developing different techniques. you can't ask your questions. You could look at what it does coordinated or skilled so you One clever method is to look at This child on the right died It was a tragic--It was crushed of the electrodes. You could study their brain One of the few things babies pacifier. well, how could you learn Well, for instance, when babies suck on a pacifier language, much they suck on the pacifier But undeniably we know most of knowledge about babies from That's one thing babies can do. And I have up here--This is a who is a developmental most research on looking at you could learn from them. could learn from looking. So for instance, for whatever reason, dogs or cats? down, have a picture of a dog and see which one the baby Babies can move their eyes and Do babies distinguish pretty Well, put a pretty face here, see if the baby prefers to look You could also do habituation And much of the studies I'm habituation and surprise. boredom. something over and over again. the baby will learn this isn't Then you show the baby If the baby really sees it as longer, and you could use that different. suppose you want to know if the Well, you could show the baby a a green patch, the baby'll get bored, If they all look the same to continue to tune out, the baby will perk up. in fact, one way they study Surprise is related to this. that shouldn't happen. also think it shouldn't happen, and essentially what happens is explore this very thing. examples, a lot of this infant Piagetian question of object asking, &quot;Is it really true remain even when they're out of So one very simple study by Have babies shown a block with that. forth. that's so obvious you probably When you see a display like a bar there, and what that means middle that you've never seen But of course, creature, you would just see a bar on the bottom. the middle because you never saw So, what you do then is you show them either B or C and if expect B, C is almost a joke. babies respond the same way. entire, complete bar and are broken bar. some of them--Well, Baillargeon looking at the same You show the baby, a stage with a block on it. obscures the block. block to still be there, should stop the screen. if out of sight out of mind, to keep going. couple of displays, the other one where you take it keeps going. the baby screams when this That doesn't really happen, One final example of an object Some of this work's been done where they look at babies' subtraction. real objects, versions so here is an animated Babies are surprised. 2 - 1 = 2 or 3 or 0, indicating surprise. sensitive to these rudimentary telling us something about but also telling us something remain when they're out of Now, this research suggests the physical world is there from but at the same time not We know there are certain Here's an example. You have a block here and then floating in mid air. Even six-month-olds find this It violates gravity, enough to know that a block just surprising. that it should fall. and even 12-month-olds don't while adults are sophisticated an unstable configuration and So, although some things are And this raises the question development?&quot; come to know things that they Well, one answer is neural Most of the neurons you have right now, you had when you What happens in development growth of new neurons. getting rid of neurons. change radically as babies kind through development. connections between neurons this process of synaptic growth across different synapses peaks Finally, remember myelination, fatty sheath over your neuron to That also happens through it goes through development and myelinated. they're not fully myelinated in Recall that frontal lobes are restraint and willpower. is the baby's brain doesn't Another possibility is there's This is related, this comes out with the A, So, remember the baby reaches, It's moved, reach, place. don't know anything about But another possibility is once hard to stop. stop. independent evidence that babies The part of their brain that is just not active yet. illustration of inhibitory episode that actually sort of to know about developmental And that basically may sum up psychology. does A, A, A. You go, &quot;doh!&quot; And there's some evidence Adele Diamond who studies this for A, they look for B, they can't stop themselves from And we'll continue this theme a Finally, it might be kids don't Some things you've got to learn. of domains - in the social in the political world - and physical world. even adults don't know. McCloskey with college students. You have a tube, tube, and at the top of the tube whips through the tube and it The question is, Does it go in the path of A, Without looking around, Who votes for B? Whenever I do this at Yale right [laughter]. 50/50, [laughter] I got to get a better demo. not here, show systematic biases intuitions. and if you found people who all, and asked them you'd get a thing. Ask somebody, you squirted water through it? Nobody chooses B. continue in a straight line, experience that helps you out, you're kind of lost. world. What about the world of people? on this as well. social preferences. babies--It's very hard to do actually because of the consent so most of this work is done in where they have no laws at all. give birth and they rush in and psychologists,&quot; the babies, and it's terrific. they compare babies looking at Babies like the one that looks These are newborns. humans and with other primates Babies are also social animals Andrew Meltzoff, has found that if you go to a and if you find a newborn baby, should do. newborn baby and go like this And Meltzoff finds that babies tongues out back, connection from one person to babies are mimics. copy the face next to them. responses, this preferring is a matter of debate, going on asking how smart are Can we see--use some of the at for the physical world to And to illustrate one of the study that I did with Valerie And so, what we tested was twelve-month-olds, So, they're sitting down and character's going to help a ball and another character's going And then we're going to see approach the one that helped it So, this is what a baby would This is literally the same experiment. experiments there is a lot of square in one movie will be a something that's on the top in in another movie. but this is what babies would And they'd see this over and would they expect babies--would approach the one that helped it hindered it? statistically, movie where it approaches the helped it. evidence that they have a social They see this movie as you see and hindering, that helped it versus hindered You could then ask--This makes themselves prefer the creature hinderer, a graduate student in this has started a series of studies three-dimensional scenes and and see which one they reach So, here's video so you could Now, the next trial is from a A different thing we use, One thing to know giving a choice is blind to the And blind here is a technical what the baby saw, avoid either intentional or get the answer you want. she didn't know what the right So, here's what the baby would So, this suggests that some there from the very start. very controversial. developmental puzzle and the which babies are--not just but young children are very people. of two very nice studies showing young children's ignorance of I'll show you the studies and they mean. Before discussing that example any questions? Yes, in back. Professor Paul Bloom: those particular children, three-year-olds and young and around the age of four or There's sort of a period around four and a half, from failure to success. by the way, was when do were the--what were the ages of passed? Yes. Professor Paul Bloom: discriminant conditioning has what sort of concepts they have. Does anybody--It has been-- --It's not as effective-- Koleen answered and said that methods. operant conditioning with babies behave in any systematic way. tend to be more subtle. Oh. Student: [inaudible] Oh. chose--the baby--the kids chose to the Rafael one. interested in in the experiment. the stickers they had a pretty of which ones the boys would The question of why a boy might and you might get a different is going to come up later when sex differences. they were just assuming in the Okay. There's a huge debate over And if you listened at the end the data, the psychologist had a strong idea of what was going It was that children need to The children don't know about the intent to deceive. somebody could choose what you This is possible. but the alternative is they but they suffer from problems So, consider both studies. the one with the deceptive little shoes, And it's possible that children and when asked what would the who the mother would think responded with who really stole And that there's some pull makes this task difficult. study illustrates this issue Take the boy who kept failing. ship and mean monkey kept taking It's possible that he genuinely that he wasn't smart enough to point to the other one. it's a Homer Simpson-like point to what he wants, to the one he wanted. takes to lie was beyond him. alternative, even adults find deception more difficult. We make more mistakes than and deception. solve the problem. the Peter Gray textbook and more readings on development, interesting area of debate. debate is, &quot;What's the sorts of development?&quot; and Piaget, like Freud, across the board changes in how An alternative, separate modules, again, by Noam Chomsky, mind Jerry Fodor, of a child developing as a What you get instead is there for reasoning about the world. built-in knowledge, learning, from system to system and Why should we take this view Well, one reason is that there seem to involve damage to one And the classic case of this is And autism is something I've disorder for many reasons. psychology. children with autism. striking illustration of how the distinct from other parts of So, what autism is is a in a thousand people, And the dominant problems social connectedness, problems dealing with people, a problem of what the Simon Baron-Cohen has described In that autistic people show no physical world, on--they don't necessarily show skills or spatial skills, with people. have no language; society. learned language and who managed life, severe social impairment. sorts of ways. by Simon Baron-Cohen goes like You show this to three- and There's four candies there, &quot;This is Charlie in the middle. take?&quot; you, I hope, the answer's pretty Autistic children will often &quot;How could I know?&quot; instinctively appreciate that tend to be attuned to where Another sort of task, done hundreds, is known as &quot;the false-belief You show the child the There's a doll named Maxie and cupboard. enters. out of the cupboard and puts it Maxie comes back and the look for the ball?&quot; your understanding about minds. ball really is a question about Everyone can solve it, The right answer is Max cupboard, even though it's not false belief about the world. difficult. difficult. five-year-olds are able to pass Normal adults are able to pass Children with autism have And often, people with autism functioning will fail this task. &quot;Oh, he must think it's under the bed.&quot; Yes. Professor Paul Bloom: It isn't. designed to tap an appreciation The deception one with the it in the course of deception. mother might think it's that that person? This is a sort of stripped-down fanciness but it tests exactly Yes. Professor Paul Bloom: but there's a theory which will put it into a broader Simon Baron-Cohen argues that tend to be more sequestered for and other abilities that are more focused on females. he argues, tend to be more So, the way Baron puts it, is to be a man is to suffer [laughter]. individuals suffer from what he and as such, be more sampled from the male population. issue, that again, sex differences we'll look at to see if it's supported by the Yes. Professor Paul Bloom: Tell me the--Is the severity of [inaudible] It's an interesting question. &quot;How do you think about the to developmental stages?&quot; autism can't really be thought So, it's not like an adult with or a two-year-old. somebody with autism isn't like any normally developing child So, it's not really a that it might make sense to retardation. when we think about how severe like how much language does the and in that sense, Yes. What are the chances that able to overcome their Professor Paul Bloom: autism. The question is, somebody with autism will be deficiencies?&quot; that there's a lot of media presentation. showcased in the media tend to So, there's a woman, who's autistic and--Has anybody She wrote some wonderful books autistic person, So a lot depends, how one defines autism, Asperger syndrome, a more mild syndrome, The answer is that the majority severe problems, and at this stage, will not lead a normal life. More specifically, when you showed the example of [inaudible] Right. autistic savants. the character played by Dustin mathematical abilities. have extraordinary artistic abilities or musical abilities It's an amazing question why small minority. fascinating that it happens at but compensated with some Now, I know I'm answering your way, but it's actually very Most people with autism do not that go along with it. Another question is if you modules, what are they? developmental data we've talked physics and people. module. that there is a special module artifacts, chairs and cars and forks. a module for sociology, races and classes and so on. there is an intuitive biology, understanding of the world understanding of people and And, in fact, the view is our very own Frank Master of Morse College at the notion of an intuitive Final question, I've talked in terms of the also be profound general adults, think about objects or how you think about this or how you but rather more general. which we're going to return to about language, very big difference between a language and a creature that And part of the claim is that learning to speak, such a way that is really And that has no parallel in any And this is an interesting Finally, I want to end with an Suppose you hate development; psychology; you hate children; they're ugly; you don't want to study them; discuss them. But there are reasons to study interested in children because and developmental data and questions about adults. very nice example of this. zebra a black animal with white black stripes?&quot; zebras all day long and you're But if you want to know the but I forget what it is--It But if you wanted to know it You would look at development embryological development of a learn the answer to your In fact, I'll end with a nice This is by the famous who wrote the book On Growth and it's sort of the model psychologists and many I'll end with this: because it got that way.&quot; I'll see you next week.