So here we are today in Nicaragua. For 25 years after Ortega's Sandinista It's considered to be one of the poorest Managua's location on the Pan-American sorts. We are in Mercado Murillo, so you can see Station here at the bus station. I'm meeting up with Hector from last night. This station basically takes you up to the Long distance, long distance. They also take you to the east of Nicaragua. The amount of people traveling through here Everyone just trying to make a living any It's a combination market depot and food Salpicon para comenzar. Onions. Yeah. Hector brought me here for a typical working Wow, that was fast. There we go. Beautiful. Oh, yeah. Ooh! Tender. Mm. That's some kick. That's nice. So you weren't around for the No. Even though I didn't live in the revolution, I do feel the impact and the importance of And I and I hear all the stories. It seems to be a politically engaged country. Always has been. There's many levels, but I can tell that we're very ideological. And I think it's important for the youth to generation keeps making the same decisions. So you want to try the salpicon. What is this? It looks like slow cooked Beef. It's diced meat. They cook it with onions and green pepper. And the salpicon is basically a meal you Since they serve it cold. Oh that's good. Tangy. The lemon gets you some kind of freshness. People still define themselves today on where years. Everything has changed. People that used to anymore, and people that didn't used to be This is a feature of Nicaraguan history going It is a sincere change of heart. It's not like people are shifting alliances And you're always going to find people way and some days they feel the other way. It's like that here. Complicated alliances shift. Hearts change. Expediency can become a priority. Cheers. The younger generation of Nicaragua neither the revolution nor Somoza, but they every day. So when was the first time you heard about? Well, I mean, I was aware of the country. I was aware a little bit of the history. Obviously the 80s. I mean, it was a central It was a big issue for me, for the. Average American doesn't know about it at. All. The Iran-Contra scandal was a big, big, Everybody who discussed Nicaragua during the My understanding of what was happening in for Reagan and Oliver North. So what is this? This is a traditional battle. This is a very popular place. It's been here for over 30, 40 years. It has a lot of Caribbean and slave What they do is they put the cassava banana, and they let it cook slowly. And that makes the meat very tender. Vaho, traditional, labour intensive and very, Adela and her friend Fifi here have been What is it? It's beef that's been marinated tomato and bitter orange. The marinated beef is laid inside a big pot, layered with yucca. Add fresh wild green onions, red and green and maduro plantains in their skins. Wrap in the banana leaves tightly to make Yank the blue tarp over and make sure Steam actually is Vojo means literally vapor When served, it's usually with a fresh, and it hits like a brick, let me tell you. What do you think about it? This. Let's fill you up. Food. I mean, again, we're I'm not. I don't like sweet much. Okay? I like spicy and savory and salty. Yeah, I need heat. For your average, hard working Managua. And living comfortably or close to line. This would be a good, nutritious and This, on the other hand, is how some other It's called la chureca. La chureca is a slang term for dump. This just outside the capital, his home for Some of them third generation trash pickers. Not exactly, you know, appropriate to move All of a sudden. But on the other hand. Seeing this, I don't. It's not feeling so good about doing another Every day about 1300 tons of garbage is Dawn to dusk. It comes. It barely leaves the trucks before out. Glass. Metal. Plastic. Paper. Food. Well, I'm totally depressed. That Urataros picked through medical waste hope of getting maybe a dollar's worth of President Daniel Ortega, socialist hero. Now. Has personal wealth estimated at $400 This is how they recycle in the workers Sometimes travel is not pretty. I'll tell you this. You look at this and you The very notion of. The very notion of food. Television. What I do. Somehow obscene. Well, I hate to see these kids here. I don't want to go all Sally Struthers on You know. There it is. Holy. Now my daughter is that age.