- You and your best friend will lie down in this box and work your way out. Sounds easy but obviously, you see these criss crossing bars. You're going to have to a way for you and your and pull those flags Now, notice I said water will start flooding this box, and what's even crazier is I made sure that some of (dramatic music) The two teams that do this the fastest are movin' on to the Final Fear. The one team that does it the slowest, unfortunately is goin' home. Cynthia and Aubrey, because your FearVantage is that you get to remove one bar before you start. - Okay. - And by random selection, Tai and Corry, y'all are - Yeah, they wanna see the best first. - This is extremely dangerous, and we have safety on standby because we don't want anyone to drown. Do you guys all understand? - Yeah. - Tai and Corry, let's get you in the box. - Let's do it. (dramatic music) - Good luck, Corry. - I'm definitely a little freaked out. To be scared of drowning in the water is definitely Oh, boy! (dramatic music) The poles were really tight - I was definitely freakin' out. Uh uh, no baby. Trust me, trust me. (dramatic music) - [Ludacris] All right, start the water. (water splashing) - Oh (sensor beeping)! - Woo! - [Ludacris] The water is rising, feel it. It's comin' for ya. - [Tai] Layin' in the in your face, the water over your neck, I started hyperventilatin' 'cause my biggest fear is to drown. - [Corry] I felt like I was in a cage that was keepin' me down. I couldn't lift my head up. I couldn't breathe. (dramatic music) - Three, two, one, go. (dramatic music) That's one pole. - That's smart. - They're doing different ones. - That's two poles. Three poles. Oh, doesn't go that way. It goes the other way. Get 'em out, that water's fillin' up. - Wrong way. - [Corry] Wrong way. - We had the chance to and we were just picking at little things that we could do a little bit better. - Be careful, hurry up. - Go, go, go, go. (dramatic music) - That's one. Two. Time! - $50,000! - Oh (sensor beeping)! I went in there terrified. Holy (sensor beeping). Holding your breath under water, that's honestly like, I'm - Just like a jacuzzi. - Just like a jacuzzi. - It's all in her mind. (dramatic music) I see you guys are holdin' Let's hope that this friendship lasts through what's about to happen. (girls screaming) - Oh my God! - [Ludacris] The water is rising. - [Andrea] So first of are the ones at our neck and our stomach and the ones closest to us. - Three, two, one, go! (dramatic music) - [Andrea] We thought that each working on a single pole would be - Oh, they havin' trouble. They have a problem. (dramatic music) - We definitely got stuck. - Definitely. - [Andrea] We couldn't keep track anymore. (girls screaming) - Hurry up, you gotta get out. (girls yelling) There you go. Get that flag. Time! How does it feel? Talk to me Andrea. - That was scarier than I thought it would be but it was good. I was freezing but we got through it and I'm glad that I got to - Yeah, and holding hands my nerves like while we were in there. (dramatic music) - The confined space was It was just so terrifying a certain way and there (dramatic music) - Cynthia and Aubrey, you guys got the FearVantage from the last challenge. You gotta let me know which pole you guys want to remove. - The one on our stomach please. - Let's go with the tummy one right here. - [Ludacris] Got you. - That's the easiest one. (girl chuckles) - [Cynthia] We decided on the stomach bar because we couldn't breathe. Like, it was completely on us. We figured we'll get that outta the way and the rest should be - Are you free now? - All right, you earned it. Now you better make it Are you guys ready to face your fear? - Yes. - Yes. a time of 54 seconds. Start the water. (water splashing) - Nice and cold. - [Cynthia] As soon as that water hit us, it went up my nose thing you think is, oh my God, (dramatic music) - You're feelin' like Three, two, one. Go! (dramatic music) Whoa, they on the move, they on the move! (girls yelling) - Slow down! - Go left, other way, Oh! Messed up! - [Cynthia] I'm scared of drowning, I'm scared of being All of a sudden I can't faint. I saw her hustling, I and that shocked me back into reality of I need to get things out of the way. - [Ludacris] Aubrey is all twisted. She might get stuck. Time! - That challenge was honestly 'cause I'm scared of enclosed of drowning and it was - The one thing I love about bein' the host is how close things come and this one came extremely close. Andrea and Beena, Cynthia and Aubrey, the time to beat was 54 seconds. This competition between the two teams right here standin' in front of me, was within one second. - No. - Cynthia and Aubrey, your time was, 53 seconds. (Cynthia squealing) - Oh my God! - That means you guys are Beena and Andrea, I am - Good job you guys. - Yeah, good job. - Here is how it's gonna go down. One of you is going to stand on this platform above the water. You will be tied to a 300 pound anchor. I'm going to pull this lever. It will plunge you and that anchor deep down into that water. Your partner will have to swim to you, untie the three knots before And then they're gonna and cut the rope. The person that gets freed has to swim over to this - I was just tryin' to kind of mentally get prepared to stay under there and like, fill my lungs with as much - Each team will do this two times. The team with the best single time goes home today with 50 grand. - Yeah! right here. - Get me outta here, baby! - Here comes your first attempt. Three, two, one! Go! (dramatic music) - She is tough, tough. - [Ludacris] She has to untie three knots, then cut her partner free. Her partner then has to swim This challenge is very dangerous, so we have safety divers in the water. One rope is off. These girls definitely (pensive music) - Come up and breathe, - You gotta breathe. - [Carmela] I was already My teeth were like chattering. My breath was just completely messed up. I wasn't relaxed. - [Ludacris] Two ropes are off. Third knot, she's got the third knot. Oh (sensor beeping)! Holy (sensor beeping)! Are you worried? Jasmine is having trouble Oh, Carmela too off but (Carmela groaning) She can't reach the surface! (dramatic music) Jasmine is havin' trouble She's free! - Oh! she's swimmin'! (triumphant music) Time! Yeah! Okay Carmela and Jazz! 56 seconds. - Yeah, baby! I felt really comfortable and We put our best foot forward to put some pressure on the guys. - [Ludacris] Do you think you - Yeah, we can. I know we can - but that was good. - Oh, for sure. - The pressure is on, though. - Let's do it. - Let's do this. (dramatic music) - Give me some, give me some. - 56 seconds. Talk to me. - I was just a little like get up for air. - But if you can't get calm under there it's over, - because right when I felt myself like lose ease whenever I was coming up, that's when you start to - Three, two, one, go! (water splashing) - Boom, Aaron's down. (dramatic music) - [Louis] I believe in my I know you'll get the knots so we got this. (dramatic music) - He's through the first knot. This is gonna be close. (dramatic music) He's through the second knot. (dramatic music) And the third! He's swimmin' towards the flag. He's not even free yet. That's a good strategy, Aaron still has to cut the rope. 50 thou on the line! Aaron is strugglin' to cut that rope. Their lungs gotta be burnin' right now. Aaron got the rope cut. Louis is free! Louis is swimmin' with all he's got. (dramatic music) Time! How you guys feelin'? What are you thinkin'? they did it pretty quick. - (sensor beeping) yeah! As soon as Aaron gets that third knot, I'm already bookin' to that thing. - So, I've got like tension on the rope, so I can just cut through it real quick and he can already be - You got one shoe on right now. - I only got one shoe on (chuckles). - You goin' kinda crazy. I was tryin' to swim. - Obviously you guys know, Carmela and Jasmine, 56 seconds. You guys did it in, (suspenseful music) 36 seconds. - Yeah! Yeah! - All right, hey, hey, hey! Don't celebrate yet. - Yes, you are in pole however, Carmela and Jasmine Y'all are celebratin' entirely too early. - Three, two, one. Go! (dramatic music) (timer chimes) (dramatic music) - [Jasmine] Like, I had so I know it was probably not gonna be the easiest time for sure. - First knot's out. - [Jasmine] Watching her a hard time holding my breath as well. - Second knot's out. Third knot, she's got the third knot. She's not free yet, she's not free yet. 25 seconds. Oh no, she's comin' up for water, no, no. (timer beeping) She can't cut the rope. And it's over. They did not beat your 36 seconds. - Oh, let's go! - You guys just won 50,000. - Yeah! - This is Heads Up. Here's how it's gonna go down. Teammates will put their When the clock starts, water (water splashing) It is your job to drink this water before it covers your nose and your mouth to wear you cannot breathe. - Oh, man. - The clock will stop when one of you taps out and drains The team will the shortest time lose their shot at winning $50,000. - Fear of confined You put two of those - But that's not all. Inside there will be which you're probably going One randomly selected member of each team, will hand over their cellphone and I'm puttin' 'em in this box with you. (girls laughing) - Oh my God. Whenever she's like, I become the one that's like, not nervous. You got this, all right? Close your eyes and think about what you can do with the money. But also, once I was in oh, this is scarier than it looked. - Three, two, one, go! (timer beeping) Starting the clock. - [Jennie] When those I was still freaking out. - You're good. Hanna like, &quot;Oh, you got this Jennie. &quot;Just happy thoughts, - You're okay, you're okay, yeah. - Oh, that's fast, bro. - It's a big ass water There's your phone. 50 G's or the phone. - [Hanna] I felt pretty confident about it 'cause we practiced but I rely on my phone every single day. What am I gonna do without my phone? (girls gulping) - Oo! - Hanna, I think your Mom is (Jerry chuckles) I'll just tell her you're busy. Don't worry about it, I got it. Oh! - Oh! - [Hanna] My phone is completely - Don't worry about your phone floatin' in the water right now. - But I still had to act like You're okay, breathe. - Breathe, breathe. - What are you gonna do with the money? Way more money! - Remember at any moment pull that &quot;Fear Factor&quot; flag. - This is your last breath. - Hold your breath! (suspenseful music) They not givin' up yet, no givin' up. (dramatic music) - She's about to tap, she's about to tap. (dramatic music) - Pull it. (dramatic music) Time! All right. (girls gasping) - Oh my God! not me! - I know. Just breathe, you're okay. Are you okay? - I felt like my body was having a seizure or something in the water, but I was like, okay, I'm I'm not gonna pull it. - All right Jennie and Hanna, you had a time of 3:24. All right. - That ain't bad, that's nice. 3:24, all right that's - Up next, Daniel and Aqel. - I need plenty of money. to drink water periodically, just take a few sips and breathe, burp, take a few sips, breathe, burp. What's landin'? Oh, here's a beautiful baby boy. - Are we ready? - Three, - two, one. - Go! all the time, right? - Nowhere to go but down, You may not have to but you still gotta worry about the water. - It's bright. They haven't been drinking - that much. We were drinking like crazy. - I was just gulping down in the beginning. I think that was the most important thing. - You drink? I'ma drink right now. - Watching the other contestants, it was so much anxiousness I was just kinda like, scared. - Minute and a half. It's comin' for ya. - I ain't drinkin' no more. The higher the water rose, it definitely made me more nervous, because I couldn't drink anymore water. I was more focused on when am - It's 2:15, y'all got - They're not gonna be able to hold their breath for more than 30 seconds. - Any last words to your best friend before you guys drown? - You feel me. - That water's not gonna Face your fear guys, face your fear, face it, face it, face it. Goin' under. (dramatic music) Hold your breath, uh oh. How long can they hold their breath? - He's already freakin' out. - [Daniel] I was runnin' I was tryin' to hold it. We had a death grip underneath the table, and if I didn't - [Daniel] feel that grip anymore it was time to pull that lever. - Come on, don't panic, don't panic. (dramatic music) (Ludacris yells) Time! - Oh (sensor beeping)! I was runnin' outta breath quick, I was tryin' to hold it and then I had to pull that lever fast. - Hanna and Jennie, you Aqel and Daniel, you got a time of, 3:18. (girls squealing) - We definitely underestimated We not top dogs no more. We got a ways to go. - That means Jennie and Hanna, you guys are definitely And that means my man Daniel and Aqel, you guys are on the bubble. Jerry and Brynne, it's you guys turn. So, come on up. (team mates applauding) - Aside from the fact that I'm going to be close to drowning, I am also gonna lose my phone. I'm more afraid of drowning but both of them adds a - Any last words to Brynne, Jerry? - I love ya. - I love you too, Jerry. - Hey, that's nice. Sure you guys are just friends? - Yes we are. - 50k and you're phones are on the line. It is time to face your fear. Are you ready? - Yes, I'm ready. Let's go. - All right, on my go. Three, two, one, go! (water splashing) Y'all look extra thirsty - Just relax, breathe. - [Ludacris] Breathe, breathe. - [Brynne] A big part of our that we don't let the that way we don't accidentally choke on the water and we can to hold our breath under water longer. - Aqel, how you feelin' right now? This is pressure right here, huh? - Let's hope this man relives I feel like I'm waitin' for the results of a pregnant test, you - [Ludacris] All right, Jerry, This is where you face your fear. - You got this, guys. - [Ludacris] Oh, damn. There goes your phone. - Phone is gone. - Just relax, guys. - 2:30. - Think about the money. - No, don't think about the money. Think about the water. - [Hanna] You got this, guys! - Your worst fear is about to happen. The water's about to overtake you. - Just relax guys. Uh oh, uh oh. - [Ludacris] There's no challenge, no challenge, you can do it. (suspenseful music) Three minutes. - Just pull it. (water gurgling) Oh, Jerry, come on buddy. - Come on, Jerry! oh, he gotta go. - Pull it, pull it. - Stay calm! he's still in there? Oh, oh! (water gurgling) (Jerry gasping) - You okay, you okay? (Jerry coughing) - Jerry, you did that! You faced your fear, man! - You did good, I'm so proud of you. - As the water was rising I saw the hair, I saw everything, and like, almost just give up four times but what made me push through was the fact that I knew that Brynne was also going through it. - $50,000 is on the line here. Aqel and Daniel, Jerry and Brynne, your times were within Aqel and Daniel, your time was 3:18. Brynne and Jerry, you're and 15 seconds. - Whoa! (water splashing) - [Woman] No! - No, (sensor beeping) all that, man. - I call this challenge, Tea Baggin'. - Huh. (dramatic music) As you dangle from the helicopter 104 feet above the cold murky water, - [Ludacris] the helicopter in and out of the water, for you to unscrew those that are holdin' the cage door closed. Transfer them to that box. Once the door opens the stoppin' the clock. - Like, who's job is with us like this? (Ludacris chuckles) - The team that does this the fastest will have an extra $50,000 to go home to. - Yeah! Get started, get started, - While the other two will lose sleep for the next two weeks because they came this damn close to winnin' $50,000. (girls screaming) - [Lexi] Here we go. When the helicopter first like over the water, to get anxious because we are attached to a helicopter and it is - [Ludacris] They are hangin' on tight. Three, two, one, go! (water splashing) Looks like Lexi's goin' high. - [Lexi] Our strategy was since I'm a little bit taller that I was gonna start at the top and she was gonna start at the bottom and work her way up. - [Lanae] Being dropped in the You don't know when - We're going under, hold it, hold it! The dunk was scary to me because my head was hitting the top of the cage, and the water was very cold. Hold it on, hold it on, you go. - They got the first wingnut. Seven more to go. You wanna be careful not to - [Lexi] Okay, okay. - [Ludacris] Okay, they got another one. That's two! All right, they got three. - [Lexi] We'd get really flustered so it would just be the best idea to stay calm and focus on not - [Ludacris] It's tough - Yeah, that's true. - [Lexi] Stay there, stay there! - [Ludacris] They got four wingnuts. Five wingnuts, three more to go. (dramatic music) - Move, move, move, Lexi, don't turn. Pivot, pivot, pivot. - [Ludacris] Okay, they got another one. - [Lexi] Hold it, hold it! Come on, go, go. - [Ludacris] They got seven wingnuts. One more to go! - [Lexi] Under! - [Ludacris] Keep goin'. - Come on, let's get it. - [Lexi] One, two, three. (Lexi screams) - [Ludacris] And time! - I wish I was a little bit faster while we were turning I'm proud of, - how well we did. (triumphant music) - [Ludacris] All right, - [Alex] Yeah, man, here we go! - Three, two, one, go! (water splashing) Here they go. (water gurgling) Looks like they got a strategy of one workin' high, one workin' low. We shall see how this plays out. (dramatic music) They got one wingnut. They got two wingnuts. They're workin' fast. Their strategy might - [Alex] Bein' dunked in was my most anxious point. I mean, cold water, cold my body, my joints, they just lock up. - [Ludacris] That's three wingnuts. That's four wingnuts. - Just drop one. Watching the guys take their turn, we realized that our time might not have been as fast we thought. We are really counting - One false move can end (dramatic music) That's five wingnuts. That's six wingnuts. - [Alex] Goin' back down. - They're workin' on the last two. - Dropped it, he dropped it. Oh, did he? - He held onto it. They got seven wingnuts, one more to go. They got all eight wingnuts. - Let's jump, man. - [Ludacris] And they're out the door. Time! - At this point I'm confident - Right. I'm tellin' Luda, let's go. - [Alex] We don't get no applause? What? - Fine! you did that. congratulations, jump on back. - I'm (sensor beeping) (Ludacris laughs) - No (sensor beeping) love. - No welcome back, no nothin'. - Ladies, how you think they did? You said they did it pretty fast, right? - They did it pretty fast. - Thank you. Thank you. it pretty fast. - The time to beat from - Let's get that bad, Luda. - Let's get that bad, Luda. - Your time was-- - Two minutes and-- that bad, Luda. - Six seconds. (Alex laughing) - Oh my God. - Oh man! For this next challenge, you'll be facing the fear of drowning. - Drowning? - Well, actually more like upside down. - Upside down? - Oh no! - I'm freakin' out. I'm super scared. Drowning is not cool. - I call this next Water will rush into this tank. Once the water passes your One of your hands will be holding the rope at the bottom of the tank. The other will be holding a flag. If you let go of the flag or the rope the clock will stop and you will be safe. The team that spends in this tank will be sent home, and the other two teams will bringin' them one step closer to $50,000 for their favorite charity. Make sure you grab hold of that rope. (dramatic music) All right, start the water. (water splashing) - We're not gonna drown. Okay? - [Ludacris] Time will start - All right, we're and we're going to be ready. It was ice cold, immediately I mean, your body just Deep breaths in. Relax, breathe now. Breathe deep, now. As long as you can, brother. - [Ludacris] All right, - Breathe in your mouth Just breathe in. - Looks like Zach is under water. He's already holdin' his breath. Cody's still got his mouth above water. (sensor beeping) - Dude, he's panicking. - He's still not under yet. Water is risin' fast. Zach is startin' to struggle a little bit. - Brendon, I can't do this. Zach's really freaking out. I'm really terrified. I mean, this is like &quot;Fear (dramatic music) (sensor beeping) - Good job, guys. Good job. (all clapping) - (sensor beeping) God! - I'm happy that we're out. - Yeah, I was like Aquaman. But that was scary. I think that was way - Oh. - [Caleb] I was scared. - Start the water. 53 seconds is the time Uh oh. - [Caleb] I don't know if it but the nose plug fell off. The anxiety starts to kick in. - Don't worry about your nose plugs, just worry about holdin' your breath. Don't drop that flag. You hear me? (dramatic music) - Time starts now. (dramatic music) Uh oh. Oh (sensor beeping). - Oh (sensor beeping). - Water runnin' up his nose. I-- - And he's like blowin' Can we get this guy outta the water? (dramatic music) - Caleb's startin' to Oh, he's shaking. He's gonna push his fear to the extreme. (dramatic music) And we're out. - We better have beat their one. I tried to do what I to blow pea bubbles out of your mouth to slow it as long as you can, and then I literally - I'm really scared. You're fine. - That was tough, that was tough. Good job, man. was that for you? Did you see your brother - No, man, I just got (all laughing) I'm disappointed. - All right, well the time You guys got a time of, (dramatic music) 33 seconds. - Woo hoo. and Cody you guys are 100% movin' on to the Final Fear. - And so, Blake, Caleb, It just depends on what - You just have to relax. - No, don't, stop. You need to at least try, all right? - Rachel, I can see You up for doin' this? - I'm gonna do it. - You can definitely do this. - I'm gonna do it. - All right, come on. just makin' sure. - All right, we can do this. - I'm the only girl here and these guys probably have bigger lungs and better lung capacity than I do. - [Ludacris] Lower 'em down. - [Rachel] I'm literally I don't know if I can do this. - Drop the flag if you need to, okay? - All right. Fill the water. (water splashing) - It's okay. Relax. - [Rachel] You hear the water filling up. You can feel it. Every single one of your senses is telling you to get the H out of there. - Just relax, not yet. - Not yet. You ready? - Four, breathe in. Here we go (inhales). - The clock is starting. Rachel was crying earlier All we can do is wait. (dramatic music) - Drop it. (dramatic music) - Oh, this is gon' be close. And they're out. - Good job y'all. You did it. Rachel, you survived. - Woo! - Overcoming that fear, that I could just do it. - Good job, Rachel. Congratulations for conquering your fears. A lotta crying before you went but as soon as you got in - I went to my happy competition place. - Oh, wow. to get in that zen mind frame. - The husband get you there? - Most of the time I can get here there. - Even when I'm freaked out, Brendon's always here to let - 33 seconds is the time Rachel and Brendon, (suspenseful music) 50 seconds and you are 100% movin' on. Oh! All right. Caleb and Blake, I'm sorry, This is Flash Flood. One of you will be inside - What? - What? - The other will be strapped Then, I will sink this car. In the back seat are a buncha keys but only one will open the As the water violently the person in the front a key one at a time and swim to the trunk to release your partner. Here's the thing, if it's the wrong key, you gotta back until (Daiquan laughs) Once you get the flag from you swim to the buoy, stop your time. Whichever team does this whichever team does this This challenge is very dangerous, so we have safety divers in the water. This is serious business. So, by random selection, you guys are going up first. - [Sofia] Oh my God (gasps). - Sophia, you got this. - [Sophia] Dude, this is - [Summer] It's okay, it's okay. - This thing is so high up right now. Whew! Oh my God, oh my God, Honestly, my heart was I was like, I don't know What's it like in there? - Oh my God. - Three, two, one, go! (water splashing) Oh! (boys laughing) (Summer screams) - Oh my God. The water was like rising and rising. As it was coming up I didn't think I was gonna be able to breathe. (dramatic music) - [Sophia] I was kinda panicking 'cause I couldn't catch my breath. - That water is goin' up. Summer looks real worried right now. All right, you better hurry up, Sophia. Save your girl, go save her! She got the first key, First one doesn't work. (dramatic music) She's tryin' the second key. (dramatic music) Second key doesn't work. - Did she even put that thing in there? - I don't know. - [Ludacris] She's goin' for the third. (dramatic music) Third key, turn it out. Oh, it works! Oh, she got the flag! (dramatic music) Time! - So fast! - Just like a key (speaking faintly)! - I (sensor beeping). - I was like what the (beeping) is this? It was like (beeping) this. (suspenseful music) - Come on, come on, come Come on Cooper, let's do this bro. - When I was above the water, I was just tryin' to stay and try to think of a strategy Let's go baby, let's go. - [Ludacris] Women versus the men. - Let's go! - Three, two, one, go! - Oh, here we go! - [Ludacris] All right, the time to beat is 1:02. (water gurgling) (Daiquan yells) (water gurgling) He's off. (dramatic music) - Come on, Cooper, come on, come on, Cooper, come on, Come on Cooper, come on (dramatic music) (Cooper gasps) (dramatic music) - First key doesn't work. All right, he's throwin' that one away. He's goin' for the second one. (dramatic music) - [Daiquan] Come on, Cooper! - [Cooper] Trying to get him out was really a big priority for me. He doesn't like small spaces and he doesn't like water at all. - All right, he's got the How you feelin', ladies? - Nervous. - Come on, bro, come - Second key does not work. 30 seconds down. - [Daiquan] Come on, 30 seconds! - Throwin' away. Goin' for the third key. (dramatic music) (Cooper panting) Uh oh, he's strugglin' a little bit. He's gotta catch his breath. He's tryin' to come up for air. - [Daiquan] Come on, Cooper, (dramatic music) - [Daiquan] Come on, Cooper! - [Ludacris] All right, he's This could be it. This the third key. Oh, he got it! Go, go, go, go, go, - go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go! - [Ludacris] He's swimmin' for it. - Go, go, go, go, one more. Come on! - [Ludacris] Time! - Dude! - [Ludacris] That's down to the wire. - Man, I swallowed a lotta water. - [Ludacris] All right, come on in. (Cooper groans) - I didn't expect the water and I came up for air too much, and I mean, we tried our best, so. - [Daiquan] I wanna win, (hand patting) - All right, talk to me. What's goin' on in your head, man? You seem a little disappointed I'm sure it was close. (Daiquan groans) Daiquan, what's goin' on in your head? - I just wanna know, I just wanna know. Get it over with. - All right. The time to beat was 1:02 Daiquan and Cooper, one minute, and 25 seconds which means, Sophia and Summer, you just won $50,000! (Sophia laughing) - We got over it. - I call this last (dramatic music) You will be suspended dangling over this tank of water with your feet locked to the bottom wrung. - Oh no. - Now on my go, you and have to make your way up the cork screw, as it gets lowered into the water. Now since this stunt is so dangerous, there will be rescue divers close by. Unless you are a fan of drowning, I suggest you move quick. Once you reach the top, you both need to grab those Now the team with the at the bank on the way - Yeah! - And the losin' team will have one more thing to blame each other for. All right, the cork screw is lowered into the water on my go. Three, two, one, go! (dramatic music) - Ah, wait, lemme go first! Don't get stuck, don't get stuck on mine. Don't get stuck on mine. - They're already sliding. - [Jasmine] As soon as it was a little heavier to pull myself in. I started freaking out a little bit. - Cork screw is gettin' lower It doesn't look like they're Hurry up! - They're movin'! - Hey, don't worry. - Go under water! just start swimmin'. - Oh, man. - Uh oh. - [Tim] I'm freakin' out. I don't wanna get into the water. - [Jasmine] As soon as I got really scared. (dramatic music) - [Ludacris] Jasmine's goin' under. - They about to drown right here. - [Jasmine] Oo (choking)! - Come on, Jazz. - Looks like Tim's height - Get up, go! Go Jazz. Go Jazz! - They almost to the top. They each need to grab one flag. - Come on. - Keep goin', we almost there. - We're almost there. I got it. I got this! Why'd you pull that one? I can't reach the other one? - [Ludacris] Time! (Jasmine exhales) - You shoulda let me pull the closer one. - That seemed pretty intense. - Yeah. - Oh my God. That better be the fastest time. - All right, time to beat is 1:08. Three, two, one, go! (dramatic music) - [Tim] Don't start, don't start yet. - Wait! (Ludacris chuckles) (dramatic music) - Go, you got it? - Go, go, go, go. Move your legs up. Lift your legs, lift your Here we go, here we go. - [Ludacris] They're sinkin' fast now. - [Ashley] When we were I was literally floating. I don't know how but I just started going with the screw and it made it easier. - Wait, she is way ahead of him right now. (dramatic music) - [Ludacris] Focus, focus! - Hey Nick, you 'bout to down! - Go, come on! (dramatic music) - [Ludacris] Oh, Nick's under water. They're startin' to struggle. - Come on! - [Nick] When I was under water, I was thinkin' I was but I just had to go as fast as possible, hopin' that I keep my head above water. You got it. - You're so close! He couldn't get it. - Grabbin' it! - Grab it. - We already won. Just give up. - Grab it, grab it, grab it, come on. Come on, Nick. Come on! Can I grab it? Go, go, go! Go baby, go! - And time! (Ashley panting) - I can't believe it. be too close for comfort, bro. I think we beat. - I don't know, this is gon' be close. - We had to do it, we had to do it. (sensor beeping) - The time to beat from Jazz and Tim, was one 1:08. For $50,000, Nick and Ashley, you guys got a time of one minute, and six seconds. You just won $50,000! - Woo! (Tim yells) - Let's go! (sensor beeping) Woo! (Nick yelling) - So lemme share with You can survive eight days without water. However, if you are tied up (Mike chuckles) you'd only survive maybe four minutes or so. - I call this next challenge, Last Breath. (dramatic music) The two of you will be locked in that tank as it fills with water. One of you will be shackled to the bottom, while the other is tied to the top. The person up high will have to coax their teammate to finish a puzzle on a tablet that is over their heads. Once completed, it will reveal a code that will be used to free With one of you free, you will race against the rising water, to find the key to unlock your teammate who hangs helplessly. The clock stops when you are both free, and the three teams that are one step closer to $50,000. The one team that does it the slowest, they gon' have a wet ride home - All right? - By random selection, Hannah and Hailey, you guys are goin' first. - [Hailey] Going into I don't really like confined spaces. - We are definitely nervous. That fear set in that you could drown. - All right, start the water. (water splashing) - You're not cold. I'm not cold. - Are you ready? - Yeah! - Over to the right. Touch the pad. - Bail, bail! - Touch the right. Over to the right. Straight over, straight over to the left. It was scary having to direct Hannah so she could unlock that The water was rising Like, it started to freak me out. - [Hannah] It's scary - Nope, back. Go a little bit more down. - One wrong move on that And the water is rapidly rising. - The water is cold, right? - It's freezin'. - Hannah was shivering - and oh my gosh, - [Mike] she's not gonna - I felt really nervous. What's about to happen? What are we getting ourselves into? - [Hailey] Now go straight down, straight down, straight down. (keypad beeps) 3951, code. - Okay, they got the code. - [Ludacris] They got the pattern. - [Hannah] I didn't even she started screaming numbers. - [Ludacris] Now she just - [Hailey] I felt kinda helpless. Like, my hands are just behind my back. Like, she's the one that and then come and unlock me. - No, she's taken too long. - [Hailey] You're good. Stand up, stand up. Get that key-- - [Hailey] Gey that key, get the key. Let's go. - [Ludacris] Now she's got the keys. Makin' good time so far. Get that key in. You got it, you got. - [Hailey] Keep going, (water splashing) - And time! - I'm so proud of you. Thank you. - [Ludacris] That was pretty damn good. - That was good. - [Ludacris] Fill the tank. (dramatic music) - But there's a little anxiety. I remember a little anxiety about this. - Three, two, one. Go! - Four down, down. - No, no, no, no, no. Come out this one. Go down, down. No, don't touch the screen. Go down, don't touch the screen. - Left, you're wrong. - No, no, no. - Move your, put your hand down. Down, down, down. Go diagonal. - [Ludacris] That water - Touch, keep goin', keep goin', good. Come on. out because it's cold water. Freaking freezing. - Up, up, up, up, up, diagonal. Right. Up, up, diagonal, diagonal, diagonal-- - [Ludacris] Now one wrong move and they're gonna have (keypad beeps) - Good, good. No, up, up, up, up, up, up. (keypad beeps) 9274. 9274. you got your code. (all yelling) Now, get those locks off to get to safety. It's gettin' up to his head. - I'm normally good at holdin' my breath. I'm singin' and hopin' the water is risin'. I don't have that much time. Every second counts so I'm like, oh my God, I have to - Come on babe, you got this. He hasn't come up for air yet. All right, he's got it. Oh, he doesn't have it. - [Shay] 9274. What is happening? You have the numbers, why My whole body was gonna be under water, so I'm just hopin' my - He doesn't wanna be responsible for lettin' his wife drown. - Come on, babe. Come on, come on. (dramatic music) - [Girl] Pull the lever, pull the lever. - [Ludacris] He's got it. All right, he's lookin' for the key now. - Open your eyes. - [Ludacris] I don't he should be floatin'. open your eyes. - [Ludacris] All right, he's got the key. - [Shay] Come on, come on. (dramatic music) - [Ludacris] And time! - Oh! - Shay and Mike, how you feel? - You know, it is what it is. We didn't quit. We didn't quit. - Okay. The time to beat was 1:11 Shay and Mike, you guys got a time of, 2:39, which means Hailey and Hannah, you are 100% movin' on to the next challenge. - Oh, man. the bubble Mike and Shay. It just depends on what - All right. - Bein' in the tank for the first time, I don't really like tight spaces. We're both wide bodied guys. You get a little bit of heart beating. (Ed chuckles) (Khairi imitates heart beeping) - [Khairi] You gotta do - All right, start the water. (water splashing) - Get ready to do it quick. 2:39. Are you guys ready? - Yep! - Three, two, one, go! - Bottom middle right Over to your left, No, down, down, down. Down, down. Almost there. Up to your left, come on, now left. Left, left. - [Ludacris] That water is risin' fast. - Over to your right. - [Khairi] When I'm in the and they like, the water's comin' up so I'm like aw, man, I gotta hurry up. - Straight up, straight up. 6139, 6139. - [Ludacris] All right, he got the pass code. - He's goin' for the lock. 6139! Stand up, stand up, stand up. - [Ludacris] All right, he's got the lock. Now he's lookin' for the key. (Ed laughs) - Let's go, let's go, let's go! - [Ludacris] Goin' for the - Come on, man, come on. - [Ludacris] Oh, he keep (all yelling) - I think we got it. - Come on boy, go! (water splashing) - And time! - Get up! - [Ludacris] I don't know, that was close. - [Ludacris] How you guys think you did? - We did cool. - All right. Well, the time to beat is 2:39. Khairi and Ed, you guys which means you're 100% movin' on. That puts you on the bubble It all depends on what Miranda Time to beat, 2:39, are you ready? - [Alana] Ready! - Three, two, one, go! - Right, right. - Down or right? - You're not even touching it. - Uh oh, she's havin' a little trouble here on her sister's directions. - Up and to the right. Move it to the left. (all yelling) - [Ludacris] All the competitors - Now down, except diagonal, diagonal. - [Alana] I was so confused. Miranda was all over the place. It just didn't seem like she was following the strategy that we planned. - [Miranda] Diagonal down. - What does that mean? - Diagonal this way. - [Alana] I could just and that started to freak me out. - All right, now this way - [Ludacris] The water - Uh oh. and like I was stressin' a little bit. - [Miranda] Straight. All right, 4095. (all yelling) - [Ludacris] All right, she got the code. - [Miranda] 4095. - [Ludacris] She's gotta hurry 'cause Miranda's almost under water. Tryin' to get those locks. This is gonna be close. - You can quit! (dramatic music) - All right, she's got the lock. Now she gotta get the key. She got the key. It's gon' be really close. (dramatic music) And she's got the key and time! - All right, it was so close that there was a difference of - Oh my God. - Shay and Mike, you Miranda, Alana, you guys got a time of, two minutes, 29 seconds which means you are moving on! Oh man! (all chattering) I call this Trapped Under Ice. Two of you will be submerged When the clock starts, release each and every wingnut until the door opens. And time stops when you grab those flags. Because I care about you guys, I put three holes at the top of the cage in order for you to breathe. - Oh, thanks. stuff at home. But listen, here's the thing. If you go up for air, - Oh! - [Ludacris] Time is something - Okay. - But use those holes if you need 'em. - Got it. do mouth to mouth. - All right. or somethin'. (all laughing) - Cold, cold, cold, cold, cold. Woo! - [Ludacris] How cold is it? - Real cold! - Did I not tell you that? (guys laughing) Are you guys ready? - [Guys] Yeah! - [Ludacris] Release the sharks! - Oh (sensor beeping)! - No, I'm jokin'. I'm just messin' with ya. Three, two, one. Go! - Oh, jeez. Oh, the breath! The last breath. (dramatic music) - [Ludacris] Oh, they got a strategy. Max is at the top, Oh, Carlos already got one off. Max is havin' trouble - [Marissa] Oh, it's stuck. - All right, Carlos! Wow. Carlos is goin' hard He's got three wingnuts so far. I can't believe they They must be short on air. (dramatic music) Max is up at the hole, all right. (dramatic music) Max finally got his wingnut off. That makes four. (dramatic music) Uh oh. - Max look like he's hurtin' at the hole. - Yep. he's breathin' in more water than air. Uh oh, Carlos needs to breathe but Max took the closest hole. - Uh oh. - [Ludacris] He's tryin' to - [Max] This can't be good. - [Ludacris] Can they even breathe? - Uh oh. to breathe, they're He's in trouble. He's signalin' for help. Pull up now! Carlos quit. (dramatic music) Yo, what happened, what happened? - There was too much By the time I got some I noticed he still had most so at that point I was like, oh, I'm a one man team and just, I panicked and I had to quit - All right, Alvarez brothers, what happened inside the cage? - Man, it was tough. - As soon as I went up for air, I mean all I caught was water, so, yeah. - I had to call it. - You guys did a good - Yeah. to understand that this is But here's what's going to happen. Marissa and McKenzie are gonna try their hand at this cage. - If they get out of that they are going to win the $50,000. If they do not succeed, - All right. - Like a plan, yeah. - Let's go. - Let's go. - Oh, it's super cold! - You'll get used to it in no time, don't worry about that. All right, here we go. Final Fear, $50,000. Three, two, one, go! - [Carlos] There it goes. (dramatic music) - [Ludacris] McKenzie's at the bottom and Marissa has the top. (dramatic music) (Marissa gasping) They started with breathin'. They did it a little They started out with breathin'. It seems like McKenzie's Marissa's the one getting the wingnuts. The ex marine is the one Uh oh. Oh no, Marissa's in trouble, Marissa's in trouble. - Breathe! They are strugglin' to breathe. They're strugglin' to breathe, though. (dramatic music) - [Carlos] Don't panic! - McKenzie, you good? McKenzie's hurtin', he's hurtin'. McKenzie just looks panicked. I don't know what the hell's goin' on. Now she's takin' after her brother. She finally stepped up to the plate. She's crazier than her brother right now. (dramatic music) McKenzie got a second wind. He's lookin' determined. Another wingnut. He's got three wingnuts so far. - This is kinda stressful. (dramatic music) - It looks like they're they're gettin' in a rhythm. Oh, that's two more wingnuts. (dramatic music) He's out, they got it. Uh oh! Marissa's goin' the wrong (dramatic music) Pull the flag, come on, come on! (dramatic music) There it is, Final Fear! $50,000! (dramatic music)