DEVON: Hello and welcome! My name is Devon Anderson American Association on health and Disability. I am wearing pink half framed glasses, and a tan Nuria Piracha, and Cassandra Moore, who will all accessibility needs needs or questions you may accessibility needs in the chat. Thank you for year's Disability and Health webinar series . robust conversation today around non-apparent Autoimmune conditions are considered to be under autoimmune conditions as invisible or nonapparent may be considered incomplete and could imply always looking to the community for guidance and conditions. We understand that non-apparent may be is still ever changing. Speakers may oscillate as well, so feel free panelists to use whatever also want to talk more about the research that the All of Us Research Program - stay tuned for more to explore health questions around disability, This event is brought to you by the American of our Disability Community Engagement Health to involve the disability community in health All of Us is an initiative to engage 1 million individualized healthcare for all. We hope you'll and we will be sharing information about All learn more and register for the program at the the webinar, and now for some housekeeping. shared publicly after the event. We have closed any other access needs or troubleshooting in the slowly for the ASL interpreters we hope you'll appear in the chat and should have popped your thoughts on the series and if there are any like to take for a few a few minutes now for we begin our afternoon here together. We have SILC. Jenn was just 33 years old when she had a most of her life trusting health care providers, she began to more deeply navigate the main out things on her own. She is now on a mission the health care that they need and deserve. Jenn Independent Living Council and is the co-founder aims to create a hub of resources for brain state and federal services. Next we have Ashlee Pathways Vermont, she has a Bachelor's of Social disability awareness, and critically reflecting on contribute to their ongoing influence in our with a disability, which has opened her eyes to kept her motivated to continue working toward a in all of the work that she's been doing to help Next is Jess L. Wilcox Cowing, multiply disabled scholar the University of Wyoming's Disabilities Studies lead for the Children's National Hospital Related Disabilities Fellowship Program, also 18th and 20th Century literary studies, feminist work is published in the Journal of Feminist Cusp: Late 19th-/Early 20th-Century Cultures. and works on Piscataway homelands. We have Dr. post-doctoral fellow in disability Justice at the competency in disability conscious approaches Hispanic languages and literatures and a doctoral studies from the University of Pittsburgh. I so you will see me pop up throughout the conversation to sort of help the flow of things. So let's get to know the work of the panelists. a physical description and I'll start with Jenn real quickly, briefly start off with a physical just touch on how the topic of the day in with the work that you do. So, Jenn, we'll start with reading my bio, Devon. I am a white woman in my a tan scarf, with a blurred white background. As Devon mentioned, I am the Executive Director of the Statewide Independent Living I am able to translate a lot of my own experiences through support groups into my work and I'll touch on that in my presentation on how those kind of intermingle but really I'm awareness. DEVON: and Ashlee, how about you? ASHLEE: Hi there, my name is Ashlee, I'm a white and white and orange flower dress and you can passionate about this work as somebody who well as a physical disability, but I learned as the society attitude towards my physical different from my condition that is invisible for me it's all about how do we kind of bring is invisible does not mean it's non-existent or it. DEVON: Great, thank you, it's very true. Thank you this is Jess. I am a white person who's like to point out I am wearing a t-shirt that system,&quot; I got this from a disabled creator this figures into my work. It actually kind I research and teach in a bunch of lives with an autoimmune condition among other for me, it's not really related to my work but maybe more in the realm of advocacy that I do and just something I'm passionate DEVON: You're welcome, thanks for being here, and Natalia, so happy to be here, very grateful for this and I am a Puerto Rican woman in her hair, and I guess I'm light skinned but a wine toned Blazer. So sort is very personal, I do have psoriasis and as learning about the link between psoriasis and autism in May and in my dissertation I do touch on the implication of transgenerational trauma and the development of autoimmunity so, but only work. DEVON: Thank you. Sorry, I lost the unmute button I'm looking forward to the rest of get started with Jenn Williams. I'm going to slides. Are you all able to see the bit. Good - there, perfect. Okay, let me know when to So again, hi, I'm Jenn Williams. I am a born and a stroke at age 33, they believe it was caused combined with family history. I don't have high pressure, I don't have diabetes or, you know, any the idea of where that came from. I hear a lot wanted to talk about the invisible disability part autoimmune disorders that happen after disability, more about the invisible part of things, and the world really. You can go to the next one, disability, people don't understand what they people all the time, people aren't living in your they will forget it's not a day-to-day for them, because it's not like something to be guilty of, see my family for Christmas, they don't necessarily using crutches, they don't recognize that there are there for you if you feel like reading through my or not taken seriously because of invisible a lot of judgments and there tends to be like to be more resources for people if you have invisible disability, particularly cognitive. Cognitive rehabilitation is not part of post-stroke care, typically It's PTOT, so physical and I didn't need speech therapy, I for a year and I kept saying to my neurologist, don't understand what's different,&quot; and I finally helped me understand what my brain was doing kind of research what I had for resources what therapy, so I did music therapy for a year and the grocery store to going to the grocery store if you dig in and you search, you can find things talk openly about it. I talk about my stroke and it's probably annoying to some people but you you're going to have that connection with. I met Uber from the airport and the Uber driver said, I was there for the conference and I was a stroke his head around and said, &quot;Really? Me too!&quot; He didn't didn't know about music therapy, he had his stroke he was not aware of, and a lot of support that gotten so we obviously became fast friends and of the many reasons that I talk openly about it It allows you to make connections inside and has been touched by an invisible disability, and the United States every nine seconds so every in the United States, so you know somebody with or they might might not even recognize that they Advocate and educate - we can teach people about on things that are really passionate and important just go along with it - so we can advocate for invisible disabilities, we can educate legislators, and what we need and then the other part of someone else may have an invisible disability. but what about the person I'm talking to? Maybe autoimmune disease and they want to talk about you, there are other people that you talk to that please, so I I'll start with the NIH study portion a brain injury but it's not usually talked two-fold increased risk of developing acquired of the adrenal glands. A very common issue for people went to Boston and got an in-lab sleep study with have sleep latency and I need to adjust my life that my sleep schedule has shifted, that is not my sleep schedule, so I met with a naturopath on said, &quot;What else can I help you with?&quot; I said &quot;If you said &quot;Well, we can test your melatonin and cortisol checking my melatonin levels and they said that &quot;It's not unreliable, it's a saliva test, here you go, and I found out from that that I produce basically why I was sleeping for 12 or 14 hours because I also was producing melatonin at the wrong times of over what it even should be when you're sleeping most of the day, not getting the cortisol bumped to spike in the middle of the day, so she worked with working through that, but that is a diagnostic primary my neurologist, the sleep doctors in Boston, you help me with that?&quot; I would still I don't sleep for 48 hours, I'm up for two I also learned that I have an anti-diuretic my body doesn't process electrolytes the way that so that I need like replacement hormones but dehydrated, I get headaches because I'm take more electrolytes to help balance that out Another topic I wanted to talk about today was it really just means reactivation of symptoms. So Massachusetts General in 2017. NIH just did a study from the Massachusetts General study, deficits motor sensory, or language function, infection, benzothiazine use were higher during poststroke compared with the control group, patients who did more women, African-American individuals, and those analogy of how this happens when you have a brain neurons that die. The neurons around the dead ones, dead neurons. That's what recovery is - your body can walk again, that you can write your name again... which in the body, could be literally anything - blood pressure, anything like that, those neurons first job only.&quot; So ,they stop picking up that second can get their symptoms back and feel like they're really just that they're stressed or tired and again, it's something that is not discussed, it's common in support groups, and it's important Devon. So why and how indivisible invisible movement - we talked about this a little bit in our experiences between people with invisible and how do those translate into finding resources I've learned from being a part of support groups movement. There's always different perspectives. injury, you've seen one brain injury. They are same place in your brain, your recovery and This also has just created a passion what I didn't have access to or what want to share resources and information with it. DEVON: Thank you so much, Jenn for being here so much from you and being a part of your months ago at NCIL and I look forward after the rest of our panel. JENN: You're your slides next here I'm going to make them ASHELL: Hi everyone, so I'm going to be talking about non-parent disabilities and why are we please. So, I do want to state POTS is a very long time however, awareness for POTS the COVID-19 pandemic. It was estimated that about 10% of uh the general population was living with a non-visible or nonapparent disability and something that was really crucial to remember is that nonapparent does symptoms and you cannot see how they impact I noticed in my own journey trying to physical disability, which is very apparent, is validity than my experience after being diagnosed typically see unless I become symptomatic and that we need to start transitioning and helping the medical system as a whole recognize that just because you cannot see something readily does sort of need to bring awareness to and have a lot and hopefully that the medical professionals will something, doesn't mean that it doesn't exist, All right, so POTS has been around of POTS, I noticed, really picked up after the to see a lot of long haulers with COVID-19 traction, doctors became a little bit more aware of of foundational knowledge of what POTS is and that we can receive, as well. POTS stands for a bit of a mouthful but when you break that of the body, orthostatic is when somebody fast heart rate, and that is medically deemed as is a collection of experiences. So all of these important to understand as well that even if a to have identical or even similar diagnosis please. It appears to be entering full There we go. Right, so thankful I'm not on the technology end stuck out to to me is that POTS was discussed there is no cure, this is lifelong, and we good luck, and kind of sent me on my way, and the community themselves because I noticed the there was not a cure, there was abandonment in wasn't going to be attainable for us. So there is not true. Just because there's not a cure do. Of course, if we can eliminate something management and how managing symptoms can improve toolbox, I was suffering, I was unable to get out and my mental health suffered until I do to take an active role in kind of managing my garments, this can be abdominal, as well as pooling, so when you stand all of the blood drains come back up, leaving your brain kind as well is eating smaller meals more frequently, the blood goes right to our stomach to in the stomach which means that it's not properly getting to your brain and your vital organs. Physical therapy and activity safely and with supervision has also been huge to sort of that I'm not completely intolerant of movement there are medications, such as beta blockers, the beating of the heart, and as well as keeping your cardiac muscle because those bigger ranges please. All right so, something that often underdiagnosed or misdiagnosed because of nature of symptoms versus another. So, for example, headedness with or without syncope, which means the heart, it beating too fast, exercise activity long term, because of that beating heart and experiencing tremors, typically of hands and blurry vision. Those are symptoms that well. I noticed that the nature was to start and I wonder if we will get to a time where our way up. POTS can be seated as a singular with other conditions as well such as Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, mass cell activation, and gastroparesis, just to name a few and because POTS is a form means that there is a lot under it but it is describing essentially a disorder of the autonomic nervous system which is responsible as heart rate, breathing, and those are some please. All right so I'm gonna break down some above, POTS is typically seen cooccurring with getting this diagnosis can be difficult is sometimes easier to see the secondary of people who are diagnosed with POTS also somebody stands up and our body releases that epinephrine and that lack of oxygen and that headache so that's kind of do feel quite similarly but also quite different, which is genetic, so typically Ehlers-Danlos syndrome is a connective tissue tight and together unfortunately is not there around the joints so these individuals will dislocations in joints that should be staying in place. Around, just over, 19% of people with POTS are also diagnosed with autoimmune diseases POTS diagnosis have mass cell activation, which anything that's introduced to the body. It it and attack it which results in what we would please. All right, so what is the average time Unfortunately, the average time uh that years for someone to get diagnosed with POTS. I I was discharging from the hospital my doctor, &quot;hey, this is what I'm feeling...&quot; He means that we test in real time what my standing, walking, and I walked out of conveyed orally, I think, this is what you have of testing but I was very lucky that it this is what I have because most of us are raise awareness and speak about it, we can help bring that number down a little bit. Next slide, please. All right, so you have POTS, what the to maintain them? Right, this is something around. I'm lucky that I have one job that I can cannot do remotely, and I'm noticing that I am I have? I didn't want to have to quit because you do for me, so that I can do my job which is a but you should have an employer that before you can get accommodations, I want you symptoms, what are your specific job tasks and you're experiencing interfere with your ability please. All right, so this is certainly not persons with POTS who are experiencing it because of that we are at a increased risk of sometimes we have difficulties with our gross of some accommodations that you can ask for is work chairs that have armrests and no wheels, so sitting to standing, and it's going to have its You should have access to fluids so if have food or drink at your workstation, this that I have at the hospital, as well because need to drink about a gallon of fluid to sufficiently to the body so there are things identifying where it is that you need support and yourself. That's all I got so it's important to remember that as the person experiencing the symptoms, and I encourage you to be patient with It's okay that you get fatigued, COVID-19 really helped raise DEVON: Thank you so much, Ashlee. I feel like we have pandemic and I'm glad you brought up long-COVID well, so thank you, looking forward to some getting to that, as well. I'm going to stop Jess L. Wilcox Cowing, and they have no slides, they chatting away, so I'm going to hand it over. JESS: Hello, it's funny, I just had a coughing fit because right here. I finally got into a POTS clinic diagnosis, hopefully in some more support. talk about autoimmunity, what what it means to want to get to the individual impacts in terms going to add in my experience as examples recommendations after, if anyone finds that ...I'm assuming a lot of you here live with an who does but I think it's helpful to define What is an autoimmune disease? I should say, I just spend a lot of time in doctor's offices so I was initially, I should say, I had so this is something I've been living with since as someone who, I think it was Jenn was saying, like having to do a lot of this on my own. So, an autoimmune disease essentially means that, and this is like, there's so many autoimmune conditions, so the process looks differently for each immune system is so active, it's so active that to respond to threats that it perceives even is your immune system is recognizing healthy your tissues, right? It essentially means your and the symptoms that arise as a process of that, diseases are. And, so this can happen in all parts anything from Myasthenia Gravis to I believe Type different kinds of arthritis are autoimmune forms know the most about arthritis. I have an autoimmune hundred different kinds of arthritis, and something doesn't just affect old people. And, this was of it. I had no concept of this. So arthritis can and use. Often, that can look like osteoarthritis, you don't even have to be old to have happens from use, wear and tear, possibly different autoimmune, which means they're coming from your of your body, especially the tissue around your when it doesn't need to be, and that's what causes that word, but changes to the shape of your fingers, have is psoriatic arthritis; it's two diseases a two in one. Yeah, not exciting. So, it means you it can be a minor case of psoriasis or it can be you also have an autoimmune arthritis component Sometimes your knees, your hands, and your there are people who have all ranges of experience. have an overwhelming amount of arthritis. As my very aggressive case of psoriatic arthritis. For There are juvenile forms of arthritis. There are in the autoimmune category when that happens. I really healthy kid, like to a point where I rarely got sick; I had the flu, like twice that I was just a healthy person, and then in my early my experience was I woke up one morning and what happened to me. It can look like that. It onset, there were things that had happened prior time as symptoms of an autoimmune disease, but in started a few months before,&quot; with weird feelings in just wasn't able at the time to recognize it. But almost overnight it felt like I didn't recognize searing back pain in the middle of the night. And some people have a gradual onset, right? people and across different diseases and their with autoimmune disease. I'm thinking of I think it was possibly Jenn who said this a lot of it, you are figuring it out on your use myself as an example. I was a 26-year-old I had I was a healthy young person up until that and this was before the Affordable Care Act where so the insurance I was able to get was like the like a portion of your emergency room visits and out of pocket for a lot. So when I started Health Center, and I went two or three times. I think finally on the third time, the doctor who And, I was like, I don't even know what that is. So, I did get a diagnosis; it ended up being not diseases, in you know following what Ashlee autoimmune conditions because there are some common degenerative where they get - not all of them but like, okay you started here, now you're here. This with rheumatoid arthritis, and I was given a and the thing about my version of psoriatic arthritis is it's really - you're in a tough spot, right? the same time, a lot of autoimmune diseases do the it. So, when you have, and this is what happened destruction that was happening in the first two or onset. But, I didn't have the right treatment, and The kind of arthritis I happened to have, I know needed medical intervention like immediately when recognize, oh this is what's happening. And, so a of the disease is actually like truly because and to get a practitioner rheumatologist who saw this aggressively. So the disability I have now is hands, and it took a long time to feel that have different shapes. I'm a small, petite person, This is a result of bone damage, the bones, and of these fingers, and a lot of that came from have a doctor recognizing what was going on and So, autoimmune diseases, a lot of the symptoms are a of aimed at preventing future damage and to sort that can take a toll on people. I've had for the more aggressive forms of autoimmune which are injections that you inject yourself or are essentially, like there's a monopoly on extended, and a lot of them have a brand name, version. These medications out of pocket cost, think about that before the age where people had disease, and this still happens even with the ACA, essentially had to sort of accept, 'I'm never going to get the kind of treatment I actually need.' If you have insurance, sometimes it will cover a and I've spent time doing this, is troll will give you essentially like a stipend to have to submit a lot of personal information, a lot of personal information, right? That's I now am in a better position where I have my medications, but I've had a lot of instances security can basically completely disrupt my of my disease and my health entirely because of that's a really important part of understanding like not everyone has access to health insurance. good rheumatologists are far and few between. There's parts of the US where people are traveling like 4 hours, more than that, to get to juvenile forms that affect kids. I happen now to and I have this awesome Hopkins rheumatologist. I would strongly recommend Dr Anna Maria Orbai. That's O R B A I. I'm one person, and I've only physician who has actually recognized what's managed. I mean not in a bad way, but like since I was like in my early 20s in terms of my you're in that area or if you're willing to travel thing, right? There are people who travel from and aren't enough rheumatologists in this country to it's referred to as an epidemic, of autoimmune to. Can someone let me know if I'm running portion? DEVON: You're good. If you... JESS: Great! I right, that living with an autoimmune asking about, like, how do I support people? How do just the limitations, right, if you're a young a supportive family, but I also had to do a to figure out how health insurance works. I had never had to on my own do that before. I had to, at 27, figure out how I was charged for something I shouldn't have point, and so, like, an extra $100 bill was month. And so I had to figure out how to appeal and people of all ages deal with with autoimmune have talked about so far, and I've learned so much being recognized, having a long time to get a in the way that one health insurance exists in its and also the way that our medical system is prevents people from seeing the big picture, the kind of insurance where to see a specialist separate doctor's appointment to go to your have them believe you, right? Which, like, depending the world, depending on your communication style, you have to go to primary care, get a referral, this, if you are trying to see a specialist for the a year. So, if you were like me and most of your years, that's how a lot of people end up with periods. Once you get in with a specialist, it's a new appointment with a new provider, it can take that really, really impact how much someone's day to day. Folks here have mentioned, like, struggles know a lot of people, too, when you have expressed diagnosis - if you don't know what's going on, I mean you know what's going on in your body - I'm experiencing this, I'm experiencing it really, really limits how much you can advocate push for different treatments. So, for a lot of us, even getting to like mental health conditions, when you don't have a diagnosis, it makes it harder was in 2011, I was getting a master's degree in student. I was a young person. I was, I think, I a college course for the first time. The first time the fall that I was experiencing most of the not know what was happening to me. I was waking not able to hold a marker and take the cap off, something extremely wrong, but I didn't know it was because I didn't even have the language to know. and because I don't have the words or language to other people, and it wasn't until 2013 where DC area where I was finally diagnosed with psoriatic a misdiagnosis. The first rheumatologist was in the - exactly what I have, and I have more - and now researcher, so I do this for everything in my life, available. Without that diagnosis, it really right? It limits your own understanding of what's to know what is happening right with your body, autoimmune disease, and it's a huge aspect of what someone trying to like understand what your family just some things to, I guess, think Kingdom&quot; by Megan O'Rourke. She's a disabled person Syndrome and POTS, and she's had dysautonomia. what was going on, and then she wrote a book about like us who have just had these like decades lost And, she has so much information in there that's aren't a medical professional, if you aren't, you of it is aimed at a general audience for people to is helpful. I'd also recommend the book Inflamed one journalist and one practitioner writing bigger picture, right, because it gets will say there's like one tiny mention of autism brief, and it's more in the realm of, like, they're a small caveat, but overall, I found that really written with people in mind who aren't medical than other things. I can stop there, but I'm and if you don't mind putting those book titles that would be fantastic, and next up that was those books myself. Natalia, I will share my everybody and thank you all to the panelists can meet that standard. So, yes, so uh my title and Autoimmunity. Again my first name is Natalia, currently a Mellon post-doctoral research fellow University. So, quite akin to Jess, I'm approaching from an anecdotal storytelling, so I'm not but as it pertains to my personal experience. helpful, and just to give an image description a doctor, a clinician, interacting with her hand side, you will see a light-skinned doctor next to her, it's not immediately apparent, but on who's wearing a bun and has kind of I'd say background. So, next slide please, it should yeah, so a little bit about me. I developed and I only have psoriatic disease. I don't have any obviously underscored with their personal So, at a very young age, there was some evidence, right, of chronic inflammation, and what's important to know about problem, right? It often shows up as a scales, as plaques psoriasis. Sometimes there's Guttate psoriasis. So, those are circular lesions that tend to like Strep throat, and I'll talk a little bit more in my family, especially among women. There polymyositis. And, polymyositis, for those of you muscular atrophy, but basically it's a progressive your muscles and eventually your mobility if it's think that, I think, I guess many people who live moderate to severe flareups when they're going moments, and then I'll go later into how some of stressful moments, but what I recall is that cuz I was navigating all the difficulties with executive functioning issues, which in high school was that I just had really lesions on my stomach, all over my arms, they were use topical ointments, and salicylic acid, and I burn, and I would just be just like writhing in pain. morning, I would, you know, put on my medication, and really just feeling I was just in pain. So don't always work. I believe that there are some D basis, and then obviously with steroid cream, right for two weeks, or that can also atrophy So, another thing that happened to me during early 20s. My grandparent died of gastric semester, of my Master's program. And, from, I guess fairly unstable, under control, and And, I'm not sure if you are familiar cooking, and this is essentially what happened. So, spread of psoriatic lesions after a skin injury, minor lesion and then it spread throughout my arm. psoriasis. So, yeah, and then, and what I also difficulty with my graduate classes. I started just stressed-based responses that And, then during my doctoral dissertation phase, after a health scare, I developed Guttate psoriasis, which I mentioned circular lesions that just are just spread and now it's a little bit more stable, but I went another grandparent of mine passed away, So, there is an emotional stress-induced So, I'm going to talk a little bit about ASD, and there may be moments where I'm perhaps using way, so I wouldn't be surprised if I got some push explain the following to the best of my ability. then I had previously been underdiagnosed with ADD and like I mentioned before in graduate school, aggressive flareups, that's when I started having have these crying spells; I would have these panic guess those symptoms of mental health struggles, through my independent research and my readings, especially sort of leading up to the point where I realized that I needed to get a near during the latter part of my doctoral program, I just started looking up information, I guess, especially written informally by um neurodivergent women on the spectrum, and they were all mentioning, you know, the co-occurrence women, and women-presenting people. And, I've research looking at open access materials and NIH the most common autoimmune issues affecting people appear to be a link between autoimmunity and ASD, and in my estimation, and I want to insert a caveat here. I'm not denying the critical genetic disease, but biology alone in my estimation so fully illuminate what's happening. So, you know I try to emphasize in my dissertation is that trauma-based factors that are implicated in panic attacks, mood disorders, etc. So, it's not just this issue of co-occurrence, but, you know, even you know prescribed medications contraindicated prescribed medications that especially with these sub-specialties, right, that a medication like lithium to address disability in the way that it's framed unfortunately, in society and completely sort of ignoring the possibility of chronic inflammation this symptomatology. So, for instance, in the case there um can be a period of transient psychosis, for instance. So, I remember especially referred to during the dissertation you know, an experienced dermatologist I'd been and he just categorically denied you know the He just flat out said, &quot;Nope, there's no link.&quot; And, that I obviously disagree with that statement. In general, though not always, I do tend to be a little bit more receptive when I just to clarify the terminology that's anamnesis, what the patient reports to the clinician, and of the potential validity. You still need diagnosis, and I'll talk later, and philosopher at Georgetown about the importance not only an informed patient but allowing a your symptomatology the way that you experience it. decisions and being an autonomous patient. Kukla, the passages from Kukla's paper, just use not AI, but looking into peer-reviewed Open Access has a database on this. NIH also includes articles, they're jargony, but I think, you know, with just reviewing and rereading moments of clarity, and you will be able to inform medical decisions and in consultation with an informed patient also offers opportunities additional work in the subfield of psychoneuroimmunology, right. So, an interdisciplinary approach that allows an opportunity to and then you know immune-mediated conditions. Let's see, next slide please. It's slide five. So, I just wanted to read out and I will um share the link to this article. So, Kukla is a really important philosopher who gets into feminist approaches to bioethics and the importance of um a more equitable dynamic between patients and clinicians to lead to an powerful quote, and I read: &quot;We cannot make high unless we have access to an expert who can provide situations. However, even financially secure North what Jess was referring to - &quot;a health care system discontinuity of caregivers, and elaborate Hence there may be no one person who is in in a whole.&quot; So, two more quotes that I think are just of, sort of predisposed to not necessarily trusting the judgment of their patients. So this first quote says, &quot;84% of clinicians rate their patients information they find on the web and almost three independent research hampers the efficiency of this research improves efficiency,&quot; and then they consider psychiatric disorder recognized DSM. So, it's called factitious disorder imposed on hypochondriacs who apparently either fabricate intentionally inflict physical damage on them a series of exposes over the past few years is overdiagnosed and sometimes deployed against weapon that's used against these very different diagnosis. And, really what this that just questioning, actively questioning a defiance or denial, right? And, I will finish here this last quote, which I think speaks to the between clinicians and patients so the last quote the seventh slide before the source. So, &quot;Good and skilled expertise of practiced clinicians. But an expectation that patients may be active a healthy critical distance from the authority of And this last part I think is super important: patients' capacity for autonomous inquiry and give when appropriate, rather than assuming and immediately authoritative,&quot; right? So, coming to impose a different view but is seeking an informed decision not only about themselves but also as caregivers. So, this is the source, I'm just going to put it in the chat, and Sorry, Damon what was the term term related to informing Anamnesis, patients' self-report of their DEVON: Thank you! Oh my gosh, that was so much information. Thank you so much; I feel like everybody brought so much to the panel, and I know that we have so are just about out of time. So, just real of Us Research Program and how it connects today. All of Us is an initiative from the country's largest and most diverse health 1 million people or more; as of today more than 88% of those participants are from groups that in the past, with over 28 percent of those participants identifying as living with a disability. And that historically underrepresented such as racial living in rural areas, and disabled individuals research. Currently I - before the webinar are 232 research studies right now being done on right now, so the research is being done; they're digging in right now to get to that precision community. So, you can learn more about the research