We have Shortdog, Tallcat, ShorterCat, CourtSha-I me. We have so many imposters here today so I am differentiated oh okay okay. Whenever I play if they're going to play peaceful with me or if try and target me. So I'm going to play peaceful their true colors I'm going all out. Okay we're their items and then they get destroyed for it. I have double triple greens [laughs]. Wow this hopefully get some mushrooms. There we go! Don't on that [laughs] and I didn't get a drift when This is not good! Honestly I should have ran into come on! Okay. no they have another one I can't good job. Give me the coins, thank you. Drop me going to lose this race! They're going to try and I don't know they could slow down. I have no shot can maybe pass this Koopa. Okay we got 8th place. cats beat all the dogs. So I think my goal today, Daisy 99999 VR I think oh I hit him! I also hit Anyway today my goal is to just win a race because and that's just going to be very difficult goal [laughs] it's going to be very difficult. ME? No! Of course you would do that! [laughs] I it doesn't matter. I almost feel like I'm going and then I'm going to make it up to the top. doesn't have a &quot;short&quot; or an animal in it I know going to toss this boomerang. Oh it actually hit? the sponge! So we're in 10th I'm just going to me like crazy. They have fire coming back. I feel boo my bullet. [laughs] Okay we're going to use it Someone please shock! Okay that was actually a just going to start using the golden. There's no are these items? Yes! Wait what I thought I had-oh my items go? Squish squish? Okay well it looks might be Tallcat. Oh no it wasn't! Yes! Okay I [laughs] Take that ShorterCat, Tallcat, Shortdog! I need a real win, I need to actually get first mini turbo before me I'm going to trail. Yep shells this early? Oh I almost hit. I just wanted ShorterCat. Apparently I'm the suboptimal height you better results. No don't be there! Okay that's just kill everyone here. Okay perfect perfect! we're just going to use this. I need to mushroom. Okay they're going to toss this green at me for They're going to wait till it's a better time to THIS GAME WHAT? How did that-how did you do that? decapitated. Okay. Well. I mean I hope I redded very important. Nice! No no no no, oh no! Okay going to see in this room. Keep snaking, keep Oh I can't believe I survived that race. I still ever played against! I hate losing to people using they're right that these truly are the best. combos. I can red you I'm just going to do it, I could get redded too. I think I am. Oh right you're going down with me! No all the coins got Coin? Nice. Alright we need some coins right get my speed up, make this comeback there's a lot early so I don't take this turn very poorly and you do not want a purple there. Oookay. Messed up people in front of me are going to have a very far And in 9th that was perfect let's go! We got the Right after the shortcut's a great spot to use takes that tight! That is so nice. Yeah I'm all away. And then probably like stop using it right ni-Nooo! This is fine actually being small during off the cut. Are you serious? That must have been that placed it there! I wouldn't doubt it. If they knew I would hit it I'd be like yep, that of predicting my exact movements. Don't get bit depressing I got great items at the start and problem is I don't know how to take this shortcut that was not too bad [laughs] It probably could And we got 6th place. I lost to them again the even the REAL Shortdog this is a fake Shortdog! not get bumped too hard at the start here. Alright Yoshi probably. [laughs] Let's go. Those coins are do a little lag throw. I think that got the Birdo! horn too, it's not going to be too important right throw red shells at me. I'm not going to take it still got to me! I was trying to block the well now, now I'm screwed. [laughs] The problem 10 coin advantage. Everyone gets 10 coins because going to be peaceful to this Mario standard kart just not going to hit you. Ooh nice I'm just going great. Problem is I don't have my star and now I'm going to try to hit me now I'm in 2nd. This is ever played against, I think they have an attack might be safe. Oh why did I use that? I'm just peaceful. Yeah I'm not going to take this one, I'm of being super horned by them. Don't slow down, so sad. I should have won that! All I had to do bomb! Wow!! I can't believe I lost that!!! Okay And we are going to try and beat-come on come on so bad okay we're going for coins then. Okay and they actually missed the item box and it wasn't so close to you, will that hit you? Did it hit? their trail out let's go I got him back with the watch out for Spike here, I don't know if Spike's case. I wouldn't trail if I saw a whole bunch of might hit me and I can't really pass Spike. get blue shelled but they're going so slow! Are on? I brake-drifted like three times already! randomly throw bananas back at me. Seems like artificially make some distance here. Ooh better Or what, what was that? Alright well I'm still on I really want to get. Ooh I think it might have I still lost to ShorterCat! Wow I Alright ShorterCat you're going down. I know but it will this time. You're going to bump me-you off I don't know what I expected. [sighs] [laughs] ShorterCat [laughs] It's actually ridiculous how don't even know if they realize all the ones that that impressed me the first time definitely was the shortcut I could have tried to hit ShorterCat Tips for everyone don't hold left there.Okay me. We're all going for double item box and I ugh, wait I have a bullet? I didn't even see this! get a bad placement. I've switched to Diddy Kong I is the only way I can win! What I actually just properly cuz I thought I got it and then I went And I dodged that banana let's go! Okay, lost my ShorterCat. ShorterCat's closer to the back. There couldn't super bounce. The banana scared me even going to frontrun hopefully I can win this race! a defense here! No!!! Okay I don't know what to mushroom. Okay nice. Got the super bounce this final set hopefully get two defenses. I'm going coming up and they're going to have multiple red finally won! Wow ShorterCat even got 2nd place, took! I just had to switch to Diddy Kong!!