Would you advice software engineers to become data engineers? You guys, I mean.... Any regrets of transitioning from SDE to data. Honestly speaking, I've no regrets as such. But I want to know that as an SDE, which project did you work on? As a fresher, wherever there were gaps, they used to fill me in. Were you having fun in working? I was having fun but after some days, I started feeling that - they give anything anytime, so... it was like, I need to gain core expertise in one field. Can you list the certifications you had? Which certifications did you do? DP - 200 and 201 So, after transitioning did you get a salary hike? After this transition into DE role, my CTC became 18. Are these required in interviews and is DSA required as well? I did DSA for a month, easy questions only and I got the confidence that I should give the interview. Okay! And in Google, I was rejected in the first round itself. Screen round! Screen round. Okay! Because of..... DSA! DSA is my main... Hi Isha! How are you? I'm doing very well. How are you, Fraz? I'm also very good. So, Isha before you jump into your journey. Please give us a small intro for our audience. So, Hi all! I'm Isha, graduated in 2019. Then, I started working as a software engineer with Shell. I worked as a software engineer for 1.5 years, then I transitioned into data role as a Data engineer in Shell. In shell itself, right! Yes! Yeah! And then, like, currently I'm working as a senior data engineer with VISA in Bangalore. Alright! So, basically this a journey of transition from SDE role to Data engineering role. But before that, I've a quick question for you. And answer it honestly. Any regrets from transitioning from SDE to Data? Honestly speaking, I've no regrets as such because like, I came to realize in final year I had an elective called big data. I came to know the actual power of data and it feels like, data is the new oil right now. And we've lot of data which is getting generated and we can do lot of stuffs with that. So, its - I have zero regrets transitioning into this role. Alright! So, your motivation was the salary component which you get in data field or you didn't like the work as an SDE. What was the reason? Or you were interested in data? So, the reason for transition into data engineer was that I felt like - in today's date, data is increasing and every company has lot of data with which we can create many powerful tools. So, at that time data was a very booming field. And I had an elective in final year and there I learnt about big data &amp; I knew that how powerfully it can be used in future. So, somewhere in my mind I always to you know, somehow work in things related to data. So, that's why I thought about transitioning in it &amp; obviously, there's a package thing attached to it. Big data has a very good package at there offering into....yeah! More than an SDE. I cannot compare like that but its very much, like, I cannot say its very low or very high but like, comparable for top product companies, if you compare. Its more or like same. I hope you're enjoying the podcast. And many interesting conversations are still remaining but before we move ahead I want to introduce OdinSchool. It is one of the best platforms for aspiring data engineers and data scientist and data analyst. OdinSchool is an online project based learning &amp; upskilling platform which has helped a lot of people to get into data field. From both tech and non-tech background. With their live instructor led data science bootcamp. In this bootcamp, you learn by industry experts. As you can already see on the screen. But along with that OdinSchool also provides you placement support by conducting mock interview sessions, by conducting resume building sessions and they also have a dedicated placement portal from where students can go and apply for jobs. You can see a lot of success stories on the screen, a lot of students have been already placed and started working as data scientists, data engineers and data analysts. You can read more success stories on their official website. So, definitely go and check out the link in description. And if you're interested, you can enroll in the bootcamp. If you enroll in the bootcamp with the link given below you'll get 10,000 early bird discount. So, start your career as a data scientist by checking out OdinSchool. Now, let's continue with the podcast. Okay! So, we'll talk about it when we'll discuss about your office? But I want to know that as an SDE, which project did you work on when you joined shell? So, my journey starts something like, I was working as a fresher. So, as a fresher they used to fill me in, wherever there were gaps. There was back-end work, like, in Java I was developing back-end. Like somewhere in dots and pieces I was working in Angular, SQL, Dashboards - so it was mix and match of every thing because when you join as a fresher they don't expect you to be expert in something. They try you out in different-different things. Alright! Were you enjoying your work? I was having fun but after few days I started feeling that, they give anything anytime. So...... It was like - I had to gain core expertise in one field. Means, I realized that after sometime. I had the same experience when I joined cult.fit - I was given a front-end project. I worked on it for a month after learning. I had to learnt it firstly, for a month. Then, I worked and delivered it. Immediately, back-end. Then front-end, again, then back-end but yeah~ it happens. Fine! Now let's talk about transition. So, how did you transition from SDE to Data Engineering role? So, I was working in every technology in bits and pieces. Like, I expressed this interest to my manager that someday I want to work into this data thing &amp; luckily there was a reorg going on in my company - Shell. And they were transitioning from on-prem to cloud and cloud was Azure. So, they were looking for data engineers but they were preferring those people who were experienced in DE. Okay! So, I was a fresher. Obviously, they would not prefer me but I wanted to go into that field. I expressed interest to my manager. But there were organization levels, certifications going on from Microsoft which were into Azure. So, I was interested. I asked my manager for the same, I did some Azure certifications. Around fundamentals &amp; then there was one DP 200 &amp; 201. which is around data engineering. Okay! This was a certification that you did?! Okay! Please list it as well so that people know which certifications provide which value? Sure! So, this certifications were completed but to go in a project, if there're many experienced people who already have experience in DE. You want some credibility that, people know you that you did something but as a fresher to make that image is very difficult. So, I took help of my buddy and manager &amp; I conversed with people that - what are you all working on? And I used to make sure that after by back-end &amp; front-end work, I used to spend sometime to study about big data. And I keep learning after them little by little so that whenever I pitch next, they're like, confident enough that they can give work. So, you had to takeout some extra time for this, right! Yeah! The work regarding SDE was going alongside. Alright! So, how much time did you take in this transition? For this transition, I nearly took 1.5 years. Like, I was working for initial 6 months as an SDE. Completely! Then for next 1 year, I was working as an SDE but I used to take out some extra time to do some DE related stuff like, I used to create dashboards on Power BI. I used to create some apps - Power apps, which is low code, no code - again Microsoft product. So, I used to help the DE team in certain ways. So that I can build some credibility &amp; they've some confidence that we can take her in our team. To give her some DE work. So, I joined Shell in July 2019. And then after 1.5 years, I got this title Data engineer. Okay! Alright! There're 2 things. Tell me the list of the certifications, which certifications you did? And second thing is that, what all skills did you develop in that 1.5 year to make the transition? By Skills I mean, SQL &amp; Power BI, whatever you did. Yes! yes! yes! Basically, getting used to the Azure environment. Okay! Then I learnt Scala. I knew Java. After I learnt Scala, they were using Py-spark in some projects I learned that. I can't say that I became expert by that much, but I wasn't very new to all these things. So, I used to learnt everything little by little after my office hours. Apart from that, SQL goes along always - add on package and they used ADF for Azure data factory for pipelines and all. Like, I learned about it after transition. I didn't focus on that before my transition. So, until transition I focused only on these things. Certifications which I did was - one was Azure fundamentals, then you've this path for DE. There were 2 certifications DP 200 &amp; 201. I guess now, they're combined and they've a single certification for this. I'm not sure whether it is 203 or 202. I need to -- yeah! Alright! Cool! So after transitioning, did you get any salary hike? Yes! So, I got hike as well. I joined with a CTC of around 10 &amp; after this transition into DE role, my CTC became 18. And apart from that, my title also got changed from software engineer to data engineer &amp; I started working into this data migration team. And for how long did you work as a data engineer in Shell? So, if I talk about my total experience in Shell, that is 3.5. Initial 1.5 years - was as an SDE &amp; then remaining was in Data engineering. Okay! So, these 2 years as a data engineer - tell about the experience. What all skills did you gain after this? What all projects did you work on &amp; whether you had fun or not? And why did you transition....sorry, why did you switch from Shell? Okay! So, I learnt lot of things within the journey of these 2 years. Like, we worked on huge volumes of data so, there were different teams where we worked on different sources. I learned to create pipeline, I learnt ADF then as we used to code on notebooks &amp; transformations and spark optimisations - I learnt a lot about them. Then I learnt about Big data in depth, what is map produce - like, I learnt various things in bits &amp; pieces. During this two 2 year journey but I thought of transitioning because - as I was working in this after 1.5 years I started feeling like, it was very monotonous I used to get same type of work. Like, I was in migration project and we were doing that. We took cloud from on-prem and it became very monotonous &amp; it was like, you're writing only one type of notebook &amp; you know the resolution to the bug that'll occur. Okay! And then I felt like, I've to transition somewhere else. So, I started looking up. I mean I started talking to my friends and all. Okay. I want to know your preparation journey that how did you prepare for it? Okay! So, I'll continue from there. So, I talked to my friends who were in the same field. After talking to them, I felt that I was not industry fit right now. And we all know that since we're working in IT so, we need to be industry relevant every time. Otherwise, you cannot plan for your switch. So, I talked to my friend a lot and I looked at the requirements, like all the postings on LinkedIn. So, there were requirements where they were looking for the core skills like, map reduce, Py-Spark &amp; things like Scala &amp; all. I was working on that but I was working more on Cloud. Cloud gives you a platform where you don't understand much of back-end. So, everything is on the fly in cloud. And the major challenge that I saw was there was DSA also. Okay! So, before this I never opened leetcode. In College, if there were any coding questions then I would be doing in my ID, solving normally and like that.. And I didn't competitive programming as such. I tried Hacker rank during placements. Basic! Basic questions. So, now all these are required in the interview and is DSA required as well? DSA is also required &amp; this is a filtering criteria initially, there's written test and then, few rounds are conducted as well around DSA. Okay! So, how did you start preparing for all of these things? So, it was very over whelming for me to know that I wasn't industry fit &amp; I wasn't feeling like working after thinking all that I'm doing one type of work. How will I switch to my next company and all! So, it was very challenging for me. So, I thought of taking 1st step. Let's start doing DSA. Okay! So, I opened leetcode &amp; targeted on easy questions and I started doing. I did it for a month but again, my motivation went down and I couldn't continue with Leetcode. I left it. And what was the reason for this demotivation? You couldn't do questions or? You didn't enjoy that as well? Means it felt like, there're one set of questions that we're doing. Its fine for interview but we're not using it anywhere in daily life so it was like, I wasn't feeling - the use of doing DSA. You thought that DSA shouldn't be there. Okay! Cool! Then, what did you do after leaving DSA? Then after that, I started doing my office work again but side by side, I started learning about core concepts of big data. And I used to read about it from different sources in bits and pieces. I watched some videos on youtube but after that I realized that like, my learning pattern is - That if I get a timeline then I grasp it better &amp; I can use it better. S, I looked for an online course. And whatever things are I learned was channelised everything in it. So, it was a 20 week long course but after doing 7-8 weeks of it I felt that confidence that now I can give interviews. I had done DSA with only easy questions &amp; I got that confidence that now I can give interviews. Okay! So, like I started applying &amp; then again, rejections. I applied but I was being eliminated in the first round. And because of the DSA? DSA again! Okay! Then somehow I motivated myself that, no, I need to do DSA daily. Without it - it is like the 1st step to your interview thing. Then I somehow I kept this motivation &amp; I did DSA 2 months continuously. And I studied the course I joined, along with it, I used to study more about Spark &amp; the latest features. So, I started doing that. Then I started doing SQL, then I did these consistently for 2 months after office hours. Okay!! And then we got our 1st offer. Which company was that? It was DP world - the offer was from Dubai. Okay! Like, I had to relocate to Dubai. What was the offer - CTC? So, they were offering around 45. Okay! And you were at 18, right! Yeah! From 18 to 45 - pretty good transition. So, finally did you take the offer? I took the offer &amp; my notice period was 3 months. So, I put down my papers &amp; I was planning to move to Dubai. Okay! But then I felt that company is fine but it was again non-core. And Shell was their only support was IT. Their main business was oil. So, I felt like the same thing would happen in DP world. We would be back-end, so I wanted to move to a tech focused firm. Like, which has front business stack. So, I thought that since its a notice period of 3 months. Let me try some other companies. At that time, you had submitted the papers. Okay sure! So you had to serve a notice period of 3 months. Got it! Yes! Then which other companies did you crack? Then I gave more interviews. I applied in top product companies but again in one company, I failed at system design. So, in DP world the system design that they asked was around my project. Whatever pipeline we had in Shell. So that was easy for me, now the other hurdle that I found was system design here, when I failed in system design in companies then I felt that, I need to focus on system design from now on. Now, as a data engineer if I applied then like, from my interview experience some companies were expecting me to know system design from a length of software engineer. Yes. High-level, low-level &amp; some companies were expecting me that I should design pipeline as a data engineer. The companies demand so much! So, it was a .... One should know DSA, core concepts, system design So, next hurdle was the system design. Then I read a book - Designing Data-Intensive Applications. It is written in system designs, around data engineering &amp; apart from it I watched many system design videos from the lens of software engineer like, designing an application and all those things. I watched youtube videos. So, I covered from both lens. That again and again, hurdles come one by one. Now if you ask anything, I prepare both. Okay~~ Nice! Fine! So, finally which companies did you crack? Then I got next offer after another months' hard work, I had only 1 month of notice period remaining. So, I got offer from American Express . They were offering me around 30. Okay! They were offering me 30-32. Then, after that I applied through LinkedIn on various profiles and then Instahyre was the one then Naukri. I used all these platforms. So, the next company which came was - Zoomcar There I got CTC around 36. Then, like the next offer that I got was from Expedia. It was again Bangalore based location. There I got around 40-42. Yeah! And finally I joined Visa. Fine! So, these were all the offers. Did you face rejections as well? I faced lot of rejections. I've not counted but it might be 10+ Almost more than 50% - more than twice the company in which you were selected. Initially, like there were many ups and downs. After rejections, you feel demotivated. I left doing everything for a week then I gained demotivation again. So, my journey had many ups and down. Okay! Cool. Have you ever tried Google, Microsoft? Yes! You did! So, in Microsoft I went up till 3rd round. But somehow I got rejected after that. And in Google, I was like rejected in the 1st round itself. Screen round~! Okay! Because of ~ DSA! DSA is my main... Fine! Would you advice software engineers to become data engineers? Its up to you guys. I mean, if you're motivated enough to work in this data intensive applications and like, you want to explore this field of data. Why not? Cool! Salaries are comparative here also. Yeah! So, one more quick question. People have this concern that since we work in office, we don't get time. We travel! Means I teach DSA, our system design batch is going on as well. People keep complaining - we couldn't do homework because we had office work. How did you manage your time? So, luckily when I thought about it then Covid had arrived. So, it was work from home. So, I went back to my hometown delhi. And if you're at home then, my working hours were from 9 AM - 4:30 PM. For some days, if there's deployment then it got extended but maximum, I used to work till 4:30 PM. Okay! So, after that I used to give myself a break of 1 and a half hour. From 6 PM to 8 PM, I used to focus on my big data course. Then reading about big data stuff &amp; what all like, in interviews you face a lot of questions which you're not aware of. So, you read about it. All those 2 hours, I used to spend around that. Then I used to give myself a break of 1 hour, then 9-11 PM, I used too focus on DSA &amp; SQL. Alright! Regularly! Yeah! And then, once I was well versed with SQL &amp; DSA, I was confident enough, I used to give the time to system design. Understood! For 2 months, I almost followed the same pattern. So, yeah! Awesome! Great! So, we're almost at the end of the podcast. But before going can you tell us the important interview topics for data engineer Sure! So, first is DSA - filtering criteria. Okay! Then comes, SQL. Some companies ask you basic things but some product companies ask you some advanced things like, windowing function &amp; all those things. So, second is SQL. Then, third thing that comes is your concepts around big data. For big data, they might ask you the journey of spark how it came. Then, spark optimisation techniques. Some companies might ask you about map reduce, which was - like how it got invented and all those things. Around, map reduce - how do you use it in your program. They ask you to code using Scala. Some data related questions might be there. Then, some companies might ask you around Real time streaming, so, they might ask you around Kafka, if you've written that in your resume. And apart from that, I guess the last thing that comes is a system design. So, in system design - they heavily focus on building a pipeline which is a data intensive application. Okay! So, how would you design your application to handle such bulk data. Alright! Awesome! So, it was a good discussion. Thanks a lot Isha for coming here &amp; sharing all these information with us. If you want to connect with Isha. So, I'll provide her LinkedIn in description. And if you want to talk to her, I'll put her top-mate also in description. You can go &amp; follow her. So, we'll meet in other podcast. Until then - Bye, bye! Thank you!