- Become a witness of justice, and cooperate with the government was the hardest decision To become A snitch, a snitch. - A justice collaborator is always afraid because the mafia doesn't forget you, By deciding to collaborate we open an account with the mafia, and every day, - My whole life has been the opposite Everything I did was illegal. I have never done anything For me, it was very difficult It was very difficult from mafioso to a normal person. Palermo, Hotel des Palmes. It was in this palace that 40 years ago, the largest meeting in the history of organized crime was held. Around the legendary Lucky Luciano, godfathers of the Sicilian mafia decide to propel Cosa Nostra This meeting will also set off a time bomb in Sicily, that of the repentant. - It's here, in this room, that the famous 1957 meeting was held. The Reunion of the Hotel des Palmes, in which 5 great personalities participated, of the Sicilian Cosa Nostra, but also of the American Cosa Nostra. Lucky Luciano, Joe Bonanno, Gaetano Badalamenti, Carmine Galante and especially him, Tommaso Buscetta, the one who was to become the man who revealed the mysteries of the Sicilian Cosa Nostra. Tommaso Buscetta is the only survivor To control the mafia has become will tear itself apart in a fratricidal struggle, which causes more than 1000 murders In this war, Buscetta and his allies were defeated. The godfather's two sons are killed, riddled with bullets. Broken, Tommaso Buscetta unprecedented He breaks the taboo of taboos, the law of silence, the omerta. He's going to talk to this man, It's 1984, Three years later They sentence 420 mobsters to a total of 26 centuries of prison sentences. Buscetta, himself, is free. Free, but sentenced to death by the mafia. However, Italy has no experience yet to guarantee its survival. She sends it to the United States. His safety will be ensured within the Federal Witness Protection Program. In America, justice, aware of its has offered criminals the opportunity since 1972, to benefit from amnesty These men are called repentant men. This is such a deal His name is John Tully today repented. However, he has kept intact where he was a cold and methodical executor. - You have to understand, This is an assassination. It must be organized When you want to kill someone, because the main thing So it is planned When you see the victim, You always have a four-door car, always. You go in and you go out and normally or one in the back You can't see them. You can only see a man in the car. I was that man, I was the driver, And I give instructions ski hood on face, hidden in the back of the car, And then I tell them: he has a bodyguard with him. Be ready to go out, He approaches the car... One two three. Go for it !&quot; They jump out of the car. And they finish him off They get back in the car, we set off again. Here we turn right. We respect the speed limit, we don't go too fast. Everyone feels their heart beating, the adrenaline rising. There, look, you see, Bad is not good. In the established plan, you know This is a perfect example It will take a week where you are going to commit the murder. So that never happens He obtained his freedom by denouncing, to justice his entire mafia family, the Campisi family that controlled organized crime in the state of New Jersey. But for John Tully, a man of honor as betraying was harder than killing. - It took me three months to make this decision. I was in prison, Yes, no, yes, no... There was something about becoming a rat that I couldn't do. But I had to do it. Because the other alternative, it was prison until the end of my days without parole. You leave the prison in These people didn't deserve me to sacrifice myself, they had betrayed me. Let me say this, but let me say it... I was a good soldier. I am a former marine, and I put my life in danger But when I got stuck, that I needed help to leave the country, they turned their backs on me. They betrayed me and it's the truth. Brooklyn, it is in this district of New York the first Sicilian immigrants, Gambino, Bonanno and other Lucchese the epicenter of the American mafia. Martin Scorsese's film, Goodfellas, tells the story of a Brooklyn kid That of this man, Henry Hill, To the FBI, he handed over the perpetrators of the burglary of a military arsenal. At the DEA, a network of heroin traffickers, to the New York police, in car trunks Above all, it helped to shed light on America's biggest heist. It was December 1978, - $6 million in cash. It would be the best Christmas The bosses, when they saw this pile of money, They thought, &quot;Why give these guys their share?&quot; They promised us They gave us $25 in the face instead. That's what they gave us. - And that's why - I knew I was going to be assassinated, whether in prison whether I spilled the beans or not, The police made me listen between Jimmy Beurk and Paul Variot. There were several conversations. In one of these conversations, one said to the other: &quot;Fuck, take him down!&quot; There was no other it was either die or enter the repentant program. And of course, I chose From this moment on, Henry Hill's survival depends only on super cops, trained to face These police officers belong to the oldest federal agency in the United States, the Marshals. Their most sensitive mission? The protection of repentant people. During their training, until the hideout was searched, where the repentant is installed to testify - I felt completely safe but nervous. I was nervous, I thought Because there was too much security, too much attention around me. They guarantee that they will They will even take a bullet instead of you. It is a real human shield that the Marshalls form around the repentant. Each of their actions must be Trials against the mafia are risky. At the same time, the court, the judges, So the Marshals have to protect This protection continues reconstituted for the exercise. It may happen that a killer is present in the audience. - They must have They must be both A father, a doctor. The best friend in many cases, to allow these witnesses Getting them ready for court... And when all this part is finished, to help them integrate and in some cases it all depends on the danger Getting through the trials, The witness protection program However, it is not possible to lead a normal life surrounded by bodyguards. In Washington, at the Marshall headquarters, in this anonymous building, a relentless administrative machine takes over. The Marshals wipe the repentant mobster off the face of the earth. They create a new life for him, There will be no trace left of his past. This is the most secret activity - We explain to these people, that it is a voluntary program. This is a program of last resort. If they have another alternative, The program is very demanding. What they are asked to do is not easy. They are placed in a place They are asked Which is very difficult. And they are asked to stop all contact. And cut all ties And it is extremely difficult. If they accept this challenge voluntarily, he gives them the opportunity Few people are given such a chance, this opportunity to start all over again. This means that from all as long as they do not resume their past is forgotten. John Tully had been transferred 3,000 kilometers separated him That was fourteen years ago. In transit to his new city, the Marshals had installed him He is returning there for the first time. - You have to understand John Tully, the criminal was dead. He was never going to exist again There I became John Johnson, a protected government witness. And what that means is No more friends from the past, with your brother, For example, I didn't go to the funeral. Because it was where the mafia would have said: &quot;He has to come back to New Jersey And that's where Knowing this, I didn't even see because it was too dangerous - It was that room. 203, that was our first cache. When you first arrive, &quot;What's your name?&quot; And the Marshals hadn't told me yet so I didn't know what to say. So I preferred to keep completely silent Until today, I don't have any friends. I never made any friends. Nobody comes to my house. I am friendly, but John Johnson, his new name, will blend into the population for 10 years, and must now do honest work. In Austin, Sixth Street is the meeting point for night owls. It is here, in the middle of a crowd that John Johnson opened his first He has four of them today. The killer became a small business owner. - Is everything okay? Clean a little and add When I was in prison, I was wondering what to do I have always been a thief all my life, in the streets, I'm a street kid, a street guy. So I didn't know what else to do. I once robbed a bank I bought a hot dog cart And I made money from it. So when I was in prison, I was like, &quot;One more year to go, what am I going to do?&quot; I knew how to do two things. Shining shoes, which I did I didn't know anything else, - He's one of the most honest bosses I've ever had. He takes good care of his employees. - And you know his past? - Not really, just what I don't really know... I know he's from New Jersey, - But you know what he did? He never told you anything? - Actually, - You don't want to know? - But you know - Yes, I know that. But I don't want to go into his past. I'm uncomfortable with this. - Tonight I made $1100-1200. When I was in the racket, Tonight, the biggest bill Back then, we used $20 bills to shine our shoes, when I was in the racket... Now it's over, I regret the money, but now I have a I don't have to worry about the police knocking on my door about a robbery, or the FBI chasing after me. I prefer this life. The mafioso with a criminal record the repentant who brought down can now dig his garden almost in peace. Because with time, But John Johnson knows that the octopus He has planned everything around his pavilion, He organized his security - The law does not allow me Federal law prohibits me So I did the best thing, A double fence everywhere. It's to protect so that the dogs I have a double fence so dogs can't Look at this cement, it goes all the way around the property. So they can't go under the fence or over it. That's Butch over there. Go introduce yourself to Butch, If he sees a stranger coming here, you are not part of it, It's guaranteed, Officially, none of the 6,000 repentants For Eugene Coon, cutting all ties with the past, is the key to the success of the witness protection program. - The repentant are not so the biggest problem is to Many of them cannot cut ties with their families. And we know that in some cases, the witnesses did not respect and had direct contact who reside And during their conversation, they revealed their Because they couldn't do without this direct contact. But fortunately, we were able to find out, and discover that the mafia, had tapped the telephone lines of these families. So that is our main problem. It is thanks to this vigilance of the Marshals, that Henry Hill is still alive today. He never knew how to discipline himself. The mafia killers In sixteen years, the Marshals and transferred it 9 times Last time it was here, in a corner of the Californian desert Henry Hill still doesn't understand - This is the old ranch A very safe place, virtually Even my friends couldn't During the day, I could see a car and during the night up to 6 km, I felt really safe here. Even with the address, it was even with a helicopter. It's a place I miss. - Do you regret it? - Sure, but with I must always run At 53, Henry Hill drags his life from motel to motel. Without regular work many of his days go by - My toiletry bag, two t-shirts, some pants This is what I live with. I have many regrets, of course, but I am especially happy I had no choice. I had no choice, the justice of the other. I went from one side to the other. The police, the justice system, or at least the same as them. What they did to me, how they still treat me and my family... They promised me a rose garden, I just got the thorns from the roses. Henry Hill blames the Marshals to become Mr. Everyman. He takes us to in a family affairs department. Every 15 days, he meets his whose custody was taken away from him. - We went through a long procedure because the judge discovered... The judge discovered his criminal past, and took away his parental authority And now, because I don't have a criminal record, and I expect him to acknowledge his wrongdoing, The result? I can't have my son Kelly met Henry He revealed to her his past as a mafia member and his real name. Kelly decided despite this She then also had to comply with the constraints, who guarantee Henry's safety. She also lives She couldn't stand it. Kelly and Henry - I lost contact with my family. I was not allowed to write to them. I was also worried because I had to protect them Their daily life because we never knew At any moment, - It's very difficult. We've changed a lot since we were together. We tried to be normal. It's not for lack of trying, I don't know what he means anymore. - But he is my sun John Johnson was also caught up with his past. Police in Texas, one of the most conservative who doesn't care about Washington's decisions and the program of the repentant, discovered that John Johnson was a professional killer. In Austin, where the arrest of a pickpocket the police are harassing him - They found out that I have a criminal past, If you were a criminal, they think that you are not able to change. But John Johnson He revealed everything about his past - Hello, my name is John Johnson. I am a candidate for mayor. I am the only candidate exercised by civilians By coming out of anonymity, John Johnson broke his contract with the Marshals. He knows he has no chance but he is banking on this new notoriety to keep him alive. - It's so weird, so strange. Because what I did goes against Because the fundamental basis of the program is secrecy. And there is no more secret. I'm out in plain sight. That's all I have, The press to keep me alive. At 59, the former killer To be recognized as an honest man. - I would like to leave Austin a real new life This is who I am. I want my name back and when I want the tombstone but John Tully. He ended his life as a good citizen. And an honest man... And yet, how could America not be worried? The repentant are criminals There are 6,000 repentants in the United States. Nearly 10% of them reoffend. At the highest level of the fight we are aware of this risk. In New York, Ed Macdonald, former head of the anti-mafia strike force in Brooklyn, assumes, without qualms. - It's a risk, a gamble, You have to measure how good and what is the danger If they were not violent criminals, But it is. And crimes can be committed It's a gamble and often we have released Sammy Gravano, who has already testified, He's not in prison, protected by the witness protection program. He's a killer. But if the government takes the risk it's because he gave her in exchange for his testimony. This is one of the risks In Sicily, we are beyond risk. Never has the mafia suffered so many setbacks There are more than 1,200 of them today. Commander Marco Nanni heads the GICO, anti-mafia intervention group Its mission: to track down drug money that is laundered and reinvested in the economy. His land: Palermo. The repentant have revealed its secrets. Every square, every street, every crossroads For Commander Nanni, - It is impossible to say It is impossible to say The only thing that can be said it's that she took a serious blow, The repentants are of great use to the police. But law enforcement must not limit themselves to their simple statements. The police must check everything and continue to collaborate with them. Under the eyes of Commander Nanni, homes built with impunity by the mafia, on a hill which shelters No building permit has ever been issued for this location. In Palermo, the GICO confiscates on average per day, nearly 3 million francs of real estate belonging to the mafia. The financial guard uses They are called They allow to prove This man was a mafia accountant. Today, - Before, I was a protagonist. But on the bad side... Today I am someone Nothing more... I hope to find a modest job, and give some peace to my family, and no longer have problems. I am looking for a more peaceful path, far from all this violence. I don't want to feel remorse anymore. This repentant man lives under a new name, When he returns to Palermo it is permanently protected. The slightest movement is made Past the gates of this barracks, the mafia can strike anywhere - We are transporting who must go to court The safety device uses a to the one in which We make our transfers by surprise, and we make them last as short a time as possible. Which explains our speed. - Before deciding I considered the police - And the custody of finances? But since I've been in the game for a year, I must admit that these men, especially in times I can say that they are doing their best, to make my life better - What is this story That you make your will - My wife is always afraid when I have to return to Sicily to testify. She's afraid that something so she is always worried. As we entered this fast lane, The rest of the route leading to the court cannot be filmed. The court, a bunker that marks the power It is the army that ensures its security. Here, the state of war against the mafia takes on its full dimension. Like the repentant people he questions and hears in these cases, this man, Judge Scarpinato, is also permanently protected. The Italians call it: Again, our camera cannot follow him to his office. Its location is kept secret. - When a mobster decides to collaborate, while he lived his whole life it doesn't just tell the story of a murder or drug trafficking. He tells how the organization is composed. It then becomes a mine who loses the security linked We have dozens of collaborators, which shed light on dozens and dozens of murders. For the organization, the mafioso who has the effect of a mutant virus Without the collaborators of justice, nor in any other country, we cannot fight the mafia effectively. It's been 8 years now that I no longer have the possibility of living normally, but dozens of people, dozens like Borsellino, and many others died To leave would be to betray their memory, and recognize that everything Until this part I won't leave. Thanks to the repentants, this game is now winnable, and the mafia was not mistaken a ton of explosives The target of this attack, the initiator of the repentant, Judge Falcone. This man remembers this carnage, and the joy He is a former mafioso, now repentant. - I found out that my family but I don't know exactly because when my father-in-law he was drunk. He was particularly excited He then told me that the judge was still alive. And then suddenly, he was called and there he was told He then let his joy burst forth and he said to me: &quot;We were lucky because And then he took out the We met this repentant somewhere in Italy. We cannot reveal For us, he calls himself Gianni. He agreed to testify because he lost everything. His past identity, his friends, but - My brother disowned me over the phone. He told me I better think and mind my own business. My wife, I prefer not to talk about her. By becoming a collaborator in his eyes, Died also for my son. He told me in a few words So I said to him: &quot;What should I think, Francesco? That I don't have a son anymore?&quot; I said to him: &quot;- Do you want to see me? I told him I was coming. He answered me: &quot;No.&quot; And he told me, it was his birthday that he no longer had a father. Because in the eyes of my family, I am a villain. Today, Gianni has no more His case is not isolated. Many Sicilian repentants are disowned by their own families. We wanted to meet one of them, that of the repentant Scarantino, To find the Scarantino family, in a historic mafia district in Palermo. Our camera is rolling secretly - Hello, we are looking for - Scarantino, it's here. What we can tell you is that he is a villain. They made my uncle look like that so he would talk, and they told him: And you will even be entitled to a salary.&quot; So with all that, - But why is he a villain? - He's a villain! Like all repentants, Behind her window, She calls us. She also disowns her son, she doesn't want to see him anymore. - I told them that the judges, the police, - He is a repentant. He is a villain. I don't even want to know where he is. He is a villain. From words to actions, In this document, a mafioso with a view to his repentance. There is a knock at the door, and it is his own - Honestly, I don't sleep anymore, I always think that they find me that they meet me at the supermarket I always dream that I am What does that mean? I'm escaping I am nothing. I have no peace anymore, and I repeat, Gianni limits his outings to the maximum, makes sure not to talk to anyone. After losing everything, he committed an unforgivable fault in the eyes of justice. He lied and accused an innocent man. Today he risks losing and protection from the authorities if the mafia finds him. His fate is a matter of luck. - I'm not here complaining I complain about my future I don't want to be pessimistic, but for me, if things it's certain death. But justice is uncompromising Their accusations have serious consequences. On the day of our visit, the financial guard arrested 42 people, because of the statements The raid took place Families are waiting Hatred and despair no longer hide which has never been so affirmed. But the machine went off the rails. Some magistrates have gone too far in their desire for truth. They agreed to pay to mobsters in exchange And the scandal came This mother, is content with a widow's pension Her husband was an escort man He died at her side. Today, she attacks the drift The price of truth. - When I read in the newspaper, that Balducci di Maggio received 500 million lire, to become a justice collaborator, I felt very bad. It felt like a bomb in my stomach. My dignity was violated. Is it fair that in relation to the one the one who slaughtered him So was it worth it? Is it just Is this fair? Tina Montinaro She directly attacks which allows mafiosi to be above the law. - No, I say no. I don't think my husband's death served any purpose, because Antonio's murderers are free. Not only are they not punished, but also, So what does that mean? What was the point of all this suffering? Was it worth it? Tina Montinaro's reaction Rome had to explain itself. Mr. Sinisi chairs the secret commission that decides on the repentants. - I realize... That it may seem that a person who has committed does not have to serve and that she is not even imprisoned for it. But it is a choice to be made, and we made this choice to arrest the sponsors, and the direct perpetrators Today, these people are answering for their crimes before the courts. And we also made this choice For Francesco Scarpinato, the judge, these controversies are not due to chance. The secrets touch on the mysteries - From 91 and 93, justice collaborators in their statements, and revealed Cosa Nostra's connections with politics, of Cosa Nostra, with Freemasonry, of Cosa Nostra, And it is no coincidence to discredit them because they touched a hot spot Francesco Scarpinato is at the heart of the cyclone Giulio Andreotti, the most powerful politician in the country, is charged with mafia association. He rubbed shoulders with the greatest of this world, but today, he is facing repentant mobsters who accuse him. And among them, the inevitable Buscetta. On the eve of the year 2000, the repentant allow Italy, to shed light on the darkest pages of its history. But as long as the repentant of the power of Cosa Nostra, a man will not be able to rest in peace. His tomb is the only one in the world 365 days a year. The tomb of Judge Falcone,