Soviet Union. Thursday, November 24th, 1938. A few kilometers south of Moscow, the courier from the Kremlin has just Insanely paranoid, Stalin lives His residence is protected and a security force of 300 soldiers. No one is permitted to enter the dacha Only Valentina, his governess, Every morning, as usual, At 7:00 a.m. the dictator is still up. He has spent all night verifying to death or deportation. A long and painstaking task but Stalin is a meticulous man. He takes his time ticking off [Russian spoken audio] At 60 and at the peak of his power, He leads an austere life. Nothing interests him [Russian spoken audio] Stalin has reigned Comprised of 15 republics, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and extends over 11 time zones. It's the biggest empire of all time. At this stage of his life, Stalin, the name that he means the man of steel. Stalin is the ultimate He is convinced he has been chosen and build an ideal world, communism. He wants to create the new man, and blindly obedient To accomplish this colossal project, Stalin must destroy Eradicate all privileges, and if necessary, he is prepared For a year and a half, he has put into place a that's called the Great Purge. Between July 1937, and November of 1938, he has had 800,000 Russians executed. 1,500 victims per day, At the end of November 1938, He has exterminated It's time to stop the bloodbath before but a murderous madman. To absolve himself of any guilt, Stalin will accuse the chief of the the man known as the bloodthirsty midget, of having committed Yezhov obeys him and assassinated thousands of Soon it will be his turn Stalin has summoned It's 7:30 a.m., Stalin has finally He lies down on the sofa in his office and sleeps peacefully for a few hours, As he says himself, the greatest prepare one's blow, wreak It's 10:00 a.m., Despite his immense popularity, the little father of the people's lives like a lone wolf The villa has several living rooms and and where he never sets foot. Since his wife's suicide six years ago, Although once surrounded today there is only one person She is the one who looks after him daily. Utterly faithful, illiterate, She has no interest She also secretly This relationship [Russian spoken audio] Valentina is the only person Behind his image Stalin has fragile health, he suffers from chronic throat infections, which need daily treatments. [Russian spoken audio] Now Stalin lives alone with Valentina, but previously, he had been married twice. His first wife died of an illness His second wife, Nadia, When she was alive, the two step families Those were happy times. In 1932, Nadia committed During 13 years of marriage, she had progressively discovered [Russian spoken audio] Right up to the end, Nadia kept her suffering to herself she confided to her brother [Russian spoken audio] When talking of his &quot;She left me like an enemy.&quot; &quot;She left me crippled [Russian spoken audio] It was this event that He began to develop which he systematically eliminated. [Russian spoken audio] It's precisely on this day Alexandre's mother, is about to It's 1:00 p.m. In his office, Stalin who has come Evgeniya is the sister of his second wife, Since this tragic event, He receives Evgeniya coldly. Evgeniya is frightened. Part of her family has already been She even suspects he is responsible for Yet, in spite of the danger, Evgeniya has come another of Stalin's sister in law's, who he has sent Living conditions in Stalin's gulags Up to 50 degrees below zero in the winter. A 12-hour workday without enough food. Prisoners die of cold, hunger, From her gulag, Maria has managed begging Stalin to set her free. She writes, if I don't Many years later, Evgeniya [Russian spoken audio] In fact, Stalin hated any once and for all, as his enemies. Not only would Maria not be freed, she would be transferred and be executed several months later. Since Stalin never forgot an insult, he'd retaliate against Evgeniya by sending Almost all of Stalin's family Pavel, brother of his second wife, Nadia, poisoned on the 2nd of November,1938. Evgeniya, his wife and Kira, Anna, the elder sister of Stalin's Her husband, Stanislav, Alexander, his first wife's brother, His wife, Maria, and her sister Mariko, Not counting all his close friends [Russian spoken audio] Stalin himself grew up in a family He was the only His father, a shoemaker, was He died when Stalin was ten. His mother, a housekeeper, and managed to enroll him A brilliant student. He would complete eight years because of his subversive ideas. He had just discovered Marxism. Then he became passionately against the Czar. Stalin killed people with his own hands and became the head of a Bolshevik gang and planned assassinations When the Bolsheviks came to power, Leonard made him Nevertheless, before his death, Leonard wanted to In his will, he would write, Stalin is much too brutal. He must be stopped from taking power. As every day in the early afternoon, Stalin is at work This little room From all four corners of the country, millions of civil servants scrap of information they can collect. Alone at the top Stalin knows everything. He is omnipotent. To assist him in this colossal job, he has four secretaries Distant and methodical, Stalin [Russian spoken audio] Stalin examines the list of the condemned The personnel of the Politburo who condemns those He crosses out a name from time to time, an old comrade exiled with him in Siberia or an old Georgian Bolshevik like himself. As for the others, a simple cross in the margin On this same list, who are currently [Russian spoken audio] All of Stalin's collaborators were that the death sentences were carried out, a way for Stalin They could not later accuse him of crimes that they themselves Anastase Mikoyan, one of Stalin's his son remembers. [Russian spoken audio] The families of the condemned [Russian spoken audio] Today is Thursday, Stalin just signed the last list of people One last thing remains for him to do. Designate someone to take This afternoon, Stalin the chief of secret police. A brilliant strategist, Stalin has when the great terror He had immediately seen how to use this A little apparatchik, willing to do Yezhov had overseen executions throughout and kill with his own hands From July 1937 until Yezhov, leader of had had 770,000 people To encourage him, Stalin made him His portraits were carried He was applauded by the Politburo, and he went on vacation with Today, Yezhov is frightened. For some time now, The only thing he But Stalin has signed Now he needs a scapegoat. Cynically, he accuses He calls him a rat, He accuses him of having murdered hundreds and of being a spy on payroll for the He even charges him with being All chief accusations Yezhov doesn't even try to defend himself. He knows that once Stalin has decided His fate is sealed. Yezhov isn't only afraid for his own life, he's also afraid for who was only and knew nothing [Russian spoken audio] Only once when she was six years old, did she suspect what [Russian spoken audio] From that day on, Natalia was confined until she reached adulthood. She didn't find out what had She was never allowed Today she lives alone in the same area Once the Yezhov matter is wrapped up, just as he does each day. They've been looked after by a nanny since Stalin reviews their homework and signs the school notebooks of Svetlana He especially adores his daughter He takes time to play with her she's the boss who gives him orders, [Russian 00:28:20] Svetlana, who lives in a cocoon, notices that many members of her family She would write, Why is our house so empty? More and more, I felt the loneliness A desert world where my school After a long day well spent, listening to his favorite piece, Alone, in the The dictator has On this 24th of November, and he is now the On March 1st,1953, Stalin shut away in his His entourage didn't dare disturb him. When at last the he found Stalin unconscious, lying on His agony lasted five days. He was 75 years old. Stalin died the same way The man who was responsible died at the summit of his power, and even by some of his victims. He had created a system