When it comes to minimalism and being more mindful there are many possible reasons for deciding to to save time. Or even to have more confidence or to talk specifically about the things I stopped me, having a clutter-free home is really important And so, there are some things that I for myself. To keep the clutter out the easy to clean and nice to be in. So I you. As always, these are suggestions. It's always and it might be different for different just feel free to pick the ones that you feel this video is sponsored by Skillshare and I will ingredients that I know I will not use frequently. But I am very careful about buying certain or really niche, or just not something that I see to really clutter up my pantry. Which is already kitchen, because this apartment does not have And the kitchen is also not super big. So I want ingredients that just take up a lot of kitchen to use. Aside from causing clutter in your money waster. And it really pains me to have to used up, because it's expired. It just feels like Things that you have to sign up for that, for supplies. When it comes to those subscription you're getting a bunch of different products, and getting the box for only $50 a month, so this a But really, unless these are products that you saving money. You're spending money. On products you really don't need as much. The problem with a lot of the products aren't really usable for type, or you know, it's just not something that else to give that to. Or it just clutters up your if you want to have less clutter and just less souvenirs. When it's a special trip, I do like to that I've taken recently that I haven't bought and then I just buy something that I can actually transportation card, I bought that in Tokyo. So it comes to actual like souvenirs, things that you after a while you really don't see it anymore. You becomes something that collects dust. Of course is something truly special to you, or handmade by to love for years and years. Absolutely do it. to care about a year from now, I can do without. all of these ones individually, but I decided to collections. So I used to have insane collections skin care, all that stuff. Hair care not so much, of this stuff caused a huge amount of clutter cost an insane amount of money. It is just a huge you want to make it clutter-free. Because it is one of those places in your home that you want super simple and clutter-free. I just wipe off shoes. Now of course I buy shoes occasionally, collection. If you have like a messy entryway, everyone's shoes, you know what I mean. That shoes Because there's never really like a good solution my boyfriend's shoes easily fit into this little where our shoes live. They're out of sight and and amazing to me. Number six is, when it comes to For example, we have two sets of sheets. And I and I will just alternate. So I think having because we don't own a dryer. So that would be if I had more sets of sheets, then it wouldn't fit and I would have to find a solution for that. throw pillows on the bed or on the couch. Things unpractical and it makes it look cluttered. Number have bought if they weren't on sale. Just quickly because it's like 80% off, would you have bought have afforded it, would you still have bought likely it's going to be clutter in your home now. something that you would have bought otherwise. is definitely an impulse thing. So if you can keep into the impulse immediately, you will most likely some point in the future, and you don't really of minimalist that does feel like a home can have can have a personality. You can have some items or they kind of maybe say something about you, that you have. And that is absolutely fine. I feel always need to to be like perfect minimalist if you have too many, then they are I think one make it really hard for you to keep your home dust underneath, dust them off. So I personally things. I really try to ask myself like, is this it say something about me or about us? Or like just something that looks cute in the store, but is lots of different cleaning supplies. Sometimes specific thing, that just works really well for one specific cleaner for every specific drawer different sets of cleaners. And then also having the cupboard below your sink is just going to be didn't really need. So if you can keep it simple, and this is a huge one for saving clutter in your if you're online. I feel like trends come and go then it's that aesthetic. And it's like grandpa pilatis... pilates... pilates... pilates? Pilates in fashion, so I do want to say that. And I just for years and years. Like this one. I've bought newer ones. And I still really like them, because my wardrobe nice and simple. And I never have to wear, because it's just like full of clothing want to thank Skillshare for sponsoring today's channel. Skillshare is an online platform where From hobby things like cooking or gardening or clothing, fixing up furniture. But also career or building websites. Skillshare has been my channel, Skillshare is where I learned how to use design my ebook. What I especially love about get into. So it makes learning something new a lot we're like oh yeah I would like to learn that Skillshare makes it really easy to actually make today. The class I've got lined up to watch next from Anna Marcu. She's an architect and I'm teaches you how to create a space that is not over ignite your creativity. Which sounds 100% like me. you can even do that for free, because the first box can get a one month free trial. You can try it. So huge thanks to Skillshare, let's get back that is free samples of things I don't need. So and you buy an eye shadow palette, and then they or other kinds of makeup products. I always often times those brands are not crueltyfree. them. But also, they are for products that I of perfume thing. Or it doesn't match my skin different skin tone than me. This also goes for more money on something. So it's like order for shaker with your protein powder or something. one. Number 12 is things I don't have space for. when you're watching this. And how many people small, but it's also not very big. And so, do I have space for this thing? Do I already I easily store it in some kind of closed storage to be in the way? If it is something that I don't buy it. Because it is just a recipe for clutter. and that is physical books. Hear me out. I love to read is good. Whether that is a physical book library, or ebooks, or audio books, any kind of I read about like 18-20 books a year. Which might the years, I've been reading a long time. So I by now. Which is why I love my ebooks. Because I doesn't take up any space in my home. If you're but you just feel like you have too many books in to start. Like really ask yourself which books again. And all the other ones, you could donate 14 is a whiteboard in the office. We now have very happy. But I've been thinking about getting scribble all the things that I'm working on, and that that would be too visually stimulating for me to really be able to concentrate and feel of personal preference. But I just prefer to keep format nowadays. Because I can just close that 15, containers and containers and containers for home organization. I have a bunch of them. so you can keep all the like items together. And also match each other, so it's like visually business in themselves. And that is because they having a bunch of containers that you really don't with stuff that you might also not need. And the the harder it is to keep your home clutter-free. that the items that you have are items that you that fits them. And keep it at that. Number really guilty of this. I would buy for example all and purple lipstick, and blue lipstick, and my colors. If you're the type of person like me feel like you need to have all of those items for example. But it could be anything. And you have to you or is this something for your fantasy self? things that look very cute but I won't get a lot good at its job. And certain things just look very styled perfectly. And it's just like oh that is so Things like that makes you want to buy it. But this being super cute, do I actually see myself I was at this beautiful store that they sold And they also sold these like, I don't know, salt packaged so beautifully and they smelled so nice. thinking a little bit like ooh, that's nice. Like I never take baths. I never ever take baths. walls. When our brain sees words, it wants to read that way. The only place we do have one quote up in pajamas&quot;, because I felt like that quote was because that door is usually closed. So it's not that would have been the case if I like hung also a really big one, things that have a lot example let's say I have to buy a new blender try to find a blender that just has a blender. things like that. That you really don't actively hard to keep organized. Because they don't fit in And they really tend to clutter up your kitchen. vacuum cleaner, it came with a bunch of parts what I want to do with them. I don't really know buying one with or without all the extra parts, I that make it hard to vacuum underneath. So I don't I want to make sure that vacuuming and dusting is does all the dusting. I never have to worry about cleaning um 50/50. And especially when picking out something that is like up, so you can easily for the bed, for almost anything. I'm actually it's just my congestion is really starting to already have something else for. Another one but not so easy always in practice. Because if this beautiful watering can, that's like bronze that still works perfectly fine. You know, old me But what can you do with two watering cans? I which would kind of be a waste, or have two like that's not really a big issue. But if you that you gather throughout your life just really you already have something that you can use. And might have, which is number twenty two. Which extra purses. I have one of each of those things. only have my phone in one case. I can only wear feel like I need multiple. So if you can make want to own one of that, then that can really help in general, and therefore the amount of stuff that 23 is kitchen gadgets. I do want to be honest I might have one or two more kitchen gadgets than have the space for anymore. Like maybe I would and a small food processor and a water kettle, that those three things are the most important Yeah the rest is easily fixable, or borrowable. things like pens, pencils, stationery. I often you deal with clutter? And where do you organize and all that stuff? And the easy answer is that one tiny jar that has a few pens in it, I guess controversial one, that is seasonal or festive celebrate the seasons, the holidays, things like but I celebrate them in different ways. Like if of like spring decor and easter decor, and hanging sheeps, and things like that, I like to celebrate a long walk. When it's fall, instead of getting chai and stewed pears. And blankies and candles don't necessarily require me to go out and buy decluttered everything. All my decor items when it's just not something that I really enjoy for some people. And if you enjoy that stuff, that of, every time there is something that you want Like the ones that you really really like. And see there that you could donate, or something else, to I would love to know from you, what is something your home a lot more clutter-free? I would love comment section. And if you want more videos from Patreon. There are currently over 110 videos up on month. The videos on patreon are always add free it is just a great win-win situation. Because by channel and help me to pay for business expenses extra videos for me. And like behind the scenes community of really nice people, so it's just a and cancel again anytime you like. So you can go And of course, if you like learning new things, the link in the description box As always, thank you so much for conversations down below. Have a wonderful, wonderful day and I will see you all again week. I sounded like Monica and friends when truly that bad. I haven't been able to film