Australia and New Zealand Two countries in Oceania...more specifically...Australasia. Separated by the Tasman Sea, they're two high on nearly every quality of life ranking Both seem to be kind of far away from the own little world since they're both so unique. Let's first look at some differences between First of all, New Zealand doesn't exist. Ok, ok, that's just basically a meme at maps were leaving out New Zealand. In fact, there's even a large subreddit But don't believe the hype. New Zealand, in fact, DOES exist. See, there it is. Australia exists, too, but it's about 29 It's the sixth largest country in the world, That said, it only has around five times as (A- 25.7 million, NZ- 5 million) Why? Well, check this map out. Only 2% of the population of Australia lives And why does only 2% of the population of That's because much of it is desert or near 35% of the Australian continent doesn't But what about up here? Well few live here mostly just because it's of Australia. Only one metropolitan area in New Zealand That'd be the magnificent Auckland. Australia, meanwhile, has five metro areas Its two biggest cities, Sydney and Melbourne, OF NEW ZEALAND. Being so much bigger, Australia has a wider New Zealand has mostly an oceanic climate, map. As I said earlier, much of it is desert or I should probably now bring up the sparsely While the Outback is typically only associated areas of Australia that have a savanna climate. Basically, the huge area in Australia where It's a magical place. And believe it or not, Australia has a little climate. Along the eastern coast, southeastern coast the population lives by the way, Australia climate, but don't forget the lovely Mediterranean coasts. That's also where a lot of Australians live. Australia has a more varied landscape, and one of the most important indigenous sites New Zealand's mountains are way more impressive In fact, many people not from Australia forget Meanwhile, everyone seems to know about New Lord of the Rings and Hobbit films. The producer of those films, Peter Jackson, handedly put New Zealand on the map due to Remember how I said it's often not on maps? Sorry for the bad joke there. Anyway, you can visit the actual Shire from And fun fact! My uncles lived in New Zealand while they What was I talking about again? Oh yes, mountains! New Zealand's highest peak is around 1500 Well mainland Australia at least. No one seems to care about you Mawson Peak, New Zealand sits on the infamous Ring of Fire, eruptions tend to occur. Australia doesn't have to worry about volcanoes. Also, since Australia sits on top of a very residents there don't have to worry much New Zealanders, on the other hand, have to every ten years. Related to this, both Australia and New Zealand Australia gets hit more by cyclones. While both countries have to worry about floods the news for them. Also, while bushfires are a regular thing seasons in recorded history from September It was catastrophic and a bit horrifying, New Zealand is made up of islands. Australia is mostly made up of a continent. Liam: Well actually, some people actually Mr. Beat: Well that's preposterous. What a silly notion. Australia is clearly a continent. Liam: I mean, I agree with you, but that doesn't calling it an island. Mr. Beat: Well someone needs to stop them. Liam, you must stop them. Liam: Uh, well I don't know if that's However, I can make a video looking at why Mr. Beat: Right on. Can you have it done by the time I'm done Liam: I'll see what I can do Mr. Beat: Dang, that's awesome. (Liam zooms off screen) Well I'm looking So anyway, like I said, Australia is also and driest continually inhabited continent And yes, New Zealand is made up of islands...around of a bigger land mass under the sea (Under Of those 600, however, only 13 are inhabited Most of the population of New Zealand lives the North Island, or Te Ika-a-Maui, and South Oh yeah? Well Australia has 8,222 islands, so it's Many seem to forget that New Zealand is lower that's confusing...it's higher in latitude Further south ok? Latitude-wise, Australia is more African than Australia borders the Indian Ocean. New Zealand borders the Pacific Ocean. East of New Zealand is just wow. Quite a bit of ocean there. And quite a bit of ocean west of Australia, Australians are often called Aussies and New That name comes from the kiwi, a flightless national symbol. Here is a Kiwi holding a kiwi. New Zealand is growing at a faster rate. (A- 1.3%, NZ- 2.1%) The cost of living is lower in New Zealand. Not only that, but residents there generally Australia has a higher GDP per capita. (A- $51,812.15 USD, NZ- $41,791.79 USD). That said, wealth inequality is a bit worse Also, New Zealand spends a higher percentage (A- 5.3%, NZ- 6.4%) Major industries in Australia include mining, Major industries in New Zealand include agriculture, New Zealand generally has faster internet While sheep outnumber humans in Australia 6 to 1. Residents of Australia are generally more The biggest religion there is Christianity. Within that group, most are Protestant. Almost half of New Zealanders have no religion. There's no big highway that goes straight I mean, there's the Outback Highway, a series and west, but uh, I ain't trusting that, There is a north-south highway that links Stuart Highway, aka "The Track." It's just a 31-hour drive! There's a weird tradition in New Zealand You know, I think they're on to something New Zealand legalized same-sex marriage more Australia has possibly the world's longest sheep in the southeastern part of the country. In fact, it's even called the Dingo Fence. Due to its long geographic isolation, most reptiles are uniquely native to it. New Zealand has hardly any dangerous animals. Australia, on the other hand, has the most Sure, it's known for its cuddly koalas, wombats, will actively try to KILL YOU, from sharks, That said, this may all be overhyped. In fact, due to antivenom inventions, these haven't killed anyone there since 1979. Australia has one of the highest electoral Why? Well, probably because it's mandatory for Not in New Zealand, though. While medical marijauna is legal in both countries, or straight up legalized it. Hey speaking of...uh...parts. New Zealand is divided into 16 regions. Australia has six states, three internal territories, So what's the difference between states Well states have more freedom to do their Territories are more under the direct control Hey speaking of government, while both have and constitutional monarchies, Australia is And speaking of that, New Zealand once had Yep, it could have been part of Australia, Oh hey, let's look at some history now, Humans have lived in Australia up to 64,000 Aboriginal Australians, or a name given to settled Australia, likely arrived by sea from Over a period of time of tens of thousands changed. The earliest humans reached modern-day Tasmania Back then, it was connected to the continent The first Torres Strait Islanders arrived years ago. New Zealand, meanwhile, was one of the last It wasn't until 1,000 years ago, or maybe first arrived on canoes. The Dutch were the first Europeans to come In 1606, the Dutch explorer Willem Janszoon 36 years later, the Dutch explorer Abel Tasman The same year Janszoon had landed in Australia, out the Torres Strait and its associated islands However, it was the Dutch who came back in they called New Holland, of course. Not many stuck around to live, though. Around 1720ish, some Makassar people from And then there was that James Cook dude, an cartographer. He first checked out, mapped out, and claimed checked out, mapped out, and claimed the eastern The French came to both places soon after they became a bit preoccupied and never followed The British, however, did. In 1788, they arrived to settle, establishing at Sydney Cove on January 26, which today Many of the first settlers of Sydney were Criminals. Mostly for petty crimes, but ya know. Over the next 100 years, the British would entire continent. Similar to when the British established colonies somewhat harmoniously with the various indigenous been there for tens of thousands of years. However, similar to North America, the indigenous introduced diseases they brought over. Smallpox, measles, influenza, typhoid, and population up to 70%. And then of course, future British settlers took land that many indigenous folks claimed This led to much conflict, especially in the Meanwhile, things were a bit more chill in The first British settlers there were mostly Rangihoua Bay beginning in 1815. They founded Kerikeri in 1822 and Bluff in The Maori and British mostly got along, at What a surprise, treaties had been broken Even though the Maori were greatly outnumbered up a good fight for decades, but ultimately Most of the new settlers in both places did wasn't as fertile as many were hoping it However, mining also became a thing. Gold rushes caused the Australian population New Zealand also had some gold rushes in the Meanwhile, Australia and New Zealand, being Britain, had been becoming more and more independent. The British Parliament did allow a form of and the Colony of New Zealand. By the 1880s, though, a huge nationalist movement Surprisingly, a huge feminist movement had In 1893, New Zealand became the absolute first to vote. But hey, nine years later, Australia became let women vote. Oh, and uh...that was the year after Australia Australia said New Zealand could join up, cool." Australia was like "suit yourself," and Instead, New Zealand earned "Dominion" so it has pretty much been an independent Only in the 1900s did the population of both And grow they did, although both today are Alright then, yeah... for the rest of the between the two countries. Due to the aforementioned legacy of the British, speak English. Maori and New Zealand Sign Language are also Residents of both countries have different hard to pick up. One way to tell is how they say their vowels. Aussies tend to draw out vowels compared to According to the World Happiness Index, residents the world. Probably related to this, both have very low Both have a high percentage of residents born (A- 30%, NZ- 27.4%). And if YOU are interested in moving to either know that both are two of the easiest countries Because of this high immigration, both are While the majority of residents trace their and 12% of New Zealanders trace their ancestry New Zealand also still has a large Maori Maori culture remains a big part of New Zealand Both have a similar median household income. The minimum age to drink alcohol in both is Both have areas with weird time zones. Both have flags that are often confused since the British Union Jack in the top left corner An easy way to know the difference is that constantly getting mixed up with Australia's. The ozone layer is thinner above both countries As I said earlier, both are two of the most Australia, in particular. Sure, it may account for just over 5% of the the global population. A big reason why is urbanization. Hey speaking of which, both are two of the Odds are, if you live in either country, you Both have versions of universal healthcare. Related to this, both have a really high life (A- 82.9, NZ- 81.7) The median age in both is about the same. (A- 37, NZ- 37.4) Regarding violent crime, both are two of the Both have historically had to deal with LOTs organisms introduced to an area that become As I said earlier, many people who live in of the world, and those ancestors brought predators. In other words, no one eats them. Because of this, in Australia, they've had rabbits, deer, cane toads, and honey bees, And believe it or not, Australia is the only Oh, and there was that mice plague last year. Goodness gracious. New Zealand also has its fair share of invasive but other standouts like rats, possums, and getting rid of them in recent years. Residents of both often call the undeveloped Rugby is ridiculously popular in both. And of course there's all the sports rivalries around rugby and rugby league, of course, All these weird sports Down Under. Oh, "Down Under" is what folks often call under" most other countries, meaning they're Coincidentally, "Down Under" by Men at Just kidding. But shout out to Australian music. No offense, New Zealand, but in my humble Don't believe me? Name one New Zealand band off the top of your Exactly. Also, there's this Australian band called a song about me, so that's pretty rad and And one final thing. In 2006, an Australian tried to sell New Zealand In conclusion, while there is indeed a bit and New Zealand, I think they will always edge of the globe far away from most of it They really are two special, amazing countries. Oh before we go, I almost forgot. Liam? Liam: Yes, Mr. Beat? Mr. Beat: Did you happen to get done with Liam: Why yes I did, and I'm happy to report Mr. Beat: Well it's settled then Hey did you know that an estimated $1.7 TRILLION And contemporary by 174% from 1995 to 2020. But why should billionaires be the only ones What about the rest of us? Enter Masterworks.io is the only serious platform on. Now,we can invest in the same art they do. It takes just a few clicks Yes! Masterworks is the first company to offer with the Securities and Exchange commission You go to their site, create an account, browse And a buyer, Masterworks offers a secondary market. Masterworks specializes in artwork, and can My next question was, is anyone doing it? Yes again! Over 300,000 investors have already by the famous street artist BANKSY sold out If you want to take advantage and invest in However, you can get priority access and immediately description. And, it also really supports my channel. So please at least check it out. Thanks to G'day, thanks to Liam from the channel State this video. He really did make a video look at why folks it out and you might as well subscribe to Also a shout out to Jon from the channel Veritas over my script. So which is better? Australia or New Zealand? Which two countries should I compare next? Let me know down below. And now it's time for my monthly shout out $15 or more each month to my channel. Starting with my $20 a month supporters,