Who comes first? I'll come I'd like to see Can you cut me flat in three seconds? I'll come Cold Moon Who comes first? Xue Min Sister You shameless bitch He actually played dirty tricks on us. The treacherous path of the soldier I learned this from you Chinese. You are really thick-skinned. Every year The little devils who died at the hands of our sisters Less than one thousand, at least eight hundred We can die without regrets Sisters If there is an afterlife I, Xue Min, am still your big sister. We still have to kill the devils together Kill the devil Nomura I'll leave the women's team to you. How dare you disobey my orders? No mercy to enemies Have you forgotten what the teacher said? Nomura, do you know why you are hurt? Because you are too kind Anytime, Anywhere No mercy to the enemy Do you understand? stop You Japanese dogs You don't deserve to be called a soldier. Kill me first. Sister Xue Min Sister Xue Min Sister There is an agency Be careful, Miko The others are not important, kill Ikeda first yes Kill me You are a scum of Japan. Go quickly Quick, quick, quick Go fast! Don't let them run away. Fast Chase It seems that Jin Tai is still a filial son Stop chasing. Why didn't the lieutenant colonel chase her? They can't run far. I will definitely be able to catch up with them if I lead the troops. The woods ahead are a dead land No one can get out if they go in. Find a place to relax Set up camp yes Come back to me Xue Min, we can't stop This little devil will catch up soon Everyone, hurry up and leave Walk Wait a moment Why do I feel like I've been to this place before? Yes, that's the direction. Yeah, I think so too. Sister Were we hitting a wall? Many people must have died in this forest. It won't be some lonely ghost or something. Liu Fox, please stop spreading rumors It's normal to get lost in the forest. This is all your fault for not leading the way Ouyang Lan, if you are capable, please lead the way. I'll take it. You should have listened to me a long time ago. Come on, come on, follow me. Walk Keep up Be careful everyone Ouyang Lan Got caught by a ghost Cold Moon Don't disperse. Where are you? I'm here, come and save me Where is it? Help me! Sister, be careful Come and save me Come and save me, come and save me Professor Ikeda Professor Ikeda Professor Ikeda Come and save me Dad Where is this? Don't talk hurry up Follow closely behind Hurry up! Hurry up! Hurry up, everyone. Whoever walks slowly, I want him to look good Follow We are the children of the sun We follow the will of the sun For the safety of all our people in the village Pray for blessings Let the most courageous fighter in our village Let's complete this great ceremony. Huba, you complete this A glorious memorial good I said your father always looked down on me I am a foreigner's child. Brother Jin, for your mother You must learn to be patient Besides, my father thinks you are young. He will definitely give you this opportunity in the future. Don't be mad at my dad. Ava one day I will prove it to your father. Looks like I don't need to do anything. The women's team is about to be finished I can't die like this without knowing why. I haven't found an organization yet I voluntarily join the Communist Party of China Support the party's platform Support the party's platform Abide by the Party Constitution Abide by the Party Constitution Fulfilling the obligations of a party member Fulfilling the obligations of a party member Implementing the Party's decisions Implementing the Party's decisions Strictly abide by the party's discipline Strictly abide by the party's discipline Fight for communism all your life Fight for communism all your life Comrade Xue Min Welcome to join the Communist Party of China Comrade Xue Min Now I have a special task for you. Infiltrate the enemy yes To conceal your identity Only you and I keep in touch Don't tell anyone else who you are. What if If you are no longer Who can prove my identity in Yan'an? Remember, you can fight against Japan wherever you are. Protecting the people wherever they are yes Platoon Leader Chen, our search and rescue operation Codenamed Eagle One Remember, after landing, we split into two groups. Search now Professor Ikeda and the women's team Find the shoulder We will use red flares to communicate, understand? clear Check the parachute bag and prepare for parachuting Check the parachute bag and prepare for parachuting yes My sister is my savior. Please don't kill them. I see, that's how it is. benefactor Let them all go. She is a friend of our benefactor. He is also our guest. Quick release rope Quick release rope quick quick Boss Are you okay? Lingling Cold Moon I'm fine. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. Benefactor, we let our guests suffer. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. Chief Wang Chief, can you Bury our brother. Of course, of course Lingling, what's going on? I fell out of the plane. I thought I was doomed. Very high I don't know where I got the courage from. Anyway I guess my brain is broken. Anyway, by mistake I saved the son of the chief of their village. Po Lingling, it was your courage that saved you this time And saved everyone We frightened your friend. I'll calm you down at night. Chief, we appreciate your kindness. But now we need more Please help us find someone You are finally here Come jump Come and follow Jump Jump Jump Keep up Jump to keep up Jump to keep up Jump Come come come Come come come sit sit How to serve wine? Eat more and smell it to see if it smells good. And the wine? Pour the wine quickly Fill up the wine elder sister Thank you, Abao What's that on your neck? So beautiful This one This is a copper coin amulet. I want I want You want it Okay, sister, I'll give it to you. Wear it. Just like your benefactor sister has been protecting you Thank you, sister Don't be afraid, I'll show you my legs. No no Be patient This is our secret recipe passed down from generation to generation. Specialized in treating red wounds You need to rest well Apply it one or two more times and it will be fine Thank you. Thank you. The effort put into Jin Tai It seems worth it Those women are not dead yet. Ikeda is still in the village I've already said it Everything is in my plan We will go to the stockade to catch Ikeda immediately. Call in the troops now yes Bring the telescope. Looks like reinforcements for the women's squad have arrived. I'll go meet them I'll go check it out good Tong Buling, do you still want that? Don't give me This is what Abao gave me. Why are you like this? Give me Give me mine let go You two are such losers. Fighting for a bone Do you care? Then you steal someone else's Eat and eat Come come come drink Drink Delicious, huh? Dad You guys are eating well. Eat more Come come come eat again eat again Thank you, Patriarch do not mention it Captain Xue, I'll pour you some wine. Come and eat. Thank you The person you said you saved was Japanese What kind of place is Japan Japan is a country They invaded our country Occupied our territory They also massacred many of our compatriots. What that Why do you still want to save him? Let the wolves eat them. This man has important military intelligence. Now our army Fighting to recapture Mincheng The situation is very difficult If we can make this Japanese If you can get the information Then our army You can quickly turn the situation around So that's how it is Hit them all down for me yes Everyone, please pay attention to the rapid descent Chase me Don't kill me Don't kill me Did I say I was going to kill you? I'm here to bring you food. You lost so much blood, your body needs nutrients I know you Japanese The taste is relatively light I'm afraid you won't be able to eat the food in the village. I processed it for you myself. You will eat it. How do I know if it's poisonous? I spent a lot of time saving you I'm going to poison you now Do you think this is logical? Do you think this is logical? I have no idea I'm messed up now I'm messed up now I do not understand Why do so many people suddenly want to kill me? Even the Imperials want to kill me You know very well You just don't want to admit it. Map of Mincheng Liquid Oxygen Plant If you don't want to say no one is forcing you I know You are just a professor, not a soldier. We shouldn't have been involved in this war. Eat it while it's hot. Ikeda lying down Are you here to rescue me? I'm here to kill you. The others are not important, kill Ikeda first I pledged my loyalty to the Empire but was hunted down instead These people are supposed to be my enemies. But he saved my life again and again. Sister, why are you so nice to him? We almost died three times because of him. He didn't tell us anything. I'm so pissed off. How about it Otherwise, I'll go over and castrate him now. I see if he says it or not Just save some time Even if we get the information We can't send the information back now. So what should we do now? Wait for Ikeda to recover some strength We'll take him out of this jungle. Let's get in touch with Chief Liu first. Forget it, we'll suffer here. Who knows where Liu Cheng is having fun? You are still Liu Cheng Liu Cheng He is your immediate boss now. Be careful when you speak next time. I'm afraid of him, but he doesn't give me a penny. Thinking back to the time when we were born and died The one who got promoted and became rich was still Old Man Huang. I think Liu Cheng is the same as him. They are all the same kind Everyone, hide! Chief Liu, we are ambushed. You take your men away first to cover me. No, you're dying in vain. Find Ikeda first and walk quickly Platoon Leader Chen Walk Team Lee have Follow me yes I think Liu Cheng To you, the female bomb squad That's when my beloved baby is in pain You guys are good Actually said bad things about him behind his back We didn't say anything bad about Chief Liu. Don't you have a grudge against Section Chief Liu? This is a personal grudge. Liu Cheng is a man of courage and strategy. He is a good leader, don't you think? Go away, you're talking nonsense. Drinking Drinking Okay, I drink Come on Abao Everyone eats vegetables Yes, eat vegetables The women's team that escaped the disaster I don't know at this time Miko Yagyu for them The dragnet has already been laid Liu Cheng, where are you now? Will you come? Chase Yes Yes Hurry up and follow Quick Quick quick Chief Liu, this place is very strange. We are clearly following the direction of the compass But it took so long Why can't I get out? All-Women Bomb Squad There's no news now. We wasted one more minute They are more dangerous. Keep looking and keep moving forward Listen up, everyone, look in that direction. yes Come to me No need, Chief Liu Walk Come and follow come over Is he the only one left in the team? This guy is an officer. So I left him alone. very good Be honest You're the only one left Let's go find the girl's team. Walk This is our territory, you can't enter. Why come in? Back Back What happened outside? Jintai Awa, you two should go and take a look Follow a few more people and hurry up Walk Lingling, please take care of Abao. Others follow me good Give Walk I told you to get out of the way. Back, back, back, back Back I'll kill whoever comes up Back off, back off, back off Back off Go back quickly. Don't come near Back off, don't lean forward. Back off. stop This is our village You are not allowed to come near We have no hostility, we are just looking for someone. Our friends Lost in this woods Your friends right It's not your turn yet You were looking for them. You know them Platoon Leader Chen Platoon Leader Chen Platoon Leader Chen finally sees you A Bao, this copper coin It's especially important to my sister. Benefactor, please take Abao into the house first. Good walk What happened outside the village? Xue Min, I finally found you. Can Who sent you? How did you know we were here? It was Chief Liu who arranged for us to rescue you. What about Liu Cheng? What about others? He, he, he Chief Liu, after we parachuted Then we split into two groups and started searching. By the way, where is Ikeda? Did he reveal any information about Mincheng? not yet We were getting ready to lead him out of the woods. Bring him out. Very cold moon Get your weapons! Get your weapons! Get your weapons! Copy the stuff Copy the stuff Po, hide quickly. Go and bring Ikeda out. yes Wait a moment These people have problems You take Ikeda and walk over your shoulder Go ahead Captain Xue, the little devil Run Run, hide, lie down. Run, run! Chase them, don't let them run away Quick retreat Quick retreat I know you have no fighting spirit at all now There's only one way to bring you back to life That's murder, did you hear me? Flares It must be Platoon Leader Chen and his men. Found the women's team Speed up in the southwest direction yes Hurry up! Quick Close the door now How about it The big bones I ate were awesome, right? You are awesome! It's already a certain age, you only know how to brag I don't agree, I don't bother to care about you Stand still, raise your hands and turn around Don't shoot, don't shoot, don't shoot Professor Ikeda said There's a reward for catching you dead or alive. Don't shoot here. Professor Ikeda Go fast Everyone, hide! Get up and go Be careful here. Hide quickly Ouyang Lan, what are you looking for there? I'm spinning around and around until I feel dizzy We are at a disadvantage without bombs. This won't last long. Do you just rely on your big bone? OK, let's do it Break the door open for me Rush in Rush in quick Walk quick Jin Tai's father was captured by the Japanese Will they harm my father? No, don't worry. The devils are here to look for someone. It won't hurt us Really Give me a rush Walk Blow them up for me. Good girl, Miss Ou I'm annoying, you're the one who cares Oops, no more bullets. Okay, you curse people but don't spit nuclear Are you tired of living? Stop it. Stop it. Ava, sit down. The little devils are looking for them It has nothing to do with us They broke into our village Killed so many of our people. How come it has nothing to do with us? Come on, who has fire, give it to me I have fire Take it out quickly! quick What's going on? What's going on? Why don't you fight back when the critical moment comes? I said, can you do it? I have fire Lingling is still the one who matters most Let me kill the devil Blast them all to primitive society quick quick quick Prepare for battle yes They're here again Oh no, someone has sneaked in among us. there Liu Cheng Liu Cheng Liu Cheng(c) Xue Min Liu Cheng Xue Min I know you're still alive quick This place is not suitable for long stay Walk Walk Is everyone okay? Where is Wang Songping? I was here just now There it is Everyone hide quickly Good girl team, come on! Quick Going Around Keep up quick Matsudaira Matsudaira Liu Section Chief Are you okay? I'm fine. I'm sorry I didn't listen to you. When are you still talking about this? Let's go. Go fast! Go fast! Go quickly Hang in there No, we can't fight hard. I have to find a secluded place to hide. So where can we go now? There are devils everywhere I know a hidden place Come with me Okay, everyone follow Ava. Ouyang Lantong Lingling Take good care of Ikeda. good Go quickly Follow me and retreat quickly Walk Hang in there, hang in there, bro. Go Go Go brother Get out of the way Matsudaira Matsudaira Song Ping, hold on. Song Ping Matsudaira Matsudaira hold on Matsudaira Liu Cheng has no time. I can't do it anymore Take them away quickly. No, I can't give up on you, Matsudaira Complete the task Don't say anything. I have to take you for a walk Walk Let you run Let's go Blow them up for me. yes Matsudaira Matsudaira Go fast Go for a walk Matsudaira Matsudaira Come on, little devil Matsudaira Shoot now Matsudaira Stop chasing Gather all the people in the village here. yes Going Around Walk honestly This saber has been with me for many years. I have been through countless battles It's as precious as my life. But it has a little hobby Drinking a few pounds of human blood every day Thanks Thank you for drinking blood for my knife Thanks Is there a cave for hiding nearby, old man? If he dares to lie to us, we will kill him. Walk Why don't you take a rest and I'll keep watch. No need. I should have been on guard. You've been with me for so long, go and have a rest Okay, then be careful. Professor Ikeda Professor Ikeda Water good water Come Come Still want it? Don't touch Professor Ikeda If you move now, the wound will tear Feeling better? If I tell you better Are you going to judge me now? I'm so sorry, Professor Ikeda. It's all my fault. I was too impatient last time. But think about it carefully If it were you I think you would do the same. Professor Ikeda Do you think that your knowledge Is it used to burn living beings? I think you should know better than me Once liquid oxygen is made into a bomb How miserable the injured people are. It hurts so much Burn me to death Professor Ikeda I think your knowledge is Should benefit all mankind Your invention should also belong to all mankind What do you think? But I am also Japanese I should be loyal to the Emperor of Japan I know You are a rare scientist. This is a war that shouldn't have happened. You shouldn't be a Japanese imperialist. Accomplices in the invasion of other ethnic groups Do you think what I said makes sense? Wake up, everyone! The Japs are outside and we have been discovered. Who took my things? Don't sleep, pighead. It's already this late and you still want to sleep How is Professor Liu Cheng Ikeda doing? Not good. He's too weak. The Japs are coming I know, let's go and see. good Captain Xue, I have something to tell you. Professor Ikeda, what do you have to say? Use my life to exchange for the chieftain Don't doubt Only in this way can we achieve final victory Old man, you will see your daughter soon. There aren't many people in the Nakadashi Cave. We rush in and kill them. no We don't know what's going on in the cave. Beware of being fooled Besides, the patriarch is in our hands. Are you still worried that they won't come out? Get the old man out. Dad Crouching Beware of Fraud Stop hiding. Let's make a deal You let Ikeda go. I let the chief go Did you hear that? Why is this woman like a fly? I can't get rid of it anywhere. What should I do with Brother Jin? You must find a way to rescue my father. Don't worry, I'll find a way. Ouyang Lan asked Xue Min to bring Ikeda over yes Stop testing my patience. Otherwise I'll kill him. Dad hurry up If you don't help, I will save my father by myself Ava, don't be impulsive Ava, stop. Professor Liu Cheng and Ikeda agreed to exchange the old patriarch no We managed to rescue Ikeda. Just let him go He said so For the safety of the old patriarch and all the villagers We have no choice now. Ouyang Lan brought Professor Ikeda over Squat Professor Ikeda has made you suffer. I'm here to pick you up now. Thank you professor Yoshiko Yagyu I'll take the person out for you now. Get your people to stand back. Come out now Leng Yue, you are responsible for the cover Walk Yoshiko Yagyu You can hand over the chieftain. We are all old friends. What are you nervous about? Seeing an acquaintance To show my sincerity I can let him go first. Walk Dad Ava Everyone, prepare your weapons and follow my orders. Dad, Dad Calm down, Ava. Captain Xue, thank you for your care. goodbye Goodbye Professor Ikeda Dad Leng Yue, beware clear Dad, are you okay? It's dangerous here. Go into the cave quickly. shot Dad, Dad The chief quickly helped him into the cave. Cold Moon Fast shot Tong Lingling is fast Dad, Dad You hold on. Cold Moon Cold Moon Leng Yue, go away, I will protect you No, I'll protect you. Obey orders Obey orders quickly Professor Ikeda, you didn't tell me the location of the liquid oxygen plant. Tell them What's wrong The head is not in good condition and the bleeding can't be stopped Dad, save me, Dad Please save him. Dad, you can't die. Ava Dad Dad can't take care of you anymore. Dad Jintai Patriarch I really didn't kill your father. Your father left on his own. Maybe one day he'll come back on his own. Jintai I put Ava Over to you Chief, don't worry. Patriarch Dad Patriarch Patriarch Dad, wake up! Wake up, Dad. I'm gonna fight them. We can't beat them. Dad Lieutenant Colonel Yagyu, you have worked hard To prevent me from leaking information You put a lot of effort into it. Professor Ikeda, what are you talking about? We are all soldiers of the Empire of Japan It is the duty of a soldier to obey orders I'm just following orders. You have to understand my difficulties Give me Lieutenant Colonel Yagyu Nomura I thought you were gone. You haven't spoken or joined the fight. What's the difference between you coming and not coming? The priority now We are going to take Professor Ikeda away from here. Avoid unnecessary complications Why are you feeling sad? Girls' team, you gave in to them. I have been fighting with the women's team for many years Know their nature If we continue to dwell here They will definitely Shut up You should continue to be dumb. I'm not you. I'm not as stupid as you. In this world Only men can't do anything to women Woman against woman There are many ways Let's just go out and fight the devils. Anyway, it will be on my mother's tombstone after I die. They will also write the words &quot;Serve the country with loyalty&quot; Okay, it's already this time. What's the point of being cannon fodder? I don't believe you can get out now. Unbuttoning someone's shirt? Don't you forget The boss over there is a woman Your trick doesn't work on them at all. You dead bitch, I have made great achievements in war How come it's like unbuttoning when it comes to you? Liu Ruyan You want to make trouble but don't you know when it is? I'm not your sister, why do you always say that to me? It was she who came to me first and made me unhappy. I said you are this person Why can't I understand good or bad words? I mean you stay I'm going to go out and blow these little devils to death Dad That's not right. What's wrong Why is there so much less explosives in my bag? And the detonator is missing. Lieutenant Colonel Yagyu I have something important to tell you. What's important? that is What is Get out of the way Get out of the way It's Ikeda What is he trying to do? Find a chance and rush out Jin Tai, the two of us supported the clan leader quick Let's go, everyone. Go fast Go fast Walk Going Around Everyone, hurry up and catch up Be careful. Be careful. Traitor to the Empire of Japan How dare you deceive me No one this No one here Don't let them chase you. yes Chase fast Chase faster Hurry up over there and catch up Dad, don't worry. Brother Jintai and I will never let the village Falling into the hands of the devils We will definitely rescue the people in the village. Dad, you can go with peace of mind. Dad Dad Poor Ava. Ikeda, that fat guy, is pitiful enough. To save us He actually strapped a bomb to himself I didn't expect him to be so loyal. I don't think he did it entirely for us. It's just that Yagyu Miko is too cruel All I wanted to do was kill Ikeda. No regard for compatriots Ikeda didn't want to die in her hands. I think this is his only way to resist. Wait a minute, Jin Tai brother, come and help me We are all Japanese soldiers We gave our lives to the Japanese Imperial Army Our duty is to fight to the death You can't have love in your heart Otherwise You will become vulnerable. Have you forgotten what the teacher said? I didn't forget I immediately gathered my men to the village. You bring another team. To perform important tasks Set off Ava, you are This scorpion The most poisonous venom in our jungle As long as this poison needle dipped in venom You will die within seconds of being shot. Use it to deal with the devils The best choice Good boy I wish my saliva was this poisonous I'll just spit on those bastards to death Scorpion Scorpion Scorpion Liu Ruyan Okay, let's get going. Lower your heads and be quiet. Be quiet Wait, I'll call for help. Okay, go ahead. Huba Where is the map? On the same pillar where Ikeda was injured that day He said he carved the map On the pillar next to him On one of the stone slabs I'll get the map. No, Jin Tae-ge, this is too dangerous. There are too many of them. I'll steal a few first. Then you figure out how to start What Ava said makes sense, so let's do it so Ava, please hide far away. Then release the bamboo arrows Yes Keep your head down Liu Ruyan Tong Lingling You two go around. The devils will leave after a while. You two go and rescue the folks. yes Well done Ava I'll go to the village first. Huba went to the village entrance The Japanese are likely to come in from the entrance of the village. Okay, go ahead. Be careful on the road. Come with me to rescue the villagers. yes A Bao, A Bao, are you okay? My benefactor sister will untie the rope for you now Thank you, sister. Thank you. Captain Xue, I'm worried that there are still some Japanese around. Jintai and Huba are still at the entrance of the village I want to see if they are in danger. Okay, go ahead. Be safe. good Come on, hurry up Help me untie Come and mine I'll untie it for you Walk Jintae, I'm so glad you're okay. How's Huba? He has been killed Then let's go tell Captain Xue right away. Captain Xue Captain Xue Ava The Japs came and I saw that woman The woman who killed my father Sister, since you have got the map Let's go and meet up with Liu Cheng right away. What about these villagers? How about taking them along? Don't be afraid The devils won't hurt them. Not that woman That woman is an inhuman monster. We should take them away Found it Captain Xue escaped with so many people The target is too big There are old people and children here. You won't be able to escape I think the Japs are mainly coming for you. As long as you leave quickly The villagers will not be in danger. Everyone, hide quickly. We'll be safe when they leave. well Sister, please don't go. Abao, you are good. Wear the amulet my sister gave you. I will be back Take him away quickly Okay, everyone, retreat. hurry up Don't move, don't move, don't move Be honest Squat down honestly. Don't. beat Eagle One calls headquarters Eagle One calls headquarters Please answer if you hear me. Please answer if you hear me. Damn, I'm out of bullets. I only have one hair left. Leng Yue saw the gasoline barrel. Get rid of it Walk Walk The radio was already fixed. I don't know why there is no signal again. Just leave it alone and leave here first Beware of grenades Cold Moon Leng Yue Leng Yue wake up Are you okay? I'm fine, thank you for saving me. Liu Cheng knew Leng Yue's love for him But I didn't expect that in a critical moment Leng Yue's first reaction Using life to protect yourself Are you okay? Lingling Grenade Walk Xue Min Is everyone okay? fine I'm afraid the devils will come again soon. Everyone, please evacuate immediately. withdraw Walk