I didn't know there was a girl here. I guess your name is Rachel, Monica , Phoebe. Just call her Janice. You're so funny. Look, isn't this Bruce Lee? Are you trying to cause trouble by stopping us? Are you here to compete or fight? Captain, he saved you, right? The first night of Silver Wings. Maybe it was because of the jet lag. Maybe it was the busy day after entering the camp. We slept very deeply that day. What the hell, captain, captain, what's wrong, captain? Captain, I later learned that before us, high-pressure water cannons had fired at the special forces of Amirica Laserton and other countries. No one of the special forces from participating countries could escape the torment of this demon Mars. China was fighting against Amirica. Sand free fighting is a best-of- three-game system. The Chinese team will give priority to choosing your opponents. I want to see your most ferocious side and kill as much as you want. In terms of physical ability, we will definitely not be able to fight them. Don't choose that Roger. We must ensure that we win the first battle. Start, Captain Ma, come on, charge forward, Commander Ma, come on, hit him on the left rib, come forward, come forward, tell me your name, Phoebe, I am Chinese, pay attention to your hair, what is your name, Phoebe, the pigtails are small? God, come on, beautiful, come on , brother, come on, come on, Eric, you are stronger than him, use your strength to hold him knock him down, knock him down, kick him, Tian'er, hold on, knock him down, hide, hide, Xiaotian, look now. Who is Phoebe? Who is Phoebe? I won, China won, China won. Did you see it? I am a Chinese. I am a Chinese. Did you see it? Did you see it? I am the Chinese captain, come on, come on, kick him. Come on, come on, pretty, hit him, kick him, go on, Captain Qin, what are you doing, Captain Qin, Captain Qin, stop, stop, let him go, Captain Qin, are you okay? Let me see if you hurt any bones. Captain, I tried my best to leave. We all stopped for the first twenty-nine kilometers, and our results were good. We are worthy of being special forces. So I want to give you a gift. This gift will make you stronger. In the future, you will be grateful for this gift. In the last mile, we all crawled forward. You seemed to have no gratitude for this gift. Thank you very much, instructor. I haven't heard you say thank you for my gift. Thank you, instructor. Everyone, get down. Yes, instructor, the wine is not bad. If you don't take a sip, it won't be good. If you don't want to drink, forget it. Let 's go down and see. Let's go. Come on, soldier. Snail is a kind of snail. It's an admirable animal because it works hard to climb to their goal. It's a pity. No one is afraid of a snail. Move, move, move. Captain Qin, what's wrong, Captain Qin, Captain Chuan'er, it's okay, it's okay, I can do it, Captain, let's go. Soldier, although you want to help your comrades, he must complete his goal by himself, otherwise he will be eliminated. Give it to me. Come on, it's too slow to move. Come on, Chuan'er is too slow. I just gave you an order. Captain, you go first. Don't worry about me. I told you not to help your comrades. Is it clear? I heard you, captain. Let's go first. Let's go. Let's go together. I can do it on my own. You guys go. Move. Let's go. Captain, he can move. Come on, Chuan'er. Wriggling like maggots, bastard, you can't do it anymore. Tear off your armband. If you still have the strength, then keep crawling. Move. Snails are slow, but you are different. Snails are very noble. Report to the instructor. Report to the instructor. If there is blood on your hands, wipe it yourself. I'm injured. I need to treat the wound. Let me see if it's really injured. Does it still hurt? You can fix it by yourself with just a band-aid. Thanks to the instructors and snails. This lady has a little problem. I went to kiss his wound. Let him get better, madam, you still have sixteen minutes and twenty-three seconds, you can be lazy, snails, you are too slow, don't block my way, you stupid snail, it's not easy for me to finish the captain, take a break, wait a moment. I'm almost exhausted now. Oh my God, it's so torturous. Pay attention, all the snails. The last two minutes don't wait for anyone. You still have Captain Qin. Come on, one minute and forty-seven seconds to get to Chuan'er, Captain Qin. Come on, old Qin, come on, Captain Qin, come on, old Qin, come on, Chuan'er, come on, Captain Qin is almost here, almost here, Lao Qin, almost here, Chuan'er, Lao Qin, don't give up, come on, come on, Captain Qin is coming soon It's almost time for May Fourth. It's really a tragedy. No, no, no, no, Lao Qin, you guys who are late are trying to make you less fat and less slow. Master will help you eat your lunch. Captain, I'm sorry. Why don't you start eating when you're hungry? I can eat a whole chicken now. Captain, don't worry. I'll steal some food and send it to Captain Qin. Don't starve him. Xiaotian, the whole chicken you wanted is here, isn't it? It's here now. My favorite training subject is called eating chicken. In this subject, everyone will get a chicken. They must eat all the chicken. The chicken will be in your stomach. This subject will be over. Is there any problem? Thank you, instructor, captain. How do you eat this? Eat it with your mouth. Captain, Captain, I, I can't do it. Just imagine if you were on the battlefield and you hadn't eaten for three days. You would starve to death soon. I gave you a live chicken. Do you want to eat it? Then I'll roast it and then eat it. The enemy will Do you wait until you are cooked before I hit you? My poor Phoebe vomited again. Phoebe, do you know what my chicken is called? Phoebe II is so interesting. Give you a punch. You drink hair and blood. I am a civilized person. They can't understand you. In Chinese, you eat first and I eat later. I would rather starve myself. Chinese soldiers taste so good. Do you want to take a bite? Allow me to add some Parisian black pepper to you. You devil. China versus Amirico. China versus Ah. Miriko's sand free fighting system is a best of three rounds. The Chinese team will give priority to choosing your opponent. I want to see your most ferocious side and kill as much as you want. In terms of physical ability, we will definitely not be able to fight them. Don't choose that Roger. We have to guarantee it. The first battle must be won. The battle begins, Captain Ma, come on, charge forward, Captain Ma, come on, hit his left rib and attack forward . Say your name, Phoebe. I am Chinese. Pay attention to your hair . What is your name? Phoebe, pigtailed little boy, come on, pretty boy, brother, come on, come on, Eric, you are stronger than him, use your strength to hug him and knock him down, knock him down, kick him, Tian'er, hold on, knock him down, hide, hide, little boy God, now look who is Phoebe and who is Phoebe. I won. China wins. China wins. Did you see it? I am a Chinese. I am a Chinese. Did you see it? Did you see it? I am the Chinese captain. Come on, come on. Ah, kick him up, come on, hit him nicely, kick him, keep going, Captain Qin, how about Captain Qin, Captain Qin, stop, stop, let him go, Captain Qin, are you okay? Let me see if you hurt any bones, Captain. I tried my best. What a great cigar. You have an innate talent. I understand, sir. That's great. If you miss such a good opportunity, you will never have it again. Our country's participating teams don't look at our six teams, but we have to It's hard to win the championship. Let's not talk about Russellton Country and Amirico Country. This year's Chinese team is quite interesting. I have found the car that the smart Chinese guy used has diesel tree pulp on it. The traces prove my inference that they were stung by devil bees. There is only one store in this place: yours. That means they will definitely come here to look for medicine, but I am not sure whether they will kidnap me and use me as a hostage. There is an ambush and we meet again. Come on, come on. Torture me, come on, come on, come on, come on, brother, is he crazy? Yes, maybe. Come on, come on, come on, torture me. Hey, come on, do you dare to touch me? The Chinese are the strongest, come on and save people. Ah, what's going on? Look, look, he's about to die. He's been beaten with Tears of Eden again. This is the third time. He's about to die. Please, help him. Listen, we are Chinese special forces. Our country will not let him. Do you understand what I mean by confessing to death? Go, go and find someone to save him. Hurry up and wait. I'll go find Dr. Neymar first. Then hurry up. Captain, Captain, I told you that something will happen sooner or later. You're doing too much. As a doctor, I'm going to accuse you of your behavior. Captain, Captain, how are you? Captain, please help him. Doctor, what's wrong with him? Captain, he's dying. I need your help to carry him to the infirmary. Okay. Captain, please step back. Please save him. Don't worry. Please save him. Captain, Captain, hold on. Captain, I have to do a few more tests on you. First, I'm going to draw some blood from you. Wait a minute. If you really want to go out. , I can help you. Why should I trust you? I am a doctor. It is a doctor's bounden duty to save people. Open that drawer and you can see my report. Wait a minute. I was just hired by them this year to come to Silver Wings. These soldiers are so scary. I didn't expect myself at all. Involved in killing people. This is the report I wrote. I haven't finished it yet. I must accuse Mars. Everything here is completely contrary to the doctor's oath of office. I can't believe that I am actually killing people with these soldiers. I will never forgive myself. Do you understand me? Doctor, I'm here to save people. I'm sorry. No, no, my God. I didn't save him. Oh my god, I didn't save him. Go away, don't look back. If you dare to mess around, I'll kill you. I know a lot of people died here. It's all because of Tears of Eden. Don't play tricks on me. Keep walking. Help me, sir. Help me. It's me, Doctor Neymar. Please, I'm Doctor Neymar. Don't make any unnecessary resistance. You are my prisoner now. No, let's go. Come on. Hey, Brothers, let's go, what are you waiting for? Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, stop, come on, this gun can't shoot, there's no bullets, it's okay, stop, come on, stop, I said stop, everyone listened to me, now everything is in chaos. It's just an exercise. Really, we don't need to be like this. Don't start fighting among us. Everyone, please pay attention to the soldiers of Essenica. I am a participant of the Chinese army. Your commander is in my hand. He has something to say. I am Mars Bravo. Now we are prisoners of the Chinese. I order you to put down your weapons. Everyone, gather in the front hall. Soldiers from Esseneca. Today, the Chinese soldiers gave us a standard lesson on beheading. The Chinese soldiers were right. They can't shoot. Let's just reconcile, okay, okay. I'm honored that this prisoner torture test ended in this way. This fully proves that the participating special forces Silver Wings are good at using the smallest cost to obtain the greatest victory. This is the spirit of the Silver Wings. It's raining. Ah, soldiers here, good afternoon. Good afternoon, sir. Is this the Seka Valley? Is the Seka Valley over there? Thank you sir. What's the matter? Did you see other teams passing by? By the way, are you from Silver Wing? Are they Chinese? Yes, we are Chinese. Well, this is the only way to the Seca Valley. We have been here for a day and we haven't seen anyone. Are you the first people I saw ? Really? That's great. Captain, we are. First Captain, we still have seven hours and forty-one kilometers to travel through the night. If you still have time to say goodbye, sir, I wish you a happy day. Thank you. Goodbye. cry sadly. Roger, you said you No problem, come on Ethan, hello, is this Seca Valley? Are you in a hurry? You look quite tired. Do you want to come over and eat some roast lamb with us? Someone is here, someone is here. Friends, I don't know you and I don't know this place. What's going on? We are soldiers from Amirico. We are soldiers who participated in the Silver Wings. I don't care who you are. If you are tired, take a break and eat some roast lamb with us. Thank you for your kindness. We still have missions. Listen to the other teams in a while. Just caught up, you must stay brown bear, brown bear, I am the falcon, they are here, they will not move for the time being, we continue to perform the task, brothers, try this mutton, it is our specialty here, eat a piece, you, you, taste this, you, you, you Are you sure you don't want to eat? They haven't appeared yet. Logically speaking, we should have stopped and caught them. They may have gone another way. You just didn't see it. No, this is impossible, isn't it? Okay, I'll wait for you in front so that he can go too fast. Let's go quickly. Come on, come on, come on, come on, let's not shoot first. Aim for the first one on the right. I'll be the first one on the left. Get down and hit everyone. Get down. Get down. Don't move. Everybody get down. Don't leave the car. It's okay if you get down and open the door. Everyone, pay attention. It's okay. Everyone, get down and stay here. I'll be careful. Ice Blade, Ice Blade. Bravo2 (Brio) calls Bravo2. I'm Ice Blade. Please call Bravo2. Report that the medical team's vehicle was attacked. The driver was shot and died in front of me. There is sporadic enemy fire threat on the side of Bravo2 at 23 kilometers of Highway 11. Stand by and wait for opportunities to eliminate the fire threat. Charlie1 (Charlie). Launch satellite search in the direction of 23 kilometers of Highway 11 to provide real-time monitoring information to Bravo2. Charlie1, Received electronic interference in the area near the 23rd kilometer of Highway 11. It will take about five minutes to eliminate . Ice Blade Bravo2 reported that it found the target of two buses in the northwest mountain forest. Bravo2 cleared the target about 400 meters and sent the medical team as soon as possible. Take away and arrive at the airport on time. Bravo2 received. Understand. Let's go. Let's go back. Quickly give you the gold. Let's go. Where is Dr. Lin? Where is Engineer Feng? The engineer keeps shouting that it hurts. Dr. Lin is checking him. Suddenly, a car comes up from behind. How many passengers are there? Personally, we can't stop them. They wounded this soldier and killed two of our doctors who stood up to resist. Bravo2, the report is over. Bravo2, Ice Blade received Bravo2. Wait, you have to stay calm and organize an evacuation to the airport as soon as possible. Bravo2, collect it quickly. Tong Wei got on the bus . Is there anything going on? I haven't found anything yet. The car can't start. Tong Wei continues to be on the alert. It's Charlie1. I am Ice Blade. He quickly activates satellite data to search and locks the whereabouts of the vehicle that hijacked Feng Yuanqing and Dr. Lin. Charlie1, received the message. Query the Ice Blade, Ice Blade Charlie1, call Charlie1 I am the Ice Blade. Please answer. The information shows that Feng Yuanqing, the chief engineer of the Zhengdeqi Group, has multiple private accounts overseas and funds in Aikelamu and the local government. Some time ago, two bridge technology patents of the Zhengdeqi Group were leaked. I suspect it is related to Feng Yuanqing. This Feng Yuanqing is a bridge technician. Is that okay? No, let me try again. Platoon leader, turn it on. Try it again, Xiaotian, what? If that doesn't work, you go and let me try Ice Blade. Ice Blade Bravo2 reports that the medical team bus is damaged and is under repair. The injured of the medical team are now stable after self-rescue and mutual rescue. Alpha5 is still under treatment. Bravo2, continue to repair the vehicle and rush to the airport as soon as possible. Bravo2 Understand how you make a fire. Try to go to Alpha1. If you hear the Ice Blade call, please answer Ice Blade, Alpha1. If you receive Alpha1, please report your location. Ice Blade Alpha. There are still ten minutes to arrive at the airport. Ice Blade has received Eagle1 Eagle. (Ingel) If you hear anything, please answer Eagle1. If you hear something, please say Eagle1. Please be prepared to dispatch to support Bravo2 Eagle at any time. All flight preparations are made and are on standby. Bravo2 can take off at any time. The enemy has entered the direction of Highway 11. You are approaching, you are approaching, the plan has changed, you immediately change direction, retreat to the station, bring everyone back. Bravo2 understands, Bravo2 understands, Platoon Commander Wang, what is the problem, hurry up, try Bravo2, the enemy is traveling at 80 kilometers per hour and is still far away from you. Nine kilometers away, Ice Blade Bravo 2 received Platoon Leader Wang. In six minutes, the rebels will arrive. Tong Wei and I will support you for a while. Come on, veteran driver. Twenty rebels are maneuvering here. There are 4 minutes left to prepare for a tough battle. Battlefield recorder, do n't shoot first. You aim at the first one on the right. I'll be the first on the left. Just lie down and shoot . Come on , Tong Wei, get in the car. I'll cover you and lie down. If it's dangerous , walk around. Get in the car and walk around. Go, go, go, chase away, go, go with Tong Wei, organize a counterattack , hide and get down with Tong Wei, suppress fire, understand Bravo2, Bravo2, I am Eagle, the threat from your rear has been eliminated, I am escorting you, I wish you a safe return to the station. Well done. Good job. We originally had ten hostages in our hands, including seven investigators from the China-Canada investigation team, one of their drivers, a translator, and a Calinan policeman. Now we have captured a Chinese female doctor and chief engineer. This engineer is very good. The important thing is that with him in hand, we will still have the funds to make a comeback. Even if we suffer a temporary setback, I have arranged two speedboats. If our next action fails, we will take this man with us to retreat to the mountains upstream of Lake Altay. Now it is up to the Kalinan government. How to respond to our request? There are still thirty-six hours left. If they refuse, even the dam and the hostages will be safe. Are you sure of the effect of the explosion? We have set up twelve explosives and activated the most advanced electronic detonation devices in case of electronic detonation. Our heroic soldiers will use their lives to complete the detonation mission. This fireworks will definitely bring a grand carnival to Kalinan, and will also make this ugly world remember us. Do you know who he is? The youngest son of Fayed Alkelamu. The younger son of Fayed Alkelamu, Amir Alkellam, a member of the Mugaman tribe. Alkelamu harmed others and himself, and even harmed his own son. This was given to him by God. The punishment is that you can't get him out. I don't care whose son he is. Now he is my patient. He is Aikelamu's son. Go out and do it. Don't touch her. Don't touch him. Who of you dares to move. Don't move. Don't move. This is the hospital. Please. Leave now, leave now, leave now. Put down your weapons. Leave here. It's okay. It's okay. Today is the last batch of evacuees. We must get to the airport before seventeen o'clock in the evening. This child on your side is very dangerous. The operation is still in progress. Don't let them in again. Dongwen Write the name Emile Ekelamu for a good operation. Go ahead and hand him over. You can shoot and hand over Ekelamu's son. Karim's wife and child were killed by the people of Ekelamu yesterday. The blood debt has been paid. Hand it over and don't move. If you take another step forward, I will shoot. Everyone, look at this. This is how our Tutubulu became salty. It's all because of one person who entered Aikelamu. This all belongs to Aikelamu. Sin we go No one can take another step forward I know you can't shoot I know you can't shoot Do you want to try? Back up, back up, get out of here, here, here, no, no, I don't know who he is. The rest of the money. Isn't it okay if I don't want the remaining money? Is n't it okay if I don't want the remaining money? What happened? Alpha1, Alpha1 (Alpha) Target Clearance on the second floor Wang Meng Alpha1, Alpha1 I am Alpha2 Discovery One hostage has been confirmed to be Feng Yuanqing. The injured person in the stairwell on the second floor has a scratch on his head and is unconscious. However, there is no large-scale trauma on his body. Alpha1, received Alpha1, Alpha1 Alpha2 is in place. The flash bomb is ready. Alpha1, understand Alpha2, prepare. Alpha2, prepare Wang Meng, Cui Xin. You two are here to protect him. Is it right? Come with me first. Is there anyone there? We are the Chinese peacekeeping force, ordered to lead the evacuation of the Chinese compatriots. Is there anyone there? We are the Chinese peacekeeping force, ordered to lead the evacuation of the Chinese compatriots. Is there anyone there? We are the Chinese peacekeeping force, ordered to lead the evacuation of the Chinese compatriots. Hurry, follow me. Someone is coming to save us. Hurry up. Everyone, follow me closely. You must identify this person. According to reliable information, before dawn, Ekelamu's entourage will enter Bandisha Airport with three pickup trucks. This will be the perfect time for us to enter. The airport provides an opportunity to get out of the car, move the tree trunks out of the way, you hear me? Get down , put down your gun, put down your gun, stop, what's happening on the road, what's happening, what's happening because what because because because these Chinese soldiers Fabric Fabric Bandisha Airport Gate The fighter planes that have been occupied by me in the country of Amrik are approaching Bandisha Airport and are waiting for coordinate confirmation Echo2. Echo2 launches the coordinates. The launch coordinates are received by Echo2. Call Echo1. The laser guidance has been launched to confirm the coordinates. Bravo has been sent and the target has been reached. Bravo shows that Delta has been launched from the target point coordinates . The whole team is in place. Ice Blade and Ice Blade Alpha2 are ready. A suspected detonating device is found and inspection begins. Alpha2 is found. A suspected detonating device is discovered and inspection begins. Bravo1, I'm really fooled by you. You guessed it right. Sometimes, I really have to admire you Alpha2. Now that I admire you, are you still eager to learn? I'll give you a preferential price, Dese, and then Dese, Alpha2 Bravo1. It won't end. You're the one who has the bathroom in the team. Two eternal chat rooms received, Ice Blade Bravo1's guess was correct. They found multiple detonation points, indicating that many of the explosion points are complicated to dismantle manually. It is more time-consuming. It is recommended to destroy the Ice Blade controller externally. Continue to Ice Blade. There are still eight hundred and six hands of rice ahead. Yes, yes, there is an iron door. Stop knocking. It's a pity. I wish you a happy day, brother. You move first. It's time for me to move . Hey brother, wait, wait. The boss may need these people alive. What are you afraid of? I'm afraid that he has no intention of letting them go back alive. It's time for me. Alpha, the whole team is in place. The hostage has been found. Test, test Charlie. The whole team is in place. The coordinates have been sent to confirm that the Falcon is ready to attack. Alpha Bravo Charlie Delta Echo Falcon Five The team is in place, the timeline has been adjusted, the error is zero, received, received quickly, pick up the weapon in your hand, what are you waiting for? The holy war has begun, what are you waiting for, hurry up, we are under attack, blow up the abandoned power plant immediately. Then how do we escape? If you are still thinking about escaping, you will never win this battle. Blow up the abandoned power plant immediately. Blow up the dam. The tool house was blown up and could not be detonated. What should we do? The tool house was bombed and failed to detonate. Bandisha Airport was also lost. There is no other way but a last ditch effort. This is the ultimate trump card. No one can guard against it. Now we need bait. What bait is needed to attract them? Fayed al-Khelamu. Now is the time for you to sacrifice for the eagle of the mountains. Abandon the dam, abandon the dam and attack Bandisha Airport. Platoon Commander Hu, Platoon Commander Hu, I am not dead. I am not dead, Platoon Commander Hu. I am the Ice Blade. I am Delta1. Ekelamu is not in the target building. Delta1, the Ice Blade. After receiving the message, continue to search for Ekelamu and check whether there is a secret passage in the building. Evacuate Fabric1. I am the Ice Blade and request Hawkeye. I call Skyhawk 3 to assist Delta1. The trace of Ekelamu is completed. Fabric1 has been received. The captain has exited. What should we do if we are blocked by the rebels? Let's see if we can leave. Captain, no problem. Ai Lin, Zhang Xiaoyun, escort all the hostages to the Zhiba boarding point. The first priority is to ensure the safety of everyone. Follow me, follow me. Wang Meng, come with me to change the ammunition. Captain, don't move , don't move. Please, save me. I don't want to die. Captain, what about Zhang Qi, Zhang Qi, Captain Zhang Qi? He actually has two detonators. Please save me. I ca n't die. I can't die. Please. Attention of all groups, I am the Blade of Ice has discovered that the hostage Feng Yuanqing has been kidnapped by terrorists and turned into a human bomb. It is difficult to dismantle the explosive device through visual inspection. I ordered all members of the Alpha team to immediately track down Aikeramu and rescue the last hostage Lin Junjiao. Other teams After completing the mission, immediately support the Alpha team. Ice Blade will be responsible for defusing the bomb. Echo1 will take over the command of each team in this operation. After hearing this, I will immediately answer the captain. I will stay to help you. You go, captain, go, go, don't go, save. I, save me, don't shout, I'm here, you can do it alone, okay, hurry up, I don't want to die, you know, do n't move around, try to think of other things in your mind, you are so interesting, what time has it been, I What else am I thinking about? You just think that if you die, you won't be able to spend the money you earned. What about us Chinese soldiers? The most important thing is that leaders like you keep the danger to yourself, don't you? I'll just leave it here, brother. If you save me, you won't have to do this hard work tomorrow. Let's split my money equally between the two of us. Don't touch Aikailamu. This bastard took all the money away. It's all in US dollars. Yeah, that's our company's engineering model. You should hurry up. There 's no time. Come on , hurry up, hurry up. I'll hold it. I can't hold it. I'll count one, two, three, and cut it with me. I don't dare. If you want to live, you have to save yourself. Do you understand? Very good. The fifth yellow line on the left, come with me. Do you understand? I cooperate with me. I cooperate. As long as you don't die, I will cooperate with you. I will listen to you. It's on. You have to save me. You have to let me go. I can't let you go. Let you go. It's time to leave me here. If I don't walk away from this last thread , how can I cut my brother? You have to save me. You You must save me. There is no time. There are eight seconds left. Hurry up, hurry up. Hurry up. Four seconds, three seconds. I'm not dead. I'm still alive. My savior is leaving. No, no, no. My money is gone. You, you. , you go, go away and shoot me, come on, or else I will blow her head off and shoot me, go away, don't move, Ice Blade, Ice Blade Fabric, report that drone surveillance found Fahal's location G2, the distance from The nearest one is Bravo1. Bravo1. I am the Blade of Ice . Act now to capture Fahal. Charlie2. Prepare to snipe and rescue the last hostage. Captain, you are injured. I am fine. I will send someone to send Feng Gong to Zhiba to board the plane. Hurry, Xiao Zhao. You go and make sure Feng Gong is safe. Yes, I'm fine. If you don't want to die, don't get close. Otherwise, I'll blow her head off. I'm here for the eagle of the mountains. No, the eagle of the mountains is already dead. I, Fayed, Aikailamu The Guardian of Kalinan, this woman and this dam will die with me. Come on, shoot me, come on, hit me, come on. Your son Emil was injured by the Chinese medical team who saved you. Three ribs, bilateral traumatic wet lung septal muscle injury, fracture of the middle finger of the right upper limb and nerve damage. Stop talking. Shut up. He has been sent to the Chinese medical station. We have connected his ribs and used a ventilator to help him breathe and help him. The upper limb nerve was connected. He woke up midway and moved his fingers a few times. He was learning the piano. He was only nine years old. He loved playing the piano and played the piano very well. He said he wanted to be a pianist. Don't shoot. Yes, he is still alive, but he can't use his fingers. He is as flexible as before. He needs his father to tell him personally that even if he can't be a pianist, the rest of his life can be wonderful. How can you make me believe you? He has a ribbon. The blue ribbon on his right wrist is a mascot, right? You gave it to him, right? Hey that Chinese soldier. How is the child I asked you to protect now? He is safe in the hands of UNICA, so Emil is still alive. He is in the hands of UNICA. Don't shoot and do n't do anything. Eagle of the Mountains, what heroic warrior, go and catch him, go and catch him, Zhang Qi, you are injured, why are you injured? Sorry, I am late, are you there? Captain Zhang Qi, Zhang Qi, has contacted the embassy of Surya. The business plane is waiting for these five people. We can only evacuate to Surya first and then transfer to China Civil Aviation Airlines to return home. We can send Zhang Qi back together. I understand how the arrangement is going. Both lines of defense are fine. Captain, how is it? He lost too much blood and may have damaged his internal organs. Dr. Lin has already given him a blood transfusion, but he still has to be sent to a big hospital. How can there be any decent big hospital in Kalinan? Don't worry, the embassy has already contacted me for help. Let's go to the control tower. I think we need to keep some people down to prevent the enemy from entering the runway to ensure the safe takeoff of the plane. You are very thoughtful. You can leave now . Then I will stay. Then there is no need to say that. Remember to guard the airport passage for me. You can't do it. Let him run. Fabric, call, Echo1. If you hear it, please answer the Fabric call, Echo1. If you hear it, please answer. I am Echo1, I am Echo1. Please speak. Drone surveillance shows that about 30 rebels are heading toward Bandi in two pickup trucks. The rapid maneuvering speed of Shah Airport is 50 to 60 kilometers per hour. We are still 23 kilometers away from the airport and there are still 23 kilometers left. Echo1, received, received, hurry up, speed up, Qi Xiaotian, Xiaotian, hurry up, hurry up, Xiaotian. Hurry, Hurry, Xiaotian, hold on tight, hold on tight, Xiaotian, come up quickly, everyone is ready to fight and play CG. Perforated lying down, Bandisha Airport is attacked by the enemy. The rebels have heavy weapons. Request Falcon air support. Echo1 Echo1. The Falcon is preparing for 0795. The escort is now on its way to the target area