Hello everyone, I'm Xiaoxue. We came to the cliff village of Daliangshan, Sichuan today. I believe everyone is familiar with this cliff village. It 's right behind me. You can see it is very high. It is more than 1,400 meters above the ground, and the vertical drop is more than 800 meters. This cliff village is not easy. I wanted to come a long time ago . Today I finally came. Come and have a look with me. Come up, we found that there is a sheep here that keeps barking . Can it not find its mother? The location of the ladder is already tired and hot. There is a brief introduction of a cliff village here. It was not originally called a cliff village, it was called Atulier Village. It was called a cliff village by the outside world. I only used this steel ladder in August 2016. I felt that it was too strenuous to walk . I was sweating all over my body. I put this clothes on. This clothes have become a burden on me. Now we have risen to a relatively high level . Okay. Seeing that this is nearly 90 degrees vertical , I can't stand up straight anymore. It is said that if you climb this, if you climb up quickly , it will take about two hours. If you are slow like me and have short legs, it will take three or four hours. Just now I forgot to time it. It was about 11 o'clock when we came up just now. Let's time it to see how long it will take to climb to the top of the mountain. Let's go . Come here . The electric network is really powerful. Wow, there are sheep on this mountainside. I also found the ladder on the mountain opposite us, but this mountain is different from our mountain. It is divided into two parts by a river. Second, is this another village? Walking on this steel pipe still feels a little slippery. If it rains, it will be even worse. Like me, I have to walk on my stomach like this because it is too strenuous and exhausting. Although I haven't got my physical strength yet, I don't seem to be halfway there yet . Everyone sees that there is a straight one below me. I'm already exhausted when I come up empty. I heard that people lived on it a long time ago. Go out to the market, buy some household necessities, or buy those relatively large electrical appliances, such as refrigerators and washing machines. They are all carried by hand. It is difficult for people to imagine how they carried it on their backs step by step. It is really admirable. We 're almost halfway there now . It's really scary to look down from here. Wow , look, there is still a house on the hill opposite us. It 's down a slope . Are you afraid that the house will slide down? A schoolbag is probably too hard to climb, and then carrying such a heavy thing , throw it here, and then put it on the back when he comes down. This is also a good way. Wow, look at this , it's 90 degrees vertically, wow my god, just now When you climb up from the bottom, you don't feel anything, but when you look down from the top, it's really scary. It 's like a feeling of falling at any time. Wait, what do I do? Going down is really easy to go up the mountain and difficult to go down. There is a saying how it is said that the road of Shu is difficult, the road of Shu is difficult to climb to the sky, it should be such a feeling, I can describe it here. Now I am walking here and looking at this steel ladder , it is all hanging in the air It was built from the top of the mountain next to this cliff . It really feels like climbing to the sky . There is a viewing platform here, but the shelf is a little sloppy . It feels like I am a big physique, just take it easy. If you fall down , don't go up . It's a little scary to look at. Look at this stone again. This stone seems to be independent. It's like falling into a valley at any time. My god, finally climbed up. Let's look at the time . It was 10:13 when we came up at 1:15, which was almost 2 hours, but we haven't reached the cliff village yet . It is estimated that we will have to walk for a while. Let's continue to see it. I feel that my mentality is a bit broken. There is still a long way to go. Now we already feel that we have reached the top of this mountain. It feels like a person who is isolated from the world. Now we are walking up this ladder again. It feels like this is the last stop. After walking here, we should be able to reach it . I found a flock of sheep in that cliff village . Are there people living there? Wow, how did this sheep come up and how does it go home every day? We can see from the newly built steel ladder that they used this old-fashioned rattan ladder before. Saw a very crude one, and it didn't have this kind of guardrail. We were already walking up this new ladder. It was scary and scary. It was hard to think how they got there , let alone children. You can see these and these. This is steel. So , wow , look , we're finally here. Let's take a look at the time. When we came, it was 11:13 and now it's 13:39. It took about two and a half hours. If you walk up in one go, you should use two Hours, because we walked and rested because it was too laborious . There is a house next to this bamboo forest. You can see that his house is made of mud adobe. The door is closed . No one is inside. There is a shop with a shop on it. Even his door is closed. There should be no one living in it. Let's go down and take a look . Now there should be no one in here. The villagers here should all move into the county town. I went to the new house . The people who come here basically come here for tourism. There are also a few who do business here. There is a cliff inn . Is there a place to live here? The door is locked. It is said that this village has a history of more than 200 years. At the beginning, their ancestors came here to escape the war. You can see that the land here is relatively flat and the soil resources are relatively rich. They can be self-sufficient and put there. In the era of war, this place is definitely a secluded place, a paradise, wow , there is also a vegetable field here, this vegetable still looks good It 's good that we can see all the mountains. Only this one is full of vegetables, and many of them have all been abandoned. It should be that there are still sheep on the mountain. It should be planted by those who raise sheep because It's not easy for them to go to the mountain once , so it's more convenient in this case, reducing the labor force that comes up. There is a network on it, yes, oh, so you play with your mobile phone? I don't play with mobile phones . How old are you when my brother is raising sheep here ? How old are you? I am 18 and 18 years old . How many sheep do you have now? Ten or ten. When this sheep grows up , do you carry it on your back and sell it ? Oh, I see that there is a refrigerator. Is that also your one? It 's on your back. Oh, after this goat has grown up, will it be difficult for the steel to walk when we come up? Can it walk, or should it be carried manually ? To go down, do you have to rely on people to carry goats? Yes, wow , this is really hard. You should live below, um, right in Zhaojue County, that is to say , you are herding sheep here , ok. Ok thank you, how long did it take to go back? I will go back the day after tomorrow . What about your sheep, you don't need to worry about him ? Someone will come to replace me the day after tomorrow. Someone will change the shift . Hahaha, I'm going out , so why don't you go out to work? Yes, I will go out the day after tomorrow, oh, go to work, um , am I bored here alone? It 's alright. Thank you. You can see that the houses here are made of this kind of soil. Basically, they're made of this kind of soil. It is because of the local materials. Only here can we see so much land . When we came up from the foot of the mountain just now, we found that all the slopes were shaking. There is no flat land without land. We can imagine why their ancestors came here. Here, I thought the network on the top of the mountain would be worse, but I didn't expect it to be full of signals . I've been playing here for a day and I have n't seen anyone. They all moved to new houses in the county town. Well now If you come, you can only see some of the environment they once lived in. Let's share it here today. We will see you now. Bye