- I bought over one And not only did I buy all but I also bought these three houses. Shaun, you decorate this house, and this is Sarah's house. Whoever's house looks - We can do this. - Let's go, we got this. It starts now. (suspenseful music) - Hurry Mark. (suspenseful music) - I got this one, I picked it out. Why would you steal my light? There's literally like 2 million. - Wait, you get yours. - No, no, no, don't do that. Don't. (suspenseful music) - We're gonna go with We're gonna manipulate Jimmy - We're not gonna win if I I'll point and tell you what to do. - This is my house. - You wanna win it? - Dude, why are these so tangled? - I don't know. - What? Look at this. - Why'd you grab the tangled one? - I don't know. over there and you grab - There's actually 2 million. - You're right, I have a confession. So, one million looks better in the title, but there's actually like 1.7 - He click baited. - I have a million, but it's 1.7 million. Click baiting would've been two million. - So, that reverses everything. - The challenge is and if this house looks You literally have a house. How old are you? - 18. (upbeat music) - It's crazy how they put so and they barely made a dent in this pile. Chris's house is looking really nice. Chris, you're doing a good job. - You sure about that? - Karl, you're doing a good job. - [Karl] Thank you. - Chandler's house on the other hand is- - [Cassidy] Is what? - Whoever's house looks - [Chandler] I know. - We'll just move on. Meeting! - Oh my God. - Hey, you okay? - You guys are probably wondering, how are we gonna determine Well, here's how. We have four judges and tomorrow morning they're gonna rate each of your houses. Our first judge is MatPat, this channel, this channel, this channel and all these other channels. Our second judge is - I'm taking bribes. - And our third judge is Damaris. She is a random subscriber The fourth judge is probably the smartest human being on the planet. He's probably really great at everything. Yeah, our fourth judges (spectators cheering) We're gonna rate your houses Whoever has the most judge their house, wins the house. - Let's go. - Why are you wasting time? - Yeah. I got some pliers here. - Sheers, to be specific. - I have some sheers here. Chandler, you can clamp - [Chandler] Yeah. - Oh no, it got the bush. - You get to cut one - Be nice, I'm in last. - You can cut one of the ones dangling. - That's what I thought. - Wait, scratch that Chris. - Oh, before you do it, I want you to look Cassidy in the face. - Oh! It did all of - Yes. - Karl, you better destroy him. - Chris, this is the only strand of lights that leads to top of your house. If he cuts this, does he cut everything? - Please, don't cut that one. - Did it cut off the roof? - No, that light does nothing! - There, I only lost a bush. - Actually, you lost three bushes. - I'd say our only and this is war, we're taking him down. - It's funny how Chandler's pissed off but he's taking it out on his own house. He's mad that he's falling behind and setting himself more behind. - This is pointless. Why is this here? This stupid stuff, doesn't mean anything. Letters to Santa, guess Is that a tree? - Did he just, he just tackled the tree. - These are our trees, Karl! (explosion) - Technically that's So, I'll let it slide. (country Christmas music) - All right, we're clearly behind. I need to call everyone I Let's do it. Hello, help? - [Announcer] Five minutes later. - I'm glad y'all are here - I was home snoozing in - Let's get it. a comeback. - The Hallows are here to win. - Do not doubt these people, no more. - Win! - Yeah. - Let's get it. (suspenseful music) - I'm really exhausted. I I'm gonna go to sleep, take a nap. And then be back before the, Good night. - So, Chandler just went to bed. - What? &quot;You're taking over the leadership.&quot; - I can't even believe to start with. - You guys have been doing a good job. The pile is starting to deplete. As you guys know, I bought over but that's not all I bought. I also bought hundreds and you guys can use them. - Sweet. - Yeah. Go for it. - Hey, come on. Snowman's mine. - He's mine. - What are you, you're gonna take him off? - No. - Shaun you have- (suspenseful music) - That's so difficult. - Oh my God. It's so hard. - So difficult. and it's not just because It's because there are 10 minutes left! - Guys, guys. We got less (suspenseful music) - Judges. Are you ready? - As ever. - Let's do it. - Let's go. - That's it. - That's it. - We are gonna be judging starting with Chris's house. So, if you're not on Chris's team, leave. Like I said before, we have and before we rate Chris's house, we need to do a tour of it. Chris, you have five and everything about your house. Judges, give him your undivided attention. - So, the theme is So the first one, we have a from I spent 24 hours in an ice block. Do you recognize this thumbnail? - Deserted islands. - Yes. See, that's the palm tree. - That's pretty creative. - Let's see if you guys can guess what MrBeast video this is. - Oh, I know this one. Adopting all the dogs in a dog shelter. - Yes, look at these cute little dogs. They're all hanging out. - Dude, this is actually pretty creative. - For the final video, One of the best videos of all time. One of my personal favorites. - This laptop's hooked up to a drone. What did you wanna show us? - If you guys see that, it says, &quot;Sup, to Quackity and MatPat.&quot; - Let's go, let's go. - Did it say sup to MrBeast too? - Well, so- Time is up. Judges, select your - My sister needs this - Let's start with MatPat. What are you rating their house out of 10? - I'm giving it a 10. - Oh, oh. - Whoa, a 10 out of 10. - I am rating it a nine. - Yeah! - A nine. - I'm giving them a 10. - Yeah! - Obviously this was creative. There were a little things here and there. My score was, don't hate me, I love you. It's nothing personal. An eight outta 10. - That's not bad. - I don't know why you hate - If neither of them score a 37 or higher, you win your $300,000 house. Head on over to the dungeon. I'll let you know what they score. - All right. - Up next is the Hallow - We welcome Santa every year, Ho, ho, ho. We have snow Right up there, that's the landing strip where Santa likes to land - Chandler. What does this say back here? - [Chandler] It spells out BEAST. - Ooh, why didn't you - Well, it's the back. - We're starting off with MatPat. What do you rate their house, outta 10? - An eight out of 10, solid. - My score is another solid eight. - Okay, all right, all right. - I am going to give you Please, don't hate me. - I'm also gonna rate it a seven. There are some, you know, that could be better. Scored it, 30 out of 40. I can't tell you what Chris scored. Now we're gonna judge Karl's house. - So you had over a million lights? We had probably half of I don't think it's a contest - Agreed, you guys really put I will give that to you. I will admit, I like what This is kind of cool. - This is legit. - What if I were to tell you - What is this? - What is this? - Look at the blue around our backyard. - It's a YouTube sub-button. - [Jimmy] MatPat, start us off. - I gotta say this was a Only thing that was missing was a theme and for that, I give you a nine. - Oh. - My score for you guys - I gave you guys a 10. - Oh, oh! - I give it a nine, which means you guys have the exact same score Chris has. What is up with you people? Now people think our videos are rigged. Why would you do this? I'm sending Tyler to get a fifth judge. One of the fans over there watching. They're gonna decide which house wins. - [Announcer] A few moments later. - The tie is between that So what I want you to do is I around that house and that house and form an opinion on - I'm so nervous 'cause our and she's not gonna - That's the reason it is 'cause he didn't think I had a theme. - Ashley doesn't know so she's not being biased. So, purely based on the which one did you think - I'm going with this one! (everyone cheering and clapping) - We did it. Dude, we didn't stop working all night and it paid off. I can't believe it, holy cow. - 12 hours, 12 straight Yeah, I'm in high school. a high schooler with the house. Holy cow. - Congrats, dude. - Now I know you two as you remember, there was Let's walk over to it. You may not have won this is the car in the driveway. - I know it's a car and But compared to a house it still hurts. - I have a confession to make. You didn't actually win this house. - What? - Now, I know I said at that I bought these three But I did buy a $300,000 and here's me giving it to Shaun. I can't wait to see Shaun's reaction. Come on in to your brand new home. - Oh my God. - As I said before, this house cost over $300,000 and it is all yours. - Holy cow. (explosion)