Of the Lego adaptation games, Indiana Jones Granted, there are some justified reasons It only had two titles, and none since 2009 or newer fans of these games are much more Side note: Lego Indy 2 is actually the most this video, something I alluded to with Assassin's &quot;Between the cool hat, the whip, and the series mid-game, this is honestly one of the best [Indiana Jones theme poorly played on a recorder] Much to my shame, there is a typo onscreen, level. Back to the point, though, Indiana Jones is because it broadly goes against the kind of then. It's chock full of fairly graphic depictions iconography and military vehicles, which are founder Ole Kirk Christiansen's wishes. These movies have people fucking, there are then discover that his father had already no, my penis was in the same Nazi vagina that Even besides that stuff, Indiana Jones is usually cover, barring the moments where various new levels of trauma, mind you. Usually, these games are all superheroes and Indy is a comparatively normal dude. He's vulnerable to bullets, he loses fights, the same rate he succeeds at them. It's the juxtaposition that makes his games But we're not looking at that version today. We're getting even further into the weeds, or something. Shush, segues are hard. Today, we're looking at the Nintendo DS version See, I have quite the interest in the various I've played a decent number of them, even Vita. Very sorry to every lady and gentleman whose velocity due to this flex, but I am married. The handheld versions, most often created team at TT the original and their console balance, at least for people in my specific Too similar to the main version and they lose but if they get too different, they risk losing place. Then, on top of that, there's the extra hurdle devices in the first place. It would be very easy for this stack of cards case already. Lego Star Wars: The Video Game from 2005 on It's a weird little game; you can check out So skipping over the other Lego Star Wars for now, how did Indiana Jones hold up? Spoiler alert, pretty damn well. I'd personally rank this one pretty high on There's absolutely some jankiness carried no exception. Sometimes the collision detection with interactive up a bit clunkier than the main versions; building techniques, pieces that don't exist, material instead of Lego plastic in the first It's far from experience ruining, but most this stuff. However, &quot;rough around the edges&quot; honestly Jones license. If you're paying close attention, sometimes block bounces like a rubber ball, but it takes Similarly, this game is still a weird port for the overall experience. There are a few extra points of note that instead of the original device. On my DS Lite, thanks to the size of the screen screen, certain elements do feel more comfortable This game plays great on the native hardware, and my first recommendation, if it is a possibility However my DS Lite cannot record footage, There are some nice benefits through this My emulator lets me see the layout as I see Personally, I like to shrink down the touch methods of forced verticality, like I had a few years ago, or just having half of my very low visual activity if I did them horizontally The extra buttons also allow me to switch set up features like fast forward or quick I can even tilt the device sideways when it's Playing as I am does have some downsides, The larger, higher quality screen does reveal DS, and the screen layout change sometimes later. The crux is that some complaints aren't necessarily bitch about them when I find them sufficiently Jumping right, in and oh my God, that head Look at that thing! They messed up the Lego proportions! They didn't even have to aim for realistic Sometimes, the camera angle or the common this, which is sort of worse, because then of nowhere later on. Like, goddamn! This was my first impression and now it has The game design for this port is very willing the console version. The levels mostly cover the exact same scenes, had to be rearranged a smidge due to system It's not necessarily a bad thing, though. The young Indy scene in Last Crusade, which console, gets to open Last Crusade again since stuff into one composite level. The bigger difference comes in playing these layouts, the abilities and the puzzles are It's probably faster to name the character The whip still works identically, swinging enemies. Excavation characters still dig up buried Children can still climb through small access Characters with special access panels are work in the same broader vein where certain I'll cover these shortly. Explosive characters technically still exist, The bazookas have the absolute worst auto bricks they destroy, as the only explosive somehow. We'll get back to those. The other original abilities... aren't. They just don't exist here. Women get nerfed the hardest. In the main version, women have a higher jump Willie Scott's glass shattering scream is Not woman-centric, but the mechanics and their There are no random animals for phobias or monkeys for banana-based economics. There are new abilities replacing those. Marion has the power of alcohol. Like, they don't call it that, but it's canonically She has bottles that burst when thrown at Water don't do that. Marion also gets the monkey from the Cairo several years before the similar &quot;Pets&quot; ability It's a bit weird here; instead of just &quot;releasing that also explains why I'm banned from a far Utah, it only works in predetermined locations, This keeps happening even after the monkey Marion Ravenwood gets Animorph necromancy I take it back, women have not been nerfed, in the entire goddamn Lego series! Academic characters, and also Willie Scott, to go down ziplines. Frustratingly, they can't do it until the is already there. I did find it weird that Willie appeared to umbrella, so I decided to test her at an academic useless. Worse, because I picked her to test this out character I needed for a different access Let's look at those access panels a little centered around these, especially once you Enemies, i.e. the ones who are Nazis but just checkpoints for radio installations, Thuggees academics have spots marked by scrolls instead version, the Brotherhood of the Cruciform Each one has a unique touchscreen minigame. Nazis have to dial in a brick code, Thuggees academics have to flip around in their journals to identify grails marked by bricks. They all feel appropriate for each group, translate into what the character is doing series it's less of an issue since the game logic in the first place. There's one other ability you have to use have. It's your ability. It's your... blowing ability. [sensual music] &quot;Oh yeah.&quot; You see, sometimes on the Nintendo DS, they for certain tasks. Technically, this is also something I saw much more common here. Here, anytime you come up next to a fire source, this game asks you to blow it. I have never seen so many requests to blow Thankfully, since I was emulating, I can just blowing for me, so now I just have a blow Jesus Christ I cannot be trusted with this The levels mostly use these abilities in various you would expect from any Lego title, but clever and original ways to keep it from feeling Like the other Lego titles of the day, platforming about, like, 10 percent of the time, maybe The obstacles are varied and are right at traps, platforms moving over lava, one guy that sort of thing. Water is bizarrely always used for instant are the environmental hazard, they also just First of all, that makes them eels. [eel sounds] water? It is in the middle of the desert. Otherwise, though, level design generally They took good care to make sure the environments to give it that adventure feeling. The levels are pleasingly detailed, with a though animal mounts are no longer a thing, just for flavor. There were also fun moments that surprised One such moment has a bridge breaking underfoot, mummies. I also really liked a moment where swinging behind me. That's some Uncharted shit in the best possible this on the Nintendo DS. Free play actually really helped to double Typically for these games, the areas locked with a collectible, but this game would sometimes I legitimately never knew quite what to expect, The level in Nepal, for example, only lets to jump into the chimney while on the roof. Most of these are literally just to add atmosphere it feel a little closer to being a real village. If you know the console games, though, you'll One hut in a hidden area, in fact, has the port. I promptly murdered Santa! There are also Star Wars Easter eggs like unique, like the opening level's jungle hiding the end. There's also Luke in the ice cave, but literally has to perish there. Vehicle scenes are a bit more mixed. Thankfully, the convoy levels in Raiders and day, get reasonably close adaptations to the The others, though, are stuck to an overhead mostly has you jumping in and out of vehicles Instead of successfully getting to an end you to do your best until it times out. It's a bit lackluster. These are designed with both screens in mind Because of the DS's landscape, there's an and you just sort of have to do your best It definitely plays better on the real device, Most of these don't let you turn around the time if you actually want to get the collectibles They're still not horrible, and it is better not at all, but these take the system downgrade Editor Charlie, just adding one quick thing portion. The vehicle levels do have the most level like sliding down the mountain in the raft plane outside of a cutscene in Last Crusade, I do have a few remaining design gripes, but Cutscenes are compressed to a truly ugly degree. While it was probably inevitable, my eyes more so on the larger screen. There's also a barely noticeable thing on noteworthy issue with more visibility. Changing between characters in free play leaves [scream of terror] than usual. Indy straight up has his bag's strap printed glued to his side, and some characters go their hips, which Lego does not do on official One bizarre design philosophy occurs throughout ledge it almost always leaves an arc of studs While these always technically can lead you right above precarious drops, so if you haven't you'll just end up losing more money dropping This feels like schmuck bait and some designer The character select feels unnecessarily strict who doesn't have an ability (or in Willy's with a second ability), your free play slots While this is likely a system or development characters can be accessible within a level, means you have to limit yourself to play efficiently, with the biggest fucking sword have to be Finally, all of the characters just recycle If you know that game, it's distracting here. [Lego Star Wars death noises] Especially when they clumsily stick the death don't match up. [Lego Star Wars death noises while nobody Hi. Apparently, editor Charlie cannot catch a Through the power of time travel, I will let Didn't forget anything this time, but I did to pick which one would work best for that [Lego Star Wars death noises AND ALSO A FART] I'll play it again, just in case you missed [STOCK FART SOUND EFFECT] Someone added a Not in the console game. They-- they added exclusive fart to the Nintendo I already mentioned combat is a bit clunky here, it's never horrible and certainly doesn't good at keeping enemies in their lane. Sure, whipped disarms don't always register a little bit faster, and ranged attacks feel that you'll automatically switch to melee frequently due to somewhat smaller level size, complaints. There is actually one element that uplifts In the console game, ranged weapon pickups Here, you have unlimited ammo, but you lose one extra incentive to try and not die. I often found myself strategically switching it for later, so it did help keep me a touch There was a rare combat occurrence that ended issue due to the lax consequences of death You know how when you're playing a fighting where they get several hits in, and you can't Every once in a while, the bad guys here fucking combo that naturally kills you on the spot. It only really stung if it made me lose a they had that sort of skill. Collectibles are also changed around. Red bricks function more like Lego Star Wars You don't have to cart a parcel back to a These still will unlock extras, except sometimes a bit narrower of a list of extras than we 4, 6... and 10, fuck number eight, fast build, They're the most essential inclusions, but and some of the wacky ones would have been normal head mode... The point is I would have preferred the mini-games Instead of minikits looking like treasure to this game [Suspenseful Music] You lied to me. Finding all of these doesn't actually build to look at, such as the fertility idol, a Huh. There's a third new collectible, treasure in each level. This could be cooler, but it just unlocks like a filler item than a distinct collectible. Like, now you have to find 12 minikits instead If these had unlocked something distinct, could have fixed two complaints with one stone. The cast of characters is relatively close Unlike the later handheld versions of Lego extra characters in the roster to make it a ton of extra characters in the original This game does add in, uh, a clown, though. His head is an illegal build in multiple ways bodies! If you are coulrophobic, I am very sorry. If you are a coulrophilic, however... look, I know BaneShake's Charlie is one of I'm married. We've been over this. Editor Charlie, again, because I forgot to There are a few noticeable character design to an earlier prototype stage. Uh, Marion in particular has a lighter brown art for the original game but something that the physical sets released as well. Additionally, in Willie Scott's dress where question mark. I'm assuming this is not foreshadowing for This appears to be placeholder textures for Not sure what else it would be, just thought Finally, a quick look at the touchscreen mini-games. Some are just tangrams, which are personally of the access panel mini-games again, since levels, but on the good side there are a shuffleboard challenge that are more engaging, though these as the vehicle levels when emulating. Most amusingly of all, they created several scene from Temple of Doom, where you're properly Mola Ram is wearing a chef's hat, glaring It's the best kind of refuge in audacity. I've probably squeezed as much content out for this video. I typically do a story rundown in my game strokes of the very well-known movies, I don't by just recapping that. These levels are honestly going to be best The port definitely wouldn't quite replace keep murderizing people violently in these own right, and I can't recommend it enough.