There is nothing the world loves more than quite as tantalizing as the tale of the infamous Originally a settlement of over a hundred later to their North American colony only Curiously, farm implements and even rifles of all were the words Cro and Croatan carved But what exactly happened to this near-mythological Let's travel back in time and find out. The year is 1587, and governor John White day North Carolina with 117 colonists - 97 This site is not White's first choice however, Bay further north which would eventually become Jamestown. Ship Captain Simon Fernandez though, refuses to set up shop here in Roanoke. Originally meant to be a pit stop so the ship there two years ago, the location becomes offload. As far as the fifteen men they had planned the colonists find signs of a massacre- an For White, this is his second trip to Roanoke, faltering attempts to settle the new world. In 1578 Queen Elizabeth I tasked Sir Humphrey lands that had not been claimed by the Spanish On an initial expedition Gilbert located some on his second expedition his ship was lost After his death, his half-brother Walter Raleigh colonize and planned to scout for locations Would-be governor John White is on Raleigh's a garrison of troops in Roanoke in 1585. Their job is to set up a fort from which British and after making contact with local Native The Roanoke and Croatan tribes both prove from their tribes sail back to England with court. These men would be given the English names the first baptized Protestant Native American. Unfortunately back in the new world, the commander with other native tribes, and led two separate matter of months. Having thrown the proverbial stone into the itself under constant attack, and when Sir his explorations of the New World, the men So great was their haste to board that they out in the woods. When the British finally returned back to the fort completely abandoned, and the three to be found. Sir Richard Grenville, who had been in command another fifteen men behind to guard the remains of provisions and then promptly left for England It was at this time that John White made landfall men who had been left behind two years earlier. To the surprise of nobody, the men were missing having likely been killed by the natives. Despite the hostile locals, ship Captain Simon to stay where they were, and nine days after American indians while crabbing along the White did not wish to further antagonize the to repair relations. He did this by using Manteo to help him make who lived nearby on Hatteras Island. Unfortunately though Wanchese had soured on saw the future arrival of British colonists had participated in the attack on the fifteen Needless to say, relations with the locals friendly enough thanks to Manteo's intervention. Where the previous two colony attempts had Rather than bringing along employees or military a personal stake in the land they were fighting The success or failure of the colony would and thus they had ample motivation to make Soon, the first English baby born in the new Virginia Dare was born to Eleanor Dare and husband. The colonization attempt was hopeful, and There was one major problem though - the colonists in dire need of fresh supplies. In order to secure the colony's future, John England, hoping to be back by the new year Yet when he arrived back home in England, of war. England was facing off against the Spanish to fend off the far superior Spanish navy. For three long years White was unable to return voyage back across the Atlantic. Upon his arrival White was initially hopeful, had been established, and the protective walls He became worried as they neared the shore smoke from fires. As his rowboat made landfall his worst fears The entire fort was overgrown with grass and the village. Chests within which valuables were kept and broken open and their contents of precious spilled across the floor. Curiously valuables such as jewelry had been valuable guns and farm equipment- whatever seemed to be improbable. White had instructed his colonists to leave carved into a tree. Instead of the cross though White would famously the letters C, R, and O etched into a tree, Upon discovering the carvings, White believed the colony and moved with Manteo's people, he was unfortunately not able to prove when back to England. With failing health, White never got a chance died three years later. Theories abound as to what fate befell the original hunch that the entire colony had This is because as part of White's secret of their travel in case they had to leave cross would signal that the move was in response The word Croatan was however discovered carved had been erected to supplement the colony's been under some threat and preparing for attack. In 2013 an expedition to the native american remains of a European rapier along with the and a piece of drawing slate with a lead pencil. This would lend a great deal of credence to south with the Croatan people and assimilated In the 1700s the discovery of Native Americans descendants of white settlers helped to confirm While the British artifacts could very well colonists later on, the discovery of buried that the Roanokan settlers made their move winter or face innumerable hostile tribes The trash pits showed an abrupt change in which could hint at the natives hunting using Despite hostilities against the first two to be extremely accepting of outsiders, and many former English colonists who joined with to stay with their tribes. The theory that the Roanokans had simply been likely to be true, and the most plausible, simply massacred could also be true but is Had there been a massacre then upon White's found, and yet White and his men discovered The disappearance of the colony of Roanoke to be. All the evidence points to the fact that the neighbors, and so they moved to the only friendly the natives there. Wild theories however continue to abound, because of course it does. In the alien theory the entire colony- to During our own investigation into the alien any plausible motivation for why the entire and whatever the alien's motivations it was to eat. So rest easy and don't worry because the mystery settlers deciding to move in with friendly not that they were abducted by brain-eating Trust us, there's no pending alien threat to get your mind off it you should go camping you're going. What do you think happened to the lost settlers Let us know in the comments! And as always if you enjoyed this video don't great content!