Translator: Rhonda Jacobs Hi everybody. I want to begin with a quick I want you all to close your eyes - don't worry, this is not just close your eyes for a few seconds. And I want you to picture Okay, what does the term Maybe you have a relative Maybe you've seen a documentary recently. There's no right or wrong answer. Just get that image in your mind's eye. Now I want you to open your eyes, looks something like the person you see I want you to raise your hand. Alright, that's quite a bit of people. Now I want you to raise your hand looks somebody like the person Okay. Much less people. This is my mother. And her name is Kathy, and I love her very much. And when I had to come that my mom was showing in her 50s a couple of years ago, it was an incredibly traumatic and it's still, to this day, to have to acknowledge. But because I couldn't chalk up to typical aging - clearly she's not the picture of a person I decided to learn about the ways diet and lifestyle brain health, and ultimately Now, what I learned shook me to my core. You see, I thought, like you guys, You see, not only is dementia but it begins in the brain decades If you make it to the age of 85, of being diagnosed That's 50 percent; And unfortunately we're the first generation in history according to the Stanford Now, I think I speak for many millennials when I say that generally Ninety is a long ways from now. By the time I get to that age, we're going to have ultimately, not something Well, unfortunately, Alzheimer's drug trials Let that figure sink in, okay? That's worse than the failure rate I mean, those are dismal statistics. Therefore, unless one in two millennials will have it, For the past century, the conversation surrounding the most common form of dementia, That's because since 1906, when Alzheimer's disease by the physician Alois Alzheimer, 90 percent of what has been discovered So that is to say, this is And while we don't yet there's still no cure; we do have enough information for a significant proportion of people, Here we have a statement written in 2014 by 109 leading scientists stating very plainly that in 2014, that dementia and Alzheimer's disease And just this year, for the first time, at the Alzheimer's Association's it was acknowledged that one third Depending on what literature you review, This is just the statistic in the journal Lancet, which is one of the top And here we have coverage alluding to the notion that a field is now looking for hope Now, when it comes and their impact on our health, it's been said that our genes load the gun So I became obsessed with trying to understand that makes it so likely on diseases like Alzheimer's disease. So I did a deep dive into the literature. And I looked at parts of the world, home of the Yoruba people. Now, there, the most common and most well-defined that in the United States puts somebody at anywhere between a 2- and 14-fold there, has little to no association So in other words, and you are genetically at risk you might move to Ibadan, Nigeria, So I started thinking and the kinds of diets during the time the magnificent supercomputer this incredible legacy - and I realized that for two million years, our ancestors ate in a way That's pretty amazing. But then, 10,000 years ago, We turned our backs on that diet. We went from being hunter-gatherers, the world was our buffet, we got our nutrients that there are around the world, and we became settlers, essentially becoming slaves to the few crops Over time, our brains lost the volumetric So let me just rephrase that We ate a certain way for two million years then we turned our backs on that diet. This ultimately paved the way 60 percent of the calories come from three plants. Three plants. Wheat, corn, and rice. Perhaps even worse, 50 years ago, these crops became the basis where for the first time in human history, We were told to base our diets I mean, I grew up, the Food Pyramid - telling me that if I wanted to be healthy, I needed to load up on anywhere And today, the advice is still given that to be healthy, we need Well, when we look at research, like what was recently which is an organization that has a partnership and is known for their unbiased, we see that there is no evidence including whole grains, improve our health. Now, in this research review, they looked at a randomized Now, randomized controlled trials are the only kinds of trials which is why this research But perhaps the most insidious thing is that today they're pulverized in processed foods These ultraprocessed foods now make up 60 percent of the calories When we consume they set off the equivalent And the brain sits That fire that I'm talking about, And inflammation directly and worsens pre-existing disease states. Now, our bodies have an incredible That's what's so great Our bodies are so smart. But the problem is our bodies to be able to repair from inflammation. Unfortunately today, 90 percent of Americans are now deficient Why do you think that is? Well, that's because around not only but processed foods which are pretty scarce They're calorically dense, but they are not nutrient dense, Another thing that is they send levels And when blood sugar is elevated, an ancestral hormone in our bodies That hormone is called insulin, and insulin is the body's The fact that we're relying is why for the first time in history, there are more overweight people Now, the other thing is it turns your fat cells into the equivalent of a subway turnstile Basically, calories can flow but they can't come out. Now, this is very problematic because there are certain that have evolved to use fat, and use it remarkably well - The brain loves to use fat for fuel. In fact, I call fat You see, when we're born, human babies come packaged Our fatness rivals that We come packaged with a really I don't mean to make If there are any babies but it's actually fascinating why it's believed we come You see, the human baby is born We complete our development in the world. This is often referred to If we were born cognitively with the skills that some our gestation would be twice as long. This is one of the reasons We complete our development in the world. And it's thought the fat serves as a sort of Mophie The developing brain This is why that's so useful. The newborn brain uses 90 percent So that means that 90 percent of the oxygen and calories goes to fuel its brain. But the baby couldn't possibly consume therefore, fat. In the human adult brain, the ability In fact, as adults, It could almost be said - almost - that when the brain And the fact that we constantly, to use fat for fuel due to our chronically well, this might be one of the most And this could, partly, that 40 percent of Alzheimer's cases may be attributable Again, insulin is the hormone that turns our cells And this was a figure published which is one of the leading So knowing what I know about the brain I've become obsessed as resetting my brain So I like to spend more time with my body And the quickest way, of getting your body and brain Luckily, we all fast every single day. This is when we're asleep. So what I like to do by two or three hours on each side with an additional time frame A lot of people call this But essentially, one of the main goals is to allow your body and brain When it's time for me to eat, which describes foods that have a very high ratio And there's no better example of that than dark, leafy greens, They have tons of nutrients and help your brain cells create energy, and they have very few calories. In fact, the consumption is associated with reduced aging I eat lots of eggs. You see, I learned the first structure to develop which includes the brain. Therefore, an egg yolk to contain all required to grow a healthy brain. I also eat two to three servings of humanely-raised If I was a pre-menopausal woman, because red meat contains an abundance And in fact, a lot of people today say that there's no place for meat But to that, I invoke a quote who said that extraordinary claims And researchers believe that it's not just access to meat, that catalyzed the growth I eat lots of fatty fish: salmon, wild salmon, and sardines. And this is actually my perfect plate. It's half, if not more, and a piece of protein It's got a ton like DHA fat, which is one of the most important We now know that the adult brain But the impetus there is with the appropriate I also eat tons of fruit. But not all fruits, okay? I eat lots of avocados. Avocados have the highest percentage of any fruit or vegetable. This is really important because your brain is constructed of fat. Sixty percent of the brain but it's a kind of fat and prone to oxidation. We need to supply our bodies like vitamin E - I eat lots of avocados, an avocado a day. And I avoid, for the most part, I'm not going to stand up here, guys, and tell you that the banana It's not toxic! But today, our modern fruits are bred than ever before in history Compare the modern banana and you'll see the contrast is stark. And the research on fruit, okay, Published in the Journal it was found when looking that higher fruit consumption was which is your brain's grey matter. Now, researchers in this journal wrote - they compared that eating foods whether as fruit may have the same Now, this research is really fascinating because fruit is usually associated but rather than just looking they looked at individual where they came to this finding, I also consume lots of fruit juice, but only one kind of fruit juice: extra virgin olive oil, Extra virgin olive oil is a staple It's one of the main features adherence to which is associated for Alzheimer's disease and dementia. No talk about preventing which is the most important topic would be complete without So aerobic exercise is really important. I don't do my aerobic exercise in the gym, I try to imbue my day I'm always walking, I take the stairs and I bike-ride whenever I can. I know you guys in Venice The best thing about aerobic exercise is that it boosts something Remember this acronym; Brain-derived neurotrophic factor. It's a guardian protein. It's a guardian molecule that not only ensures the survival but promotes the growth It's key for neuroplasticity. And aerobic exercise I also love to lift weights. Aside from making me having stronger muscles is really important Why? Because the same exact stimulus and make them stronger also acts on your brain cells So where is the research to show that making all of these changes is going to be worth your time? Where's the hard data? Right? Well, to answer that question, which was led by Dr. Miia Kivipelto at the Karolinska Institute I had the pleasure of visiting and interviewing Miia Kivipelto, and what's so great about the FINGER trial is that it's the world's first-ever randomized controlled trial. Randomized controlled trials, remember, to prove cause and effect. And what she found was that in her older adult that by adhering to a battery many of which I've described already, she was able to improve executive function and improve processing speed Now, this is incredible, and it's also particularly poignant for me because my whole life Here's a letter written in elementary school, suggesting that I see a psychologist focusing my attention And that's why all throughout my grades were never good. That's why I went into film which is actually If only I knew then what I know now. So in closing, thanks to research we know that brain health is important That is awesome. What's less awesome know how to maintain So I'm trying to fill Because every three seconds Let that sink in. I mean, that's, like, heartbreaking. In fact, since I began 400 people around the world But for me, this is not about statistics. This is about a person my mother. And truthfully, I would do anything into the state she was before the monster But it's made me incredibly passionate out to people of all ages. Our cognitive health with every bite that we take. And I want to be very clear who's not at risk. The brain is highly delicate and vulnerable to the many insults You're never too young or too old And our brains really make possible all that it is that we love So for that reason, I hope when I say that it's worth protecting. Thank you. (Applause)