- He had a film presence that, that guaranteed credulity, Few actors have it, and - He was wondrous. His eyes... They said everything. He really had just an extraordinary face. Whatever he thought, showed, you know? He was gorgeous. - He was, and has been described as the quintessential American hero. And he understood that, and he and he was a forthright, - I think one of the reasons that Gary Cooper could become to so many people, to his public, think it's because he very truly never felt that he was any different than the average Joe down the street. I remember hearing that from day one up until the last week that he was alive. &quot;I'm a simple guy who got lucky.&quot; Along with that was his the ability to be our best self. He was as human as and in the characters his deep belief was in the It probably sounds corny, - [Man] He was born Frank James Cooper, in Helena, Montana in 1901. The parents were English. Charles Cooper, Gary's father, apprenticed himself to a law firm, and eventually was elected to - [Woman] They lived in Montana. They had a ranch outside of Helena called The Seven-Bar-Nine, so he and grew up on that ranch. His mother was very elegant, very English, but she was also terribly strong. I think she could have and done very very well. - All the things that you the frontier, cowboys range homesteaders versus all that sorta stuff was living memory everybody that Cooper Cooper, for a while, with some Indian children. - [Maria] He was taught by the Indians, in fact, - [Jeffrey] And because of his mother felt that he was getting to be too much of a rough fellow, and send him to school in England. And so, Cooper and his Arthur, went to Dunstable School in 1910, and stayed there for three years. This meant that Cooper had to change, from being a cowboy and Indian, sorta wild west boy, to a rather polished English school boy with proper manners. - When he came back from England, by then Arthur was of fighting age, and the war was approaching. He went off to fight, and my father then, kind of ran the ranch with his mother, because Judge Cooper had so my father and his mother for that period of time I know he'd had that as being a loner, and I think it started even as a youngster. - [Jeffrey] Cooper is to go out on his own, hunting and fishing, and talking to the Indians, and the fact that he was an and sort of shot up during pretty close to his final - [Maria] He went to high and then he went to university at Grinnell in Iowa for two years. - He worked as a waiter and shoveling snow and preparing things, and was generally known sort of fellow, not particularly academic, not particularly athletic, nor either, because he didn't even make the dramatic club at Grinnell. - He was more interested When I came across some and the pages are filled of Indians and saddles. Clearly nature, and living in Montana, growing up as they did on a ranch, that was clearly very very I know my father always considered because the whole acting that he had even dreamt He went to Hollywood and to earn any money that you could live on. - [Jeffrey] He's had two years of college, he's more or less given a commercial artist, the ability to ride a horse, So he runs into some pals from Montana, and they say, &quot;You can make $5 a day by being an extra in movies, and you can make $10 a falling off a horse.&quot; - [A.C.] Coop worked in, what they call, Poverty Row in those days, down at Sunset in those areas where they'd come by everyday and pick and put 'em in a picture, 'cause he was a good rider, - [Maria] After his his agent, a woman named Nan Collins, suggested that he really There also was an actor she said, &quot;This isn't gonna work.&quot; So, he said, oh gosh, what am I gonna do? And she said, &quot;Well, how about Gary as a name?&quot; And he jumped at it. (upbeat music) He did a few other shorts, And then there was a western called The Winning of Barbara Worth, and that brought him into Then he was chosen to The star was Clara Bow, leading lady at the time. They seemed to hit it off There was chemistry on the screen. I guess there was - [A.C.] She helped get him into Wings, the picture, that small part that he had pyramided into stardom. - [Jeffrey] He has a tiny 90 second, but very significant part silent movie and it won the first Academy Award for best picture. The two young pilot and he's kind of the old veteran, and he's chewing a chocolate bar, and he said, &quot;Well, I have to go out and do a couple of turns.&quot; You see the shadow of the plane crashing, and that's the end of Cooper. - And that one scene just, he and became Paramount's The next year, after that he starred in several I don't know if anybody in our business during many many years that had a career like Gary Cooper, just and building over all the Coop had a lot of people in his life, and all the and wanted him in their and later as a leading man. - All these years that my they were still silent films. So many people who were could not make that transition, mostly because the voice Luckily, my father He always teased... And laughed about that. He said, well, he had so much practice calling hogs and calling for he had good lung power. - The first talking for us here at Paramount He didn't have a lot of dialogue, but when he said it, he you listened, and it meant something. He had great command. And that one thing where &quot;When you say that, smile.&quot; Which became a saying for all the kids who were playing cowboys and they'd look at each other and say, &quot;When you say that to me, smile.&quot; - And it was very much to say simply that, and with Once he began to make it, I mean, he was incredible looking. Everybody really started The women were chasing after him, the men thought he was wonderful. The Hollywood of the early days was quite different from today, the They built the stars differently, the protected the stars differently. The studios were very very controlling about who their stars went out with. He managed to go where he It's interesting to me that he never, never had an inflated sense of himself. There was a wonderful western expression that he taught me when and I think I didn't realize what a lesson for life he was giving me. But it was something he and he believed it, and he lived it. He said, &quot;There ain't never a there ain't never a rider - You're pretty brave... With women. - The matter? Don't you like brave men? - Perhaps. Your change... Soldier. - [A.C.] The fist picture who adored him, and was not the most pleasant Joseph Von Sternberg concentrated tremendously on Marlene Dietrich, and Coop felt that he was He said, &quot;I was a little peeved.&quot; And I thought it added he was playing in the picture. - You sound tired of life. - I don't know whether I am or not. I was when I joined this outfit. How about you, mademoiselle, - Long enough. - Tired of it? - You've got a lot of Your husband? - Husband? I never found a man good enough for that. - That's just the way I feel about women. (slow music) - [A.C.] He had that ability or in a western outfit, He was equally home and did many pictures which he was in tails and He could do any kind of a - This was a side of Cooper that people didn't know that much about. Somebody who, beginning in 1931, 32, when he had gone to Europe and met the Countess Di Frasso, she'd entertained the including English royalty and nobility. - [Maria] She was a very They became friends and spent - She is the one who He had impeccable taste. His clothes were made by tailors, and fabulous shoes, And he had boots, you know, and then he had great sweaters, and I mean, he had the - [Maria] She brought him a that he had not had before. He took to it very naturally. She introduced him to areas of culture that he wouldn't have been - [Man] The Farewell to Arms was Cooper's first Hemingway film, and he made it before he knew Hemingway. - Don't let her die. Oh God, please don't let her die. I'd do anything for you You took the baby, that was all right, but don't let her die, please. Please. Dear God, don't let her die. - The wonderful Helen Hayes, she told me that she really with my father when she They were rehearsing a scene, and she said, &quot;I know, I would have left my husband, I would have left my children, I would have left Hollywood, I would have left anything, She said, &quot;All he did and very sweetly by my shoulders, and he just said, 'Helen.'&quot; - You're a fine girl, a brave girl. - Yes. I am a brave girl. - Whatever happens, do not be afraid. - I'll not be afraid. - We've never been apart, - Not since we met. - And never can be. - Never parted. - In life, and in death, say it, Cath. - In life, and in death, - You do believe that, don't you, Cath? - I believe it... And I'm not afraid. - It's fair to say, in whatever he enjoyed it to the hilt, but after a certain period of time, not terribly long, he was My mother's name was Her mother and father were divorced. By the time my mother was 17, she really didn't like She wanted to get out, she wanted to do her own thing, so she came with her and as her mother's the great art director, her mother felt she was in safe hands. She was not like the who he had been with, and... I suppose it was a time in his life that he wanted to think My mother's nickname She has tremendous and this tremendous shyness, which, I suspect probably, that she was terrific I suspect my father They were married in 1933... And they really were tremendous She was very much of an athlete, she would organize all kinds My father loved to shoot, he loved guns. My mother refused to kill anything, but knowing my father loved shooting, she took up skeet shooting. She became so good, she women's skeet champion. My father loved it. He was so proud, he'd take and she would outshoot a My father was extremely and some of the screen that really came out of a natural shyness. As he got more and more professional, he learned to utilize it. - I don't think I ever saw a picture that I loved more than When I think back over the I can't think of another person really, that ranks with him. - He's news. - He's the guy that's - This is absurd, the woman's - If Mrs. Dawson here wasn't with me, I'd probably knock your heads together. - Oh, I don't mind. - Well all right, maybe I will. (yelling) Hand me my pants. - You have no pants, sir. You came home last night without them. - Don't be silly, Walter, the streets without any - That's what the two policemen said, sir. - [A.C.] When Frank and said he wanted to do Cooper of course, was ready right away. - I think Capra read my father very well. He read his inner core very well. It was such a completely comfortable role for my father to take. He felt that if he just studied what the character was about, how the character would then papa said, &quot;Well, Then I can just be.&quot; - Cooper never seemed to be doing anything when he was acting. He seemed to be so minimal as And yet, over and over and that when the rushes were shown, everybody was dazzled by how - Well there you are, Grant's tomb. Hope you're not dissapointed. - It's wonderful. - To most people, it's an awful let down. - Huh? - I said, to most people it's a washout. - Oh, that depends on what they see. - Now, what do you see? - Me? Oh, I see the small Ohio farm boy becoming a great soldier. I see thousands of marching men. I see General Lee with a And I can see the like Abraham Lincoln said. And I can that Ohio boy being Things like that can only happen Excuse me. - I guess Mr. Deeds would be... As close to him, as a man, that I knew. I think it was boyish charm. I think that's what my mother And I thought he was handsome, - [A.C.] And I think why Gary Cooper remained such a big star. When you saw Coop on the screen, you always wanted to be on his side. - I saw him in the It was on the bill with dancing on stage, so I got to (upbeat music) - Yellow Hand find out (speaking foreign language) - Bill. - Yes, Calamity, I do. I love you. - [Joan] Very impressive and his directness and sincerity. I think that rang true with right away, his sincerity. - [Charlton] Beau Geste was one of the best films for me that he made. - You don't wanna stay here and die like rats in a trap, Do you? - [All] No! (laughing) - I saw it several times as a boy. He was surrounded by wonderful actors, but he carried the whole film. It's a film about brothers, and loyalty, and looking out for each other. - Gary Cooper was very selective and he turned down an awful lot. And his good friend, Joel McCrea, who was a big star in the light, who idolized Gary Cooper, &quot;You know, I do all of the - [Joan] He was always himself. He played well within his own personality, that's what we liked about him. - My father liked doing comedy, and he had a real sense of timing, which I think was sadly - Will you send up five five chocolate ice cream sodas, and five pieces of apple pie. No, apple, with cheese. Yeah, thanks. - [Woman] Hello there. - [A.C.] Frank Capra was instrumental in so many people's lives, Gene Arthur, Jimmy Stewart, Gary Cooper, and Cooper just adored Capra. I think all Frank Capra had to do, really call Coop and say, in three weeks, Coop would - Two great films with Frank Capra, Mr. Deeds Goes to Town, and Meet John Doe. He becomes every man, he he's naive, he's and all the smart city slickers think they can pull the wool over his eyes, of course they can't, because then Capra, the common man, prevails. - People are finally finding out that the guy next door isn't the bad egg. That's simple, isn't it? Yet a thing like that's got a chance of spreading 'till it touches every last doggone human being in the world, and you talk about, about killing it. Well, when this fire dies More misery, more hunger, and more hate. And what's to prevent that Nobody knows the answer to that with those slimy bollocks - I had really an (slow music) I had two parents who were and I would say, loaded with common sense. One of the points they always made was, you know, look, all this stuff it has nothing to do with you, it comes with the territory and it's work, and you're gonna have to make your life, do you own thing. You know, in those days, they so there wasn't a lot when he was doing a film. But on the weekends, a lot Claudette Colbert and her husband, they were close friends of ours. Gabel and Van Johnson, and and Jimmy Stewart was The experience for me of was really incredible, because my father had access to anybody, anywhere, anytime, any place, meeting some of the most creative and exciting people in the world. Hemingway, Pablo Picasso, people in the sciences. It was the natural fabric Guns were part of his frontier persona, and he never lost that. We had a gun room at home, which was a game room, and saddles, and some but it was his gun room, taking care of his guns, - He took us into the and he had them in cases, and this was part of their life. They would go out on would travel to places. Clark Gable, Gary Cooper they would go out and do their shoots, and have a hell of a good time. - [Maria] Ernest Hemingway they were buddies. They just had a basic comradery, buddy buddy kind of a feeling. They loved to go out shooting together, they loved the wild country. Because my father was didn't have any Hollywood airs about him, I think it was a natural friendship that he and Hemingway felt that there was a very close link between the two of them. Alvin York, the pacifist but when pushed to it, he I would say that was Gary Cooper, too. - Alvin, I. - Yeah? - Alvin, I just. - Yeah? - Alvin, you. - My first day on the set I was of course, apprehensive, nervous, playing with a big star, a legend, and being his leading lady in a big movie. I didn't know what to expect, I didn't know what to call him. I didn't know what he was gonna call me. We didn't have any formal introduction. If he called me Joan, would He settled the whole thing He said, &quot;How do you do, Ms. Gracie?&quot; So, I said, oh thank goodness, He called me Gracie, whenever I met him on the lot, at lunch, or on the set, and I thought it was the most considerate thing that he did. He knew that I was a I was 16 years old, the break of my life, to work with him and to And he probably knew that if I'd bolt for the door in a veil of tears, so that was one very - They won't get me, I'll - Yeah, and they'll put and follow you no matter - And they better not catch up with me, or they'll be a-wishin' they hadn't. - [Man] York, take over. You're the only noncom left. - The rest of you, keep under cover. (gunshots) - Come back here. Where you goin'? - You done give command. (slow music) - [Maria] My father hated fighting. Loathed it. He would do almost anything But don't step over the line. - [Jeffrey] Gary Cooper won his first Academy Award for Sergeant York. - [Announcer] Actor award, last year's winner, presents the cherished statuette to Gary Cooper. He wins his Oscar for a vivid - [A.C.] There'd been some and they were true Americans. Jimmy Steward, Jim Cagney, Gary Cooper, and I think when you look at his pictures, it made you proud that - Pride of the Yankees, I one of the elements that which was trying to grasp and I think that the challenge the role of Lou Gehrig, who not but who took the news years and years before his time, the way he handled that I think that kind of a role, I think my father just loved it. - Lou Gehrig of course, was left handed, Coop was right handed. What they had to do in the background, all the letterings were all reversed, and he threw right handed. And of course, when the film they reversed the film so it looked like he was throwing left hand, and all of the letters (upbeat music) - Tangle foot. - [Announcer] The story cheered and idolized by millions. A symbol of courage The Pride of the Yankees, a in the real life of a man, In a nationwide poll, millions to play the coveted role. That man, Academy Award Teresa Wright is the woman - Lou Gehrig, I think I - Well, you've been out and you're out with me here tonight, and well, isn't that was best girls do? Today, I consider myself the luckiest man on the face of the earth. - When my father went to the South Pacific to entertain the soldiers, because he said, &quot;God, you I'm not Jack Benny, I and pattern, I can't sing. How can I entertain the guys?&quot; And one of the colonels at the &quot;Coop, the main thing the is would you please do the And he said he would Talking to 1,000 or more The instinctive roles that he took were compatible with his philosophy and compatible with his nature. If anyone wants to have that he believed, the lines of John Donne, For Whom the Bell Tolls, that poem was one of my father's favorites. No man is an island, entire unto itself. Every man is a piece of the (romantic music) - There's nothing to do for you, I'll sit by and watch you, and in the nights, we'll make love. - You are shameless. - If you don't love me, I - [Man] When the time to play Hemingway wanted Cooper to be in it. Hemingway knew about Cooper through certain mutual friends, and gave the hero of the some of the Cooper attributes. He comes from Montana, for example, and he's, you know, tall - I admired Coop, even with his politics, because on the people around him. I know that he felt very strongly about a communist influence in pictures. - I've never read Karl Marx, and I don't know the basis of communism, beyond what I've picked up from hearsay. What I've heard, I don't like it, because it isn't on the level. - I was sitting in the first or second row of the audience, which was a big audience. We were in quite a big room, there must have been, several hundred people, the I was surprised to see Gary Cooper, 'cause I didn't think he would bring anything to the hearings, and he didn't, all he brought was his personality, and that's what they were looking for. - I am not in nearly as as some of the witnesses because I'm not a very - Yes, he said how he felt, and the people who are a part of it, but he never named anybody, he never got involved in that sense, and that, to me, tells more because I had so many and not rightly so. - [Announcer] This is Howard Roark, possessed of a great talent, but unwilling to compromise Dominique Francon, the enslave any man, except one. - [Maria] As the expression a little rain falls, and I suppose, maybe in Hollywood, sooner than other places. My father had done a film with Patricia Neal, and... During the making of that - I have no pride left to stop me. I love you without Would it please you to in torture all these months, hoping never to find you, just to see you once more? - We went on location first. Oh my dear, from that I really did, you know, considering he was a married man, but, oh, that didn't mean a thing to me, because (laughing) it was terrible of me to do in those days which But to me, he was the beauty of the world. - My mother and father both, I think, handled it very very sensitively from my point of view, very intelligently. And I was never made to lack of love for me, or or that his attitude In fact, my mother was very strong, admonishingly, not to blame him. She, in effect said, &quot;These and your father loves you very much, nothing will ever change that, and we'll work it out, Even during the time we continued doing things at odd periods, and we'd going off and doing a lot of - We worked together. We did USS Teakettle with Henry Hathaway. Henry Hathaway had an affliction, he had to pick on someone. Everybody in the cast had to go through two weeks of hell from him. I thought, well, he wouldn't but sure, it was Cooper's time, and Cooper just sorta and didn't answer back. And they gave it to him again, you know? And he moved away and he went in back of the props, of the prop wall, and banged on the side of the set. Cooper came back and he told me, he says, &quot;That's my way of handling it, and he can hear me doing that, so I put up with it.&quot; - [Jeffrey] He made a from around the mid 40s until 1951. Cooper looked his age and more, he was lined in a way, and looked like he had been through it, partly because he had had ulcers and back And then Stanley Kramer, who had a marvelous script from - I mean it, if you won't go with me now, I'll be on that train when it leaves here. - I've got to stay. - [Narrator] A to face four kills, single - At one point, when he's his deputies, his friends, his townsfolk, his former mistress, his wife, he goes into his office and writes out his last will on the table, and he And that's so moving, to the thousands of cowboy where the hero is and can shoot 100 people and nothing will ever happen to him. - Seems like all everybody is to get me out of town. No one wants to see you get killed. Hold it, where you going? - I don't know, back - Oh no, you're getting on that horse and you're getting out. What's the matter with you? You were ready to do it - Look, Harv, I thought you think about a lot of but I can't do it. - [Jeffrey] It's a class has to deal with evil on his own. So, this is really going way beyond what anybody had ever (slow music) (train horn blowing) Cooper won the second Academy Award, the first being for Sergeant York. - The loneliness that Cooper I think that came out in the picture. Like everybody in our business, they have hills and they have valleys, and at that particular time, Coop said, &quot;I need a good picture.&quot; And boy, did he get it in High Noon. Oh, did he get it. And those of us that knew him, oftentimes worried about things that were happening to him that were not pleasant. His separation from which was unfortunate, which just tore him apart at that times. - I didn't intend to break up the marriage when we started, but Things were happening to him. He had to go to the Because what you're And I called his mother, delicious to me. (laughing) But she didn't, she said, &quot;You And it disturbed me, and I This is it. And he was in the so I didn't see him - Whatever decision making when he decided he wanted Those are always mutual I think it's stupid to see him go back, 'cause you don't go back to anything. You either have the way with and the two of them did, - [Announcer] Gary Cooper the quiet man, and the gunslinger, fighting side by side, and each other. - No! - [Countess] Each one of half a million dollars in gold. - How do we know we can trust you? - How do I know I can trust you? - Countess, you're beginning Looks like we tied up - We were so surprised, about 30 pages of script with a fellow named Borden Chase, and Gary Cooper said, &quot;Yes, I'll do the picture.&quot; Burt Lancaster was gonna so it came as a big surprise even to Burt. He welcomed with open arms, he said, &quot;Gee, this really puts us in the big time, with Coop, I'll play the villain.&quot; Everything was perfect from then on, gosh, until the very end of the picture, I'd begun to like Burt so much that I said, I don't think and he said, &quot;Oh, I if I didn't kill him.&quot; - [A.C.] In many ways, the most moral men I ever knew. I think that's why he 'cause a western is the most it's a good against evil - [Maria] So many people refer to Gary Cooper as the American hero. Sometimes they say the last He certainly became There have been so many magazine covers that pick up on the image as heroic. So many heroes today let - I don't think Cooper would You accepted him as a man who to defeat evil and confront I don't think that Cooper there are actors who can play many parts, and there are actors who can but when you looked in his face when you played a scene with him, he had the ability to because he had a higher - I used to say, the camera loves him, or the camera loves her, the photographed and how they came across, and I think mostly it's in the eyes, and in the attitude and the - He did a great many westerns, and yet, could play romantic leads. Two pictures with Marlena Dietrich, Morocco and Desire, in which he could to that too, when he did Love In the Afternoon, with Audrey Hepburn, at least 20 years younger than he, he still could manage that. - [Announcer] Gary Cooper. Fabulous, as the world's who has hunted the species - Audrey Hepburn, delightfully, How can anyone blamer - He's certainly the most - He's certainly the most utterly no good. - He's got such an American face, like a cowboy, or, or Abraham Lincoln. - How many other men were there? - You mean before I met or all together? (soft music) - [Jeffrey] Billy Wilder the age difference by somewhat in the shadows, I think Cooper was still There's certainly no reason couldn't fall in love with a super rich, super sophisticated, super - I think there was a lot of... Latent sexuality in Guy who wasn't afraid But I'll tell you, he was kind. We were on location in Yakima, Washington. Somebody came up to his trailer, and said, there's a couple of kids, and they want your autograph. I would never get out Man got up, walked down, signed the autographs, I and you know, that was the kind of sweetness he had in his nature. - We were on a thoroughly Neither of us had our wives along. I remember Coop took me as we were edging our towards the exit, we passed this was the time of the and they dressed in rather bizarre ways, and behaved in a rather bizarre fashion, and as we walked past, Coop in the lead, one of them said, &quot;Oh, there Coop stopped, and looked at him. And he said, &quot;When you say that, smile.&quot; They didn't know that that which, in effect, made Coop a star. Suddenly, this kid was looking up, and he wasn't in a trendy he was standing in the and there was Gary Cooper Nobody at the table moved and Coop looked at him and then he nodded and walked out. Coop was settling himself into the back of his Rolls Royce, on his trousers, and I said, you gave that man a He said, &quot;Well, I've had a - He was offered a particular in which the character and I think that he was but occasionally as in the case of The Naked Edge, which is the picture that I did with him, which was his final film. In it, he plays a suspected murderer, way out of character for and he took the part fierce opposition from - I can't believe this. We've been married too many we know everything about each other. Do you think a woman could sleep with him and not know she's sleeping with a murderer? - Do murderers make love differently? (intense music) - Come on, Martha. - He wouldn't have admitted being there just to build up a lie. - He said he was there? - Yes. He saw it happen. - That's unfortunate for him. - He wanted to try another kind of role. The audience was supposed to believe that he was the bad guy. At the end of it, he said, If he ever felt restricted, that he couldn't range too far field, 'cause he had to make the public happy. - [Jeffrey] It was a to find out that Cooper was dying, and he found out the but seeing James Steward accept this honorary Oscar for and then break down, and sort of... Inadvertently reveal to come and get the award himself. - He gave me a wonderful lesson, because we went to play golf one day, when he was still well enough to play, and I was thinking, walking who the hell cares? I mean, so what if you hit a birdie, or an eagle, or if you're he's not gonna be around in a month. Why care when you know time is so limited? And in fact, he cared even more. It didn't matter that there wouldn't be very many tomorrows. It was focused on today. When he got the diagnosis of cancer, he opted not to do a lot He didn't have as many He said, &quot;I've had one And he was very at peace with himself. - [George] He was the child of his time, and I doubt if that that kind of personality. We are too cynical now. It's like, you can't make a you know, because there and there are no Gary Coopers. And it's sad, but true. (slow music)