In a doggy dog world, it's time to nip something There's a linguistic phenomenon that's In this video let's investigate eggcorns: over the originals. Some may pass you by without you battering Others will make you want to curl up in the So let's see which ones pass mustard, and Without further adieu, it's time for another Okay, I can see you're chomping at the bit longer. Let's get down to brass tacts: What exactly Well let me show you, because I just used What do all of these terms and phrases have Well... they're wrong. The phrase isn't doggy dog world, it's You don't nip something in the butt (not in the bud. It's the foetal position not the feeble But nevertheless, these are all things that They're close to the original sayings - in they're not quite right. They are: eggcorns. The term eggcorn meaning these quirky mishearings only a couple of decades ago. And there's a charming story behind why So basically what happened was... well actually, I'm sorry, how the name arose is what you're That's esteemed professor Mark Liberman pretty much the eggcorn king. Google eggcorns and his name will quickly So I asked him if he wouldn't mind joining It all started back in 2004. Another linguist named Chris Potts sent me written egg space corns meaning acorns. She was concerned about the fact that acorns it under an oak tree. When we looked into it, we discovered that who had made a similar inference, so to speak. And for at least certain, people from certain Acorn and egg corn are actually basically They're basically pronounced the same way. And for pretty much everybody, every speaker least. " Professor Liberman and his fellow linguists yet undefined... a phenomenon that didn't mix-ups. This wasn't a straight-forward mishearing. Egg corn sort of made sense. I mean, it does look like an egg, and it is So the question was, with this new brand of So Jeff Pullham a week later said, well, look, just make it eponymous. That is, take the example as the source of So we suggested that and the term stuck. So it has now made it into the Oxford English and the Collins English Dictionary and so It's not often you get to hear from someone To fully understand what eggcorns are, you as well. Because there are lots of other everyday errors ain't eggcorns. One category of which are Malapropisms. So these are named after a character in the Sheridan: the snooty Mrs Malaprop. Her name is actually a play on the French wrong or inappropriate, and a quirk of her words. As Professor Liberman says, she's... [Liberman]trying to use fancier words than Like talking about an allegory as an alligator. "She is as headstrong as an allegory on That one's a beaut. Other gems from Mrs. Malaprop include: "He is the very pineapple of politeness." Pinnacle. And &quot;Sure, if I reprehend any thing in this world nice derangement of epitaphs!&quot; Apprehend... vernacular... arrangement... epithets. So when anyone else makes a similarly bad Isn't an eggcorn just a kind of malapropism Welln, no. We usually think of malapropisms as being being uneducated or something like that. Whereas egg corns are something that can happen Yes - even you! Or me, in fact. Researching this I discovered I've been Or should I say "free rein"? Yes because the image it's supposed to conjur under control, not one of a monarch with unlimited I think I've probably gotten away with it, But free reign is a classic eggcorn because And poor Mrs Malaprop and her malapropisms... do not. There's another funny phenomenon that is Like eggcorn, the term mondegreen comes from It comes from this Scottish folk song. [singing] Ye heilands and ye lowlands, O whaur They have slain the Earl o' Moray: And Lady Poor Lady Mondegreen. Except, let's play that again, but with [singing] They have slain the Earl o' Moray: The most famous mondegreens are misheard song You know how Jimmi Hendrix did not in fact [Hendrix sings] Excuse me while I kiss the The reason that they are different to eggcorns they can appear anywhere - but that their was originally intended. But an eggcorn replaces the original phrase Whether you're describing someone as a social the same point. AD are not, see how many you can spot in this So, I've had to go deep into the internet with dangers. And what's more, because we've got builders wifi networks at cafes! Luckily I've been protected to all intensive It's no "old wise tale": A VPN really while surfing the web and NordVPN gives you It blocks malware if you wander into unchartered by cloaking your IP, sounds the death nail you secure around the clock. Plus you can have it on up to six devices too. Having a VPN leaves you with all kinds of you to access streaming content from all over And if you've got holiday plans, another money on travel websites that hike there prices before. So, to solve your internet security problems nordvpn.com/robwords to get the two year plan on top! It's risk free with NordVPN's 30 day money Well, did you spot them all? So, have I mentioned any that you've been If not, I'm determined to find one by the certain that you've used at least one. And that's not to insult you: eggcorns are On the contrary: in many cases they're a Eggcorns very often form when someone is trying They're doing verbal gymnastics to try and and the sounds they've just come across. Say you've heard someone voicing disapproval precisely, lack of it. If you've never come across the phrase "scantily - it's perfectly logical to then interpret It's kind of clever. You've even had to invent a word. As one of professor Liberman's colleague "It would be so easy to dismiss eggcorns they are nothing of the sort. They are imaginative attempts at relating known." So let's see if we can find some others. Well if you are scandally clad, you're only But one that has me, and Mark Liberman confused... One that is troubling me is butt naked and which one's correct. I've definitely been using butt naked. Well, I don't know, The American Heritage of but naked. Well, they're not sure. But Paul Bryan's in Common Errors in English that it was originally buck naked, referring So it's condescending and racist and so probably You know, who knows? That's exactly why it's causing me such I was hoping you might have the answer. Well, apparently not. So there we are. Well, actually... it was quite funny. I was willing to leave the issue there, but to try to get to the bottom of it, even while completely different. Do you think you're hyper-sensitive to spotting I'm sorry, before we get to that, I just looked It says it's colloquial originally in chiefly And it says CF, butt naked. But it doesn't tell you which one came from I think in future, I'll just say... naked. But these eggcorns really can be found in out shot across the bowels instead of the Have you ever heard of someone living with Or suffering mindgrains? How about post-dramatic stress disorder? Google them, they all get used. I mean, really? Old Timer's Disease? Well if you have ever at any point thought not alone. All these people are with you. Alzheimer's Disease? Who knows who Alzheimer's was? But if you think of it as old timer's disease, True! This is a case where the mishearing actually term. And there are lots of eggcorns that to the original. Take wet your appetite instead of whet your When was the last time anyone used whet in Whereas the idea of a soggy salivating mouth And while we're dining out on this, isn't deserts? We don't use desert - as in something one Whereas you might well imagine someone receiving behaviour. No ice cream if you don't finish your vegetables! And there are more. Isn't a squid more likely to be damp than I mean, what is a squib anyway? It was a word that was used for small explosives. What we would now call a firecracker was called Ah. So the idea is that it doesn't go off because It got wet. Yeah. Now, that does obviously make more sense than... I mean, why would... Damp is normal for a squid. In fact, if it was dried, that would be problematic Yep, there's nothing disappointing about a If you haven't found this video to be a I will be internally grateful. You know, there's a tendency when talking something new. Every generation tends to loathe to some extent And eggcorns might seem to support this declinist Why are we now starting to get these things But the fact is, the name may be relatively For example, people have been misquoting Williams "to the manor born" for centuries. Why? Because it makes sense, doesn't it. Actually it was the name of an occasionally He's got about as much charm as Grimsby Another old mishearing is "asparagus" you can find examples as far back as the 17th Itwas widely used until the Latin-lovers put Although some language fans will argue that a "folk etymology". Why? Because for a time at least, sparrowgrass form - i.e. it replaced the original phrase, minority. What distinguishes an egg corn from a so called event that is a few people here and there becomes a standard part of the language. A further good example of a "folk etymology" It's the Jerusalem artichoke, which does It's actually native to North America, but related to the sunflower plant, the name for That got misheard or reinterpreted by English A Jerusalem artichoke isn't an artichoke result of a catalogue of errors involving who else. Too much to go into now. The point is, it's a folk etymology because interpretation of where the words came from, And it's a case that professor Liberman I mentioned Jerusalem artichoke as a relevant because it's the standard term for that particular But anyway, the phenomenon of reinterpreting language, a word borrowed from another language, whatever, in terms of a different set of morphemes sense to you is something I'm sure people languages. So that's another reason to not feel bad folk etymologies, mondegreens or malapropisms existed. So if you can think of any good examples of Ooh, and professor Liberman also wants your I don't know very many egg corn like inventions I know French reasonably well. Seems like I should know some French egg corns. I can read Spanish, I can read German, and have, in the end, read about egg corns in I just don't remember. So if you know any, pop them in the comments Or alternatively, go to the blog post he wrote for more examples. I'll leave a link below. The only one I can think of is related to damp squid. A pal of mine got a little confused by the - literally "ink fish". But she thought it was... titten-fisch, which If you've enjoyed this I think you'll bring back. Or maybe this one? And if you didn't enjoy it, well don't