The Caped Crusader. The Dark Knight. The Billionaire Playboy Who Likes to Punch Batman has had countless incarnations over the years, not least in video games across almost every system. Unlike Spider-Man or Superman, Batman games isn't a new movie or television show to Batman doesn't go through dry spells; he's by hurting people very, very badly. What's more, a number of Batman games have Whereas other super heroes are lucky to have Batman has had a pretty solid run in general. Having said that, his record has been far at every last one of his video game outings, In doing so, we will be considering both how how well they've held up over the years. We will also be considering how true they sure will spark no disagreement in the comments But before we get to the rankings, a few ground Firstly, we won't be looking at Batman's Fact is, they weren't really designed to and comparing them to the likes of the Arkham Similarly, we are excluding anything that These sorts of games are here today and gone mobile hardware and software, so unfortunately, of them, and you can bet your bottom batarang YouTube either. Finally, if a game doesn't specifically we also won't include it. He's cameoed in a number of games - both that we'd be including all sorts of strange video gaming appearances, so unless it's it to be a... Batman game. We defy you to poke holes in that logic. Anyway, better get started. We're going to be here a very long time. I'm Peter from TripleJump, and this is every #56 - Batman: Dark Tomorrow GameCube, Xbox of villains, fully-voiced cutscenes, and an Unfortunately, it's also bloody terrible. There is no remotely redeeming aspect of Batman: to do battle with villains rarely seen in but everything else feels like it was chemically the word Batman title possible. I mean, if that was actually the intention Success. With complicated controls, a dreadful fixed you into active combat situations the moment honestly seems to be intentionally awful - the whenever Batman takes damage he decides to stopping enemies from pummeling him to death at the television. They couldn't even represent the franchise's The voice acting is almost uniformly terrible Everything about Dark Tomorrow looks cheap, a lesson from this game and be cheap yourself, #55 - Batman Beyond: Return of the Joker Nintendo 64 other games called Return of the Joker, this series, and the Return of the Joker film it This is a rare chance to play as a Batman McGinnis, who assumed the mantle upon Bruce's Unfortunately for Terry, this game is the The controls while walking are far too sensitive, sensitive enough. The brawling is an irritating slog with enemies gang up on you relentlessly. The level design is frankly careless, with nothing, and the soundtrack is often downright Perhaps this game's strongest offense, however, We all know that the Nintendo 64 wasn't but this game is based on an animated film. We'll see later that lesser hardware had spirit of Batman's animated adventures, 2D animation into a hideous 3D downgrade? It's one thing to be uninventive when you purposefully deviate from the visual stylings #54 - Batman Amiga, Amstrad CPC, Atari ST, Commodore 64, The most interesting thing about this game to play as a version of Batman who recently We looked at the Amstrad CPC version, which about it. The animations and controls are almost insultingly is to give you massive levels full of identical through them. At times it doesn't feel like the game was levels were built for some game or other, that. In the first stage, you knock Jack Napier Joker and in the last stage, you knock him Batman does nothing between these two events and forget where the Batcave is, just like same year, right? I don't know; it's been a while since #53 - Batman &amp; Robin game.com It's the best Batman game based on the best Actually, my mistake; all of those things Batman &amp; Robin for the game.com- ...am I even Do you even pronounce the dot? It just sounds like a website. Batman &amp; Robin for the game.com is a sluggish, technically has a combat system but only in might happen. It controls as well as anything else in the controls like you died years ago and are trying Anyone who is brave enough to try this best-forgotten to be driven insane by the game's only track: favorite music box fed through a MIDI synthesizer, of Batman's attacks. Of course, it isn't all bad. Batman &amp; Robin on the game.com does let us on this list somehow overlooked: The Dark just go all the way up... #52 - Batman: The Caped Crusader Amiga, Amstrad CPC, Apple II, Commodore 64, When a game is released on so many different Either it's a great game that the publisher or there's so little substance to it that We'll leave you to guess which category The game isn't exactly a long one, but it just to make you walk back and forth across combat being every bit as clunky as you'd Its best idea is the fact that it unfolds a design choice that varies in effectiveness It's the kind of thing we'd love to have better pull it off, but still, credit where the credit it's due. #51 - Batman Forever Game Boy, Game Gear game, which we'll come to in a moment, the is, how shall we put this? Among mankind's greatest atrocities? This build of the game is somehow even clunkier, that it's almost impressive. The smaller number of buttons means that the is a good thing in a way, but that's immediately Batman does is so sluggish that it feels like jam. There's nothing less satisfying than watching animation long after you've actually pressed like a chore to encounter. Pretty sure this is why they call it Batman #50 - Batman Returns Atari Lynx and, as we know, he's prone to plenty of Fortunately, these are both fundamental aspects possibly screw them up. Sorry, I couldn't keep that Ugh, what a ludicrous claim sidescroller that controls like ass. The music feels like it would be far more and frankly, that sounds like much more fun. Some enemies in Batman Returns walk blindly and a whole bunch of them can be avoided simply Others, however, like to pitch projectiles Worst of all are those who like to zip along bikers that are nearly too wide to jump over the fun. Things wouldn't be so bad if it weren't With a little more warning of what's coming to some of this, but it's just such an uncomfortable Now we'd maybe understand this choice if but our hero looks less like Batman than he trying really hard not to make eye contact #49 - Batman: Return of the Joker Game Boy second NES Batman game, but its gameplay is we'll get to much later on in the list. Like that game, Return of The Joker has more and taking bad guys down with Batman's quick Unlike that game, though, this is pretty awful. Batman controls in a bizarrely floaty manner, in general -an exercise in frustration. While wall-jumping in search of hidden areas fun, it's actually far too difficult to he's responding to a personal interpretation rather than to the buttons you're actually There's also a grappling hook triggered to play the game without at least 80% of the #48 - Batman: Gotham City Racer PlayStation Said every child ever. No, apparently It would not be fun to drive the Batmobile. Gotham City Racer is based on The New Batman as good as The Animated Series but was worthwhile Gotham City Racer, however, is a damn sight The character portraits look great, styled cutscenes are excerpts from actual episodes. All good! Unfortunately though, everything else looks Gotham, one of fiction's most famous cities, grey rectangles positioned so poorly that Gotham City Racer seems to believe the only in actual gameplay is his nightly commute. While the cutscenes show Batman being...you gameplay itself consists entirely of driving It feels less like you're playing as Batman Uber driver. Man, I hope he tips me. He's a billionaire, you know. #47 - Batman: Revenge of the Joker Mega Drive that look very good. This is not one of them. In this utterly incompetent port of the NES the game looks careless, right down to the Everything Batman does is so unnecessarily you're controlling a struggling actor who You might at least think the animations lead are far stiffer than they look. Batman: Revenge of the Joker is a stubbornly button press, just how much it hates you. Even Batman's moveset feels odd, with an than melee. Presumably the developers thought that, instead players would much rather use something resembling launcher. All in all, this title just sort of feels slapped over a pre-existing game... and not #46 - Batman Returns Amiga very hard to be the worst version of Batman Unfortunately though, despite being slightly at all. It can't be easy for Batman games to find loop of "beat this guy up then beat that the possibilities are endless. When the game begins, your comically small of bikers with no time to prepare. You might wonder why the game isn't beginning probably is. You'll then respawn, only to be swarmed up on you but sometimes perch in accessible You have to defeat them all to progress, so to become vulnerable. When you finally do clear the area, you'll screen at last. Do so and get shot and killed instantly by Great. All this, and we've not even mentioned the the screen at speeds it's safe to say the his life. Screw all of this. Presumably there's more to the game beyond authority that no human being ever played #45 - Batman Amstrad CPC, Amstrad PCW, MSX, ZX Spectrum used to look like this. This very first official Batman game received This might seem rather difficult to believe game at all was enough to give this game a You guide our hero through various isometric with your main objective being to rescue the The enemies and hazards aren't quite specific and Zelda-style spinning blades hindering sound effects, serving as a sort of aural to progress. This game is, of course, an interesting piece more positive than that? Well, no. Not really. But hey, it did technically lay the groundwork game is, so you have to thank it for that, Knight's best-reviewed games ever, so you Well done, Batman 1986! #44 - Batman: Chaos in Gotham Game Boy Color than "Chaos in Gotham"? In fact, the futility of this game's name which is that Batman: Chaos In Gotham exists... In short, it's a standard brawler with platforming and never creative enough to be fun. As Batman you'll navigate small platforms, things that didn't look like hazards, with much is happening on screen, making the experience The music is probably the best thing about Chaos in Gotham makes it this far up the list to play, but unless you've been dying for villain Roxy Rocket - which incidentally, who knows who Roxy Rocket is - there's #43 - Batman Forever Mega Drive, SNES, PC seven shades of guano out of an endless series for every beat-em-up in existence. It's also, however, a game that forgot to For such a simple premise, you'd guess that all you'd need to create an enjoyable experience. And you would be right. But Batman Forever is mired by needlessly is actually a fairly basic moveset. It's overcomplicated to a fault, which is be defeated by swatting your fists blindly Clearly inspired by 1992's Mortal Kombat special moves, Batman Forever seems like it fighting game that was forced for some reason As such it ends up controlling like the former, the world's dullest beat-em-up. On the bright side, it allowed you to play On the less-bright side, it would ensure that #42 - Batman Beyond: Return of the Joker PlayStation Return of the Joker is far better than that We'd like to make that perfectly clear before the PlayStation version of Batman Beyond: It's not exactly the same as the Nintendo quite similar, and it improves on that game's Despite this upgrade though, the brawling The visuals are an improvement on the N64 the same question: Why rebuild the movie's And while we could just about excuse the single-image excuse for them on the PlayStation, with its All in all, this version may well be better, #41 - Batman: The Animated Series Game Boy Batman: The Animated Series on the Game Boy It's not bad either, but definitely not Developed by Konami in what must have been is well built and decently designed. Progress is made both horizontally and vertically, interesting, and there are lots of goodies But that's about it. It's a competent game, but not one that way. Even the characters - who look great in Series - just seem like blobs of pixels Batman: The Animated Series for the Game Boy been a great adaptation with a lot more work, one. #40 - Batman &amp; Robin PlayStation about Batman &amp; Robin for the PlayStation, fundamental components. There are three playable characters. The game runs on a clock meaning you need which crime and when. And the game is largely faithful to the source Yes, we know no human being likes the source game doesn't just slap the name on something But that's about all we can say in Batman Though the game features two distinct gameplay Driving is a slippery, imprecise nightmare, it nearly impossible to see what's coming. Then when on foot, we are stuck using tank a handful of great games with tank controls, in combat. Batman, of course, is a fist fighter, and the guy that's already been beating the less fun than it sounds. The basic idea of Batman zipping around Gotham solid one, but the execution was bungled, alarms while responding to break-ins - which game - just adds insult to injury. #39 - Batman: Rise of Sin Tzu GameCube, PlayStation 2, Xbox get to, does one really great thing right unique to this game and its handheld counterpart, It's something I wish more Batman games a future game to copy. Rise of Sin Tzu is a strange game in that On easy mode, the game is an absolutely mindless with strategy, and it gets repetitive very On normal mode, though, it is positively brutal. And while this does mean that combat in the steps ahead, which is good, it also means reflexes and patience, which is bad. And BAD is NOT GOOD you to fight quickly, something very much of you by this mode. If you do reach the objective in time, it to spare. It's ratcheted up to an insane degree in within 14 minutes. That is no mean feat, and so you can look and over in the hopes that you'll get lucky Joys. #38 - Batman Forever: The Arcade Game Arcade, PlayStation, Saturn, PC so we're likely to get some angry comments the game needs "defenders" at all might Batman Forever: The Arcade Game is a side-scrolling We've already seen a lot of that in this in doing anything unique. By 1996, fans of arcade games had seen more possibly count, and aside from its license, do anything those other games hadn't already Having said that, the fact that the damage a bad guy is a cute touch, and the animations more than 20 years later. Outside of the arcade, the game was ported The PlayStation version certainly didn't the real tragedy is that the Sega Saturn and and frame-rate issues, thereby stripping Batman Oops! #37 - Batman TurboGrafx-16 secret identity is one Bruce Wayne. We think the confusion comes from the fact for the TurboGrafx-16, which quite clearly Pac-Man. Wait a moment...Batman...Pac-Man...the answer You sneaky so-and-so, you. This particular Batman game is playable, certainly, but it's mind-boggling that someone sat up with anything more creative than a Pac-Man Certainly if this had been an Atari game from But video games had come a long way by the through some mazes to pick up various goodies Pinky, and Clyde makes you wonder if the development Okay, that may not be entirely fair, as the stun enemies, which is a damn sight more than However, he's locked in place as he waits him to use his less-famous "standing still chomp boy wouldn't dream of doing. #36 - Batman: Justice Unbalanced PC if... if three minigames counts as a collection, Um... either way, with Justice Unbalanced, through a barely animated adventure. There is a plot holding these disparate minigames terrorizing Gotham with... little... explosive the eggs don't look anything like real eggs would be any victims at all. Still, Batman and Robin already got dressed, They do this by solving color puzzles, matching sequence you were told to click them. It's riveting! There is some light platforming toward the endure an unhealthy amount of egg puns, so #35 - Batman: Toxic Chill PC It's Batman: Justice Unbalanced, only now The basic structure of the game is the same, Not because it's clever (which it isn't), interesting but because it features a teamup between The we saw far more often and in far better places. Mr. Freeze plans to freeze Gotham City, obviously, into the plan just so Batman would have a either he didn't think this through, or didn't think this through. Players will surely be on the edge of their and solve word puzzles but, better yet, there's sewers, which is nice because you actually static screens that look like they came directly #34 - Batman Returns Mega Drive in this game, but there's little else to The controls are far too stiff to give you at you from all angles, the vertical design liability with far too many blind jumps, and the game interesting. The soundtrack is certainly not bad but is is...well, let's just say it helps if your Batman is purple, the sky is purple, the objects I think the fact that you encounter Penguin end of the game is a better reward than the because it's nice to see a bit of grubby By far the worst thing about Batman Returns, making trial-and-error gameplay unavoidable You know there's a platform beneath you higher and now that same fall counts as a The foundation of a good game is here, but #33 - Batman Returns Mega-CD game, though it may not seem like it at first. The graphics in the stages are almost identical a passing glance it may look like this is on the list. However, a number of things have been added For one thing, the cutscenes look far better The soundtrack has also been completely redone, to play CD-quality audio. And these aren't simple remixes; they are The biggest change is that a number of vehicle to make this version much easier to recommend These moments won't change your life, but had, making for a notable improvement. There are even very welcome options in the stages or the platforming stages, if you enjoy It's just enough of an improvement to render #32 - Batman: Return of the Joker NES game on the NES is still to come later in their follow-up to that game and so had a Unfortunately, it doesn't quite manage it. The sprites and animation are absolutely lovely its predecessor's but things fall down a Here, Batman relies on long-range weaponry of the previous game. While that in itself is not a bad thing, it gets things done. What's more, the platforming puzzles scattered here, replaced by far more simplistic layouts None of this makes Batman: Return of the Joker and ultimately less fun. #31 - Batman Returns PC adventure games were well served by the likes grew up playing such things, you'll know PC version of Batman Returns. Whereas other games based on the film had is focused entirely on finding items and solving The adventure unfolds over nine in-game days, to take their time finding clues, analyzing Careful though, take too long, and the nefarious reigns. This is an absolutely perfect genre for a do a great job of proving it. There is little to do other than click, watch a map screen until you figure out what to There combat takes place across automated you bring into battle, the game handles the For an adventure game, Batman Returns is a It's totally playable, but it's rarely Batman more often than you do. #30 - Batman: Arkham VR HTC Vive, Oculus Rift, PlayStation VR we understand. As a virtual Batman experience, Arkham VR I ruddy loved it, actually. As a game, though, and especially one with lacking any kind of replay value. The first thing that comes to mind when you combat, the satisfying, stylish, cinematic with nearly any threat. And yet in Arkham VR, there is no combat at The gameplay is less about fighting your way against you than it is warping from place you to look at. It's also extremely short, with a blind more than an hour. To be clear, that's not a speedrun; that's So even if one chooses to see Arkham VR as way of looking at it, it doesn't even feel It's not a train wreck so much as it is fun on your initial session that you wish subsequent playthroughs didn't feel so underwhelming. Arkham VR can hold its head high for the fact more of it, but that doesn't stop the game of concept, which I fear is fairly typical #29 - Batman Game Boy your nephew in a Batman costume, Batman on Our only guess as to why the Dark Knight looks to break the world's record for smallest It gets even better when he crouches, at which Head. If you can get past the game's silly appearance, It's certainly fun enough to serve as a Batman has endured far worse than this. That said, there are some issues with the in midair but also retains some degree of It's far from game-breaking, but it's unavoidable deaths as you adapt to it. On the whole though, this is an okay title actually feel much like Batman. I know that there have been many incarnations with its own quirks and characteristics, but never to do is walk down the streets of Gotham Is Batman on the Game Boy a good game? Sure. Is it a good Batman game? Not quite. #28 - Batman: Vengeance Game Boy Advance counterpart, but Batman: Vengeance for the right. It controls well, its difficulty is fairly It's not without its issues, though they The small screen of the Game Boy Advance limits very difficult to avoid obstacles and giving his glasses. And while the graphics are certainly good, with gameplay in mind. For instance, in the Joker fight toward the blocks your Batarangs. There is, however, a gap in the wall that he's standing on, but my god, is it hard The top-down puzzle stages are also not great, around to create new paths and figuring out Putting these long sequences between the side-scrolling was a pretty bad idea, not least because they adventure. #27 - Batman Mega Drive remembered as its NES counterpart, but Batman fun. It certainly looks great, and the soundtrack and not particularly challenging. Still, it makes for a fun experience, and are many worse games to play through than already talked about in this list. On the other hand though, the MegaDrive's little enemy variety and almost no thought In truth, this game doesn't feel specific no question, but it could feasibly star anybody. Even Batman's grappling hook, which should and strategizing, serves as little more than in predetermined places. A few vehicle combat stages later in the game that, this fairly entertaining game often #26 - Batman: Arkham Origins - Blackgate 3DS, PlayStation 3, Vita, Wii U, Xbox 360, In the words of nobody I've ever met, "A game? I can't wait to get my hands on that!" Batman: Arkham Origins - Blackgate, the game worked quite well. Restricting the game to a single, complex Asylum at all, and Blackgate Prison had and well-designed challenges. Instead though, the game takes a 2.5D approach it should. Despite the fact that nearly all of your time map requires navigation to the north, south, This means it's often impossible to know heading, and you'll be fiddling with the ever going away. Had the game been built specifically as a to know where they are. Sadly that's not the case, and cramming hits into a game that literally comes from somewhat undercooked. Thugs form an orderly 2D queue, politely waiting it's really quite difficult to play the joys of the other games in the series. This game might fancy itself as an Arkham #25 - Batman: Rise of Sin Tzu Game Boy Advance Boy Advance's ability to display fun, cartoony The New Batman Adventures. The animations are also wonderful, with Batman's bad guys collapsing convincingly after getting For a side-scrolling beat-'em-up, there's It's a competent experience with responsive introduction of a Spyro-like hover to allow of his jumps. There's also a nice attempt to include more suggests, with Scarecrow, Clayface, and Bane It is also, however, fairly dull, with many them to death, which almost uniformly takes Timed switch puzzles, blind jumps, and a general with the impression that this game doesn't good go of it. #24 - The Adventures of Batman &amp; Robin Mega-CD looks at first to be strictly a driving game. But you'd be wrong. Actually, I misspoke; you'd be right. However, there is one truly interesting feature significantly: a lost episode of Batman: The Or at least, that's what fans have taken for this game by one of the actual studios That show's stellar voice cast even reprises of legitimacy than most others. So admittedly, it's not an actual lost episode, to a costume party dressed as one. That's a huge plus -- and, to be honest, -- but there isn't much else the game can It controls well enough, but the stages drag you'll be avoiding. It also has the same problem Gotham City Racer stages. When it's your turn to take control, you after The Dark Knight has had too much to #23 - Batman Returns Master System is not a great title, but it comes closer It's a simple game, and the graphics are your parents are actually still around and theater - but what it does, it largely does The soundtrack is genuinely great -- easily players are given a choice of which route some respectable variety. The real highlight of a playthrough, though, hook, which feels genuinely ahead of its time. The ability to climb, swing, and strike with the strategy, and it's impressively fluid Unfortunately though, the game is mighty short Batman dies in a single hit in this game, And while the stages often allow for you to fights are absolutely frustrating when every #22 - Batman Returns Game Gear Batman Returns is better than the one on the We can just barely believe it ourselves, hence We even considered lumping this one in with to stand on its own for one reason and one HAS A HEALTH BAR!!! With that one, simple difference, Batman Returns It retains just about every positive aspect irritating one. Yes, the graphics have experienced an obvious and there's some clever hardware manipulation a snow effect. And actually, there are some visual features version, such as your attacks doing visible Honestly, if you can overlook the limitations version that got just a little more care invested #21 - Batman Beyond: Return of the Joker Game Boy Color is a surprisingly solid game that makes impressive in a beat-'em-up that allows for Z axis or Final Fight, or perhaps even some other The combat is more responsive and fun than compelling about punching robots to death There's even an impressive amount of items to achieve greatness on a few occasions too. Seriously, check out the continue-screen song. Genuinely funky stuff. It's worth pointing out that it does suffer too much is happening at once, there's an and the action is halted a bit too frequently But it's also a damn sight better than it #20 - Batman Arcade to Tim Burton's film than most other tie-ins, images taken directly from the movie. It's also impressively varied, with developer a repetitive brawler. This game breaks up the action with vehicle but at least control well and keep the experience In addition, the music absolutely SLAPS, the just a sprite to beat up; he really does act to interfere with your progress and play nasty For instance, in one stage he disappears down - and why wouldn't you? - you discover it's a death trap. You've got to love that guy's sense of #19 - The Adventures of Batman &amp; Robin Mega Drive we will discuss soon, the Mega Drive version on Batman: The Animated Series. You'd be forgiven for not realizing that, one is not nearly as faithful to the show's It is, however, still impressive and fun, It's a fluid and fast-paced beat-'em-up Combat can be as simple as punching goons more fun to take them out with flying kicks, gracefully from one attack directly into the The Arkham games were rightfully celebrated Batman to automatically snap from one enemy you to keep track of every bad guy on the The Adventures of Batman &amp; Robin is far from Batman has a generous health bar, which means few mistakes, but you can't stumble blindly The combat does become quite repetitive after of clearing out waves of baddies without taking but that's kind of part and parcel of brawlers, is definitely worth a spin. #18 - Batman Begins Game Boy Advance characters on handheld systems don't tend It's remarkable, then, that Batman Begins as well as it does. It's a short game, but an intriguingly complex moves, items, and ways of dispatching enemies. There are even some pretty great visual effects way lighting plays against Batman's sprite. We also like the neat touch that the tutorial here as the training Bruce Wayne receives That said, it kind of feels like Bruce should be the one giving the training, given that he can somehow DoubleJump It's better than direct movie tie-ins usually and an optional second run through the game Nice #17 - Batman: The Brave and the Bold - The 2010 When it comes to licensed tie-in games, there a company that consistently takes other people's made hits based on Duck Tales, Contra, Alien, Mummy. So what happens when they're given the reins the Bold? Well, they turn in a pretty darned solid game lighter spirit, and is a lot of fun to play. It's also, however, a very short game, with hours. What is here, though, has a decent amount Also, if you have both the DS and the Wii character, which we think gives both games Rocksteady, when can we expect Bat-Mite VR? #16 - Batman Begins GameCube, PlayStation 2, Xbox to the film of the same name, but perhaps linear stages and limiting Batman's use Batarang to a small number of predetermined The game feels afraid to chart its own territory, little more than running through a strict Having said that, Batman Begins does a number For starters, it brings nearly all of the lines for the game, with Michael Caine's source of information for Batman. What's more, the game looks excellent for who played them and Christopher Nolan's providing players with enough light see what Most interesting, though, is how well the games. Here Batman is a stealthy presence that attacks enemies panic, he interrogates thugs for more information and he plays minigames Arkham games would build upon and refine, to... aha... BEGIN them a full four years earlier. #15 - Batman: Arkham Origins PlayStation 3, Wii U, Xbox 360, PC of the main Arkham games, and that's understandable. Rocksteady wasn't involved in the development, admittedly good--voice actors, and the entire other games, as it takes place in the distant we saw in Asylum and City. But, to be fair, while it's certainly as than its reputation suggests. Arkham Origins is often seen as "more of truth to that. But its unique ideas work quite well, from allowing Batman to visit crime scenes and side-story in which Black Mask places a bounty deadly bounty hunters. Arkham Origins' biggest crime, though? Relegating Mr. Freeze - an absolutely perfect - to optional downloadable content. #14 - Batman Returns SNES licensed brawlers with classics such as Teenage under their belt, Batman Returns on the SNES It's a crunchy, tactile experience with every bit as powerful as they should. It's a relatively mindless game, but we All of the focus is on the experience of exchanging and that's exactly as it should be. Even the digitized images from the film look such as smashing enemies through windows and Batman Returns does nothing to advance Konami's of it, providing a compelling, addictive experience In fact, it's hard to believe they did even we'll get there shortly. #13 - Batman: The Brave and the Bold - The 2010 Similar but not identical to the DS game of a whole different set of levels and a largely the cartoon's voice cast into the studio like the series as possible. The developers even used the show's animation stayed on model and would look true to the Like the DS version, the game shares the show's such as Aquaman, Plastic Man, and Blue Beetle, cuts in Batman's rogues gallery. Did you want to fight Clock King? Of course you wanted to fight Clock King; Everything about the style and presentation material, which itself was pretty great and for two-player action, unlike the DS version. The combat absolutely does get repetitive for that to be a serious drawback, and fans hands. #12 - Lego Batman: The Videogame DS, PlayStation 2, PlayStation 3, PlayStation Well before 2014's The Lego Movie gave Lego gave us a Lego-styled comedic Batman experience And, like just about all of the licensed Lego Traveller's Tales had already worked with Jones before this, but for Batman they pulled Lego Batman: The Videogame was by a wide margin the most content, and following for the first Now, this was the old era of Lego games where always thought those little toys are expressive any problem. Perhaps the smartest thing the game did is How on Earth it took until 2008 for a game in playing as Gotham's many bad guys is detective can solve. Especially when his head is hollow and made #11 - Batman Returns NES as you've certainly noticed by now, but It doesn't quite reach the heights of Batman's The game plays a lot like 1990's Teenage right down to the fact that jump-kicking is probably because both games were made by Konami. Basically, if you enjoyed that game, you're And there's a lot to enjoy here, chiefly There's also a respectable variety of enemies, fight effectively. Batman has a large health bar and can collect unskilled players to make it through the first through to the end will need to learn the many of these games would have been a chore, #10 - Batman: Arkham Knight PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC were high for Arkham Knight, which would close It might have been unfair to pin such high had proven that if anyone could bring the Unfortunately, they didn't. Arkham Knight is a fine game, don't get of the perfection it almost necessitated. It lacks the focus of Arkham Asylum, but doesn't It gives us a large open world like Arkham interesting. Granted, the empty streets factor into the the adventure feel meaningful when there's The biggest disappointment though, was of something that should have led to exciting little more than a slog. Gotham has been resigned to allow for it, too much clutter in them to make driving much Now this might all sound rather negative for the list, but I should clarify that these it doesn't rank as highly as City and Asylum. Critique aside, the takehome point has got in the Arkham series is still an achievement, regardless. #9 - Lego Batman 3: Beyond Gotham 3DS, PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, Vita, Wii With more than 150 playable characters to of the Lego Batman games, but it isn't necessarily The good news is that the simple fun of brawling familiar locations is as satisfying as ever, enough not to wear out its welcome. The bad news is that the few new things Lego forward from its excellent predecessor. Lego Batman 2's open world has been replaced exploration feel less natural and more like It also widens its scope beyond DC Comics from the game more than they add to it, such Daffy Duck. It's far from a bad game though, as its One thing we absolutely must give Lego Batman West - the Batman of the 1960s television this the only video game in which he got to #8 - Batman: Vengeance GameCube, PlayStation 2, Xbox, PC the look of The New Batman adventures, a successor This list proves that the translation of 2D well, but in this case we'd call it a huge In fact, the game's visuals largely hold it reunited the Animated Series voice cast to it! The game has a surprisingly good story, with his death, though our hero doesn't quite He tangles with Mr. Freeze, Poison Ivy, and stealth, gadgets, and a huge amount of style It's not a perfect experience, with enemies first punch and a poorly implemented first-person The highlight is the Batwing stage, which a dream. It's actually remarkable how great that anywhere else. Developer Ubisoft clearly knew that Batman's they look. #7 - Batman Arcade Batman arcade game somewhere, the chances are you didn't just play it once and move along, especially if you found the version That's both because the game is extremely you likely wouldn't have seen much of it Arcade games are famously designed to suck for this game's steep difficulty, but this fun. Imagine that. The game focuses entirely around vehicular a number of Batman's various incarnations And, remarkably, it actually makes using the You'd probably think the Batmobile would seriously, who doesn't want to drive that every game on this list that has attempted In some games it's the focus, in some games but in all cases, it's never been the imaginary car we used to drive around in our playground Perhaps no video game will ever replicate of Batman 2013 is addictive, exciting, and as we'd ever need it to be #6 - Lego Batman 2: DC Super Heroes 3DS, DS, PlayStation 3, Vita, Wii, Wii U, Lego Batman 2 gave us exactly what we wanted This sequel to the first Lego Batman game including many from other DC properties such and, of course, Superman. As with their first Batman outing, Traveller's to introduce some new features to the various explorable open world making their very welcome The story makes great use of the DC-wide crossovers and Lex Luthor vying for the coveted Man of lead to more exciting setpieces, the low stakes well for what is still one of the most charming Compared to the first game, there are more play as, and new gadgets to experiment with. If you like a dash of silliness in your superheroes game is not be overlooked. #5 - Batman: Arkham City PlayStation 3, Wii U, Xbox 360, PC Asylum, a sequel to that self-contained game And though Arkham City is frequently voted feel it doesn't quite reach the heights Here, Gotham City has walled off a disused letting them wipe each other out. It's cruel and inhumane, but with Gotham's they'd probably want to try that at least Of course, Batman isn't too keen on the of Arkham City and make it out alive. This game broadens the scope of Arkham Asylum, a much vaster environment to explore. It also, however, loses a bit of that game's will find themselves partway through a multitude not quite sure which one to follow up on. It's perhaps a harsh criticism. Most players thought the expansion of scope We totally get that argument, but reckon that in the end. However, nobody can disagree that if you are fighting crime as you find it, seeking out one thug at a time, you will find yourself #4 - Batman: The Telltale Series PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, Xbox 360, Xbox Batmanis a franchise that benefits from strong games reduce him to a platforming bruiser, Exploring the nature of the broken man hiding more rewarding. It is, after all, what makes him such a compelling outings. Batman: The Telltale Series is arguably more the superhero and it's a great one because of that. There has always been a grey morality behind He develops a themed persona... to take down He stalks in the shadows... to stop those He defies the law... to make Gotham City safe There's an intriguing ethical balance behind by a lifetime of being necessarily unable Batman: The Telltale Series allows you to decide how Bruce Wayne - the actual human he's still creating - would respond to Both lashing out and bottling it up have consequences, hero who may succeed, but who cannot win. #3 - The Adventures of Batman &amp; Robin SNES on-screen adventures, but perhaps the one Batman: The Animated Series. The show ran from 1992 to 1995, during which continues to this day. For its final 15 episodes the name was changed the title of this game, which is actually The Animated Series may overlook this classic, way to dip back into that universe. The graphics, for the time, are absolutely They really capture the character designs fidelity for a 16-bit title, and still manage The game is even structured like the cartoon, tying directly into the events of actual episodes. Admittedly, the controls do feel a bit stiff animation completely incongruous with his take more than a few minutes to get used to and creativity of the game. Players can choose from an impressive assortment a surprising number of ways to take down thugs, crammed a respectable number of Batman's The only real drawback is one that can't cartoon, but without technology that allowed like it. #2 - Batman: The Video Game NES didn't I? Seems a long time ago that I said that now. This is probably the first Batman game most and it's still one of the best. The relatively limited hardware of the NES being one of Batman's most fun, most interesting, The atmosphere is appropriately moody, the gameplay is tight and challenging. Even the animation is great, with Batman's moving. Crucially, controlling Batman is more fun every game that came later, with his wall-jump challenging to master. Initially it just seems like a fun little the timing, you'll be finding shortcuts easily. What could have been a lazy licensed adaptation system, and it still stands out as a highlight It is really quite difficult at first, but when you truly get to grips with the game's After all, Batman never said his job was easy. #1 - Batman: Arkham Asylum With Arkham Asylum, developer Rocksteady seemed to achieve a kind of alchemy, doing perfect Every aspect of Arkham Asylum - both the There is no wasted space, and yet it never It's packed full of many of Batman's most less-famous ones either make an explicit appearance detail. It's an incredible celebration of the many brought together into his most cohesive and The environmental design is so remarkably everywhere. This is also the introduction to the free-flowing addictive, rewarding players for maintaining also allowing less-skilled players to beat on simple prompts. Arkham Asylum tells just about the most straightforward a trap, and he needs to use his wits and reflexes Despite the simplicity of its premise though, in Batman's history. It's a claustrophobic nightmare in which we triumph over those odds with him. The Arkham series got bigger after this, but Holy massive list, Batman! That's every Batman game ranked worst to Which ones did we get wrong? All of them, obviously; we know how this works. So let us know your own favorites and least Also, if you have suggestions for other "Every to sound off below. You can follow myself and TripleJump on Twitter you enjoy then check out the rewards on our Finally, don't forget to like the video, the channel. I've been Peter from TripleJump, and thanks