How long since you parked the car in your garage? personally. No. He flew in from Milwaukee to to meet you. After a little meet and greet, they hadn't been on the street since the mid 1970's. in a house fire 10 years ago. That old white up in the garage. Even neighbors had scarcely seen it. but how much of this old race car was left and to put this mess together requires a historian, and somebody in the hobby who really knows Boss tell you? Tells me it's a '69 Boss 429. It's got top. Most of them are usually like that, recessed, 429s. These are the original '69 fenders, and they tell by the way they are rolled. And then they make it look like a '70. Lots of room to work on Yeah, easier to get to the spark plugs, too. It in it. It's got a Cobra Jet 429 in it, and I raced long time. Correct '69 Boss 429 radiator. Original a - yeah - block off plate? Yeah. Looks like the the other side. Oh yeah, that's a nice piece to that's what I asked him on the phone. We were door yet. It has the tag on the door, but not white they took the tag off and you can see they what do you see there? I see, looks like a pretty hot. Yeah. That closes good. See it burnt the the side got a little bit warm here and it peeled Candyapple Red underneath. I don't, I don't think though. It hasn't warped anything. It just uh, it thing here. I don't - it peeled the paint down to good. Now what about that roll bar? What's that? is in the Platt cars, in the Ford Drag Team cars. Gary Schwartz's Super Stock car. The East Coast West Coast Ford Drag Team cars were white with still a Hemi design, but not a Boss 9, not close Stock, which the 1970 NHRA Drag Rules book called cars of Ford's Drag Team were different from this for one, but the main issue? Was this a Ford processing. The metal is really, really nice. This was the Holman-Moody paint scheme they put on. So, white with blue stripes, not a Cammer engine. uh, racing jacket. Oh, yeah. Cool. What about this it's a fuel pressure gauge I put in there. Oh, you Bob? Here hit that again. Okay. California rust typical of Holman-Moody. Traction bars there. we worked on. And Bob should know. He owns and of which you just saw. All these West Coast Ford were done by Holman-Moody Stroppe out in Long the car would have been more - oh yeah, it looks great car. Was it about 2014 you had the fire? smog. Yeah. So, starting to make some sense. This is so why change from a '69 look to a '70 look? 1970 Winternationals. Even the side stripes were Boss 302 of 1970. Now, the 1969 Ford Drag Team Regular production Boss 429's did not come with it. Well, I saw an ad in the newspaper. It was a almost daily. I had no idea it was Foulger Ford's same paint. the same stripes that's on it today. racing it. Who is that guy there? The driver. Pat Lois Eminger invoice - also sourced from Kevin to Ford Motor Company Administration Services. over in the Ford Division Garage. Yeah, Ford had Marti Report, and then here's some other pictures that Ford's Drag Team? I, I was taking a shower and the fire and it got up under the eaves and into the this whole area from where those shelves are, wall there is where I had that declaration from Ford. from Ford Motor Company. Whoa, hang on a second, directive to Holman and Moody and it said prepare lot of sense. Just need to find a copy of that contract for Ford Motor Company. Now, this car ruined. They're gone. What do you look for underlayment out. I figured they did. They being drag racing. Look at that? Isn't that nice? He and look what he comes up with. Winternationals, there. Where was this? That was laying on the but 11.48 at uh. Let me get it in the light. This is somebody... Yeah, this is uh, this car was 1970. By Holman-Moody, and it doesn't have a with this car. Is that your old race helmet? Yeah, that's the old style with the visor on it. Over hot? Yeah, from the fire. And a paper time slip broke out ini the garage, I didn't have a hood inside the engine. This is a lighter hood that up here in the back of the garage. This guy with the for the noise. I tried to get them to hold their or? It was during the fire. I had some stuff in all the stuff came down on top of the car. What an aluminum intake manifold. That's what fell on the day when the Ford Drag Team was going strong. anything? There and at Orange County, uh, I cars were all painted like this, white with the they painted it half white and half blue? Yeah, Hey look at those Jerry. Nitrous? He has 2 tanks See the label in there? Lancaster Ford, Lancaster, department. Anything that you took off the car sway bars or anything? No. Nothing like that. a dual quad set-up. Are you interested in for the right price, yeah. Yeah. Gonna take a picture of bracket. That's pretty - that's really cool. Back California. Foulger Ford. Looks like a 780. A the bowls and stuff. Use the center off an old a Mallory. That's in nice shape. That looks almost all 1960's stuff. Sixties? Yeah. Why did you get your car? I just accumulated stuff through the do. Yeah, anytime somebody had something for sale, you need it. You know. You're a racer, you can't filters he had from back in the day. Probably line there for an Autolite. That's a hard filter when did you start collecting them? Parts? About rust. These are just - in great shape - super rust, even on the end of it. 427 Galaxie? You Jerry, you're gonna know these numbers. You've here are the adjusters for the passenger 428 rods? I think so. So, the way this deal went buy the car. Steve Anderson. Are you having I'm having fun. Sorry for all the noise. It will a car that I've wanted since I was 15-16 years you need me? Can you crank the wheel for the ride MCA 60th Anniversary of the Mustang. Barber will win Gold in the trailered concourse class. it to the right... You got power steering? to take home another Boss 429. If you're gonna but to know that we're gonna do something with the going to do what Bob does. I tell you what, it's Jordan. I work for Steven. President of Anderson hurricane, a tornado, we come in with crews. We service and cleanup. This is my brother-in-law When I told him you were coming down here he said lift up a block? That's probably my limit right 4-speed Top Loader. They are VIN-numbered to the he's gonna wrestle another block. I been doing blocks. You would have heard a hernia pop out anybody pick up a block? Yeah, I used to - believe days. I could pick up a bare block and carry it. Original on the Mustang. Now, what is this block? one is dated 1967. Now, what have we got here? A car has been out of the garage? Like '76. Wow. where is the plug in to try to air up the shocks? some meats on the back. So, when you would launch, In fact, the first time I launched it with nitrous was afraid it would flip over. Under fluorescent you're kidding me. Oh, it was beautiful. You I'm gonna be 80 in 7 months, the Lord willing. I is done it's a 4,000-mile rust-free car. They've when it was raced, it was raced in pure stock, so Dale really pushed the limit of those wheel wells but they converted it to a '70 so they could the marker lights on the fenders and the panel in there. It's the same blue as the rest he's like a history book. Is it hard to get rd years. I've had it since '74. Do you mind saying I bet it was under $5,000. Who could say? Yeah. too. The door panel looks pretty good. Yeah. Of course, that steering wheel is not close to Autometer, on the Hubert Platt Ford Drag Team keys. He wasn't sure where they were at. I've got pressure and oil pressure. Looking the same on the not a Holman-Moody installation. Ford Drag Team almost no wear, just like a 4,000-mile car should insert, as seen on this '69 Mustang with disc for drums to save weight. Take a look at the brake drums to save weight. I'm glad you found that the provenance of the car. We got the original Team, Mr. Foulger was one of the key individuals exactly the same as the West Coast Drag Team cars Fairlane, you know Dave Steine's cars. So, this though it wasn't, you know, promoted that way. It cars. And they had several cars. The hood wasn't The fireman lifted it up, it was probably hot and just peels right off there. That's the original are your plans for the car? The plan is to do what is to wash it. We're going to pressure wash it. give me a really good idea of what we're looking the damage. And then after that, it's going go East to Bob Perkins' place. Those of you car with a heavy degreaser and a Scotchbrite pad We have a high volume, low pressure car wash what this is going to do today. We don't know if water alone is not going to do what we need to do. we want to initially just get it wet and just see the goal today is really to just get It does nothing. Oh, pretty good at removing the start of the process. Simple pressure washing dust laying on top of the car, but that's where hopefully we'll get to see what this color really is we're going to apply the degreaser. We're going degreaser sit on the car for a little bit. Again, any worse. So, again the goal here is to clean And that blue stripe? Holman-Moody hand-painted pearl. Is this is the book you're missing? Published well I got this one for you. Okay, yeah there is the Glory days, Southern California, 1970, Irwindale Raceway. Platt car there. So, I live up in Bakersfield, Haven't gone up that far? No. They used to run at has been torn down for years. Oh, no what a shame. It's still a big improvement, and again it's car after so many years. Alright, let's start with Bob restored for us, uh, you know, is a show car. It's a concours well let me ask you a question. Sure. What do you say car? Uh ha, what do I say to them? I say I would one you know oil drip or anything on that. I mean that we have, it's just amazing. So, this will be exciting. So, that's a story for another day, how exciting part is to be able to actually sit behind I think that will help - help the process. contaminants off the car. Our goal is to salvage want to cause any damage to anything that we're it makes that sound. That's not a good sound. And there will be a lot more to come as get under the suspension. I know that there's a on the car. Again, as it was prepped in '69 but better than it was. I got to go get more I might have the right chair for you. I can't do choir man. You're preaching to the choir. I think panel to really do a better job on it and try to This body, while it may not look like it, what's where additional holes were drilled in the body. Most drag racers would get in and cut the fenders. the body line and try to - you know roll the rear. We're not finding that. We're just using not been tampered with like that. So, again it's body work will be very straightforward and we're it's making a difference. It's not taking and that is getting the heavy contaminants off give it a wash. We'll just get the big stuff off car only has 4,081 original miles. So, for a Boss be a great, great piece of history to restore and whole process and steps along the way. The fender know, it's still a big improvement, and again, you car after so many years. You know, it's going to that's okay. So, we're only filming sections of and we don't want the product to dry out on us. come up with. So, we're just going to be doing improvements and to clean the car up. It is a lot of contaminants off the car. So, the longer leave the final cleaning up to the media blast We're going to film it. We're going to have a and after footage of the car. So, hope you enjoy and making it look new are going to be slim and and the progress. It may not look clean, but I hope we're accomplishing hopefully what Jerry wants. be there before the car is disturbed. I think too, before we, before we try scrubbing And I want to see the nitty gritty details. a sound you don't normally hear when you some dirty vehicles in my time, but never My family owns a handful and I started out as a laborer cleaning Yeah, it's gonna look so much better. Alright, We are filming washing my car. Isn't that 50 years. Really? Yeah. Crazy huh, not we're going to film the whole That's the sound of a chrome bumper. That's the you Mr. Producer. This might be the one of what the original paint color looks like metallic that goes in the blue. Ready for me that's the rock star coming into - that license plate area unrestored