In this lecture, I'm going to show you how lookup problems. The thing with INDEX and MATCH is that it's And you are going to come across situations where VLOOKUP just wasn't working. It couldn't do the lookup that you wanted, That's exactly when index and match can come It was difficult for me to start using index Just like a habit, I had to force myself at of it. Now, what I'm going in this lecture is first, terms. And then I'm going to show you how match works. And then we're going to put these together. So, the example I have is list of divisions, The aim of our formula is that we want someone Wash and we want to get the division first. So you can see that the order of these, apps Would VLOOKUP work? The classical VLOOKUP is not going to work, Because you will need to have apps on this That's why index and match is great for this. Let me show you what index does on its own, The first argument in index is the array argument. Think of it like this: INDEX is like a GPS. on there. Your map is your array. Okay, so if i highlight this, that's my map. And what map do you give it? Well, the only map it needs is the map that It doesn't matter what your lookup problem looking for an app and it's called Misty Wash, I only need to include in the map where my If my answer was also going to be here or But in this case, I know that I wanted division. And the division is somewhere here. Okay, the next argument is basically how many columns do you need to move across? Think of it like the longitude and latitude And these arguments are numbers that you give If I say move down two rows. I close the bracket, because the last argument, it's optional; it's not necessary. And in this case anyway, I just have one column, Okay, I get Game. Why? Well, I indexed what? This area, right? And it counts like this: This is a one, this If it returns the second place, and that's division. Well, what happens now if I put one in there It's still Game. It's one column, right? If I put a zero, what happens? It's still Game. Excel realizes that it's one column. But what happens if I put a two here? Reference. I'm moving outside my map. Okay, if I was going to do that, if I really here, all I have to do is extend my Instead of A6 to A15, I'm going to look until That's all there is with index. Now, the part that we want to automate ... Now, ones as the numbers here. The part that we want to automate is the two. It's this row number argument. This is where you need a function that is Which functions return numbers? Let's think of a few. You have the COUNT function, right? You have COUNTA. You have the have the row, you have the column functions. Sometimes you could use these as arguments the function that works in harmony with INDEX, that you're going to need, is the MATCH function. Let's just write here... and see what match does on its own. Match needs a lookup value. What is looking for? In this case, we're looking for Misty Wash. And it needs to lookup array. Where should it find this? In this case, it's here. One thing you need to watch out with the match You cannot give it something like this, because or should it look this way? It has to be a one-way street. Let's go back. That's where it should find it. And then the last argument is the match type. Do you want an exact match, less than, or In most case, you're going to need an exact That's like the false argument in VLOOKUP. If your data was sorted and you were looking to need less than or greater than. But, majority of the cases, it's going to What am I going to get? Nine. What does that mean? That means that Misty Wash is the ninth position in here. Is is the ninth position? Yes, it is, right? That's exactly the argument that we're going Let's type this now, the full formula. First, what comes in the index argument? Where we think the answer is, right? The map that contains the answer. And that's that. What is our row argument? Well, we're going to use match to figure it And we're going to match this one. Where? In here, and we're going to look for an exact Bracket close two times. Now, the only important thing here is that for both my index and the match functions, And this gives me Utility. Because if they're not, I'm going to be returning Now we're going to do the same thing for profit. We're going to index. What should I index right now? This column, right? That's all I need. And how many rows should I move down? I'm going to use the match function. What am I looking up? I'm looking up Misty Wash. Where am I looking it up? Well, only in here. Okay, arrays have the same height. And I'm looking for an exact match. Bracket, close, close. And that's my number. That's a simple INDEX and MATCH, but what if I wanted Let's do something. Let's add a validation to this. I'm going to put data validation, list, Here what I want to do is to be able to switch should obviously change. How do I do that? That's when I need to use the column argument, But, is that the only thing I need to add, map in my index? I have to update my map, right? Because my map now should also include the somewhere here, could be somewhere here, depending dropdown. First thing is to update the map. The second thing is what about the row argument? Is that okay? It's fine, right? Because I know I should move down this many And then the next question I need to answer Well, what does that depend on? It depends on what the user has selected. I'm going to match again, because I need a I'm going to match again for this, that's Where am I looking this up? In here. And you see this range, the width of my lookup I have to be in sync. And then I'm going to get a perfect match, I think that's it. And click enter. Now, what happens? I go for revenue, I get revenue. I change this to, let's go to Hackrr. Hackrr is a game. It has this much revenue. And how much profit? This much profit. That's how you can use index and match for What I suggest you do is that the next time you even if VLOOKUP will work there. Try to use index and match, because that's And the more practice you get, what happens complex lookup, let's say your colleague is and they ask you, &quot;Do you know how to solve And you're going to be like, &quot;Yes. I'm going to use index and match here.&quot; In the next example, I'm going to show you because in real life, you don't have your You might have it set up like this where you And we're going to see in the next lecture I hope you enjoyed this lecture and don't I put out more videos that are like this one.