(lively music) (quiet music) - [Narrator] You know, that, on the frontier, men are men, but I'll bet you'd never guess that women are women out here, too. Ever hear of Calamity El Star, Crazy Horse Lil? (chuckles) The weaker sex. Why, those little old gals could hold their own against a whole crowd of men. How do I know? Quite a story about that. Started in a little a few years back. - Did you make the deposit? - Yeah. (gun clicks) - What's going on? - That the right time, Danny? - Yep, if I know Chillawaka Charlie, he'll be poking his - No. One steadies the nerves, two - How you betting on the shooting? Any odds? - Two to one on Bill. - I just come in to say goodbye, Woody. I'm leaving. - Can't let Silver Creek's only doctor leave town without buying him a drink. - Thanks very much. - So you're really leaving us, eh, Bob? - [Bob] Mm hmm. - Well, I can't say that I blame you. If business keeps on I'll be pulling out myself. Too bad you didn't get to Silver Creek a couple of years ago when - Oh, no, no thanks, Woody, Besides, I studied internal medicine. The only internal disease is lead poisoning. I'm kinda sick of probing for bullets. - If you don't leave town in a hurry, you may get one more lead poisoning case. - Who? - Peyote Bill and Chillawaka Charlie. I don't know which. They're gonna shoot it out any minute now. - What are they fighting about? - Oh, something about a horse. You know these gunslingers. Bill thinks he's fast, so there's only one way to find out. - Seems kinda silly to me. - Yeah, I guess it does. - Hey, Doc, if you're Stage is ready to pull out. - Be right with you. Well, guess I better be going. So long, Woody. - Good luck, Doc. - Sorry, nobody's leaving for a while. (dramatic music) - That's too bad. (tense music) Hiya, Bill. - Well, Chillawaka Charlie. - Somebody told me you - Now who could've said a thing like that. - Then you're not going? - Uh uh. (tense music) - When the clock strikes 12. - It's all right with me. On the last stroke. (clock ticks) Might as well finish this. (clock chimes) No use wasting good liquor. (clock chimes) - Wanna lay off it, Bill, people say it shortens your (speaker (gun bangs) - [Danny] Say, Bill, say, Look at this belt. - Oh, he had a swivel holster. Didn't have to draw it at all. Just shot through the bottom of it. That makes me feel a whole lot better. You know, I knew that this gun-toting was bound to go scientific. This proves it. You not only gotta practice it, you gotta keep studying all the time. You know, just like medicine, eh, Doc? - I'm not as hot as you, Bill. - I see what you mean. - Here's your patient, Doc. Better use my office. (dramatic music) - Got another one here for ya, Doc. A girl. She was hit by a piece of glass. - It's nothing, it's just a scratch. - You might as well come along, too. I gotta wait for the next stage, anyway. (quiet music) There, now that oughta do it til the next time you - Just one thing, Doc. This isn't gonna slow me down, - I don't think so. Nicked the bone a little but, if you give it time, it'll heal. - Well, it better. He had me worried for a minute. - Thanks a lot for patching Sorry about you missing the stage. - $50? - That's all right, he works for me. I'll take it out of his pay. - See you around. - [Bob] Not in Silver Creek. - Five get you six. (Bob chuckles) - Oh, I'm sorry, I guess you're next. - This really isn't anything. - You never can tell. No use taking a chance on infection. Unbutton your shirt. (gentle music) Do you happen to have a name? - What? Oh, Miss Larabee. - I'm Bob Ridgeway, MD. - Is that right, what he - [Bob] Not only town, I'm I'm going back home to Kansas City. - But why, we need doctors here. - Doctors need practices. You don't find them in a ghost town. - Well, I know a town Las Mujeres - Las Mujeres That's Spanish for &quot;the women,&quot; isn't it? That's a funny name for a town. Well, you'll get a doctor somewhere. - Oh, but you don't understand. It's Sourdough Smitty, he's the bartender at the Paradise Saloon. He's very sick. We think he has pneumonia. - How long? - Three days. - Well, if he's got pneumonia, he'd either be dead or past the crisis by the time I'd get there, so, either way, he wouldn't need me. - Well, you wouldn't let a man- - Goodbye, Miss Larabee. I have to make arrangements (soft music) - Yeah, I know we gotta but you don't wanna locate - Oh, there you are, Peyote. You're the luckiest man in the world. I never thought I'd leave Silver Creek without having you in Today, you almost made it. - Yeah, I know, but it He drawed on me first. - Yes, I know, that's but it seems that whenever a gun goes off, you're not very far away. - I heard you're leaving Is that true? - This is the last session of the circuit court in Silver Creek. I recommended a town to be the new seat. Just waiting for approval from Washington. - Guess everybody will be I'm leaving myself. - Where you going to locate? - Haven't decided. - Well, good luck to you, Woody. So long, Bill. - Good man, the judge. Maybe a little too good. - You say not Las Mujeres. Why? - I rode through there once. Nothing but women, they run - Doesn't sound so bad. - No, you should see. A man rides in there for a good time, and female cardsharps and gamblers take him for every dollar he's got. Anybody wearing trousers don't stand a chance in Las Mujeres. A lady gambler runs the whole shebang. She's tougher than any You can draw on a man, or use your fists, but how do you fight a woman? - What's this harpy's name? - Oh, she ain't no harpy. Her name's McLeod, Iron Mae McLeod. - Mae McLeod. - You know her? - No. But I have a feeling I'd like to. (dramatic music) - [Bandit] All right, everybody out, one at a time, and keep your hands high. Just do exactly what you're Doc Ridgeway, over here. Throw down the doc's bags. The rest of you, get back in the coach. All right, get it out of here! - Yah, get! (dramatic music) - [Bob] You must want a doctor (soft music) - Get the other horse, Curly. (soft music) - Are we going somewhere? - Las Mujeres. - But I told you, I'm not interested. - Well, we are, and you better be. - If your town's such an how come you've gotta kidnap one? - Well, let's just say I like the way you took care of Peyote Bill. - Oh, you can tell by the that I can cure a case of pneumonia? You're better than the - All set. - Get his bags. All right, get on. (gentle music) If you promise not to try anything, we won't tie your hands. - Sure, I guess Kansas City - All right, let's go. (dramatic music) (lively music) - What you need is a new - Iron Mae will want to see you. (lively music) - They say that everyone It was written that way Well, Cupid's little dart Landed in my heart There's something I should say And I can't wait Crazy over you C-C-Crazy over you My heart skips a beat Every time that we meet I stammer, I stutter and then I repeat That I'm crazy over you Crazy over you You've baited your hook With a come hither look - She's beautiful. Who is she? - My sister Ellen. Crazy as a daisy 'Cause I'm crazy over you - Everybody sing! Crazy over you C-C-Crazy over you My heart skips a beat - That's Iron Mae, my boss. I stutter, I'm out on my feet 'Cause I'm crazy over you - D-D-Daffy over you We played the game And the stakes were high And I had to pay with my heart Willy-nilly, I'm so silly 'Cause I'm crazy over you (patrons clap) - All right, boys, the Get your picks and shovels, girls. The gold rush is on. (soft music) - Mae- I suppose. - I'm afraid you've got- - Now, you work from 11 am to four am. You have one day a week off. You're supposed- I brought him from Silver Creek. - You're a little late, Doc. We just buried your patient. - That's what I tried to tell - Mae, I wanted. Well, who's this? - The doctor, you're sister - I hope you told him we can - That's what I asked him to come for. - Yeah, at the point of a gun. - It's all right with me, Rosie, clear out the storehouse nextdoor. Fix it up for the doc's office. You go with Curly. He'll find you quarters. - Mind if I stick around, - If you want to, but don't see too much. - There's a man on the - Yeah? - He's got four girls with him. - Come on, Ellen. - I'm now holding in my ever conferred on mankind. The greatest elixir ever formulated for the assuaging of all human ills. Black Foot Balm, ladies and gentlemen! The old Indian anidine. Its origin is lost in antiquity, but its magic formula, handed down from squaw's son to squaw's son by the sorcerers of the The secret of this remarkable substance was passed on to me by one who passed on. That noble redskin nostrum Spelled backwards, that's wampum. It cures everything, gout, cattle bloat, danders, shingles, pink eye, saddle sores, or what have you. - [Mae] You see, I learned out here in the West, a A man can give her any kind of a job, pay her whatever he feels like, and then tell her she's lucky to get it. - You know, that's right. - I made up my mind, the only was to climb in the driver's seat, beat the men at their own game, be even smarter and - You know, it may be but it stops at Las Mujeres city limits. - What a set up. You know, I've dreamed but I never thought I'd see one. - Sounds too good to be true. - Maybe it does, but it works. We've made this town the where a girl can get a decent break. - And the men work for us, and we give them what - [Woman] Will they work that cheap? (women laugh) - Well, you girls know If you don't think you can live up to it, now's the time to say so. - Sounds good to me. It'd be fun ordering a - What about poor Uncle Barney? - Oh gosh, I forgot about him. - Well, maybe Mae could - What can he do? - [Woman In Pink Chair] He's pretty good at mixing medicines. - And now I'll tell you what I'm gonna do. I'm gonna give you a slight idea of what's in store at my big show tonight. I have with me four of to be found on the The most personality-laden, that ever was born- - Them, well right there. Where in the? Excuse me a minute, folks. Girls! Girls! Well- - Say, you looking for your girls? - That's right. - Well, you're not gonna They just got a new job and with pay. - Well, they can't do that! Why, they're my whole show. Without them, I'm no good, I- - Mae thought of that. She needs a bartender, - What does it pay? Bartender? Never! A man of my professional standing? I'm an apothecary of the old school, a contriver of perfect panaceas! Well, we'll get that (dramatic, comical music) Fine place for a scientist Hmm, tending bar! If the boys at the pharmaceutical college could see me now. - Two straight whiskys, Barney. - Okay. Tending bar of all things Say, Doc. Hey, Doc! I just figured out an can get rich together, make a stake, and get out of this black widow's nest. - You have, how? - Look, your patients are You prescribe for them, right? - Well, you might put it that way. - Well, there just isn't any medicine better for anything - Hey, what's in this stuff? - Well, there's a little... Please, Doc, do you expect me to divulge the secret of the ancients, revealed to me by a tribal sorcerer? Now, here's the deal, you tell them they need Black Foot Balm. I sell it to them, and we Now, how's that for a deal, huh, Doc? - You think it's ethical? - Ethical? Why, certainly. - [Woman] I thought Mae warned you to keep that poison out of here! - Well, I- trying to sell that junk instead of ours, I'll (speaker trails off). - Hi, Dora. Where's Mae? - In her office. I'm supposed to tell you, - Where? - Upstairs, first door. - All right, I'll get my bag. - Hey, Doc, this might be a good chance to use some of this stuff. - Are you crazy? On my first patient? Uh uh! - Well how do you like that? - Frank Slater, what - Just thought I'd drift in, - You mean about throwing in with you? I told you if I made up (soft music) - Funny, you look like a woman, But you never act like one. - I will, when the right time comes. - When will that be? - When I've made enough money to retire. - You can retire soon, We'll split it. - I'm doing all right by myself, Frank. Just look at that total for last month. It's all solid, away in the bank. - Sure, you've got a good business. How long do you think There's a lot of rough They might decide to move in. - What boys? - Johnny Ringo, Sam Bass, Wes Harden, or- - Or Frank Slater? - All right, let's look at this, Frank. So you use my information to knock off a payroll or a gold shipment. - I get half? - If you don't get my information, eventually, it all ends up No, Frank, it would cost me too much to do business with you. - You're making a big mistake. - That's enough! - All right, Mae, but you'll be sorry. - Get out! - All right, Mae. (quiet music) - Oh, here's your patient, doctor. (Ellen coughs) - Oh, your Beth's sister. - That's right. - How do you feel? - What? Oh, you mean what's the matter with me? - Pulse seems normal. - But I seem to get this pain right here, and this cough. (coughs) - Seems to have developed rather suddenly. - Oh, it did. - Yeah, since I got Would you mind sitting up? - Of course not. - Take a deep breath. (Ellen sighs) Again. (Ellen sighs) There's nothing wrong with you. - Oh, but what about my headache? Oh, and this knot right here? - Where? - Right here. Oh, that's it, that feels better already. - I'm sorry, I didn't mean to interfere. - Oh, that's all right. The doctor was just checking on my health. I'm not well. (coughs) - I don't think you have - No? - No, there may be a slight congestion. - There is in this room. - I'll give you some cough medicine, and I suggest you wear some - Why? - To guard against exposure. - You will be back? I might have a relapse. - If you have a relapse, I'll be back. (quiet, tense music) - That was a dirty trick. - Well, you said you to take care of people, didn't you? - Yes, but- Did you want him to let me die? - We won't go into that. - Maybe you just wanted him for yourself. - That's silly. - Is it? You've been my little sister, and I've fought all your battles for you, but this is different, you're on your own. Every girl for herself. - That's fine. - [Ellen] I will give you one tip, though. You'll never get anywhere (dramatic music) - That's the fifth job this week. Two of our best boys dead, and we haven't even got - I just can't understand it. - I thought you said that - Well, that's what - Who said? - Girls at the Paradise. Girls, eh? No wonder, Mae's smart. She told the girls to give - What would she do that for? - So when the money goes through, she could grab it for herself (hooves clomp) - You were right, Frank. The bank is closing in Silver Creek and moving all the dough to Yuba City. - There's a quarter of a When's it go? - That's the hitch, nobody seems to know. - Iron Mae could get us that information. - Ah, you might just as well - Why don't we get tough with her? She's only a woman! - [Bandit] Nah, they tried The whole town started shooting at him. - Still, a quarter of a million It's worth another try. - You think you can - Come on, boys, we're You stay here til we get back. - You been eating that sour dough so long, you got a lining in your - That so? Hmm, that's the trouble? Now, there's only one that will dissolve away and let the gastric - And what might that be? - Black Foot Balm, the old Indian remedy. Dissolves anything. Once you've tried it (whimpers). (patrons clap) (lively music) Where I first met Katy Out in San Francisco Bay She stole my heart away On an ever-loving summer's day Then we went canoeing As we did lots of wooing And we watched the seals at play On the Golden Strand, I won her hand Down in San Francisco Bay That's where I first When I first met Katy At that Golden Gatey Out on San Francisco Bay And she stole my heart Little heart away On that ever-loving summer's day And we went canoeing As we did a lot of wooing As we watched the seals at play Out on that Golden Strand I won her hand Out on San Francisco Oh, you frisky Frisco San Francisco Bay (patrons clap) - Aces. - You're too tough for me, Mae, but it's always a pleasure losing to you. - Another hand, HB? - No, thanks, see you next trip through. (lively music) - Hi, Mae. Boys have been working pretty hard. Thought I'd bring them in - You must be making a lot of money. - I'm not. Thanks to you. - What have I got to do with it? (Lively music) (patrons clap) - Listen, Mae, we've got There's something brewing You can make more money in one (lively music) - Quite a layout. - Yeah. - Hello, boys, is there - We're looking for your boss. Oh, there she is. See you later, Bill. (patrons clap) Eight to five, it's black. It's been a long time, Mae. - Yeah. - You're looking great. - You, too. What brings you to Las Mujeres, Woody? - Business. - Business, here? - You've done all right. Mighty nice place. - How about you? - I get by. - Oh, Woody, meet Frank Slater. - Hi. - Deal a hand. I still think I can beat you. - See you later. - Neighbor, if you'd have been riding as much as I have today, Get it up here fast. Hey, don't I know you from some place? - 'Fraid not, I'm new around here. You say your throat is dry and parched? - Drier than a desert in mid-July. - You don't need a drink, my friend. - I don't? - What you need is a soothing elixir, a medicant to assuage the raw membranes. In other words, Black Foot Balm, the gift of the ancients. - Say, wait a minute, friend. I bought a bottle of that You said it was good for the hair. - Our product has a money back - Does it have a hair back guarantee? - Well, here. Would you settle for one on the house? (lively music) (graceful music) - Hey, Doc. - A duet. - You remember your fellow - Sure. - Your face is familiar, Miss, but you were dressed a - What are you doing in Las Mujeres? - I rode in with the boss. He's playing a hand over - How's it feel? - Oh, it's fine as silk, Doc. You did a real swell job. - Didn't slow up your draw any, did it? - No. Watch this. Danny the bartender got - Pretty slick. - You know something, Doc? You ain't gonna get me 'cause nobody's gonna beat me to the draw while I'm wearing this swivel holster. - Hand it over. - Hand what? - That gun belt. You're not wearing them in the Paradise. - Listen, sister, nobody, man or woman, takes this gun unless- - Sure, no hard feelings? - Course not. (comical music) - You'll get 'em back when you leave here. - I'll take one. - 100. Used to deal a pretty fair Ever hear from Sam? - Only that he was in jail. Up two. - Who's Sam? - Sam Bass. - You never told me you knew Sam Bass. - I'd like to bump it 1,000. - Go ahead. Well, Sam wanted to take Mae and I were partners in. Couldn't let him get away with that. Funny thing, right after - I don't imagine he liked it much. - No, I don't imagine he did. Your call. - Three ladies. I was always lucky with the women. - Kings and jacks. Men never did never a thing for me. - And that's why you set - Yeah. Here, women give the orders. If the men don't like it, they leave. - I don't like it, and I'm not leaving. - I don't get you, Woody. - I told you I came here on business. I wanna take over. - Take over, take over what? - This place, the whole layout. - Just like that? - Just like that. - And what am I supposed to - If you're smart, you'll take I'll keep you and the - You pay us? - You may not know it, Mae, five, 10 years ago. The way you operate would be all right. - What's wrong with it now? - Just one thing. We've got law out here now. I can make more money legitimately than you can ever make your way. Sooner or later, they're - Frank wants to protect and you from the law. I never realized I was so helpless. - I can see you're not very enthusiastic. I tell you what I'll do, and to prove that I always give the other fellow a sporting chance. I'll play you one hand of - Against what? - Against what the place is worth in cash. One hand of poker. - He must be out of his head. - Woody, a few years me out of anything, but not now. You forget, you're in Why should I play against you? I've got all the aces. - Not all of them, Mae. I wouldn't have set in unless - You've got it hid pretty well. I don't see it at all. And now I think it'd be a good idea if you'd get out of town. - I'll go, Mae, but I'll be back when I'm ready to let you see my hand. (table crashes) (dramatic, exciting music) - You're doing fine, my (exciting music) Good for you. (exciting music) I said stop it! What's this all about? - Took all of my money, $300! She cheated in playing cards. - Oh, you stupid little idiot. him in here, now get out. - Just a minute, Mae. Here you are. You said your husband The lesson oughta be worth one. - Thank you, Mister. First rule, Mae, never take a or he never comes back. You oughta know better than that. - [Angry Wife] When I get you home, I'm gonna teach you another lesson! - But I thought a full (angry wife shouts) - What do you mean by making a play like that in my place? If you think I'm gonna give that money back to you, you're crazy. - Why, it's your money Hiya, Doc! Thought you were headed for Kansas City. - I was, but something just happened to bring me to Las Mujeres. - I see. Well, keep the pills rolling, Doc. Come on, Bill. Goodbye, Mae. - Gimme my hardware. So long, Doc. So that's the way you operate, Mae. Taking a poor chump who didn't - You should've listened to Woody, Doctor. Just take care of the sick. - I am, this whole setup is sick. You're sick, Mae. Why don't you give it all up, settle down to a nice, decent- if I want any advice, I'll ask for it. You stick to pushing pills. That's your racket. This happens to be mine. For medicinal purposes. (dramatic music) - Going soft, Mae? Or just losing your touch? You should never have let Or maybe Woody isn't just any guy. - No reason to shoot him here and put up a bluff. - No, and what makes you - I know Woody. - And I know you. Do you know what I think? I think you let him go because he- - Oh, get out of here! - Sure, Mae. I guess we haven't anything except maybe that Silver Creek job. - What are you talking about? - The town's folding. They're shipping all - [Mae] So? - So maybe there's a we can split. I'd like to grab it. I need some information. - That shouldn't be hard. Send one of your men to Silver Creek. - I've done that, Nobody knows when it's going out. They don't even know Now, you could get that information. - What if I say no? - Then I'll do it alone, even if I have to take the whole town. You've got 12 hours to So long, sweetheart. (exciting music) - What's up? - We might have trouble, Frank. Sam Bass is at the hideout. - The hideout? - Yeah, he's got information and he wants in. - Well, that's the story, girls. As I said, every dollar we've ever made is in that Silver Creek bank, and that goes for our customers, too. If Slater and his boys grab - We ought to be able to stop him. - Not with guns, Dora. Beth, ride over and tell Frank I've got the information about that shipment. Tell him to bring all his men. We're going to celebrate All right, rest of you - Say, Mae, when is that shipment leaving? - I haven't the slightest idea. (tense music) - Horses are ready, Sam. It's about time to go. Frank will be showing up - Let him wait, it'll do him good. Besides, he needs us Two. (tense music) - I'm sorry, I was - [Sam] What was it you You can tell me, I'm his new partner. - Well, I was told- - Can't you boys see you're Head out for Placerita and tell Frank I'll be there as soon as I can. (men shout) Maybe we ought to introduce ourselves. My name's Bass, Sam Bass. - Will you tell me where Frank Slater is? Iron Mae wants me to be sure- - I've heard about Iron Mae. I've heard about how I've also heard about her pretty girls. (dramatic music) A pretty girl like you shouldn't struggle. So rough. (tense music) (bottle shatters) (dramatic music) - All right, Sam, your boys - You've changed, Slater, You're all business now. - Let's have it! We'll visit later, what's on your mind? - The Silver Creek job. - [Frank] I know all about that, but when? - It's leaving town tomorrow at daybreak. (Frank laughs) What's so funny? - (laughs) For weeks, that information out of Iron Mae, willing to cut her in for 50%, and you come along and dump Won't she be surprised. Hey, how come you're so - It's simple. I just got out of jail. I don't have enough men, I need your boys. (bird tweets) (hooves clomp) - Everything all set? - Yeah, still daybreak, by the way of Cripple Creek. Be about six guards. - Better get going. - Who was that? - He'll be driving the stagecoach. - Hey! - Now the practice of (dramatic music) - What happened? (people chatter) - [Dora] Clear out, clear out. - [Barney] Get her upstairs. Please, folks, stand back, (tense music) - [Bob] She's coming out of it. - I wanted to... Bob. - What were you doing all by yourself? - [Ellen] Are you all right, honey? - I couldn't find Frank, Mae. I ran into some men and- - Who were they? - The leader was Sam Bass. - Sam Bass? - He said Slater was his new partner. - Now we know where Slater stands. Listen, Beth, what else did Sam say? How many men did he have with him? Did he say that he- - Why don't you leave her alone? Can't you see she's in - I told you once before - Mae, the stagecoach leaves at daybreak. It doesn't give us much time. - Get downstairs and tell We'll show Slater and - But, Mae. - Why don't you jump, Ellen? Everybody else does. - What do you mean? - I've watched you with these girls. You've done your best because you think some - Shut up! Mae, up til now, you've This time you're up against real guns. It's a man's game. Let me give you a warning, - I will. You see, I'm the law. Come on, Beth. - [Mae] Who said so? - A mere man. - I'll expect you - You're not going, Beth. - I must, Bob, I owe it to Mae. I've got to help her. - You don't have to help her. You're afraid not to go. - That isn't so. There's such a thing as loyalty. I'm sorry, Bob. (romantic music) - You're not going, Beth. (romantic music) - I walk up to this tough gunslinger, and I said, &quot;John Ringo, this town &quot;ain't big enough for the two of us. &quot;You're nothing but a &quot;side-winding dog.&quot; When I said the word &quot;dog,&quot; he tried to sneak a shot at me. - Well, I'll be doggone. What happened, what happened? - Excuse me, Mister. Would you help me out in a little exhibition of gun drawing? - That'd be a pleasure. What do you want me to do? - Well, when I say the word &quot;dog,&quot; you try to beat me to the draw. Do the best you can. - Okay. - John Ringo, you're side-winding, bush-whacking dog. (gun bangs) You sure you waited til I said &quot;dog&quot;? - You wanna try it again? - Well, maybe we better have a drink here. Say, that's mighty fancy hardware you got there, Mister? - Ringo, John Ringo. And did I understand you correctly? I'm to draw when you call - Yes, sir. - Well, what are you waiting for? Get to calling. - Well, you know, Mr. in every man's life- - [Woody] Hey, Bill. - Be right with you. On me, Mr. Ringo. - [John] Three fingers, bartender. - Yes, sir, three fingers. (Danny stutters) There it is. - This place is real dead now. There won't be enough left to change a five dollar bill when that - How did you know about that shipment? - Well, I got ears. Now, in the old days, that coach- - Oh, it's gonna be a coach? - Yeah. Like I say, in the old days, that coach wouldn't have got five miles down the road before we'd have had it. - That was a long time ago. Today, there's easier - Them safer ways don't - Maybe not. - I still say shoot up the place. Them dames will start and Mae will have to sell. - I got a plan of my own. Just as clean and quick, and no gunplay. - But, Woody. No gunplay. (bird tweets) - How soon? - They left at daybreak. They should be here in a bout a half hour. - Bet this is the first time in history a bank's ever been held up (exciting music) - Here, a couple of you men We gotta get through here. (tense music) - Drop those guns. (gun bangs) (tense music) All right, get off that coach, and leave those guns inside. All right, take over. (woman shouts) (exciting music) (Ellen shouts) (exciting music) - You boys better get in - [Guard] Well, what about you? - Oh, I'll be all right. Besides, I'll slow you down too much. Let me have that six shooter. All right, get going. (quiet music) - You had the right information, Sam? - I'm not so sure now. Let's ride down the road a way. (quiet, tense music) What happened? - Bunch of women held us Left me like this. - Iron Mae. (gun bangs) - I don't like stupid people. - At least we know who's - Sure, let's ride! She'll be expecting us. Just give her a little more time. - What for? - She'll feel more secure. - All right. - [Frank] Relax, boys. - Three bags of gold dust, sealed. - Three bags of gold dust. - 50,000 in currency. - We'll have to count that later. - Well, that's all of it. - I don't know, I sure hope we did right. - Sure we did. After all, we had to - Yeah, but returning the Frank and Sam are sure to be watching every road out of town. All right, honey. Give this to the president Tell him we didn't wanna grab We'll return the rest And, honey, stay off the main roads. - Say, Mae, maybe it's safer Why return it? - Because every thief will be heading straight for Las Mujeres, trying to get it away from us. Maybe even a few sheriffs and marshals. - We've been able to There's no reason why our - I hope so. - Say, Mae, I think you We've got trouble. - Frank Slater? - Worse. - And so, as I say, it is the to give full support to Deputy in staging this historic event, the first federal election It means, ladies and gentlemen, that, after a long delay, law and order has finally come to your community. - Law and order. - I believe every citizen Deputy Marshal Carlson and I will set up headquarters in the sheriff's office. - Mae, look. registered and identified in order to cast their ballot. The polls will be open Well, that's about all. I want you all to vote intelligently. Think long before you cast your ballot. Thank you very much. - Hello, Woody. - Well, Mae, so we meet again. - The situation here hasn't changed any. - Considerably, I'd say. Did you hear the judge's speech? - Well, Woody, I sort of - Glad to see you, thanks, Judge. Mae, I'd like to have you meet our new federal district Miss McLeod. The judge and I are old - How do you do, Miss McLeod? You might glance over this notice. I'd like to post it - I told you law and order would catch up with you someday, Mae. - Well, thank you. See you later, Woody. Good day, Miss McLeod. - What difference do you - Quite a bit, I'd say. Whoever wins that election - So what? There are nine women to That's a pretty good majority. - Just one thing wrong, Mae. You see, women can't vote, - Can't vote? - Nor hold office. I suppose, in time, they'll but, right now, nobody - And you knew nothing about this? You just happened to - That's right. - Well, woman vote or not, there's still a few men left in this town, and I'll see that they vote my way. - Oh, I forgot to tell you, Mae, my town, Silver Creek, and I've been telling all my boys what a wonderful community you have here. I wouldn't be surprised a lot of my boys didn't decide to increase the male population of Las Mujeres. They'll make good citizens, too, Mae. I doubt if one of them will want to miss voting the election. - If I'm not asking too much, who are you going to - Me. - I never thought I'd see the day when you'd deal from a cold deck, Woody. - I never have. I always gave the other - The other fellow, yes, not me. My only sporting chance was - I never looked at it that way. - Woody, you once offered to play one hand of stud poker - I did, but- - We can still play that game. One hand of stud. I win, you support my Then you leave town. You win, I'll agree to the same terms. - What about the Paradise? - You win, I wouldn't want it anyway. - Oh, I wouldn't want you to do that, Mae. If I win, I'd like you to stay on and manage the place for me. I could use a good gal like you. - Get a new deck of cards. - Give me a new deck, friend. - What's going on between - Just about the biggest game If Mae loses, you're out of a job. - [Woody] Cut, Mae? - [Mae] Deal 'em. - [Woody] First card down, right? (tense music) - King for Woody, queen for Mae. (tense music) - Are you sure you shuffled Three queens so far. Should've dealt that one to yourself. - You know something, I'm - He paired up. - Deal 'em. - Whatever you say. - [Dora] Two pairs. You got him licked, Mae. - Make it a good one, boss. - I'll do my best. (tense music) Not much choice there. - It's up to the hole cards. - No use turning those cards, Mae. You both lose. (dramatic music) - I don't follow you, Slater. - Brought along an old friend of yours. Sam Bass. - It's been a long time, Mae. Woody. Well, it looks like I'll get besides picking up a jackpot at the same time. Mighty nice. - There's nothing you can do. Got my boys lined up all around the place. Got you cold. - What's your play, Sam? - You might just as well turn that bank shipment over right now. - What shipment? - Quit stalling, Mae. I'll give you to the count One, two, three, four. (guns bang) (women scream) (guns bang) - Kings and queens are a Too bad we're not partners again. - Woody, you just made yourself a deal. (guns bang) - Pretty good shooting, Mae. - Yeah, for a woman. (guns bang) - Frank, that's Mae's office up there. That's where the money is. Chuck! (guns bang) You got that little surprise ready? - All set. - Let's go! (guns bang) - Barney, Barney. Do you suppose he's been shot? - No, he's just fainted. - Here. (Barney groans) (guns bang) (tense music) - What are you trying to do, poison me? (safe booms) (guns bang) (gun bangs) (guns bang) (exciting music) (guns bang) - Where's Sam? - He went out the window. - Take care of Ellen. (exciting music) (tense music) - I'm sorry. (delicate music) - I think you better turn over a new leaf. - Huh? - Your shoulder's gonna - Maybe I could learn to - There's only one way to make sure nobody ever beats you on the draw. - Yeah, how's that? - Give up guns altogether. - I never thought of it. Well, maybe you've got (comical music) (lively music) - Final results, Woody wins! (people cheer) - Congratulations, Woody. I know you'll do a good job. - Thanks, Judge, very much. What about Mae? - There are precedents for especially for the wife of - How about the new marshal saying a few words about your policies - Thank you, thank you very much. I appreciate the fact and, as the new US Marshal I intend to see that the law Any man committing a crime - [Townsman] How about the women? - That goes for the women, too. This country has been From now on, it's gonna be different. - Woody. - We're late for the Why don't you stop talking? We're late. - Well, you folks understand (men chuckle) - We've been invited, too. Come on. (comical music) (lively music)