We follow a patissier who runs a one-person business specializing in baked sweets! Orange hazelnut. They're all delicious. My favorite is the canele. The texture is crispy on the outside and fluffy on the inside, so I recommend it. I've always enjoyed making sweets, and when I thought about what I wanted to do most, I thought that I might want to make baked sweets after all, so I decided to specialize in baked sweets. I'm doing this while thinking that this is what I've always wanted to do. Japan Fukuoka Eat O'Kashi We follow a specialty shop for baked sweets made by a female owner with 10 years of experience as a patissier. The owner and patissier, Ms. Naito. The morning preparation is for making the popular caneles. The dough contains milk, butter, flour and vanilla. The dough is prepared the day before, and the rum is added first thing in the morning. The rum is added to the dough made the day before. Make the dough for the caneles the next day. Add the butter to the milk. I used to work in a cafe, and while I was borrowing the cafe's kitchen, I was allowed to make my own baked goods. When you started out on your own, (Staff) Were you not worried about it? I felt that everyone was quite relaxed about it, and I had the feeling that everyone was sending me off. I'm the type of person who gets fired up, so I think they thought I would manage somehow. It contains cake flour, rice flour and corn starch. I add brown sugar. I use brown sugar where I can, thinking about my health. I want to use ingredients that make the food taste the best, so I can't say that I never use white sugar at all, but we use brown sugar for things that don't affect the taste. For things that can't be made to taste right without white sugar, we make it with white sugar. We add the flour to the eggs. I add the heated milk and butter in several stages. I've never had any hobbies, I think that the only hobby I've ever had is making sweets, so if I say that I used to make them with my mother, I started making them when I was in kindergarten, and when I was in elementary school, I would invite my friends from the neighborhood over and I taught them how to make sweets. (Staff) That's quick! That's amazing. I liked that kind of thing. The cannele batter is complete. The day's creations are left to rest for the next day. It is necessary to let the dough rest in order to make it rise nicely. The dough for the caneles to be baked today is warmed up. Sift the dough. Pour it into the copper mold. Before working at the cafe, Ms. Naito worked at a wedding hall and a restaurant. I made wedding cakes and desserts for the end of weddings, I made desserts for the restaurant's course meals. I bake them in the oven. While the caneles are baking, I'm making the pound cake batter. I've always enjoyed making sweets, even when I was a student. When you were a student, the sweets you liked to make were almost all baked sweets, weren't they? I don't really make cakes. I thought it would be fun to make sweets, I thought I'd become a patissier without really thinking about it, and then I got a job at a hotel or a wedding place, I made wedding cakes and things like that, and that was fun, but When I thought about what I really wanted to do, I thought I might want to make baked sweets, I decided to specialize in baked sweets. I'm doing this while thinking that this is probably what I've always wanted to do. I'm doing it while thinking that this is probably what I wanted to do. Sifting the flour. Break the eggs. Add a little salt to bring out the sweetness. Homemade orange confit added to the batter. Hazelnuts added to the batter. The cake has a crunchy texture, which is unusual for a pound cake. The orange peel for decoration is cut. Checking the donut's doneness. Checking the donut's doneness again. The caneles are done. Remove them from the mould. The ones we sell in the shop are served fresh from the oven, but the ones we sell by mail order are quick-frozen, and This is for the shop. We'll continue with the pound cake. Put the butter and brown sugar in a mixer. Warm the eggs. White chocolate to be added to the pound cake batter. Melt using hot water. Add the egg to the melted white chocolate. Mix while heating. Add to the batter. Add the flour. Add orange confit. Squeeze into a mold. I think the happiest thing is when you make sweets that you want to give to other people, because there's also the joy of opening the packaged sweets, when you open it, you think "wow, it's so cute, I'm so happy", and you can show it off to other people. When you say "I found some nice sweets", you want to give them to someone, don't you? I quite like the joy of giving, and of course I'm happy to receive things too I'm of course happy to receive things, but when I give things, I want everyone to feel like "isn't it nice? I want everyone to experience that feeling. Put the macadamia nuts on top. Bake in the oven. 10:24 in the morning Opening hours 10:00 - 17:00 The pancake is flipped over so that it doesn't get burned on the bottom, and then cooked again. A familiar customer comes to the store. He usually comes to events, but this is his first time visiting the store. (Staff) Is this for yourself? It's for home. Souvenirs from home. They're all delicious. (My favorite is) the canele. The texture is crispy on the outside and fluffy on the inside, so I recommend it. The pound cake is done. Spread the mixture of rum, orange liqueur and Grand Marnier over the cake. Spread the mixture over the sides as well. After soaking it in, the last step is to add the chocolate coating. Making the financiers. Add the brown sugar. Roasted almond powder and coconut powder. I put the powder through the fire a little bit first, and when it's baked together with the other ingredients, I roast them a little so that all the ingredients are cooked to their best. (Staff) They're made with a lot of attention to detail. 137 (Staff) They're really particular about each and every one of them. That's right. We're a specialty shop for baked sweets, so I'm thinking of doing something a little troublesome. Almond powder and hazelnut powder. The missing amount is roasted. The roasting of the powder is finished. Add to the financier batter. Add the egg whites. Honey is added. Vanilla paste. Burned butter. Put it on the fire. Add a little at a time to the dough. (Staff) Do you eat while you're making it? I probably eat a lot when I'm making it. I'm not really aware of it, so I eat unconsciously. I narrow it down to a mold. Bake in the oven. The final touches to the pound cake. Shape it nicely. Bitter chocolate for the coating. Melt in hot water. Coat with melted bitter chocolate. Decorate with roasted hazelnuts. Decorate with orange peel. The product we're promoting as our number one recommendation is pound cake, but when it came to selling it individually, It's the first cake I made, so I'm quite fond of it. The orange hazelnut is complete. Checking the degree of doneness of the financiers. They are done baking. The freshly baked pastries are lined up in the showcase. Like the caneles, you can enjoy freshly baked pastries if you go between 11:00 and 12:00. A customer comes to the shop. A woman who has come to buy some for gifts and some for herself. She says she has arranged her day off to coincide with the shop's opening hours. When there are no customers, she just keeps making sweets. She started making Florentines. Cookie dough to be used as the base for the florientine. Transferring to a baking tray. Almond slices. Roast in the oven. Bake the cookie dough at the same time. Make the caramel to mix with the almonds. Granulated sugar and butter. Fresh cream. Honey. Put it on the heat. (Staff) So caramel isn't just made from water and sugar. There are some that are just made from water and sugar, but it's quite plain, it has a burnt sugar taste, like fresh cream, honey, or butter, the caramel has a deep flavor. The almonds have finished roasting. Mix with caramel. Put on the baked cookie dough. Decorate with the cut pistachios. Bake again in the oven. The florientines are baked. When they have cooled slightly, cut them. Cut it. These are limited edition cookie tins for Halloween. The cookie tins, which change their contents for each event, are very popular. The cake and cookie tins are limited to the Christmas season in 2024. EatO`Kashi is a specialty baked goods shop that makes too many happy gifts for yourself!