It is one of the only certainties in we're counting down to the moment we die. Death but there are many things Buckle up for fifty insane #50. Death at First Sight When someone expires - especially if they can be hard to tell that they're really eyes have it. One of the first signs over, as the body's functions cease and If a person's eyes are open, this can happen as It's not the body's only weird effect after death. #49. Growth in Death? It's been one of the strangest things people have swear that their nails and hair keep growing keratin-based body parts are still active In a word - no. What actually happens is that the retract and tighten, which pulls it away from And there are many dramatic changes #48. Unlucky Stiff It's one of the most famous parts of death - up and become stiff and hard. This makes the body that begins only a few hours after the body will loosen up - which makes This is a benefit to having But some effects are much...creepier. #47. A Ghostly Noise Imagine, you're a morgue worker and you're Then suddenly, from the closed room comes a ghastly moan! Time to call the exorcist? filter out through orifices, this causes the like a corpse is moaning or groaning - a But absent intervention, the body #46. Eating at You Did you know that we technically have more We're full of bacterial cells at mechanisms keep them at bay. As soon as we it's buffet time for all those normally helpful and that lets them multiply much faster and And decomposition happens #45. Wax On, Wax Off Grave wax might sound like a product cemetery but it's actually a natural product. Clinically decomposition of body fat that forms on the skin like a wax figure. This only happens when a body and bodies that decompose this Decomposition varies based on conditions. #44. A Grave Timeline How long does it take a body to decompose? under normal conditions, without the body being for the body to be reduced to nothing more than body was kept in consistent fifty-degree weather, But under certain conditions, #43. The Bog Bodies European peat bogs are one of the most unique low in oxygen, and highly acidic. That means when pulled out of the bog, can look thousands of years. When the Tollund Man, an his discoverers assumed they had And in the harshest of conditions, #42. A Frozen Warning Mount Everest is one of the most hostile a certain point being known as the death zone. there - and because on the higher part of most of them stay there. It's too dangerous and they don't decompose when frozen solid, markers that new climbers see, lying there like But now, there are easier ways #41. Pickling a Person If you've chosen the full funeral package for your to make is about embalming. This practice uses a making it more resistant to decomposition. While it's a common choice for those who want to can stand around talking about That's enough about the body #40. Running Out the Clock So how long can humans actually live? While is in the 70s, that's driven down by those usually live longer - and a small percentage of centenarians and super-centenarians have an who is the documented oldest person to ever So how many people have ever died? #39. It's Crowded Down There The world is more crowded than it's ever of the population of the world that's already billion people on Planet Earth - but the total is more than 108 billion. That means that died - which is probably not a good sign for But what actually puts people underground? #38. Common Cause The United States has kept track of the and it's mostly steady. The most which not surprisingly takes out many but #3 is accidental injury - which is the most one year old and forty-four. Once you get older, But one cause of death isn't #37. No Exit You hear about it so often - an old person but you'll never see it on a death certificate. What actually happens is that as people reach old for them to catch illnesses, and their body old age won't kill them, it becomes a game of But can you die from...water? #36. Too Much of a Good Thing Sure, you can die from water - drowning kills many But simply drinking too much can kill you water in three hours to win a contest But unlike other overdoses, this isn't poisoning. water for your body to process, which causes the And speaking of water... #35. A Wet Reveal If you wanted to kill someone, getting rid smart. After all, everyone would just assume they on the case. Because the body stops functioning was dead before they hit the water by looking at have filled up with water, while a corpse dumped But not all methods for solving #34. The Eyes Have It When someone was murdered in the 19th century, remove the victim's eyes and dissect them. This cameras, capturing images - and their killer's Not surprisingly, though, they never and this became one of many weird scientific Some causes of death are a lot #33. Not So Scary When someone paddles into the eye out for any hungry finned predators. rare - and more people die of selfie-related like a terrifying and dangerous activity, More people die per year in dance parties and But three days of the year may #32. Nothing Like the Holidays What days are likeliest to end in death? they shoot up on Christmas, the next day, and actually decrease during the holidays, many treatment because they don't want to check into be too late. Add in many top doctors taking But one cause of death may outstrip all the other. #31. The Ultimate Plague What's the deadliest disease of all time? or even the Black Death. Instead, it's the world for centuries - Malaria. mosquitoes - and as anyone who ever tried to those things are everywhere. It kills more and likely killed far more in the past For many, death comes quickly - #30. The Last to Go When people die due to illness, organ failure, or or hospice facilities for an extended period, they reach the final stage and their death is although they're often too sedated to react. which allows their loved ones to keep Some deaths are a lot less #29. Execute This The death penalty became a lot less common in the Western Europe abolishing it due to human rights world still execute their worst criminals - and States' favored method is lethal injection, use the electric chair, the gas chamber, the But which country executes the most people? #28. The Final Countdown The United States only executed 22 people in and the fact that many states no longer have country with the most executions is China, year - but they don't release execution That makes the official champion Iran, But one method of execution #27. The Chopping Block It's one of the most infamous inventions attached to a machine that will second. But it was first conceived a French physician, as a humanitarian invention. to carry out executions - despite opposing the was used to carry out countless political It seems to be the standard at every cemetery, It's a lot of work - and a health hazard for that the root of the tradition comes back to Europe. In the year 1665, London was suffering bodies should be buried six feet underground to But the traditional burial #24. Burning Up Cremation, where the body is burned are returned to the loved ones, is becoming it's actually surpassed the popularity of burial by 2040 as many as 80 percent of people may are becoming increasingly costly, and cremation But there's one common misconception. #23. Where's the Ash? We've all met someone who had grandma's ashes most common misconceptions about cremation is actually returned to the family isn't ash at but what it actually contains is the minerals in else clean, and the mineral content is all that's But ashes don't need to stay on the mantle. #22. Going Out In Style Cremation ashes are sterile, non-toxic, and into just about anything safely. So if you they can be compressed into gemstones. the ashes can be mixed into paint or you really want to send them out with a bang, and design a custom batch of fireworks - a But one use for cremation remains #21. Growing After Death For the environmentally-minded, there's a way to A person is cremated, and their remains are seed. The urn is buried in a suitable place, soon a tree grows from the person's remains. place for the loved ones to gather under the But around the world, burial rites #20. Make It Loud Funerals are usually solemn occasions, but in With elements taken from African, French, and processions are led by a big jazz band blowing first, but after the burial, the tone shifts dance marches, the mourners will dance in the But not all the fun is saved #19. Smoke and Mirrors On the island of Bali, cremation can be a cremation releases the soul and sends it off to cremations and burnings to be held publicly. But head of their royal family in 2008. His body was in the presence of a giant dragon statue, But some traditions are a lot more modern. #18. Fantasy Funeral Have you seen any footage of Ghanian Not only do they have some great dances, but "Fantasy Coffins". These are like those race People are buried in decorated coffins that ranging from a Mercedes-Benz for a rich man, to a In some cultures, the traditions #17. Turn, Turn, Turn In Madagascar, you might be surprised These aren't grave-robbers or witch-doctors - The Malagasy people have a unique tradition wrap them in cloth, perform a ritual dance, probably smells terrible, you're right - which is This next tradition is not for the faint of heart. #16. Burial in the Sky Buddhists believe the body is not important to a new being as part of reincarnation. Thus, into pieces. Rather than burying it where they place the body on a mountaintop clean. While it's an ancient tradition, it's But few places have more unique burial #15. Smoke 'em Up The Philippines have many ethnic groups, The Tinguian people have a strange tradition dressing them in the best clothes available, and They then place a lit cigarette in their Another group has a very different tradition. #14. Hollow Ground The Caviteno people live near the city of not a city one. They bury their dead not But not just any tree. When a person knows they they go out and pick their own burial to live in a little hut by their death tree But whatever the culture, death #13. What Comes Next The belief in the afterlife is common across some concept of life after death. Some believe in person or other being after death. Others existence or becoming part of some cosmic you see after death is a judge - to determine if But there's no proof of any of this...right? #12. Back from the Dead? Surprisingly, there are a lot of people who These are usually people who nearly died due be it due to a heart attack or a surgical light or hearing voices. One boy, Colton Burpo, who were dead before he was born - and But are these afterlife encounters proof #11. Closer to Earth Neuroscientists who have studied the brain at increased amount of hormones that cause positive near-death experiences could be caused by these during their moment of greatest distress. But they have no way of knowing? Well, skeptics may be coaching his son. Harder to explain is a pair of sneakers on the hospital roof- only But has anyone seen...the other place? #10. Oh Hell People reporting seeing the bad ending in the back deeply disturbed. They report darkness, much more detailed. When a man was shot in the he awoke reporting that he spent that of fire and hopelessness. While he had most doctors believe this was the But what do those who came the #9. Back from Beyond When Velma Thomas had a heart attack in 2008, she dead. Doctors tried to induce hypothermia to lower and she was without brain activity for seventeen But when she was taken off life The fifty-nine-year-old woman eventually about what she remembered from her time in Death is universal - but a full life means #8. The Blink of an Eye The average human lifespan is in the seventies, some animals live a full life in a much shorter which means the previous generation is almost from their eggs. Drone ants only live three But nothing tops the mayfly, which is They spend most of their time as nymphs, and But some animals can put humans to shame. #7. The Heavy Hitters Elephants are one of the few land mammals If you can't stand the thought of losing another colorful birds can live for up to eighty years. with lifespans of over two hundred fragments from the 1800s still in it! But whose slow growth cycle means they But for the longest-lived organism of all, #6. Standing Tall What is the longest any living organism be found in California's White Mountains - a for the notoriously long-lived biblical figure. How old is this tree? Almost five thousand years the North American continent before the Great But is death truly an inevitability #5. A Tight Squeeze You might have heard the rumor that lobsters true - they wouldn't wind up on dinner plates not die of old age. They shed their shells and periodically. The problem is, eventually and wind up getting stuck in an old one and But one creature might have figured #4. The Immortal Jellyfish One species seems to have the process for a tiny jellyfish found in oceans around until they reach their dying medusa stage - at a tiny ball of cells that begins the life cycle are they truly the same being, or an identical difference - but for a human with a mind and But will humans eventually figure #3. The Deep Freeze Some people are already working on it. A cryogenically frozen, in the hopes that they law dictates that cryogenic freezing can only and it is most commonly practiced by At least two hundred and fifty people and 1500 more have signed up. But contrary But some people have talked about #2. Living in the Cloud The development of the digital world has forever as digital thoughtforms? The idea is brain patterns of a person and upload them to to continue to exist after death. It sounds While research is ongoing, it's more of a But while humans try to escape #1. Keep on Reaping The good news for humanity is that the the global death rate, and the population keeps The bad news? A lot of people are dying from all death rate is about 7.7 per one thousand population every year. Which means a lot of people For more on what happens after death, check out "Best Evidence of Life After