It's a journey back in time Boys in overalls and hats, All of them known as the Mennonites. Ultraconservative protestants Their school system is stuck I thank the Lord! Girls on one side, boys on the other. They're reciting passages Keep us from temptation. This morning, the youngest children No, look at the letter I am pointing at. They follow the letters The older children are reading No foreign languages, The Bible is their only manual. I teach them to read, sing, pray, recite poetry, write, and count. That's about everything. The children go to school and finish at age 13, They will not take their studies That is the ruling of the community. This is how we learned when my father That's how we always have it. No universities, high school, Our studying is practicing by learning. You see what Hannah, the father, Abraham left school to learn to be a blacksmith He has 20 children. Three of his 60 grandchildren The Mennonites believe the more children Blonde with blue eyes. Originating from Germany, the Mennonites fled Europe 250 years ago to move to the remotest parts Devout protestants, they strictly adhere to the doctrine They lead a life of rigor and discipline. There are nearly 350,000 They are almost living in colonies with their own schools, This isolation helps to protect them For the first time, one of the most has agreed to be filmed. In this private universe, Everything is systematized, You just have to wear these dresses. It's against our religion Here, the rules are very strict. There are severe consequences If certain people we have to exclude them. Unfortunately, A few months ago, France allowed a mobile phone. I know the reality. No, I do not feel guilty, Behind the apparent calm, and challenging Vilhelm the doctor was excommunicated. In their mind, Can Satan do anything? Nothing. Abraham is against any change. Just like pioneers, have gone in search of the last They hope to create an ideal community Then you have to start afresh. That's starting from zero and grow. Who are the Mennonites, In this day and age, is it still possible We take a look inside of the 21st century. Our journey begins under the Caribbean sun in a small country in Central America, Nine thousand kilometers from France, situated between Mexico Lots of communities live together made up of 360,000 inhabitants. The descendants of the Mayans, However, to find the Mennonites, you have to travel deeper three hours away from the towns. This is where they chose Hidden in the rural world Here, time seems to have stopped. Cars are forbidden. Only horse-drawn carts The Mennonites are not used Although they are not hostile, they still do not understand Our cameras intrigued them. Some even hide their faces Is it possible to go there with you We don't allow that and when young ladies are pregnant, When they're filmed? Yes, because they're frightened. They're not used to it. That's the reason. The Mennonites However, some of them France is one such individual. He's agreed to talk to us. I was born here, and I've been raised here I've never been somewhere else. It's my home. Home country. I like it over here, It's beautiful, I enjoy my life. France is 36 years old. He lives on this farm He's married to Elizabeth There are the twins Then there is Agata, Abraham and Peter are six and eight, and finally, there is Sara, This is the norm for the Mennonites. The families are usually composed They lead a simple life. A few fields, a chicken coop, and some cows The girls take care of the livestock. Don't pour it all into the same side. Pour some in there, and some there. France works from home. He's a mechanic. In his workshop, he repairs engines for clients On average, His daughter Katerina is 15 years old. She left school two years ago. Since then, We have only girls, If we had boys of this age, and the boys will have to do this job, The roles in a Mennonite household The women take care of the home, and they are also in charge However, even in this domain, Elizabeth, the mother of the family, always goes to the colony's local shop There is no sign Here the choices are limited, The fabric is too dark for me. This fabric is lovely, The lighter fabrics are reserved whereas the darker fabrics The men have to wear plaid patterns Everything is systematized. Half a meter will suffice. Do you see a big difference Elizabeth only speaks Plattdeutsch This is a German dialect Her sister-in-law Margaret speaks English That's how we have learned it my grandparents, and great-grandparents. We just keep it like that. It's been like that all the time. -You cannot wear what you want? You just have to wear those dresses. It's against our religion -You don't have any rings? No makeup, nothing. -No makeup? -Makeup is forbidden also? Why? I don't know. It's because old Mennonites Do you like it like that? Well, we don't know anything else. You have to. Eight Euros worth of fabric Here, there is no excessive spending. The Mennonites lead a life so austere, it is almost monastic. No distractions, no music, no sport, and no television. Their only moment of leisure We were not allowed to film it. However, as an exception, one of the leaders of the colony William, the leader of the community, He also has seven children. He agreed to explain their doctrine to us. He invited us to his home for a meal. The only source of light is the oil lamp. In his house electricity is forbidden. The decor is sparse. There are no paintings on the walls, Let us pray. The girls are seated on both sides, while the leader and his son The meal is conducted in silence. This is a tradition that the Mennonites On the menu: beans, It's like living in the 19th century. The Bible says we are not allowed like the TV, the telephone, We have been taught to reject modernity. If certain people then we have to exclude them. They can no longer The law is absolute. Either you obey the rules However, in this day and age, is it still possible Everything has changed in Belize since the Mennonites Before, this was nothing more Now, the colony is spread out an area the size of Paris When roads appeared, In spite of their respect some believers For France, it all began He's taking a huge risk There before when I saw a phone or if I used it a little bit, Now I know the reality. Now I do not feel guilty, France discovered the internet The rhythm of country music They're very fascinated. They really liked their new life. It's a new lifestyle for us. Before we had never heard any music. We could never have any pleasure. It's a good pleasure for them. Suddenly, France There's someone coming. My brother is coming. France, you must hide your phone, From my brother, yes. I have to hide my phone because I don't like If they don't see the phone, Maybe in the future about the reality. Even around his brother, If anyone found out he had a phone, This is what happened to Vilhelm, He lives just next door to France. Kind of a surgery room. They sit down here, I sit down here, then I would probably check I would have them lie down, Well, the people from the village Yes, the preacher sat there. For 20 years, Vilhelm took care He's not a real doctor. His mother was a nurse and he taught himself He bought a phone to save lives. I felt like I had to have it Then I felt an obligation to call a taxi or to call the doctors. I said that was so useful for me, They were complaining about that I said, no. This choice cost him dearly. By breaking the rules, he lost everything. The day they knew the day before, I would say That went on the whole day The next day I got excommunicated. No one came again. That starts from 60 to overnight to zero. Since his exclusion, Vilhelm He is no longer allowed to work there, Nobody speaks to him anymore. Now he sells tires an hour away but he has decided to react within the conservative colony. Pickup trucks driven by Mennonites. It's a surprising sight. Dozens of families have decided They've just started their own church. At first sight, the loyal followers still seem to be abiding but modernity The sermon itself The mobile phone According to the disciple Matthew. The eleven disciples went to Galilee, to the mountain When they saw him, Vilhelm initiated the construction Here, everything is permitted. Well, almost everything. Cell phones are allowed here? Yes, they are allowed. Vehicles are allowed. Music is allowed. We are practicing music What is not allowed is drinking What the Bible says is wrong. This evolution scares They believe they're losing their souls. Abraham, aged 43, is one such individual. He's decided to leave Belize one that is more loyal to the doctrine. We will build a more traditional so that it will be more, but a people Father to seven children, is going on this new adventure even though he built his life here. This is the house that I had built Now I want to leave it If they want to change they can put a new one. That's what I'm thinking now. Now I want to sell it, For Abraham and his family, Peru The first point is It sounds better to work there. Having more people in the town who will buy from us and all the things that we produce. They will buy more. We can sell more of what we produce Life is hard in Belize for the Mennonites. Abraham's daughter Elena The newly wedded couple Put the bowls there on top, or between the two boxes, Let's hope that everything They've decided to leave There is no more available land. Here, we don't have a house or any land. We don't own anything. Peru is an attractive option for us. The way everyone speaks about it Over there, I will have my own land. I can raise pigs and chickens, The young couple so they want to take everything with them. Bowls, pans, and all their wedding gifts. Everything has to fit They are not the only ones Around 40 families are joining them They're all getting ready It's going to be a big adventure. All of these Mennonites where they hope to escape deep in the heart of the Amazon forest. The first place we will reach is Lima, then we will go to Pucallpa, then to Orellana, It will take us 12 hours by boat This is what the Mennonites Migrate to the remotest corners in order to conserve their way of life. Six families have already left They've already drawn out the plans Each piece of land has been allocated. We'll arrive over here, Here, there will be a Church, One, two, three, four, five. The land has already been purchased. Empty spaces where everything still needs However, this does not scare them. Of course, but we're going to do all we can It will be amazing for the children Less than three months left For France, leaving is not an option. Although he does not consider he is still tempted by modernity. Today, he and his family It's really exceptional. We usually do not go to town. We are planning to go to town right now France has called a chauffeur The Mennonites are allowed to use a car as long as they They are headed to Orange Walk, the nearest town France has a surprise in store For them, this is a rare experience. -Five ice cream in cones, please. Soft serve in cones. We have no ice cream in our community. However, when they go to town, The children savor their ice cream. They only eat it once or twice a year. What do you think of this place, It's better at home, The children rarely leave their colony, so going into shops This is the first time Sada, has ever been inside one. Look up there! She is astonished. There is a cow Put them back and don't touch them! A horse! It's the first time We have gone by to a chip yard, but never stopped in town She feels happy. However, she would like to carry -I would like one of those balloons! Even though France he can't resist buying his children They each get the same plastic ball. In public, the Mennonites They do not go unnoticed. It's a real culture shock. The children can't help You see all kinds of people here They are dressed so differently. We are just a little more similar. All the Mennonites It's uncommon for them to do this. However, what goes on after facing modern society? In the girls' room, we were able to ask them during a music session with a new guitar This guitar is forbidden in the colony. Their cousin Margaret is with them. She speaks English, -Do you like playing with a mobile phone? I would like to work, Not all the time, but sometimes. Do you want to keep living here I'd like to travel and see other things, Before this, Margaret lived She'll soon be getting married here, Do you listen to music? I only know Selena Gomez Which one is the other one? Akon, that's all I know. There was some more, Do you like it? Sometimes, yes. However, -Why? First I have to tell the priest that I will be a good girl. I will not do that anymore I have to say that all because the priest told us or drink or anything like alcohol. You can't drink alcohol It's a bit hard, isn't it? Sometimes, but not all the time. For these girls, even if this family The more conservative Mennonites are organizing everything The whole community is coming together The Mennonites leaving for Peru are selling all their possessions How much for this collection of bowls? I hear five dollars somewhere, two dollars, four dollars over here. Jacob has to sell as much as he can. Nothing is off limits, whether it be a simple bin Everything has to go. I am selling everything I am selling the house, all the furniture, We are only taking our cart with us, Each dollar earned is very precious. This money will help him to start afresh This is what I planned to do, I have no regrets. Here we have a dish for cooking or frying. Twenty-two dollars, 22 dollars anyone? If you want it, scream, &quot;me!&quot; -I said, &quot;me!&quot; The auction will last the whole day. Abraham is loading he wants to take to Peru with him. He and 10 other families all contributed Take that and put it over there. There's a lot, we have to put everything Reverse, reverse! The Mennonites are taking to build their new life in Peru. That includes tractors The country had a few things. There are no big farmers so that's why we can't have it cheaper. We have it here It's cheaper than buying it It's going to Belize City, Yes, on a boat. The container will reach them There is very little space, but Abraham has a surprise He's going to take their marriage bed, This is the bed. That is what we had already. -Your wife wanted to keep it? She wants to keep the beds. She will be happy there She will lose a big amount It's the last evening Abraham's family especially his wife, Elena. It will be difficult over there. We had everything here. We are going to have to work it out. For now, their biggest worry They will all be flying Are you scared of going on the plane? Not yet, but when we have to get on it, I don't know And you Helen, I am really excited! Really? Yes, I really want to go. Now we just have to see I don't want to be the first one! There's more inside! It's finally time for Abraham Yes, it's a big moment. The biggest one -Climb in, boys. Next to us. Abraham's parents It's a difficult moment for his mother, since he is the first of his siblings Don't worry, It is all organized. -I worry anyway. Goodbye and safe journey. -Isaak, will you come to visit us? Three hours later, They are the first to get there. The others are still making their way. For Abraham, It's the first time I am taking the plane. That's why I'm telling my children, I have been waiting for three years Now my children are happy every day. They can go together with me. It's a long time When will I go? I think it's going to be great! The other Mennonites arrive. Seven families, 53 people. They all purchased one-way tickets only. Returning isn't an option. Now it's time to say goodbye. Abraham's parents also came to the airport to make the most of their last few moments There's no kissing. A simple handshake Every action is always composed. However, this time Abraham's mother breaks down. She does not know or her grandchildren again. Those left behind have heavy hearts, and those going on the journey Even the escalator Are you sitting comfortably? Are you scared? -No. No. For now, everything is going well. The plane has not left the runway yet. The girls are looking and then the plane takes off. -Are you starting to get scared? Me neither, this is fun. It's shaking a bit. Abraham keeps smiling, -What are those? -Clouds? We're flying on top of the clouds? I was wondering what all that smoke was. Their adventure has begun. A 24-hour journey before arriving in Lima, In the waiting room, They've spent the night Abraham and his family Lazy, lazy. -Lazy. Yes, it's a long trip. In Peru, the group does not go unnoticed. They received several stunned looks. The air hostess She knows the place and asks them about it. -Why are you going to Pucallpa? -You're going to work? Now we're going to work the land! Are you going to grow crops? We are going to grow maize, beans, soya, melon, cucumbers, What are you going to do We are going to build a school. There isn't one at the moment, I'm surprised, I didn't think it was possible to live out there. I'm happy for them! People are always surprised. They don't know you A lot of people. They are surprised. They look at us Where do you want to go? What happened, what's going on? -Because they don't know you? They sometimes see some people traveling We are many in a group The Mennonites are taking their third a town situated in the northeast of Peru, They've already traveled When they arrive, The Mennonites also attract We need more passengers in this one. Abraham and his family where they can finally get Pucallpa is the entry point It's the largest port It has 200,000 inhabitants. All of the merchants come here to sell their products. Abraham is seeing it for the first time. I am here surprised, He immediately sees Hello! They look nice. It looks like they had lots of movement. [Foreign spoken audio] It's big here. There's lots of movement. Right here, I think. Here we can work how we used to. Because I see lots of people moving. There will be a big difference Belize is so poor with few people That's the departure zone Abraham has no time to lose. He left Belize with the bare minimum, so now he has to gather some supplies First of all, Jose, come and count the dollars! This is Abraham's life savings. Thirty years of work, his house, his land, However, we sold horses, cows, and whatever we could sell Then I got the money. Then I changed it to buy things, or buying my land, or open my land. The grand total is 17,000 Euros. That's very little For each expenditure, the Mennonites regroup to work out First on the shopping list, mattresses. We are all together because above 10, That's why we are going This one is very hard! It feels like you are sleeping The day is coming to an end in Pucallpa, He's going to be the first Apples, apples, vitamins, vitamins, Abraham has booked a seat the final village before the colony. Johan, another member of the community, The trek begins, traveling for two days one of the tributaries of the Amazon. I don't have any idea. I come to look, see what happens Everything looks all different Everything is different but interesting. A few hours later, They're replaced by long stretches However, this does not worry Abraham. Quite the contrary. That's what I am looking for. That's what I like. The dark green bus, tall bus, high bus. That's what I like. -That's what I look for. Because that looks like the soil is strong They grow vegetables, corn, anything because we like After 48 hours on the boat, Abraham -Are we almost there? -How much longer? This time the crossing is done It's the only way to access the colony Almost no one crosses the river They finally reached their destination. There is no port and no pier, They still have an hour and a half but this time a scooter takes them -Do you hear that noise? The engine is almost touching the ground, In spite of the difficulties, The road is very difficult. Yes, it's difficult but we can change it. That's the first thing we have to work on. That's what we want. Do you want to work? You are not planning to come here. -You've to do everything. We have to start afresh. That's starting from zero to grow. After two hours, It was built by the six Mennonite families Now we have arrived. -Hello. Welcome! We were lucky Otherwise, That's nothing compared There are around 50 Mennonites completely isolated They have no electricity or running water. [Foreign spoken audio] There is still lots to do. Abraham and his family before building their own house When do you think you'll be finished? He says he has worked for one week and so maybe two or three more days. Tomorrow and then he has this house ready. Only two weeks to build a house. The Mennonites are seasoned carpenters. They make the most The people in Belize, how could that happen? We don't go to school and we do a lot How could that be? However, we say we work We don't go to school, A little further on in the forest, Abraham is about to discover his own land. He's been waiting for this moment -Am I at the end of this road? Only a few meters to go. What is this? This is my piece of land here. Now this is how we first open. This is the Bosch. Right now we will go inside and there I could show you Guys, this is the land This land was reclaimed by the community. Abraham's first instinct Telling men to plant carrots will be very, very good. Abraham can already picture On one side, there will be the house and on the other side, The vegetables will be here When people come they see a pretty yard and pretty vegetables, they will be happy. Abraham dreams of rebuilding a community Here, we will be more isolated There will be more love People living. In a year's time, 40 families and nearly 300 people The Amazon has become the last refuge