Thank you to Brilliant.org for sponsoring Space is big. You just won't believe how vastly, hugely, Although according to a new paper, it may Every time you walk out the door, light from eyes. This is the cosmic microwave background radiation universe. We can't see this microwave light with our radio antenna. As soon as we became aware of its existence better devices to collect it. Why? Because it encodes so many secrets. And within this light, a group of scientists A clue that our universe may be actually be Today on Space Time Journal Club we'll delve reported this: Planck evidence for a closed by Eleonora Di Valentino, Alessandro Melchiorri, This is the map of the cosmic microwave background We explored in a previous episode how that sound waves that reverberated through the big bang, only to be frozen in place as the Analysis of the sizes of these speckles from from the Planck map, pointed to a universe that and is dominated by the influences of dark For the most part this has agreed with our But more detailed study of the Planck data We've talked about this so-called crisis expansion rate for the universe that does - particularly the modern expansion rate determined And that's even accounting for accelerating effect of Despite this tension, the teams agree the universe is, as close as we can tell, geometrically flat and infinite. But, I'll come back to what exactly what I mean by that. But even this agreement seems to be fading. In the new study, astrophysicists claim to that the universe is NOT flat, but rather If they're right, the universe is not infinite Before we get to the new study, let's do Albert Einstein's general theory of relativity We have 1) a universe with positive curvature. The 2-D analogy for this is the surface of the surface of a 4-dimensional sphere - also Just like with the 2-D spherical analog, lines come together. Such a universe has a finite volume, just If you travel far enough around you'll get Then there's 2) the negatively curved universe, saddle shape. All paths through space diverge from each Such a universe is open - space goes on forever. And finally 3) the universe with zero curvature Parallel lines stay parallel, your high school and again, space in such a universe goes on forever. The geometry of the universe is determined More stuff in the universe - a higher energy to pull a universe in on itself - it gives - making it finite. And 2) the rate of expansion. Rapid expansion tends to give negative curvature The combination of these factors determine Like I said, previous studies were pointing For example, by looking at the geometry of of the speckles in the CMB. The curvature measured was consistent with degree of uncertainty due to the imperfect The curvature COULD have been very slightly as the surface of the Earth appears flat if It's only when you get some elevation that But it turns out that evidence of very slight data all along. The new study went much deeper into the Planck by the biggest blobs. The team analyzed ALL of the blobs. More accurately, they analyzed what we call That's just the graph showing the distribution Blob size is on the x-axis and number of blobs So we can see that we get a lot more blobs blobs at around 1 degree on the sky. We talked about the power spectrum in enormous One thing that we didn't talk about is how shape of the power spectrum. See, the light from the CMB doesn't travel It passes through a universe full of galaxies gravitational fields that act as lenses, slightly The result is like looking at the universe Everything is very slightly distorted. In the case of the CMB, this results in a spectrum- the peaks are less sharp than they Our brave scientists were able to determine CMB map - and they found way more than would See, gravitational lensing is caused by mass More lensing suggests the universe has a higher Remember that more energy density tends to The new study claims there's enough extra close the universe into a finite hypersphere Obviously I'm glossing over a lot of details These scientists didn't just measure the They created a model that included all of details of inflation, the amount and behavior They found the range of models that fit the part those pointed to positive curvature. That curvature was slight - meaning the universe right then it's not infinitely large. The researchers claim a greater than 99% statistical So, is the universe really closed and finite? Does that mean there's enough matter to And can we find a faster route to India by get back to where we started? Well even if the universe is finite, it's It will NEVER recollapse unless its physics Also, beyond a certain distance from us that no lapping the universe regardless of its There's also a reason to be cautious before The researchers looked at a different indicator so-called four-point correlation function. In short - lensing by a cluster of galaxies blobs together. A random distribution of blobs ends up with slight The four-point correlation function found result of less energy density and a flat universe. So why is there a conflict given that 99+% It's important to know that this percentage It's the statistical confidence in the model model. In other words, IF all of those assumptions chance that a flat universe would look like uncertainties. So, there are three possibilities really: curved and finite. Two is that the assumptions that went into We'll come back to these. Three is that there's a mistake - an issue Let's talk about that. Some very subtle systematic issue in the calibration results for both the geometry and the expansion For example, the Planck CMB map required extremely microwave radiation. If this step, or something like it, wasn't The &quot;official&quot; analysis of the Planck data have to be very subtle. The authors of the new study redid part of of positive curvature - which the Planck team So did the new guys do a better job and prove That would be surprising because most data If this lensing signal is real then maybe of some unknown physics. In the case of the discrepancy in the expansion is the great hope of many physicists. That "missing physics" could turn out to of the universe to the next level. For example, if the expansion rate of the the behavior of dark energy is changing - and In fact, if the universe really is curved universe and modern expansion rates becomes That's because the previous calculations So, physicists get even more excited if this OK, lots of ifs and buts - and that is okay, We are very careful about how we talk about The new result opens a tantalizing new possibility, universe - even if that means honing in on The tension between the Planck results and The good news is that future missions will Perhaps identifying any errors, perhaps discovering the positively curved, finite geometry of If you want to dive deeply into understanding need to study quantum theory. Brillaint.org has a fun course called quantum and problems to solve. Honestly, the best way to wrap your head around In this course you can explore the experiments equations of motion, laws of physics, and of quantum theory. Effective learning is about problem solving. To learn more about Brilliant, go to brilliant.org/spacetime. OK, so in the last episode we explored the of the anthropic principle. But before we get to that, I want to invite you can access with the lowest $2 patreon There are loads of people over there talking stuff 24-7, as well as making suggestions going to do. Here's a discord question from Damagast: do stuff like on Space Time videos, or do most Well, actually, both. I know plenty of physicsts who LOVE talking stuff over a beer, and some who are laser think far beyond it. That's ok too, but I prefer beers with the So let's see what you had to say about the the last episode. Scott Barnkow asks what are some testable Well, I'm glad you asked Scott because next week we're going to tell you about a very clear one: Stephen Weinberg's prediction of the cosmological Speaking of next week, Vladimir postulates of humans in future space-faring civilizations, the first 100 billion? Well, nice way to invent the doomsday argument Vladimir... like 35 years after Brandon Carter first proposed it. And we'll be digging into that next week also. And we'll answer your question P.S.Y - what &quot;reference class&quot; - as in, how do you choose the sample randomly selected. In order to save ourselves from imminent doom NOT in our reference class. Tune in next week. Penny Lane notes that anyone believing in English weather. Well, besides being a witty quip, this gets to an that our universe be able to produce observers There's no reason they need to be in any way In fact I feel like horrible English-style It encourages us to sit inside and think about Regis Bodnar has a great point: while it may universe, it's perhaps impossible to define So, let's see. How do we define a typical universe? Well it would be one whose particular configuration of fundamental constants gives you a universe similar in some respect to Honestly, that's probably some massively exponentially constant in most universes seems likely to So a typical universe is mostly empty Singapore Breaking News likes to play space more brainy but in the background is playing Well, jokes on you Singapore Breaking News - that is yourself.