(pensive music) - [Jon] We have a very of developments to Mike is currently at golfing on the back nine. And it appears as though has just informed him that his shorts violate the club's dress code. This is a highly chaotic we will pass on further Here in the meantime is a file photo of Mike playing golf in His shorts perhaps look like these, and may in fact be these very shorts. More word coming in now: of La Gorce Country Club's dress code. It would seem as though but Mike is wearing cargo shorts, which are specifically not allowed. And ... right now, they are saying they want him to go back to the clubhouse and buy some Bermuda shorts to wear. They say Bermuda shorts are permitted. Now it does appear that if Mike is intent on wearing his cargo shorts, if my interpretation of this he could legally This is, of course, as I am not sure whether We've got a new development here. Mike is refusing to change his shorts! He is in... He is instead walking back to while still wearing these dangerous and irresponsible shorts. He is likely facing a If I know Mike like I think I do, he's just gonna go right up the road and start his own golf course. Hell, he's Mike, he can do that. And I mean, we know the man loves golf. Which is funny, because he which is one of the dramatically higher than most sports. And he was one of the in that high-scoring sport. And of all the sports he could've taken on as a new obsession, he chose just about the only is to keep your score as low as possible. But that's not even the funny Recently, something strange in a very real way, at least for Mike, he stood to gain by Basketball had become golf, would've been the last person on Earth who would ever accept that. It's been a very strange year. (mellow music) - [Seth] George Shinn grew up poor outside Charlotte, North Carolina, then attended business school, then went into the business Shinn wanted more than anything to buy his basketball-loving which was looking to expand. Charlotte didn't have as many people or televisions as other cities, but soon it would have a way bigger than any existing NBA arena. It worked. In 1988, George Shinn bought 75,000 people filled the He considered running for governor. The Charlotte Hornets looked cool. They drafted excellent players. They won playoff games. They sold out night after night. Shinn threatened to He fired a coach whose brother He declined to chip in for a new arena. He drove away those excellent players. He was accused of sexual assault, his extramarital affairs made public before a civil trial found him not liable. The league encouraged him to sell and lined up the perfect local buyer. Shinn refused. The 2002 Charlotte Hornets won and made the postseason, like usual. Before those playoffs ended, Shinn finalized a deal to move &quot;Kiss my grits,&quot; said George Shinn to the city that once threw him a parade. But the NBA couldn't forsake the people and televisions of The league immediately sought and chose Robert Johnson. Bob had just sold his to become America's Now he'd be the first But that team couldn't be Market testing suggested which begot new potential logos: The Charlotte Flight. Appropriate. The Charlotte Dragons. Unique. But sometimes the boss is named Robert, so he thinks the team And he attended the Universities so he likes the color orange. And so, yeah, just two years after here was their new NBA team, the Bobcats. - [Jon] Oh, no. This looks like a from the Law &amp; Order universe. Very unfortunate. Then again, a lot of stuff designed in the aughts looked terrible, and you can at least to differentiate as much as they possible could. They didn't want to look In fact, maybe this offers Mike and company a blank canvas. Maybe it's perfect. In 2006, he returned to his home state and bought a minority and before long he became majority owner. As part of the deal, he took full control of which, of course, is what he (upbeat music) - [Alex] The first seven don't stand out in any glaring way. They resemble a normal expansion In their inaugural season, Charlotte was among alongside the Hawks and those Hornets that had spurned the city But nothing unusual about and they did take a good winning over 40% more games. Over the last five years, but still were at least decent enough to remain above the in each of those seasons, and they even experienced a year ago. They could reasonably be considered to have overachieved especially considering their where they simply could not catch a break. They were automatically assigned the fourth overall selection in their first-ever draft in 2004. But the top tier of that Dwight Howard, a prep-to-pro and Emeka Okafor, March Madness' who'd just led UConn to a national title. Wanting to make a splash, they guaranteeing themselves one of them and perfectly content to take whoever the Orlando Magic The Magic took the raw 18-year-old, leaving the Bobcats to choose who played three years of And while that paid with Okafor winning Rookie of the Year, Howard would develop into a guy who a few years down the road finished top-five in MVP voting and was a runaway slam-dunk winner for Defensive Player of the Okafor was a good player but didn't have that kind of ceiling, and chronic ankle issues preventing him from ever building on that promising rookie year. The next season, they were despite having the second-worst record, and again saw a similarly the local Chris Paul, chosen one pick before Charlotte because they refused to to move up for him. Instead, they settled for Raymond Felton, a UNC Tar Heel like Jordan who didn't exactly meet especially given who they were so close to potentially landing. So instead of a top-five all-time point guard running the show with a three-time Defensive and perennial MVP candidate down low, they're building their franchise mere mortals who did enough to help keep them just treading water. In 2006, for the third consecutive draft they watched a future star then they burned the third In a forgettable, injury-riddled 2.5-year they couldn't get even those water-treading contributions from him. Mired in mediocrity over they were unable to secure but did select several key players who will form much of the (mellow music) - [Jon] These are the and proud we are of all of them. Jamario Moon will eventually join a cast of Derrick Brown, Matt Byron Mullens, Bismack D.J. Augustin, Cory Higgins, Kemba Walker, Boris Diaw, Corey Maggette, Tyrus Thomas, Eduardo Najera, D.J. We unconditionally love each and we think you will too. Unfortunately, as we there are not a whole lot - [Kofie] I lived in Raleigh, From 1995 to 2013, I lived about 2.5 hours So while I can't speak I can speak from a North When it comes to sports in North Carolina, the Bobcats were already in dead last with the deck stacked against them. In the NFL, we had the who had some fun years where they lost to Tom Brady and absolutely nothing else There's also Charlotte Motor Speedway, with NASCAR being a huge draw In Durham we have the Durham Bulls, who you probably remember In Raleigh we have the a team that won the Stanley Cup in 2006. Yeah, yeah, people want but the city of Raleigh and freakin' love the But ask anyone in the that North Carolina revolves If you were born here, you Sometimes it depends on but even then you might that went to different schools. My dad went to Duke and so it was on me to hate I still do. With these fandoms, you'd every day at school over Tyler Hansbrough, Julius Hodge. Between Duke, NC State, you had many fan bases My school even took us on to watch the ACC Tournament during school. College basketball consumed that we didn't have time to with an uninspired color scheme paired with a horrendous logo. If you wanted to go to a it was probably to watch or visit the NASCAR Hall of Fame. If I had to rank them all in North Carolina? I In the year 2011, the closer to the post-Steph Yes, Davidson. A college around 2,000 students at a time. (mellow music) - [Jon] Well, what do you Where else would he be? There's a lockout. This time we find him at the in Lake Tahoe. And on the he places a side bet The guy tells him he can't And Mike decides 500 bucks says he can make it to the green in one shot, and then he goes and does And then he runs over to the crowd to go pick up those 500 bucks like it's the happiest day of his life. I mean, come on, let him have this little slice of because he sure as hell in his day job right now. While most multimillionaire tycoons around this point in history are shifting their money around trying to make a quick buck and then bail, Mike is attempting something very strange: he is trying to accomplish He's trying to build something. The results, of course, indicate that he's not But here in 2011 we find a guy who's finally reckoning with that. Turns out, the &quot;win-now&quot; attitude that used to bring him so much success only works when you're wearing shorts. &quot;Now I've got to live vicariously through the people I'm paying He's playing the long game now. He has to. This is not an &quot;any given From the 1980s 'til now, there have been 32 NBA If they were magically handed out evenly, every single team would have one. But the divide is very stark between this small, four-team slice -- the Lakers, Bulls, Celtics, Spurs -- and the other 26 teams. That supermajority has These four have won 24. Many of the rest of these teams enter every single season that they will not win the title. Behaving otherwise is like and mashing the buttons is flashing on the screen. So Mike has to be something he is fundamentally not: patient. Believe it or not, he's making a lot of and you can see that progress Last month he brought in Rich Cho, whose career path couldn't than Mike's, as general manager. Rich was born in Burma, immigrated to the States and became both an engineer and a lawyer before eventually finding his and landing in Charlotte. Now, Rich is a sentimental guy. He'll later start his very own food blog called Big Time Bites in in the style of scouting reports and rates the price point on a scale of one to five basketballs. It's very, very endearing. But his approach to the is as sharp and analytical as anybody's. In Rich, Mike has found that he himself has never had. These guys have formed a plan. They need to stay the course, avoid taking on big contracts, and preserve plenty of space between the payroll and salary cap so they can make big moves in free agency over the next year or two. The way Rich sees it, these Bobcats must escape this In order to get to where they want to be, they have to make peace of being a bad basketball team. This is an attitude that, Mike simply could not afford to have. But at long last, he's getting there. A lot of things are See, given that this lockout is ongoing, and since he's an owner, he's prohibited by the league He can't talk to any players. In fact, while he's on he has to go out of his way who happen to be out there golfing. The rules are so unforgiving that Mike probably isn't Can you believe that? He might be the most famous Can't even wave. (funky music) - [Seth] The 2011 NBA lockout drags into October and November, meaning that for just the the league must delay and season -- 66 games per team instead of 82 -- opening on Christmas Why? What could possibly keep NBA from doing NBA basketball? Mostly, they can't agree That's basketball-related income, the cash received for tickets, hats, shirts, chicken tenders, et cetera. The recently-expired limited the players' For the laborers, the performing in the TV show, donating their names merchandise ... 57% of the money. But especially to small-market owners, even 57% felt too high. Last year in New Orleans, desperately tried to offload His buyer, a local ship tycoon, got cold feet because of and a bad feeling about The league itself had to step in and buy the Hornets from Shinn. Unusual, and alarming. A year later in the lockout, of small-market franchise They want to shrink the from 57 to 50% at most, and they'll get pretty close You'll find concessions therein, for instance, an amnesty to dump one onerous contract In Charlotte, everyone's I'm sorry, man. Diop's story is He was born in Senegal, came to the U.S. for two got drafted in the 2001 lottery, and has held a steady NBA job ever since. Good for Gana. If anyone says otherwise, Gana didn't compare his teenaged self to Shaq and Hakeem Olajuwon. Skip Bayless did that. Gana didn't offer himself a lucrative five-year contract in 2008. The Dallas Mavericks did that, and then they traded him to Charlotte. But now Diop is coming off a couple unproductive seasons as a Bobcat and surgery to repair a ruptured The question of how Michael Jordan should use his hard-won amnesty clause is sadly easy to answer. Diop notwithstanding, center is the Bobcats' most and they want Kwame Brown to fill it. Brown first signed with an astonishing turn of Brown and Michael Jordan have histories bound together by failure. Jordan's first executive gig, as president of the Washington Wizards, was tainted from the outset by his decision to draft Brown And Brown's early career in Washington was tainted from the outset by having Jordan as a boss and teammate. MJ placed immense then ruthlessly bullied him After nearly a decade -- a decade pocked with for both Brown and Jordan -- they reunited here in Charlotte. Brown's agent called his client's a choice to embrace the rather than flee it. And, playing for his Kwame registered one of his eventually securing the At season's end, he for reviving his career. In December, as the lockout wraps up and management is actually allowed to speak to players again, the Cats leave their meeting A week later, he signs with Golden State. (smooth jazz music) - [Jon] During Mike's playing days, episodes like these were typically spun not as negative personal traits, but as inevitable consequences of superseding positive traits. &quot;Oh, he's just intense.&quot; &quot;Oh, he's just such a competitor, it's what makes him a winner.&quot; I can't honestly tell you Your mileage may vary. In any case, that's some part of who he is. He still dutifully maintains full of personal grudges and grievances that he spent decades cultivating. But there is reason to believe his heart has grown a size or two. There's the fact that Brown, a considerably proud and outspoken guy, would still want anything to do with him. And then there's the way these as they live through this You'll meet 'em all soon, because in large part they have Remember, the players and from having any interaction No practices, no phone calls, nothing. They should've had several for the team to develop for rookies to school up Instead, they have to into a couple weeks and change, and then charge directly They're gonna need to fly the plane while they're building it, and they're gonna have to do it within a very compressed schedule. Sometimes there will be Nine games in twelve days. Chartered flights all over the country to play elite teams and budding dynasties that got to sleep in their Of course, every other team but the specific makeup figures to leave them Who's to blame? Mike is to blame! The lockout was initiated by the owners, and it was Mike who led the who were determined to push There were plenty of who were totally willing to cede a larger share to the players, and it's a safe bet that and his faction of hard-liners, the lockout would've ended a lot sooner. Throughout these months, an exchange had by Mike when he was still technically a player sitting on the other side of the table. Washington Wizards owner Abe Pollin told Mike that the players all the players in the Pollin did some pouting. Then Mike said, &quot;listen, you're rich. If there's money trouble, your own pocket before Then Pollin said, &quot;how am I And then Mike said, &quot;if you And then Pollin said, &quot;fuck you.&quot; And now Mike is the one insisting that the players should trust the owners. Magnificent stuff here. Is he wrong? Well, I mean, yeah, but let's try to humor Let's try to see things from the side of the humble small business owner. (pensive music) It's true that right now, Mike is kinda taking a bath losing millions on the Bobcats every year. In part that's because they're a young franchise and in part because nobody's Overall in 2011, the NBA will make $3.1 billion in apparel sales. The Lakers are the biggest and the Bobcats are in because nobody wants to walk But the big factor is the Charlotte's metropolitan of potential customers There's actually not much correlation between market size and on-court success -- hello Spurs, hello Knicks -- but sitting in a market with a fraction of the customers a lot of teams enjoy certainly puts a team like the Bobcats in a tougher position to succeed. Mike's solution to this, in He believes the league should to fund small-market teams. He believes this so strongly, he was willing to light just for the pleasure You know what? He's absolutely right. Some Lakers or Knicks fans but they need the Bobcats. They need to play in Charlotte to maintain their status, as a nationwide cultural power. So not only would a robust it would be good for everybody. Ultimately, Mike does get what Now, the probably here is that Mike, who's probably concerned he won't be able to shake enough apples wants the players to cough Who did more than anybody, ever, to drive up the market A younger Mike did, decades ago. And who declared that the bring success to the organization? Mike did, during his Hall of Fame speech just a couple years ago. - He said, &quot;Organization I said, &quot;I didn't see organization playing with the flu in Utah. I didn't see 'em playing - [Jon] These players and to see him play kinda breaks their hearts. Many of them, from Klay call him a hypocrite. This is new. As you'd expect with somebody who's accrued more fame Mike has been the subject of a great deal of ranging from more reasonable critiques like his disinterest in and most clear-cut of political movements, and the likes of Ralph for Nike's overseas labor practices, to all the entertaining and likely fictional conspiracy theories NBA fans are famous for. But this is the first time who almost without exception have seen him as a traitor. It'll pass. These things always pass. Mike, for his part, rejects He believes that in an economy reeling the players should accept I don't agree. I don't think you should try to put the organization above the players, because at the end of the day... - Players still gotta go You guys gotta pay us, but I (audience laughs) - [Jon] In fairness to Mike, he is not the kind of obscenely rich guy we're used to, right? Those bankers who created in the first place? He's not them. This is a very low bar at least his long-term project is to build something real that enriches people's lives in some way. And at least we never to understand how he amassed We watched him make his millions. We saw him earn every night after night. He was the one. And he's looking for the next one. (pensive music) Mike doesn't know this player just yet. Which is to say, he has seen him, as he's seen every college up-and-comer. But he doesn't yet know which one of them This player will soon reveal himself. He is a guaranteed megastar so obviously so that he'll be no matter who holds that pick. There was Shaquille O'Neal, and then Tim Duncan, and then LeBron James, and very soon, there will be him. He is the unicorn. He will represent, and in a revolution throughout the entire sport. His metrics will be He will present a combination once thought impossible for He is exactly the transformational figure the Charlotte Bobcats are looking for. Mike must find him. He may not know him. But he can see him. (tense music) - [Alex] The 2011-2012 Bobcats season starts against a Bucks team with whom they engaged in a Stephen Jackson -- who never encountered the team's best, They basically shipped out him, along with backup point and the draft rights to Tobias never encountered the draft rights to The trade cost them a piece of their soul as well as one of the final remnants of their first playoff team, the guy who had more postseason cache than anyone in the building With the pricey Maggette coming off a down year in Milwaukee, absorbing his contract in is the latest in a pattern of clearly all-in on pivoting its direction. The Charlotte Bobcats are sick and tired of picking one spot behind where a transcendent talent No more half measures: they are hell-bent on finding their savior, their Jordan, through the draft. But if the goal is to stink this year, they don't do a very good Despite blowout losses each of the prior three seasons, now the Bobcats have decided to show up for this season's opener, and late in the first Maggette shows he's still got his hops by finishing a dazzling alley-oop. The Bobcats' deficit is cut from 13 to 11. Maggette's another Bobcat who playing a year at Duke, hated Throughout his eight-year stint in L.A. he established himself as one and he's still productive, but he's in the twilight of his career, and with a bloated contract, he's here mostly because that came along with him, and perhaps a little to provide a steady veteran presence - [Seth] One of those who threw that alley-oop, Augustin was born and until Hurricane Katrina to move to the Houston area for his senior year of high school. Augustin found comfort much that he spurned LSU igniting tantrums across Louisiana. It went well. The 5'11&quot; Augustin made a name for himself as Kevin Durant's freshman table-setter, and then, in his sophomore season, as the nation's best point guard, winner of the Bob Cousy Award. Charlotte drafted Augustin in 2008, even though they already employed former Cousy Award winner Raymond Felton, who himself had recently replaced 5'10&quot; Stanford legend Brevin Knight. Our Bobcats have a thing with sparkling college resumes. After a couple years backing up Felton, Augustin finally got his chance to take over as chief and he still holds that job. D.J. confidently calls his own number to pull ahead of Milwaukee But! The succession continues. The night's flashiest handles in his Bobcats debut. Walker exploits a mismatch finish with some enough to get MJ all riled up in beige. Everyone already knows this a diminutive point guard for his scintillating Once again, the Bobcats host and hope they can bypass a logjam by letting those young - [Alex] Entering this placed a heavy emphasis and improving their transition offense, that an advantage of going small was being able to get out and run to create easy scoring opportunities. And here's an early example of that, with Gerald Henderson pushing the pace and smoothly finishing a fast en route to squeaking Blossoming into the crown Henderson's another Duke Blue Devil whose fearlessness and bravado truly earned him Jordan's respect. For the first season and he was just a bit player under But upon Brown's December Henderson's playing time spiked way up as he became a focal point of the team. Now in year three, he is the direct protege In the boss' eyes, who he envisions becoming every contender needs, and a two-way wing who could go in the cauldron of big games and sharp passing and off-ball movement aren't generating good looks. Teams have sniffed around trading for him, but Jordan was having none of that. He is their one untouchable player, even if staying in Charlotte with not being the best at his favorite sport. - [Seth] The Bobcats open their and they're not facing the Bucks anymore. They're skunking the LeBron, Wade, Bosh, and the Miami Heat. The Cats hold their edge, when Augustin banks in The crowd is electric, and seated courtside with MJ for Good times at the Time Warner Cable Arena, aka &quot;The Cable Box.&quot; - [Jon] Cool hat, Cam. (laughing) VERY cool hat, Mike. I'll take, uh... Uh, one copy of the - [Seth] Well, I think the - [Jon] Yeah it's... I'm sorry, that's not very - [Seth] Anyway, you gotta and they do, with typical LeBron literally dunking on Gerald Henderson's head doesn't count, but Wade cooking Henderson and it puts Miami ahead Wade and LeBron show Cam Newton Miami is so well-prepared for siccing LeBron on the little guy, that Coach Silas wonders if the Heat sniffed out his play call ahead of time. Visions of a 2-0 start slip away, but Silas can appreciate for the second game in a row, Charlotte has vastly snagging 53 boards to Miami's 30. Silas has emphasized rebounding ever since an embarrassing preseason an early exposure of since Kwame Brown left. Tonight's biggest starters were 6'9&quot; D.J. White and 6'8&quot; Boris Diaw. The Bobcats know they'll to compete on the glass. So far, so good. Silas practiced what he's been preaching. He's 6'7&quot;, but made his money as a player by outmaneuvering taller In 1963, Silas led the nation He spent his NBA career bulldozing giants like Russell, Wilt, and Kareem, and won three championships for the Celtics and Sonics. So Silas has plenty of reason to believe in an undersized frontcourt, and he also doesn't have much choice. Even Charlotte's tantalizing Bismack Biyombo, stands just He makes the most of it, though, thanks to an absurdly long wingspan. The Congolese teenager has already logged a couple pro seasons in Spain, and made himself a no-doubt lottery pick by embarrassing everyone at the Nike Hoop Summit last spring. That is a big putback And here's Bismack swatting during the fun early part of Biyombo should enjoy but for now, he's playing catch-up, still getting in shape and acquainted. He missed a bunch of training camp while navigating a complex buyout from his Spanish league contract. Charlotte was only allowed and Biyombo lost a lawsuit so he ended up having to cover the rest of the buyout himself. Bismack paid over a Now he's gotta impress ever to play his position. - [Jon] The 19-year-old Biyombo is the very youngest player in the NBA, but he's lived on three and has already seen a lot of the world. He has a lot to say about it, too. Thumbs down to the Running which he finds so inherently Thumbs up to NASCAR, by way of a video game he played as a kid, thereby representing probably the entirety of NASCAR's Congolese fan base. He's in the right place. Mike, you've got one hell of a bunch here. I thought this was gonna But here we are, probably just one overheard assignment away from knocking off one of the greatest NBA and starting 2-0. Know what I think? I think you were right not to rule out the playoffs this year. I know you're not shooting Listen, the East is really Maybe you surprise people, you kinda cruise into the five or six-seed and make some noise. Plant your flag and players all over the league say, &quot;Look at that! They're They've got a plan, and they're to pay guys like me. I wanna go play for Mike.&quot; You never know, right? How many years did it take you Seven, right? - [Alex] Things go a bit when they welcome the Orlando Magic to town, and Dwight Howard completely obliterates all Charlotte's rebounding progress by single-handedly gobbling up 24 boards. Really he just toys nonchalantly snagging a out of the air in the most disrespectful, demoralizing kind of block that exists in the sport of basketball. They simply have zero answers This is a tough situation he's torn. In the 2011 offseason, trying to have players was something very important to him, and he planned to work to accomplish that. But the lockout threw a and in the wake of this 21-point loss, at a time when his young amid the rigors of the shortened season after just three games, he feels compelled to and cancels practice so they Something was wrong with As the calendar flips to 2012, more getting toyed with where LeBron James and Dwyane Wade connect for not one, not two, but three touchdown passes. The experienced, sage doesn't mince words when Up next is a bad Cavs team but even they cruise right along and don't even need to for a single second of the fourth quarter of a deflating 14-point Bobcats loss in which their effort was And now they're about in the first of many - [Jon] Welcome to January arguably the most brutal stretch of the most brutally-compressed season in NBA history to date. These guys just flew Less than 24 hours later, They fly back home to then host the Hawks, then play then have to go to New York then go back home to play the One more off day before then immediately back to to host the Pistons and That's nine games, and eight - [Alex] The next is the storied Madison Square Garden to face a Knicks team he dispatched on each of his first four He had more success there than any other non-Chicago a place where he dropped 50 twice before any other visiting including with a 4 and a 5 on his chest on the first Tuesday he spent playing an NBA game in 22 months. It's quite possible no player the way Michael Jordan has owned MSG. So even though the chips are it's fitting that for the man how he lives vicariously the team summons an Like when Byron Mullens the league's top rim protector, Or when D.J. Augustin easily slithers through the Knicks defense into the paint for the artful layup. And in what had to be a thing of beauty for Jordan to witness, Gerald Henderson was an absolute machine, near-automatic all game whether he was putting his head down, attacking the cup, and finishing strong, going iso and not being fazed by Chandler right in his grill, curling around screens to nail J after J, or stepping back way downtown to put the nail in New York's coffin. But right when Charlotte's with a sorely needed win, Corey Maggette hurt his hamstring, which is set to sideline him for a month. A quick look at the injury report tells us that with Maggette out, Paul Silas will be by inserting Derrick Brown Brown was their second-round pick in '09, and around last trade deadline, Charlotte waived him with but the Knicks complicated those plans. A month ago, he ultimately motivated by the prospect Game seven marks the season who rounds out their young core on reaching his potential after Jordan swung a for the former top-five but who'd failed to meet expectations during a rocky tenure in Chicago. - [Jon] A long time ago I wrote for a Chicago-based sports blog. It was fun. Although we never spoke, Tyrus Thomas maintained a while playing for the Bulls. Thing is, the further the season went on, the less time he could spare. So by the end, his posts went like, &quot;What's up, y'all? We're Here's my charity. Here's my Twitter. Alright, later.&quot; Such brevity. I'm not being facetious when I say he had a lot to teach I learned nothing. - [Alex] Thomas helps them force overtime against a Hawks team that the night before. Doesn't matter. Needing a stop in the closing Augustin falls asleep and lets Joe Johnson get completely loose for a 16-footer he'll be hitting in his sleep Ballgame. They immediately hop on where the next night they build a surprising six-point halftime lead against the emerging contender Pacers before getting outscored in each of the final two quarters. This loss cuts deep for Silas, who's basically been broken by how soft his team's been playing, and who's unable to detect in his team's play with Back at Madison Square Garden to kick off a five-game-in-six-night D.J. Augustin hits one of with 10 seconds left though those are ultimately of another loss. But Silas was at least pleased just to see his team scratch The next night against until Rockets rookie second-round proved too overwhelming down the stretch. In Atlanta they revert to further exasperating their coach by failing to take to on getting out in transition and running. They're playing small with and all of its inherent disadvantages. The middle game of their is a 17-point loss to that drops the Bobcats to 2-10. Even worse has been during this funk. They've been outscored by 157 points over their last 10 games. No one else in the same period of time can even dream of reaching such depths. (mellow music) - [Jon] (exhales) Boy. Mike's in the locker room He is lighting into those guys. I can't really make out what he's saying. Maybe that's for the best. You know, one time Mike's Bulls dropped three in a row to start the 1990-91 season. it was technically a if you want to count the loss that knocked them out of the And people said, &quot;oh God, The Bulls are going nowhere! We're gonna collapse And after that, as long the Chicago Bulls never even lost as many as three in a row ever again. He just wouldn't allow it. Now, his guys have lost six in a row. One of the many things wrong is that they just cannot Over these last three games They've shot 1-for-8 or worse from beyond the arc in and they are only the second team in NBA history to ever do that. This means not only that and throwing away possessions, but they're also to set up other scorers. Coach Silas has his at least to some degree. Larry Brown was a legendary who'd won titles in both but he was not a good fit here. He kinda alienated everyone on his way out the door last season, openly telling his players that they were a bad team More specifically, he never with reliable three-point shooters because he personally Which is kinda like in a chess match because This meant that the was left bare for poor Coach Silas. Around this time he's for Reggie Williams to Reggie is a very skilled but we're talking about a guy who, on last season's three-point This will be the Bobcats' This is where they're at right now. Hmm. (clucks) You know, Mike, you're gonna have a over the next couple years, right? I wonder if you could go Hmm. You remember who we're Mark my words: this young And his dad played in Steph grew up here in town and You think he'd wanna come back here? (chuckles) Oh yeah, he would. He's said so multiple times. I mean, look where's he's playing now! The Warriors are one sports franchises in the entire country. Losing is almost all they've They're going nowhere, and they are never, ever I mean, does Curry wanna spend or does he want to come home and play for the greatest of all time? Mike, you gotta get him outta there. And who knows how this season is gonna go ... but if you could find a way to put him together you know, the one you're imagining ... if he really is the next great one ... then there's no telling You've spent so many years here watching everyone else have their turn. Maybe now, it's your turn. - [Seth] On January 14th, the Cats finally collect win number three against the Warriors, who and his worrisome sore ankle. Coach Silas grants Kemba Walker and Kemba delivers a season-high 23 points in the double-digit victory. Splendid outing for that of Kemba and D.J. Augustin. To accommodate Kemba's and that was Boris Diaw, breaking Benching a 29-year-old veteran in a contract year raises flags -- did Coach Silas give up Is Boris too nice, too passionless a player? Will Charlotte trade him? And what does Boris have He doesn't give a shit. (mellow music) I need to be up front here and admit Diaw is one of so it is with the utmost Boris Diaw is a basketball snob. His mother is Elisabeth Riffiod, a French basketball legend who His father is Issa Diaw, a Senegalese high jump Boris grew to 6'9&quot; as a teenager and attended the same French Boris and his roommate, Tony Parker, helped lead their home in the 2000 European U18 Championship. He played a few seasons in and in 2003, a league MVP award, despite scoring just Players voted for that honor, and they appreciated Then Boris got drafted by a stagnant environment of Atlanta coaches puzzled over a kid who seemed to have it, seemed to get it, but didn't apply himself -- Rookie Boris displayed skill but a sound shot but no interest in shooting, the sense to defend anyone, The Hawks knew they had saw him in practice -- but they didn't know what to do with him. Diaw wouldn't follow instructions, wouldn't seize opportunities. I believe Boris was bored. In 2005, Diaw got what he wanted: a trade to the Phoenix Suns, coach Mike D'Antoni's game-changing, hyperkinetic basketball laboratory. Boris had to replace Phoenix's Amar'e Stoudemire, while inauspicious task, but He would defend any opponent, and his clever passing made him like a tall, satellite version of the Suns' maestro This is exemplary Boris he's a big attacking a mismatch, posting, faking, pivoting, and then -- just when you think he's suddenly a point guard delivering a slick pocket pass. Nash is one of many to describe Boris with a sort of mythic reverence, like he's Chuck Norris' Boris supposedly got chastised for passing up shots his and responded by telling Boris got that unselfish and also his astoundingly of 35 beats per minute. Boris was the best man at Tony Parker's wedding to Eva Longoria. And then there's the Vertec story. One day Boris walked into the Phoenix gym and noticed a Vertec machine. He'd never seen one before A Vertec is a device used to measure an athlete's leaping ability, the idea being that you jump and swat as much of the rack as you can. Anyway, Boris set down his cappuccino, kicked off his flip-flops, He CAN do stuff like that. Phoenix teammates mocked Boris for his relatively doughy physique, but swear that Boris whenever he cared to do so. Boris just didn't always care. He probably stopped caring when coach D'Antoni left Phoenix, and took the excellent &quot;7 Seconds The next coach, Terry Porter, objected to Boris' choice in shots, so Boris protested by refusing to shoot. The Suns punted Boris to Charlotte, where he found an appreciative soul in former coach Larry Brown, who had him figured out from day one. Boris started every game en When coach Silas took over for Brown, he asked Boris if he wanted Boris said nah, not really. During the lockout, Boris interned for a National Geographic He played a couple but skipped practice on Mondays, which Boris could get away with, Now the Bobcats' season is slipping away, and coach Silas finds himself ever more flummoxed with Boris. Boris showed up this and coach Silas recalled how losing weight helped him get the most Boris won't lose weight. On a team lacking offensive firepower, Silas wants Boris to shoot more. Boris won't shoot more. So yeah, bench Boris. He doesn't care. He's bored. I'm sorry, but I love this man. - [Jon] Bad news, Mike. Coach Silas just got He, uh, got mad about threw a fit, kicked the ball, and the refs said, Holy shit. Your team really, really sucks. I don't mean anything by that. I like your players, you know that. It's just a statement of fact, that's all. To their credit, they came and a very good Magic team And then they went to Chicago, and for a while they to a Bulls team that owned But for every one of those, including a 111-78 home Kemba Walker was openly Poor Kemba, man. This rookie was already having to learn the NBA game as he went along, and now fellow point guard Augustin is out with a foot injury, so Kemba has to play more minutes. This kid has gone straight to a guy whose job it is to for a 3-18 team. And for what? Not to win, clearly. Just to lose by less embarrassing margins. Ideally, a silver lining is that your rookies get quality but Kemba is too busy in the boat to even do that. This guy's gonna be 38 years old by the time this season's over. Anyway, this one's still in Looks like we're about halfway let's see what they're up to. And DeSagana Diop is headed Wait. Wait a sec. Gana Diop's still here? I thought you were gonna amnesty him and get his salary off the books. Your team, Mike. Anyways. Looks like the down to seven if Diop Wait, wait. Sorry, hold on another sec. Did you know that Gana Diop is one of the worst free throw It's really not that big a deal, his value never lied in scoring. He's more of a defensive specialist, and he's gonna end up he should be really proud of. Still, he's a career .467 There have been 1,995 players who have attempted at least and if you plot them by Diop ranks 1,989th. So out of a group of about 2,000 guys, he's seventh-worst ever. But, hey. .467 still means Every point counts. Let's go! Wait, wait, wait, wait. Mike, hold on a sec. Did you notice where Let's take a look. Oh wow. You shot from the line nearly 9,000 times, making you one of the most prolific free throw shooters ever. Even across that huge sample, you maintained a percentage of .835. On top of everything else, you were one of the best Yeah, okay. Well, I'm Well, I didn't know that. Alright. Anyway, back to the Wait, wait, wait, wait, Wait a second. Mike, do you remember with your eyes closed? No, I mean literally. Literally Most famously, you did it but you also did it You did it in MSG that one time, did it against the Warriors. And every single one of You knew that if you you'd never hear the end of it. But you had no fear. You know you would not fail. Amazing. Okay. Anyways. Gana Diop on the line to shoot two. (bloodcurdling music) Mike. This means something, man. You... This is the Bat Signal. You gotta put your shorts back on. You gotta get back out there, man. I know, I know. You're 48 years old. Just give me a second, hear me out. The season's lost, right? We're not going to the At the same time, you gotta get this if it's gonna be successful, right? So you need to move some tickets. And nothing will move as Michael Jordan, Charlotte I mean, do you remember the People mobbed the arena that the team shop had the And team officials were so that they offered everybody if they would just leave? we don't want your tickets, and they would not leave It's all about you, Mike. It's... It always has been. Do you not think this team Look, Corey Maggette is hurt, and Gerald Henderson is hurt, and Boris Diaw is French. They have almost no veteran shooters. No leadership out there. Maybe in normal circumstances, you would address that problem But you can't do that, right? You don't wanna do that. Because the whole long-term has been to create cap space, and taking on a big new contract throws a wrench into all of that. Calling your own number that you and only you possess. It's your secret weapon. Remember when you left the by the way, we're playing right now, there's another sign from God -- to go take the floor, and you just paid yourself the Do that! Can't you see how perfect this is? What, are you worried that First of all, that doesn't Second of all, look, everybody is laughing at you already. I know you can still physically play. I know it. You know how I know? Let's take a look at from just a few months ago. July 19th, 2011, page 1C. (gasps) Who's that? That's you! That's a 48-year-old you If your body can do that, your body can do basketball things. You know I'm making sense. Maybe you're not at your That's fine, it's not Like, Paul could give you enough to pack the house, enough to get the team through enough to provide some and make a real difference. Don't tell me that you can't And hey. Listen, you know I wouldn't be trying if I knew you just plain didn't want to. That wouldn't be It wouldn't. But see ... there's something - One day you might look up and see me playing the game at 50. (audience laughs) - [Jon] When you said that during your Hall of Fame people thought you were joking. - Oh, don't laugh. Don't laugh. - [Jon] You were not joking. People didn't understand because you won't end up A year from now, you're gonna And you know what you're gonna tell him? That you are consumed by this idea of going back out there and playing. Even now. It's not just a fleeting fantasy. It's not a fun hypothetical. It's something you think You can do it, Mike. Come on, guys. Tell him. - [Alex] Well, if anyone even the great Michael Jordan, over whoever'd be the alternative I'm not sure I'd want that - [Kofie] I'm gonna be That's an awful idea. - [Seth] Sorry. Sorry, what I was in the bathroom. (Jon sighs) - [Jon] Gana Diop ultimately misses three of his four free throw attempts. The Bobcats lose by three. (smooth jazz music) - [Seth] At the beginning of this streak, coach Silas insisted his team It's not happening, and Silas is dejected, at odds with a roster of players who strike him as soft and fragile. At low moments, he lashes out. After scrapping to become a great player, Silas has withstood plenty His first post-playing job with the notorious Donald Sterling. After a couple seasons it took Silas over 15 years to get another head coaching gig -- and it was here, in Charlotte, That young, perpetually overshadowed squad viewed Silas as a father Silas was the leader after the shocking death of Silas was also the guy about economics with a mouthful of ham, and snarling at their love of rap music. The Hornets fired Silas not George Shinn lived next door but sent someone else to Silas walked over to his and Shinn hid from him. Silas got this job with the Bobcats by just attending games as a fan. MJ kept chatting with Paul in the stands, and took a liking to him. Basically everyone does. Paul's a likable guy. But he's losing touch, losing patience. This might explain why he's Paul's son, Stephen Silas, during his dad's first when Paul became LeBron's The younger Silas scouted in Washington, then spent years with before returning to his Maybe he'll take over for his dad someday. Maybe soon. - [Alex] And if he does, hopefully there will have been cultivated some interior defense that than a piece of tissue which is what we see in their That one was their fourth Let me now take the opportunity Tracking the season-long of the 2011-12 Bobcats and comparing it at each otherwise seen in the 21st we see after this, their 22nd game, they are the very best And they don't have to wait long for 30-point loss number five. In Portland the next and Gerald Wallace, their former star and last remaining original Bobcat who they gave away a year earlier they suffered their worst But if Wallace had his druthers, he would've ensured even Meanwhile the Gerald they is humiliated by the product and now won't even be able to aid in the effort to turn things around, as a hamstring injury has alongside Maggette and Augustin. - [Jon] Hey, look, It's a basketball g- Oh. Um... Hey, would you look at that? The New York Football (&quot;Monday Night Football&quot; theme music) Congratulations to now TWO-time Super Bowl champion Todd Flanders. This has been the year of The Dallas Mavericks managed and break through as the the Cardinals won the World Series despite having the worst and now the Giants, who were a pretty middle-of-the-road team in the regular season, just wandered into the playoffs and walked off with the Lombardi Trophy before anybody could Mike, I get the feeling you were trying to New You were just hoping get into the playoffs, and hope your guys could grit their way through I think you were right and I think you were that these guys can't do what you did and will their way to a title. Gerald Wallace was the most of all time. People loved him. But you saw the fork in You could either keep the fan favorites and be kinda good forever, or you could start upon the You chose the latter. The most important difference between the NBA and some is that in the NBA, it Football is largely made up of events that might eventually culminate A tipped pass or a fumble they only drive up the probability of a future change on the scoreboard. Throughout the Giants' entire playoff run, they encountered a total Just 47. And the Cardinals experienced 135 plays in which one or more runs were scored. These are scantrons that you can cheat. You cannot cheat this one. Last year, the Dallas through a labyrinth of well Luck evaporates here. In the NBA, simply that's the easy part. The team that wins the NBA It's a process that's Which, of course, in the short term is what makes all this such a drag. As a wise man once said, ball don't lie. (pensive music) - [Alex] After a couple in Phoenix and Boston extend they return home to hit lucky number 13. In that game, another loss by over 30, they don't have a single player That had to sting for Jordan, a man who once did so in at the moment holding the record for the longest such streak by over 40%, a space that will only To twist the knife just a little bit more, it was against his old team too. More embarrassment emanates Led by Chris Paul, the one who got away, the Clippers dunk all over Charlotte in another blowout Bobcat loss, officially marking the franchise's longest all-time losing streak. But at least Corey Maggette provides a valuable lesson on sharing when he simply wants to make sure the Clippers get a chance They do show some more but are ultimately doomed by Then on a trip to Minnesota, More competitive hoops, more losing. The streak stands at 16. The Cats remain unable to catch a break. - [Kofie] Let's back up for a minute. On February 11th, the How did that hap... Ah, yes. The arena packed out to not Corey Maggette, but a guy It makes total sense, too. Chris Paul was born in Winston-Salem, a little over an hour away from Charlotte, where he became a North In 2002, Paul's grandfather at the age of 61. The next day, Paul dropped 61 points. When he had the chance to get 62, he airballed the free throw on purpose. Before he'd even left high school, he'd achieved something far more legendary than anything these He stayed in Winston-Salem and played basketball at Wake Forest, and was the most exciting (sorry, Josh Howard). Now, in a perfect world, Paul would be drafted by a That wasn't in the cards, however, as the Hornets team drafted Paul and the Charlotte team I'm not a Bobcats fan but there's still something so sad about seeing Chris Paul in a jersey that donned with the words &quot;New Orleans&quot; on it, while Bobcats fans got Felton was fine in It only makes sense that every people came to say hello. - [Jon] Mike. Mike! C'mon, you know what day it is, right? You know what day it is, don't you? IT'S YOUR BIRTHDAY, MIKE! C'mon, big guy! Up and at 'em, let's go. Let's celebrate Listen, I know that, uh ... birthdays are not always the, uh, easiest thing for you. I hope number 49's a great one. We do have a game to play. I would love to be able to tell you that they snapped their 16-game skid by winning on your birthday. So ... that is exactly what I'll do. (&quot;Happy Birthday to You&quot;) Can you believe it? They broke the longest losing and they did it on your birthday. What do you think of that? Huh? Get a load of Reggie Williams, who's finally back from injury and who led the team with 22 points. And Bismack Biyombo, who to provide rim defense they've In a season like this, a lot of guys wouldn't have but they did, Mike. You know they love you, even if things aren't really Despite everything, the Your guys are sticking together. I think one day in the future, the day everything finally works you'll look back on it You will. Speaking of the future. Mike ... there is someone (pensive music) - [Seth] In 2012, NBA fans aren't calling people &quot;unicorns&quot; yet, but the concept is out there. Basketball orthodoxy are the least refined, but every once in a while, there emerges a 7-foot-tall prospect who can perform the dunks, post-ups, blocks and boards -- while ALSO flourishing the of a smaller player. Like unicorns, versatile Like unicorns, sometimes but you didn't. Anthony Davis looks like the real deal, and he comes by it honestly. Davis began high school as a 6'2&quot; guard, with the requisite ball and then sprouted to 6'10&quot; which is how you go from unrecruited to number one recruit very quickly. Since his very first college game, Davis has realized fantasies: that night, Davis reminded when a near-7-footer and when he shuffles his feet fast enough to contain a guard. A couple weeks ago against Alabama, he gave us the otherworldly vision of a big guy hunting in the backcourt, then covering 50 feet with one dribble. He's been dabbling with self-creation, like this sweet pull-up the And if you like your bigs old-school, here's a gorgeous post move These are glimpses of infinity between Davis' steady, of tall guy stuff: dunks, When Michael Kidd-Gilchrist you can be sure Davis is Anthony Davis is the player of our dreams, logging one of the best - [Alex] With the ability and do it awesomely, Davis' freshman season in Lexington launched him into rarefied air: that of a slam dunk, regardless of which team would be fortunate enough to land it. Not one of the 30 teams would into considering someone else. That's not a dynamic we see very much. In the '80s, there was no doubt that Patrick Ewing, Danny were the ultimate prize Ditto for Shaq in '92. But in the two decades since, we've really only seen this happen twice: once in 1997 with Wake and again in 2003 with the Safe to say those two So how is it determined who to have their entire turned around by a single eyebrow? Well, you gotta win the lottery. Initially instituted in the the lottery replaced a system where a coin flip between the determined who got the It was an attempt to curb teams tanking to the bottom of the league for a 50% shot at the number one pick. Now every team that fell would have a chance for luck to strike, and the worst team could stumble out of the first couple spots entirely. And in 2012, the likelihood of the team that finished with the worst record ending up with the A one-in-four shot at securing the ultimate franchise facelift. - [Jon] I gotta go get some more grapes. Mike ran outta grapes, so he's having to give That's not good. Oh yeah, the Bobcats lost Anyways, this is part of a whole thing he's doing around town. He's spent the last year or a &quot;responsible corporate citizen,&quot; I guess you'd call it. Every so often, team employees to donate money to shelters, the whole deal. You might want to write this off as a cynical gesture to and who knows, maybe you'd I mean, this kind of thing has got the newspaper talking about it, and it's got me talking about it too. Mike did come out and say that if he wanted the city of Charlotte to buy into the Bobcats, the Bobcats needed to buy So to some extent, this is transactional. But the guy does regularly for everything from hurricane Maybe he really is just and I'm carrying his water Should be noted, though, that during the height of he had this big shiny charity called the Michael Jordan Foundation. Uh, that's his full name, He could've just coasted and nobody would've increasingly ineffective and bureaucratic. Celebrities do this all the But Mike was not having it. He shut the entire thing down and opted to give his money directly to pre-existing foundations instead. That's what you do if you care more about actually helping people And he does love Charlotte. He likes to bring up the led the NBA in attendance They were an even bigger That's what he's after. Nobody really likes these but he's determined to In the present moment, It's funny, though. Whether it's this or or whatever else, as much it's like he's in love with the struggle. (wistful music) Thanks to some combination and the Charlotte Bobcats being a considerably bad basketball team, the Charlotte Bobcats a weeks-long stretch without a single win. After the Pacers, Pistons, and Spurs treat these guys like a practice squad, they finally break above the clouds for a few precious Although they ultimately lose, they do hold a double-digit lead for five blessed minutes in the second quarter. Your average NBA team both in games they win But the Bobcats haven't led by It's March 4th. They went 20 entire games -- that's about 1,000 minutes of Basketball -- without holding a double-digit lead for even a single second. That's an outcome that's than their 4-31 record. That record only tells This suggests that they can't win. That they just don't have it in 'em. (funky music) - [Seth] At home against down 16 in the second quarter, coach Silas unloads on referee Tony Brown, who ejects Silas with Paul now leads the league And Paul's son now leads the Bobcats. While the two technical free throws boost Orlando's lead to 18, Stephen Silas assumes of standing and pointing at stuff, and sheesh, he must be really good at it. Charlotte immediately to finish the half. Corey Maggette spearheads an 8-0 run to open the third quarter. The Magic go almost 7 game and just fold in the second half. You can attribute plenty who damn near neutralized Orlando superstar Dwight Howard down low. But if you ask Maggette, the game ball goes to Stephen Silas, who helped the Bobcats and pushed them toward Gerald Henderson preying on Young Stephen knows his stuff. - [Jon] Paul wants this This is, in fact, what the Charlotte Bobcats are all about at this they're a love letter to the future, a desire to build something There's also team president Rod Higgins, an old friend of Mike's. The two former teammates and had shared a more old-school and to their credit, they like Rich Cho in the room to Rod was involved in a number including the question of who of the departed Kwame Brown I imagine Rod's process he sat around like, &quot;Uh...&quot; Then he sat around some And then all of a sudden it was the day before the season opener and they still hadn't And then he sat down to Christmas dinner, looked around at his family, and said, &quot;You!&quot; Listen, later on I'm gonna that y'all are not doing the T-word. And this is one of those things that are not gonna make But the 15th guy on an NBA roster is almost never a guy you've heard of, and Cory, a rookie with genuine potential who shares Colorado's is about as deserving as Beyond the multiple father-son dynamics at play within this team, there is, of course, Mike's determination to bring the next Mike to Charlotte. Someone who can carry a team, write a franchise's history, that seasons like this one ever happened. And even this franchise itself, of course, is struggling to escape the This is anecdotal, and something we really can't back up with data, but I'm willing to bet the average person probably Either they played NBA Jam, or they recall the electrifying uniforms, or they remember Alonzo Mourning. But people aren't really They are something that a nearly decade-old NBA franchise, owned by the greatest that people have not heard of. Even casual NBA fans tend I mean, you hear the word Oh, no. Here it is. Here is the moment that I realize that they share both their with an industrial skid loader. Did nobody in the room point this out? The slowest and least A thing that is typically The Bobcats dutifully truck and in keeping with this theme, the former Charlotte team combine to produce a variety of lethargic, plodding basketball that hasn't been seen The Bobcats win, 73-71, but that anyone won this game at all. This is the first 73-71 final score the NBA has seen since 1953, when the Minneapolis Lakers &quot;Knocks,&quot; apparently. Now, coincidentally, on this Anthony Davis just led Kentucky The Kentucky Wildcats are truly something to behold this year. They'd lost only once, to and even then in large part because Davis got into foul trouble. This is arguably one of the and it's led by a freshman. Kentucky brought a 22-game then made it 23, then made it 24 to reach And then, on the same day the Bobcats' plane touches down here, Anthony Davis shocks the world ... and loses. Mike? Are we bad luck? If we are, that seems like Huh. Charlotte's one-game winning streak is decisively ended a couple They show a little more before running out of gas, and it's around this time are beginning to notice something: these losses are beginning to add up to something kinda special. The 1972-73 Philadelphia 76ers finished with nine wins and 73 losses. That was good for a the worst in NBA history. At 6-36, the Bobcats are with a winning percentage of .143. This has led some writers around the NBA to take notice lately. While this is just another example of sportswriters like me it is remarkable that they're as those Sixers. With 24 games left to play, the Bobcats only need to win two more to avoid sinking below these depths. Make that one more! On the 17th, they beat Toronto again to notch their seventh win. And what do you know? It's with Paul letting his son He actually also let him guest-coach during their competitive meaning that Stephen coaching a team that's The guy's a magician. Dad's plan seems to be working. - [Seth] Boris Diaw has done it. One of the most talented Bobcats has rendered himself unplayable. Let's back up just a bit and with the adventures of Boris. On March 4th, he attempts a feat of abstinence that stands out on a night when New scores 57 points on 29 shots, almost single-handedly Coach Silas has made it clear that he views Diaw's play as He knows what Boris is up to. It's civil disobedience, and it's working. During win number five against the Magic, Boris plays zero minutes -- that's zero from Paul Silas AND zero from Stephen No love, even from the substitute teacher. The next day, Rick Bonnell reports that Diaw wants Charlotte While the front office weighs its options, Boris keeps showing up -- he commutes to work on a Segway -- and, except for a couple desperate nights, he keeps riding the bench. With or without Boris, the anyone but the Hornets on March 12th. After getting bought by the then letting multiple players New Orleans seems to be ... let's say ... allowing Some would say tanking. The Bobcats aren't tanking, though. Coach Silas publicly laments the team they could have been if Diaw gave a shit, which doesn't exactly make it easier for the Bobcats to trade the guy. Indeed, the trade deadline so the Bobcats give Boris his wish and buy out his contract on March 21st. During this stretch, coach not just Diaw, of mailing it in, but clearly wonders about his - [Jon] That's probably this occasional deputizing The time of old-school and he seems to know it. He knows just as certainly that Stephen is the perfect But as badly as Stephen wants the job, he's surely cherishing every game he gets to spend with his dad. Five years ago, he nearly lost his father following complications Stephen was a young and worked closely with Steph Curry during his rookie season. His career certainly seemed And then last season, to interim head coach here in Charlotte, he called his son and said, Without a second thought, and joined the Bobcats midseason. A year later, he finds himself trying to squeeze every possible win, usually in vain, out of There's nowhere else he'd rather be. (suspenseful music) - [Alex] In the wake of win number seven, let's take a swing back over to where their point Ever since taking over the mantle for worst 21st century point they've maintained a following each of their Yikes. But hey! After beating the Raptors they are no longer rock bottom, who'd been outscored through compared to 551 for these Cats. There is indeed at least well into the season in which in not having the worst Not the worst after 43 games! They should hang a banner Now, can they maintain this No. They just can't stop in back-to-back blowout losses marred by getting and allowing an astronomical 72 points in the paint in the other. Paul Silas is incredulous. With bigs Eduardo Najera and they're running out of bodies down low, and he's running out of answers. Turns out Mike's not the who harbors a desire to re-take the court to stop the bleeding. But nothing can. The losses keep snowballing, and by the time March comes to a close, they've authored a brand-new losing streak of seven games and counting. - [Jon] Oh no! Mike! You're gonna give up! You're throwing in the towel! April Fool's, no you're not. Of all the things people this is one I'm happy I You're not going anywhere, and of course, that might not be such a bad thing at the moment. With only 16 games left to play, the Bobcats are separated by a margin of five losses, making it increasingly more snagging the pole position in the lottery. That would give you a one-in-four shot. The same odds as flipping a for the right to draft Anthony Davis. Who, would you look at that, This is the level he's at right now: he shot just 1-for-10 in the final, which is terrible shooting, He makes such a colossal from rebounding to passing to blocking to less tangible stuff like scaring his opponents off open looks, that it doesn't even matter. In his worst game, he still So, not only is he analytically magnificent in the eyes of a guy like Rich Cho, he's also a quintessential Mike pick, a college hoops legend who and does win. He's perfect. Mike, there's no way especially not right now. Besides, what would you even That's a fun question, Mike. What would the life of without this game? Really! A meteorologist! You even went back and Hmm. I wonder if there are any inherent advantages to being a 6'6&quot; weatherman. Maybe you could give the I mean, yeah, I've been to Canada. I know that they center Canada in the middle of the screen up there. I mean, like, maybe you could who reaches up there and says like, &quot;Oh, it's snowing I don't know, people might I don't know, I mean, maybe not. Maybe not. Look, I'm just trying to I'll be honest with you, um... I've read ahead, and I know what and I'm just trying to kinda stall, because I don't wanna hear about it. Alright. Alright, fine. Brace yourself, Mike. (pensive music) - [Seth] Okay, I will The good news is that if someone so hard that it dents your skull, a doctor can fix you right up. They just need some and, um, a moment to &quot;open your head, pull your face out, and fix Again, this has been the good news. The bad news, I guess, is that you got elbowed in the forehead so hard that it dented your fucking skull. That, on April 6th, is the end of Eduardo Najera is the oldest Bobcat. So when Milwaukee's Jon Brockman inadvertently sends one of through Eduardo's frontal bone, you can understand why he brain injury, no long-term look ahead to a future of ... I dunno, maybe something else. I suspect Najera was already Eduardo hasn't dogged has nothing but praise for the forward's work ethic -- but this is not his scene. Eduardo is a legend -- one in University of Oklahoma history, perhaps the most successful the super-tough veteran Najera delivered plenty of although nothing to warrant He'll be okay, though, and of not playing for the Bobcats anymore. After Najera hits the injured list, Corey Maggette tries to give it a go. Maggette has missed a it was his hamstring, then his back, then his Achilles -- but he returns in early April, limps his way through by a combined 61 points, Corey tried. These last, few, lingering - [Alex] What they're is to end this latest losing streak they're in the midst of, one after earlier having a 16-gamer. That is their sole focus as As soon as they do break it will at least ensure they won't end up with the worst record by a They have 10 chances remaining. Four are against real bad teams in the Pistons, Hornets, Then again, their two most to arguably the next-worst those Wizards as well as the Cavs. After a 24-point Pistons win, of another three blowouts in So it goes without saying they in South Beach against a LeBron-led team. The streak hits 15. But, help is on the way. The kind of help a fork provides Jamario Moon. (upbeat, funky music) Signed out of the NBA's Development League and tossed aboard this sinking to replenish wing depth, many know Moon from the prior season as the Cav who technically got first crack at replacing LeBron But LeBron James he is not. - [Jon] Jamario Moon is a very nice man from Goodwater, Alabama In 2001, there was a long, long list of underclassmen and high school grads who declared themselves And nestled among the names of guys from Miami and Notre Dame and who played at a small He wasn't drafted. It crushed him. Then he re-assembled himself D-League, Globetrotters, Many birthdays passed, and the odds of him grew increasingly remote with each one. Then at age 27, all the work he put in and the Toronto Raptors gave him a shot. There have been a number of 27-year-old NBA rookies throughout history, but Jamario Moon is the only one ever to play himself into a starting role and start 75 games in his rookie season. He made an immediate impact not for some basement-dweller, His thunderous dunks made him a cult hero, and the next year he was where he damn near threw it His career plateaued after and after a few seasons he was Didn't matter. The now-30something headed hoping against hope that the and then it did. He's using this as an opportunity to try to scratch and claw He has no issue playing This is what he does. He loses for a living, However, few seem to notice or care that Jamario Moon is here at all, because a much, much larger Anthony Davis has made to watch the Jordan Brand Classic, a high school all-star game he and this city can barely contain itself. Observer columnist Scott Fowler is practically begging the universe to put Davis in a Bobcats jersey, even attempting to divine significance in the orange-ish shirt I really want this for him, and for everyone who covers these Bobcats. We've read all the Charlotte every last one. These writers have been faithfully and engagingly that would've otherwise faded into history as a trivia question. Lesser journalists would've They didn't. They did great work. (bittersweet music) - [Seth] Paul Silas does He didn't as a player, As an assistant with the he once stood up to Anthony Mason. As Cavaliers coach, he once chased Ira Newble down a hallway, calling him a &quot;hip-hop motherfucker.&quot; Coming from a man who is on the record mocking the name &quot;P. Diddy,&quot; Well, coach Silas is in after a loss to the Celtics. He HATES losing to his old team, and this one was especially sour. Boston didn't bring any of Pierce, Allen ... they're all resting. The Cable Box baits fans with and delivers that crowd a big, fat L. The Celtics record a on the backs of their bench players. Silas needs an outlet, and Since the fed-up Bulls he's signed a big contract extension, making him one of the highest-paid ... which is something people remembered when he showed up to training fresh out of the hospital caused by poor eating And it's something coach Silas remembers when he spots Thomas palling after those undermanned Celtics thumped Charlotte on their home court. Silas confronts Thomas about and his salary. Thomas snaps back, so tries to stuff his power Everyone seems cool afterward. Heat of the moment. - [Alex] When they host it's a game so ugly that even the free tickets turned out to be too expensive. Not only do the two teams produce the lowest-scoring quarter in seven years, but neither team had more than 47 points entering the fourth quarter. Here's a look at every time an NBA team has brought this few It's happened plenty throughout history, but since the calendar flipped to 2017, up through the 2021-22 season, not a single team has done so, making it all the more delectable for two teams to suffer this fate against each other in the same game. For the second time in a row, the Bobcats and Hornets have combined to play a style of basketball that belongs in another century. Majestic. Nothing the younger Silas throws at the wall as acting coach sticks except for just giving and letting him cook, but in the end that's not enough, and they come up short for against a squad's B-team. Which means a few things. One, they've just broken the for longest losing streak. Two, they are now down to six chances at besting the '73 Sixers, something that by this on the men grinding and And finally -- and most importantly for the organization's long-term future -- they have officially clinched and with that honor the most Anthony Davis-based ping pong balls in the following month's Draft Lottery. (pensive music) The very same day, sweeping changes are within the team that used They're in the throes with Saints owner Tom Benson also buying the city's NBA club, and, in conjunction with that, a potential name change away from Hornets. Benson yearns for something more relevant that specifically reflects the local area. And we already know Jordan has longed to re-implement formerly held between and its first NBA squad, so it's not hard to put - [Jon] I don't know about this one, Mike. I mean, look, we both I've gotten my share of licks in here, but despite everything I've said about it, there are multiple baseball teams named after different colors of socks. That's the stupidest But they normalized it by Everyone should always be laughing at the dumbass sock I don't think you can I mean, if you go back and that feels to me like an admission that none of this even counted. That all the guys who and played in those shorts, Look at the guys you have now. They're wearing 'em out dutifully getting laughed at and getting the shit beat out of them, because that is the job. Keeping the lights on so can bring about the good times. Let 'em at least do it for a reason. - [Alex] For the still-suboptimally there is no longer any The best lottery situation is in the bag, and even Desperation is running it's running rampant and, with zero silver even management. They know they just blew against those Hornets, and there aren't many of those On deck are the Chicago Bulls. Even without reigning MVP Derrick Rose and sidekick Luol Deng, the Bobcats still can't 18 losses in a row. Five chances remaining But let's take a quick moment to fully soak in and appreciate the magnificence of a 20-point loss to the Hawks, a 28-point loss to the atrocious Wizards, a 13-point loss to an atrocious Cavs team missing Kyrie Irving, a 24-point loss to the a 23-point loss to a Heat a 12-point loss to a top-3 heavy Celtics team missing that entire trio, an 8-point loss to an missing arguably their five best players, and then this 32-point loss to a Roseless, Dengless Bulls team. They need a hug in Charlotte. (tranquil music) - [Seth] April 20th is the scoring an NBA playoff-record On this April 20th, the Bobcats nearly win their eighth game, but collapse down the stretch against the playoff-bound who at least tip their cap to an opponent they could tell was &quot;playing for pride.&quot; It's just tough when you've Bismack Biyombo has to play 41 minutes, his season-high by a long shot. In the last of those minutes, a frustrated Biyombo gets into shouting, &quot;this is my house,&quot; &quot;you have seven wins. This Fair point, Rudy, but I'll remind you that Bismack paid to ya know, at least he has equity. (suspenseful music) - [Alex] After that 19th straight loss comes a glimmer of hope: even though there are the next two are against bottom with the worn-down The Bobcats score 88 points; the Kings score 78 points ... in the paint. It's another demolition at as the streak hits 20. Comparing them to a dilapidated automobile that might just fall completely Truer words have never been spoken. It feels inevitable for these guys. It really does. But remember, they do against an NBA punching All the Cats do is as the punching bag of the punching bags. Now down to just two games left, both against teams headed to the playoffs, Augustin's the latest to speak that would provide an oasis of relief for the entire organization. In Orlando, they do get to face the Magic without their star, continuing And also continuing a recent theme, they just can't take advantage. Despite fighting their to eventually make it the Magic pull away late, toward consecutive loss number 22 -- a full third of the season. And then there was one. - [Jon] What do you wanna Ooh. Oh, come on, you I knew you'd say that. Let's just... Let's just see what else Um... &quot;Moneyball.&quot; Yeah, alright, a two-hour movie about running a team that sounds like a blast. Noooo thank you. Ooh! King of Queens! Very Alright, tell you what. We start with King of Queens, and then since Magnificent Seven starts 15 minutes after we can catch the first Oh. Oh god, Mike. They put us on national TV. I guess we're the biggest story in the league right now, huh? Everybody wants to tune in and see if the Bobcats are really Maybe there's no suspense to it. Maybe they're just rubbernecking. They just wanna watch it happen. Before the game, Gerald I've never seen anyone He takes the mic and talks to promising to figure out some way to turn it around next season. He's practically apologizing. Of all these players, Mike, I bet you took a liking to partly because his dad, Gerald Sr., was that old-school type of player you have so much respect for, a guy who broke his jaw and kept on playing with a neck brace because he just didn't want A different sort of toughness has been required of Gerald Jr. We saw it all season. When they got blown out to open February and he was already talking and then continuing anyway for months. Later, when he lamented the misery of engineering his entire from what he eats to what he does all day to all the scout tapes he watches just to try to gain that edge, only for none of it to ever matter. It was hard for everybody, People noticed. He might be the only one taking it as hard as you and coach Silas have. You couldn't really help him through that, it's an experience you But you were there however you could be. Remember a few months ago when you wanted to coach him so you fired up iMovie and A lot has changed from the A lot has changed about you. I know you probably don't It's just that ... you're gonna get booed by your own fans tonight when your face shows up on the big screen. It's gotta be the first time ever for you. Baron Davis is gonna be stunned, he never imagined it would be possible that Michael Jordan would get There have been a lot of A lot. I just want to let you (mellow music) Charlotte Bobcats losses have Either they stay and just can't unlock the or they immolate immediately and the game is functionally This is neither. Against the Knicks, their can be seen and felt, even in the footprints They stave off defeat which is somewhere around halftime, and then the thing that A Knicks team missing and Tyson Chandler beats 'em by 20. The 2011-2012 Charlotte Bobcats are the worst team in NBA history. - [Alex] They did it. They officially let the '73 Sixers pop the proverbial champagne. 7 wins, 59 losses. Victory in 10.6% of their games. All they had to do was go 1-22 across their final 23 games to Instead, they became just the fourth team to record a losing streak that hit 23, following the expansion '96 Grizzlies, the '98 Nuggets, and the 2011 Cavs. And don't forget about the one they snapped on Jordan's birthday. That's two losing streaks of at least 16 games in one season. Over a quarter of NBA teams have never in their whole including the Sacramento Kings. In a 66-game season, the Charlotte Bobcats managed to produce two losing streaks longer than any in the entire history of the Sacramento Kings. I never could've conceived They had the NBA's worst defense that was outcast from to allow over 15 points on a per-100 possession basis. That net rating matched the 1992-93 Mavericks for worst ever, and no one else is even And it translates as into point differential. With the full painting now finished, we can take a final look and what do ya know, after a moment of relief they took back control and maintained that control Along the journey to 66 games, the separation they managed to generate from the 21st century runner-up, the 2000 Clippers, is truly stunning. Those Clippers, after getting to play an additional 16 games, did use that to propel their submarine to even further depths, but up through 2022, nearly a quarter more games most years, that is the only team that did so. If we eliminate that and look at it on a per-game rate, that's where you can really see 'em shine, especially since the turn of the century. No one, not even the 2000 Clippers, can hold a candle to these Cats. And I can say with absolute certainty that the smaller season sample holds exactly 0.0% of the responsibility for these spectacular rate metrics. And I know this because we calibrated every all-time season played by every team and isolated just the first to match 'em alongside the 2012 Bobcats. The results are pretty close to identical. Those '92-'93 Mavericks are the only team ever to register worse in the category of point But then again, those to push their winning percentage to .134. To top this, the Bobcats to win two more games than they did. Down the stretch, winning even one game, even against bad teams that were often lacking seemed impossible. There's little room for argument here: this is the worst NBA team ever seen. - [Seth] Here is a list of things the 2011-2012 Charlotte the Bobcats blocked shots. They didn't commit a lot of fouls. That is the end of the list. Those statistics represent but they are marginal. In terms of big stuff, stuff that matters, stuff the Bobcats ... didn't. They didn't meaningfully contest shots their opponents took and they didn't cover by rebounding or forcing turnovers. Above all else, the Bobcats missed. They did not pass to the open man, and if they did, he missed. The Bobcats did not make twos, They didn't even make ones. Charlotte management knew they didn't employ many and the few Bobcats who either refused or got hurt or left. - [Alex] That is zero exaggeration. The average NBA player made a shade under 35% But let's examine every Bobcat who attempted multiple Just one -- Corey Maggette, by a little over a percentage And he missed the majority For the season as a team, they failed to make even the first team in nine years and the last team to do so As for interior defense? Ehh, protecting the paint for Charlotte was more of an abstract All year long this hospitable bunch cultivated an inviting environment, rolling out a red carpet gifting both more dunks and more layups than any other NBA team. - [Jon] The Bobcats couldn't get the ball, they couldn't shoot the ball, they couldn't stop the opponent There was no one factor that prevented 'em from and avoiding the title of worst team ever. The finger could be pointed in a hundred different directions ... and I'm gonna choose this one, Mike, because it's the most poetic. (smooth jazz music) Way back when, you alienated that he didn't live up to that were heaped upon the teenager. And then a lot of life happened, both of you grew a little bit older, and last season you stuck your neck out to re-acquire him in Charlotte. People made their jokes, and then Kwame silenced So right that he made himself and landed a $7 million payday elsewhere just two weeks prior to By league standards, he was pretty average for you last season, but he was a totally Every team needs a big who and he was that: 6'11&quot; and fourth on the team You only won 34 games that season, but his interior defense toward getting even that many. How do we know? This is how we know. That final, miserable, 23-game stretch was arguably the most you could possibly ask for. During this lockout-compressed season, the bad teams were more bad than usual, but the same was true of the good teams. They were especially desperate as much rest as possible and when Charlotte came it was the free space on the bingo card. The Celtics wouldn't even Even with the most cake the Bobcats rarely even made Now let's revisit the last April 20th against the Grizzlies, the &quot;this is everybody's house&quot; game. The Grizz didn't get to They only made 15 free throws. And they only hit three Just three, all game. And they won. And this is where they went and got the overwhelming majority of their points. Not just in the paint, They just walked right up to Right where Kwame Brown used Between this and all you lost this way, I can almost guarantee the Bobcats would've found to avoid this fate if he was on the floor. Mike, even you have to You, of all people on Earth, became the architect of the because you lacked, of all Knowing this, would you have ponied up back in December to retain him? I wanna think so, I really do. But there is a word that at their screens for the last hour, and I think it's finally (smooth jazz music) Former coach and current who you referred to as a &quot;little guy&quot; in your Hall of Fame speech, leads the charge of people In other words, the practice of intentionally assembling a bad team for the purpose of securing better odds in the upcoming draft lottery. The incentive was obviously with the most can't-miss prospect to come around in nearly a decade. Look, if you did tank, you're not gonna get any judgment from me. I don't care either way. It's not my team, it's your team. And it's not against the rules, although it is generally and discouraged by the lottery. Which, in another poetic twist, was instituted after the 1983-84 season specifically to address tanking who were accused of throwing games in the pursuit of the pick Were you tanking this season, Mike? Mike says no. Seth, what do you think? - [Seth] Jordan and Rich filling none of the barely clearing the salary floor ... that, to me, is tanking, even if the first steps The players, though, were Players rarely tank, but strikes me as an earnest, It's just that some of - [Jon] Totally agree. Tanking on the coaching level, has happened and will happen elsewhere. But when you look at soon-to-retire Corey Maggette through an Achilles injury at the end, you know the people in shorts On the coaching level, the Silas family was playing and trying everything they could think of, with Paul absolutely beside himself, unable to accept all this losing. Which leaves the front office. I think this was a passive, You, Rich, and Rod were entering this season, but rebuilding is not tanking. I think that at full strength, with healthy players and you sure as hell don't have a contender, but you have an okay-ish team. A team that might finish with a record that looked like your last few records. And in fact, entering this season, sportswriter Art Garcia even forecasted a playoff appearance as So, tanking the entire season? I don't really buy that. What I would buy is that you guys saw the writing on the witnessed the emergence of AD. And then, as your team bumbled through the season with numerous missing parts, you could use your stated as cover to not make any moves that would put more You had to hold the line. And if by doing so you and kinda lean into one of well that wouldn't be So yes, to some degree, this not one that betrayed or the integrity of the game. In the years to come way more transparent than this one. One thing is very clear: nobody in the building wanted this. Nobody wanted it to be nearly this bad. (dramatic music) Here we go. 5,000 anxious Bobcats at Time Warner Cable Arena. The lottery isn't taking place there, they're just gonna watch a live broadcast from New York City. And they won't even be watching the actual drawing of the ping pong balls, which happens behind closed doors. Instead they'll be watching as deputy commissioner Adam Silver announces the results with a Even still, I wouldn't be surprised if the Bobcats didn't from some of their actual Rich Cho has headed up there to serve as the team's representative. Of all the people to choose they sent the one guy who's than anyone else in the building. Basketball's funny. It's almost like a laboratory in its effectiveness at ensuring that the best teams win And yet, those teams' futures a literal carnival game. Silver will be announcing from the lowest pick to the highest. Naturally, the odds will but at the outset, our High enough to hope, but not nearly high You nervous, Mike? Of course you're not nervous, you're you. Well, I'm nervous. - [Alex] The Rockets, each have over a 90% chance of securing pick numbers 14, and that's exactly how it shakes out as the lottery moves into the top-10. There, we see more chalk. Having previously acquired the the New Orleans Hornets land the 10th pick and the eventual draft rights Then it's the Pistons which they'll spend on Still no surprises as Silver goes on to announce the Raptors and Warriors, who'll add wings Terrence The Nets are the next team in line, only this is another The Blazers will draft arguably the greatest player in franchise history, a point guard out of Weber State destined to be alongside Davis in the Hall of Fame: Damian Lillard. The Kings as expected which they'll use on Now as we move into the top four, not only do they become in play, but pick four specifically was always their most If they can clear that hurdle, all of a sudden number one -- the their most likely reality. They do. In the first real drama of the lottery, Silver unseals the envelope Cleveland surely had their own but have to settle for For Charlotte, huge bullet dodged. On to the top three. The representatives of are summoned together Another exhale: the Wizards draw the third pick, but their sting will be lessened with a hell of a consolation prize in franchise cornerstone Bradley Beal. Down to two. - [Seth] If you've been calling you made the right call. He will rapidly become one of and, as seasons pass, establish himself as one The long arms, the quick feet, the make Davis as nightmarish a defensive presence as you hope. The years Davis spent sharpening his skills as a 6'0&quot; guard will make him a rare offensive of the generation's top scorers because he can create beating opponents from any with or without the ball in his hands. Davis is a superstar. He'll sell shoes, he'll collect medals, he'll launch charities, he'll Even with some prime Davis will go down as a Hall of Famer. No question whatsoever. People like to re-do drafts with hindsight, and when they re-do 2012 someday, number 1 will stay the same. We are right about Anthony Davis. (dramatic music) - [Jon] For months, ever that the top position these odds have been frozen at 25%. Months of being beat down, beat up, laughed at, insulted, and humiliated have finally, in the last These are the first 30 seconds ever in which the Charlotte Bobcats, in the entire history of are allowed to feel like winners. All we need now is for Silver to bring this thing the and announce that the next He cannot call Bobcats. He cannot pick up that Bobcats card. So this one's gotta be Hornets. Got it. Got it. (exhales) Okay, Mike. Just look at Rich. He'll see it a split-second before we do. His face will tell us (pensive music) (somber music) It was hopeless. The words &quot;Charlotte Bobcats&quot; would never mean anything to anybody. Two years after that fateful night in May, after the New Orleans Hornets renamed themselves the Pelicans, Mike and company had seen enough. They waved the white flag and rebranded as the In modern times, the list renaming themselves without is a short one. The Cleveland Guardians, and Washington Wizards did so after their original names The Bobcats' name, logo, and colorway were all completely benign. They just sucked in the We do get a little bit of fun &quot;I can't operate on style comedy out of this. The Hornets drafted Anthony Davis, but he never played for the Hornets, because the Hornets didn't The Hornets did. If it's any consolation, couldn't capitalize on Davis absolutely lived up to the hype. He was phenomenal. And yet, in their seven seasons with AD, they lost far more games than they won. Actually, if you can believe it, the New Orleans team than the Charlotte team did in that span. They made the playoffs just twice and won a total of five playoff games. In 2019 they flipped him to L.A., and he immediately won a As for the Bobcats ... - [Kofie] When it comes to they don't have one. Compared to NBA basketball the team didn't accomplish shit. They just lost. It's not like anyone outside while other teams were getting The Bobcats were wasting time slots on our local television networks. Nothing was worse than turning the TV on expecting the Carolina Hurricanes and ending up with the Charlotte Bobcats. You only tuned in if you the other team's star From the time the Bobcats to their last game in 2014, Duke and UNC each won national the Panthers went to the Super Bowl, the Carolina Hurricanes Steph Curry led Davidson John Wall took the nation followed by other future NBA talents like T.J. Warren, Montrezl Hell, even if you saw a Durham Bulls game there was a chance you would see future Rookie of the Year Evan Longoria. In 10 years, the Bobcats and lost all eight. What's left? Well, there's Kemba Walker's three All-Star years in Charlotte, but actually, no, because when he was in a Hornets jersey. Honestly, I cannot remember the last time I've seen someone wearing at all, for that matter. I've asked many of my friends and most of them laughed at me, or said that they liked this because they either went to UNC or Duke. It often feels like now the entire state looked around and agreed that the And you know what? I'm cool with that. - [Alex] The season after the Bobcats won 7 of their first 12 games. They somehow stumbled into something appearing to resemble hope. There was even precedent for such hope. Those '73 Sixers, the previous standard-bearer for ineptitude, had climbed their way all the within just four years But after their 7-5 start, immediately kicked off of at least 16 games in this one reaching 18. So for those scoring at home, that means reaching a level of futility three different times within 12 months that the Sacramento Kings in their seven-plus decade In the lottery after they wrapped up another miserable season where they lost and didn't find the savior they were desperate for in the draft, they entered the very same before Rich Cho decided that was no way for an NBA franchise to operate. From the 2013-14 season, up through the 2021-22 season, they never won less But they also never won more They missed the playoffs with first-round exits in the other two. - [Seth] Gerald Henderson will both serve stints in a more brazen, open-air tank laboratory: the Philadelphia 76ers. Henderson will retire a couple years later because of injuries. Mullens will spend the in Asia, Europe, and the Middle East. I think he must cross paths They have a lot to talk about. Matt Carroll will play one minutes -- before Charlotte trades him. He'll come work for the and I bet he still accidentally Eduardo Najera's final NBA game was indeed the one He's okay, but he'll retire Corey Maggette calls it Charlotte will eventually on DeSagana Diop, but on Tyrus Thomas, whose NBA career will while he's still in his 20s. Bismack Biyombo will build as a defensive specialist. He'll leave Charlotte in D.J. Augustin's future wife Their first child will be born right before D.J. asks so he can sign with Indiana, his second stop in a long, D.J. wants out in 2012 Kemba Walker, the actual the next Charlotte All-Star, although not until they're Kemba will lead Charlotte and pile on enough excellent seasons to rank among the best players a lowball contract offer And then there's Boris. Two days after he convinces Boris signs with the San Antonio Spurs, reuniting with his old roommate and longtime friend, Tony Parker. In a smaller role on a far superior team, Diaw's numbers improve immensely. Boris is a key contributor in and he'll win a championship Then he'll release a children's book about safari photography. I love you, Boris. - [Jon] Rich Cho stayed After many seasons of this franchise remaining hopelessly stuck in the exact place he did not want to be, he joined the Memphis Grizzlies in 2019. Reggie Williams remained in and remained in the NBA Derrick Brown was so that to this day, Derrick that by at least one standard, he was MVP of the 2011-2012 Bobcats. His 2.3 total win shares of runner-up Gerald Henderson. And yet, the 24-year-old never After spending both their they no longer needed and from there, Brown embarked on a long, impressive career in Russia and Turkey, but never caught on with another NBA team. Let this stand as the legacy of the 2011-12 Charlotte Bobcats: their top contributor could not find work as even the 15th-best player Many passions, ambitions, were alive within this Although Jamario Moon continued playing for many years in Greece and Uruguay, this wasn't the springboard he hoped it might be, and he Their quest to acquire a of course, fell just short. The eternal project to imbue the brand of the Charlotte Bobcats was completely abandoned. Steph Curry, the hometown hero they were hoping to acquire one day, very abruptly stopped hinting during this season. He evolved into the greatest pure shooter the NBA has ever seen. The once-pitiful Warriors locked him down, and together they've won And then there were The 68-year-old had headed into the season with the hopes of coaching and toward the end, when the he hoped that his career wouldn't end with the worst team in history, but it sounded like he knew it would. Paul Silas' head coaching career, which began in 1980, was over. Stephen Silas was among those interviewed to replace his father. There were several points when that felt like a sure thing. Instead, the Bobcats hired who himself only held the job for a year after a 21-61 season. Stephen did finally get when he was hired as head injury-depleted, But that wasn't all he found familiar. In Houston, he worked with another son of Rod, and he reunited with both seasoned assistant coach DeSagana Diop. (pensive music) White, off-white, red, Mike can wear the loudest, baggiest, most pocketed shorts he pleases. About seven years after he was banned from La Gorce Country Club, he opened his very own golf It's called Grove XXIII, and in a remarkable break from tradition, there is no dress code. Eat shit, La Gorce Country Club. Don't worry, though. He's still here. It doesn't matter that the Hornets just missed the postseason or that Mike still has never that could make it past the Or that every last one of Charlotte, he hasn't left you. The name change did seem to work. Even though this 7-59 season, the worst season of all nobody really talks about it that much. Many casual fans likely that the Charlotte Bobcats existed at all. I'm sure Mike remembers every and every last one of these stories. Stories he probably never tells, because no one ever asks him. Mike, you're still doing your damnedest, trying to make it happen, trying to build a winner in You've tried it your way, and you've tried it other peoples' way. You tried one name, then another. Your coaching hires have and outside-the-box. Maybe your concerns about small-market NBA Maybe it's not possible here. But you've never stopped trying. Why? You could buy a private island. You could learn how to paint. You could produce Western movies all day. You could live on the golf You could do anything you want, or you could do as much You're not like the You don't have to keep and all this other bullshit You're free. You're free, man! Just retire! Just leave! You can leave, can't you? - The game of basketball's My refuge. My place I've always gone when I needed to find comfort and peace. - [Jon] ... Maybe you can't. I just hope you're not doing this because you feel like you That somehow you have to particularly this one. You have already shown I saw it. We all saw it. We all saw you. We know exactly who you are. Do you really think we're (wistful music)