Hey! Today I'm going what I'd do differently if I was becoming Hi, my name is Tom. I've been working in the data industry and I'm currently working as a senior Over the years, and a lot of experience, But I also took the journey So the journey that I would take now is completely different from the journey Caveat - there is no one successful way Everyone has their own style. Everyone can find their own path I'm just going to be sharing Hopefully these tips will be useful, I'll be sharing some free resources in a career in data analytics today. Spoiler alert - the whole industry is Here are some of the ways. Lots more online content. There is so many more people which means if you go online for support, like-minded people, interested in studying and learning about the same things as you. And while we're on the subject, don't at CareerFoundry, updates on everything More people working in the field. That means not only more job opportunities, More sectors Back in the day, data analytics might have been a practice For example, finance or pharma. These days, more and more sectors are using data which means you can work in basically any Cool, right? More cloud resources to help you whether it's databases you're These days, you don't have to download Instead, you can go to the cloud More free machine learning techniques. Although you're not training there are still a bunch of machine applications online that will help For example, object recognition, computer And don't forget about the online There are sandboxes and practice data analytics So let's expand on this a little in the field. I took a Master's in computer science data science explicitly. A large part of data science involves and I became interested in data analytics Thereafter, I worked on data including e-commerce, So what would I do differently if I was going to start The first thing I would say is learning. There are three main ways to become a data You could go to university, you can try and teach yourself, Going to university is great. There's a lot of motivation as well as from the other classmates However, it does take a lot of time to get a degree Trying to teach yourself is amazing. You have total freedom to decide what you want to learn, And also, you're exposed to the latest machine learning that you might not However, it takes a lot of motivation It's easy to get lost in the endless and as a result, it can be really hard to find your own learning path And the approach if I was starting data analytics in 2022, There are a lot of them out there. Some of them are cheap, some of them are indeed free, Each course will take a different to a different level of depth And indeed, each course highlighting that you're going to be learning along And finally, each course has a different Some are fully online and automated, more support from human beings. So make sure you find the right course for you how much time you have, you'd like to learn about, And of course, how do you find a job Well, If you're self-taught, you're But online schools and universities Career specialists look at your portfolio of projects tips and tricks so that you are in a great position and get that first important job So what would I do differently if I had my time again Well, first things first. I don't think honestly, although I loved the experience. I made lots of great contacts together with other people. But on balance, the amount of time didn't pay off, with regards I could have got a job in the industry online school course I've seen a lot of my friends go through this route and quite quickly I feel like there's nothing better in a company. It's probably the best thing So don't waste any time getting that. No matter which approach you take, a portfolio of projects Most university You can think of this like a very in-depth, very detailed If you're in an online school, a portfolio of several projects But if you're self-taught, you're going to have to do the research How many projects should your portfolio Well, there's no one right answer, and three is probably fine. If you have about five that My recommendation would be start Find something that you're Spend a lot of time that one passionate theme, projects related to that, or indeed look If you're struggling for ideas, don't As the industry there are some soft and hard skills to learn in order Well, of how you can become an expert But I think that's a mistake. In fact, the mistake I made when starting understanding of the entire domain Here's why that's a bad idea. A., It's nearly impossible to retain And B., by the time you get round to applying it's probably changed given how quickly So instead, I'd like to present in order to get you started on the road Don't forget, Everybody's learning path is different. My lean roadmap has these five components. Number one, working with data. In addition to understanding what the main data types you're going to need to learn for trying to extract information Basic tasks might include or cleaning your data. These might sound confusing right now. With a little bit of practice, as they initially appear. You can learn all these skills and more by taking CareerFoundry's Click on the link in the description Number two, learning a tool My personal preference It's a great basis and allows you to move more easily into SQL Number three, statistics, This means learning your data not just with words, So things like what's the mean What's the distribution of the dataset? Is it skewed in any particular direction? And is this distribution to be expected Number four, visualizing your results So how can you create things to best communicate your results and also, How do you capture people's interests in And the last one. Number five, find an interesting area I suggest you find an area of industry about Trust me, you're going to enjoy working on financial or pharma data, and your passion and the end result is going to be amazing. Well, now Let's think about how long all of these It doesn't make sense for me to break these down into subcomponents, It's going to take you anywhere order to really start to feel comfortable Another thing I would do differently is A really helpful part of that process is knowing So take some time early on in your research into data sort of business do What sort of sector do What sort of problems do I want to solve? What skills would I like to have in order And what sort of people do Define your end objective first towards a roadmap of what skills you're going to need to learn in order This should naturally lend itself towards But don't forget, I've also given you a cheat sheet roadmap Something else I would do is try and have In reflection, I was quite scared so I did a lot of courses, an awful but really nothing can prepare you in the field of data other than actually So have confidence in yourself, don't be afraid to make mistakes When talking about skills, a question I get very often is how much The answer is just enough math to get by. You don't need to be an expert at math You do, however, Okay. But math doesn't equal algebra. Math doesn't equal formulas. Math is about problem solving, math about finding beauty So if you like puzzles, if you like problem solving, And that'll be enough for you Another extremely important part analyst is getting comfortable you're going to be using on the job. As a junior, if you want to start learning in the field, Start with Excel, Ways to explain the data. Look at visualization tools Ways to communicate your findings, However, I advocate small learning goals. If you're trying to learn a new code don't try and learn all at once. Break it down into small steps, learn a step, and then practice One thing I would do differently take advantage of all of the free online For example, if you're trying to come to terms with SQL, you don't need to download You can play in a sandbox online. Or visualization tools - tool, don't forget to take advantage So try something like Tableau for free. One piece of advice I could give you is When I was starting out in the field, wasn't the same breath of content online So don't forget to check out other data analysts like YouTube. Really easy for an intro into the field. Don't forget to check out GitHub There's so much great content on there or go to hackathons and meetups Another thing I do differently One of the best things is having a great network of people So when I started, again, I wasn't sure that my skills were strong and I was sometimes afraid to reach out But these days, there's nothing someone I encourage you to do the same thing. Find people you respect on LinkedIn, Or check out some of the online There are some great subreddits out there As promised, during the video, here are some resources where you can find out more about Why don't you look at Medium.com? This is a website that I use all the time and greatest in machine They have lots of great articles If you want to take some actual real world It's packed with open source datasets your data analytics If you're interested in coding related like HackerRank. They are packed full of SQL coding to really ramp up your coding skills. And finally, the platform Filled with great content about data and everything else Some of the content is even created And of course, as mentioned before, course on data analytics and you can find Well, I've mentioned in this video, hard at it, you should be able to find a junior data and patience. Good luck! Hope this video was helpful. And so if you like what you see, don't forget to subscribe to our channel I've actually made another video recently where I went over a typical day We talk about some of the responsibilities and some of the skills you'll need and just generally So if you'd like to see I'm being told that there's a thumbnail I hope it's there... Alright, I'm going to be back soon with another great video about data, See ya!