If you're stuck at a certain rating level &amp; because you are making the same mistakes again the top 7 mistakes which you need to fix right Now here, white is already leading by a pawn so he comes up with an interesting idea. He plans he can give a check this way. That would throw takes bishop, he can take back the queen and that push his pawn advantage &amp; win it easily. queen takes queen. And then bishop check, and now f7. So ultimately, white just loses his rook for white did not consider all the possible moves that a beginner or even an average rated player, you moves &amp; non-forcing moves. In forcing moves, you Now this could be because of a check, a capture, white captured, the queen couldn't move so was the only piece on offer so this move is not necessary for black to take the bishop. He can best response. Therefore, he went here. So, you move is always limited - which makes calculating moves - as deeply and accurately as you can. When forcing moves &amp; only go for it when you are a Aimchess.com - It is a really cool website which your game faster. And, they have this section calculation skills. You can also learn the concept That's really helpful. Now another area where most middlegame strategy. You are out of the opening, clear tactics &amp; now you start to wonder - what best way to do that is to break it down - just you can play some decent moves for white. Look at If you look at the minor pieces, these knights This bishop is also open, it can go wherever and it is also blocking this rook from so what do we do? Yes, we can play bishop pointing right down the king's throat. Let's say d file, we can go d2 &amp; then double up the rooks. just follow some basic principles &amp; make middlegame planning, then you should definitely plans which will really help you out. And Aimchess you with your middlegame. You can find this in Next, I have seen a lot of players lose games game for example - white is clearly winning, How do you win this? Well, if you are playing Here, one way could be to slowly get your rook But a faster way could be to simply put your This king is now trapped within this box &amp; push this pawn forward without worrying about we have a queen. And now just with a few checks, So, using premoves in such endgames can save you you should be playing a little fast throughout A good way to practice this is the 'Time Trainer' Aimchess. Also, if you're enjoying the video, then button right now! Alright, moving onto our next this, here white is slightly better because of an He goes for rook e7 going after this pawn, is to storm across with these pawns, and he will it is too late. Therefore, playing something like just focusing on the passed pawn. Here's another but you need to know the right technique. He get out of the way. It's a check, he can now can move the pawn forward. Remember, this rook is Following the same technique, we reach this position. Now this is something you need to king even further away from the pawn. So, we give winning after king e8. Therefore, he is forced to First make sure your rook is on the fourth anywhere, he will obviously give you a check &amp; you what do we do? Well, you will continue to move if he gives you a check, just block with the rook us from promoting, that's the reason why we pushed to study such endgames, especially the common ones will be the deciding factor in increasing your win then the explore tab &amp; here you can train on all positions &amp; also help you with endgame theory other issue is with the openings that most players d4 or e4 stuff. The problem with this is that your so he is prepared for it. Say, for example, after Eventually, he can tackle your opening or even get something like d6 - the Phildor defense. After e4, Same with black, if white plays d4, he is element. My point is that you need to think out unconventional. Prepare 2 or 3 offbeat openings. or the Danish Gambit. As black, you can go for the You can use the online database to find some which I made recently on 'my 6 favorite openings'. advantage in the opening itself. And if you are I would suggest you try the 'Opening Improver' review &amp; eliminate your common opening mistakes. but important one - blunders. Let's look at knight takes, pawn takes and then that's a mistake because now white can simply make are the blunders &amp; you have to get rid of But how do you fix this? Let me give you a secret just ask yourself these 3 things - Number 1 - Look, here black's king was safe so that's a you plan to move? Is it safe on this square? Yes! but the king is not in any danger - that's last move - does it create any threats? Look, The pawn is not attacking anything, but this so, black should have been careful. Basically, of each move before making it on the board. If check out this video, it will really help you in section of 'Blunder preventer' in the training such silly one-move blunders so do give it a try. make is exchanging pieces without thinking. A lot points &amp; if you just trade &amp; the points are equal, Look, in this position, it is white's turn. He a good exchange? What do you think? Generally, a but you cannot just take that for granted - you of the pieces in the given position. Look, here the moment because all these squares are covered. active considering its long range especially taking the bishop seems like a good option. The point is that after pawn takes bishop, white of course, black takes the knight as well. If you bishop - which is 3 + 3 - 6 points &amp; in return, 5 + 1 - 6 points. Though this looks equal, this pieces that white lost &amp; in an endgame like So, it's important to know the fundamentals of to be flexible enough to go against these concepts to be a logical reason for you to initiate a trade Aimchess also has some good conceptual exercises game. Aimchess actually has everything you need connect your chess.com, lichess or even chess24 your games &amp; suggest the best training plan you can simply take a quiz &amp; Aimchess will By the way, now you can also play games directly also added engine analysis so you don't need to chess coach to directly share your games &amp; reports Room' &amp; 'Explore' sections give you everything you is offering a special 30% discount for all chess is valid only for a limited time so go check Guys, as this video was being edited, our I am really grateful to all of you for all the '1 million Vlog' will be out on our channel soon. or anything you want to say, leave them in the so it's puzzle time. In this position, it Can you find it? Well, do share your answers in you can solve this. Guys, don't forget to like and