It's the 1920s and the Italian mafia, long the lucrative citrus business and stabbing the underworld in the USA. But there's a problem: Who controls operations Giuseppe "Joe The Boss" Masseria thought was taken out by none other than Charles "Lucky" The two of them were playing cards when Luciano walk into the restaurant and shoot the boss So, who is the boss now? Well, it is agreed that five families from its own boss. What follows is decades of blood on the streets. But where are they now, those five families? Did they bow out, or are they still pulling with less emphasis on wholesale murder? All will be revealed. 5. The Genovese crime family family" since the boss when it began was about. He moved to the states when he was eight, there was in his native Sicily. By the time he was a teenager, he was already He set up "The Commission" after Salvatore stabbed and shot. Luciano didn't want the title, so he formed He also helped set up the multi-mob outfit, Ok, so that was the beginning of this family. How are the Genovese crew doing these days? By the way, it got that name from the boss, Not long after he ordered a pair of cement failure. In 2011, 127 mafia members were arrested in found themselves in handcuffs. They were charged with a number of things, laundering, extortion, and narcotics trafficking. Yes, importing, exporting, and selling drugs, a top earner for the families. The US department of justice said after that in 2011, still calling themselves "wise They also had associates, and together their gambling, and violence including murder. One of the guys arrested was Stephen Depiro, He was charged with racketeering and extortion The media later said he was, "involved in "Christmas tribute" payments from hard-working dating all the way back to the early 1980s." He was a thug. Pay up, or get hurt. The authorities even secretly recorded him saying he would take a bat and break the guy's In 2018, family associate Salvatore Delligatti racketeering and also recruiting a few guys The record shows he gave them a gun and a As soon as they tried to get close, the cops As you'll see later, we have some really from other mobsters. Ok, so who's running things now? The answer is it's complicated given there lot of people working in those factions. They haven't gone anywhere, so right now Manhattan, Queens and Brooklyn factions as As for that last faction, Mikey "Cigars" He became a made man back in the 70s and was now he's 74 and in prison. Still, he is said to be a key figure in the These oldsters still have a say in matters Right now, the faction is possibly controlled it seems is a free man but banned from entering So, who's the boss of the entire family? That position is allegedly filled by Liborio We say allegedly, because the mafia doesn't schools to talk about business strategies. Bellomo is a devoted family man, has many out of prison in 2008 for fraud, is lying He is also suspected of ordering the murder family. The underboss of the family is Ernest "Ernie" He's a free man now, but has been locked Longshoremen Union and International Laborers illegal gambling operations in South Florida. Ok, with the next family you'll get a much 4. The Gambino crime family unlike most mafia members managed to spend to old age. He died peacefully of natural causes after American League pennant on TV. Only this year members of the Gambino family One of those guys was Vincent Fiore, who admitted money laundering and obstruction of justice He was actually wire-tapped by law enforcement, We'd like to tell you everything he said get us demonetized. He is a censored version: When you get punched in the face and your a BLEEP, you're not going to laugh no more, . . . You think it's a BLEEPING joke. Don't make light of it. Because at the end of the day, this is coming . . You're lucky you're not in front of out. . . . Because I know what you are and I know . . . Listen, I don't give a BLEEP." As you can see, the mafia is as eloquent as Captain Andrew Campos was also arrested with to show you some of his edifying monologues. Also in these court documents, is the mention He was an associate of the family, meaning What kind of work, you might wonder? Well, as a former boxer and tough guy, you'd He worked on extortion rackets for one thing. The court documents say this: threats and acts of violence. For instance, in the past, Lopez has knocked against a door jamb." He bragged about being part of a gang that a guy up so badly he left him with his "brain He didn't just work rackets, he made sure He sounds like a lovely guy eh. Listen to this that was in the documents: executed search warrants at Lopez's home things, multiple, large knives (including mask with the eyes cut out, brass knuckles So, these are the kind of people that work There are also recent reports stating that help rebuild the mafia in Sicily. They might have achieved this, although arrests Again, this is a massive family that has as members. In 2019, acting boss Frank Cali was gunned Such a thing hadn't been done for a long on the way, but it turned out that he was That was Anthony Comello, who apparently did Yep, that's strange, and we are not going think. Suffice to say, Comello is NOT a popular guy As for who's boss now, that could be the Domenico Cefalu. Although it is more likely Lorenzo "Lore" He has had a colorful history, being convicted and even asking for the help of Frank Sinatra. It's from wiretaps that authorities think Like with all the families, the authorities If you want to know what this family is doing, trials. It is mostly extortion, racketeering, loansharking, The next family is just as colorful and is ever. 3. The Colombo crime family die peacefully watching TV. He was shot three times, once in the head, years later. These days the family is said to have less of that family please be assured we just read you. Still, it looks to us that you might have over the years...sorry. As for what the family is up to these days, documents. In one such document, talking about those this family was arrested for money laundering. He has also got the best mafia name, Joseph He only got six months and died inside. Before you feel pity for him, he was involved a nun. The hit paralyzed the target and killed the As for the present boss, that accolade might He's also had his phone tapped in the past had his phone wiretapped. Here's what the latter said when talking extortion racket: with this BLEEP-sucker. I beat him, like last year. I was pounding him for the money.... Larry jumped out of the car, we both beat Later, his son called, he said he didn't pay the money." So, again, the business is mainly money laundering, and extortion. As always, these operations entail a lot of The next family might just feed you to the 2. The Lucchese crime family He also didn't do much prison time and he Apparently, police, judges, hitmen, gangsters, Whattaguy! Back in the day when Anthony Salvatore Casso of blood on the streets, mainly because Casso maniac." He killed many people himself and tried to One other member of this family once said Casso was once recorded talking on the telephone, him out". To straighten out means invite into the family, that couldn't happen. The man he was talking about was Sidney Lieberman, Casso is also infamous for hiring two New 80s and 90s, men who fulfilled their job requirements. Casso, by the way, got Covid and died in prison He was serving 455 years without the possibility Ok, so what about now, are they still painting An arrest in 2018 was of a family soldier, Associates were also arrested. They were arrested for what was said to be mafia history. A month after, Lucchese soldier Anthony Grado were arrested for forcing a doctor to prescribe They made him an offer he couldn't refuse, Grado told the guy after, "If the prescriptions put a bullet right in your head." Grado seemed well aware of America's opioid are out there, saying to the doctor, "A feed you to the BLEEPING lions." As for who runs things, former soldier John has changed hands a bit. It used to be Vittorio &quot;Little Vic&quot; Amuso, of things including conspiracy to murder. He's another one of the reasons for all At some point, Amuso got a message out of He said that Matthew Madonna, a man that took go. If he didn't, many people in his faction This was not an empty threat, the mafia doesn't The hit list included a captain and several In 2019, Madonna along with two others was Aged 84, he got life. The title was later passed on to Michael "Big having a sit-down with some other gangsters He was on parole at the time. The factions run out of The Bronx (2), Long It seems Amuso, pushing 90, is still running Of its 200 made members, many are serving money laundering, fraud, illegal gambling Ok, last but not least, the family that once himself Donnie Brasco and at one point was them all. You're going to enjoy the wiretap recording The Bonanno crime family Bananas. This so-called Man of Honor barely spent any He was actually one of the youngest mafia mafia was just getting going. As for what they are doing these days, let's One of the members is Neil Messina. He's an associate for the family that at company that had received over $45 million Hmm, you have to wonder if there was any mafia It seems very likely and was sent to prison for a home invasion Others from the Bonanno family were charged including John "Johnny Pizza" Porcello, someone who had a really good pizza shop. According to mafia historians, the Bonanno which might explain their taste for blood. They also made deals with the Sicilian mafia large amounts of heroin. That heroin was then sold out of pizza shops. As one historian said, "It was a great opportunity door. There were people coming for pizza and people They also did deliveries, so with a large get yourself a kilogram of uncut smack. This operation wasn't just ideal for dealing But this was mostly back then, what about Well, drugs are still a big earner for this In 2017, there were two arrests in the family. Those were Damiano Zummo, an acting captain, Also charged was associate Paul Ragusa, who families. The funny thing is, they might not be using they still sell drugs out of innocent-looking Both Zummo and Russo were said to be selling in Manhattan. Zummo was also charged with money laundering. Ragusa was caught with nine illegal firearms, and one silencer. What do you think happens to those that don't Ok, so who's running things now? It seems the answer is the son of a well-known His name is Joseph Cammarano Jr. and he took He had a big setback. In 2018, he and a bunch of other high-ranking extortion, drug dealing, loan sharking, wire murder. The arrests included Consigliere John "Porky" he was acquitted. Others were arrested not so long ago, and Tony&quot; Rabito, who netted $210,000 every week There's a good reason they take the risks. The present boss it seems is Michael &quot;The his own wife and later killed another mobster. We don't really know what he's doing, the last few years. Now you need to watch, "What Does the Mafia Or, have a look at, "Crazy Italian Mafia