Here's a question. Do you want to go out Hell, no. When asked what I want to be I used to tell them a trophy wife. The first man that I met, -First man? First man, first date. -Yes. You're the first person I've met, What you guys are doing of what has been modeled to you. I'm worried that you could do something I know what they're looking for is sex. Better to get that money If you're smart enough, Like, I'm better than a lot of this. Here we are. I know my family's in it, My boundaries are in it. Ask me something. Excuse me, ma'am, when were you born? July 11th. What's happening tomorrow, ma'am? I'm having my first Holy Communion. That's what. I grew up a real Catholic. I went to church on Sundays, said my prayers It just didn't stick. I've always dated men and women, and there's no place for an opinionated, My parents can't relate to me, My sisters and I We work more than one job I wait tables. I temp in an office, A lot of our friends Covering their expenses and rent. They say it's easy. Becoming a sugar baby I'm in a relationship with Jocelyn. She's really wonderful. She's very supportive, and I want to clear my debt and I think a sugar daddy Jocelyn is okay but we've set clear boundaries. There can't be anything sexual. I'm feeling stuck in my life right now. Living at home, and I would really love to move. I just quit a job at a cafe, I started working at a clothing store. If I can find a sugar-baby relationship, I don't know, money just disappears. I go to school in Montreal, I don't speak French, I need to pay some rent. My dream goal would be to get my friends but I know my head's I would settle and maybe having a bit of cash. We've signed up that promises free vacations, We're immediately getting tons I'm able to live the lifestyle I want After talking I've locked down my first date. He's looking to spend based on mutual attraction and benefit. I wasn't nervous at all this morning, I've got friends who say it's reasonable so we'll see. I've decided To me, this is work, Hi, how are you? -Pretty good, and you? You're the first person I've met, so I'm a little nervous, -How did you hear about the site? I know so many people but they're younger. Yes, they're young, -Yes, I'm like, I'm old on there. No, but I mean, I think he wanted someone who was like 19, Negging is when guys put girls down so they can hit on them. All that stuff works, There was this girl sitting down, I go, let's go talk to her. I go there, sit next to her, She goes, I'm a model. I go, oh really? She spent literally two hours because she didn't think She gave me her number, A lot of them are very insecure. Very impressive, dude, I don't know. I didn't know what to be like, It would have felt Can I have 20 bucks? Okay, have a good night. It was a total bust. I didn't make anything and it didn't get better. I'm not sure what's wrong, but it ended up How was your date? Oh, it was really long. Oh, did you get paid? No, I got half a bottle of wine. I got a cheese plate They let me on with his metro pass. Lottie doll. Oh, my God. They would have been Then people he knew came in, and I was like, I'm not doing this for charity. -Did you talk about money at all? I've spoken to many people, and three hours they'll be like, oh, I'm running late. Can you just come to my hotel room? No, I can't. Date after date, it felt like the three of us and a little more jaded. The more dates I go on with more guys, the more they have -You mean sex? There's one guy on there I'll give you $300 Do you have anything versus anything you feel comfortable with? Anything is up for negotiation, I suppose, It's just something Some of them They want to feel That just sounds tricky. Tricky for me or tricky for us? Probably both. I don't think I would be so fond of that. So fond of what? You sleeping with the guy. I want our relationship Yes, that's fair. Yes. I can do that. I love Hannah because we're a team. She's very supportive We just have fun together. It's always a good time She's my best friend It was good to talk and I'm going to keep sex off the table. He's like, oh, I thought You've done it, yes? I found all the weirdest, He's like, I don't want friendship. You come over, I was like, this is perfect. There's no point in beating It's money for your time. -Yes. I had to take a nap today Working a part-time job. It was like a full-time job. Except I haven't worked Has anyone asked you out? -Yes. -Who? He's steadily creeping me out How do you know? Honestly, I feel like I need to approve Well, you don't. Is this the same guy then you were like, get off, -Yes. I don't understand. I'm not going into it being, but I don't see why I shouldn't go He's like, we'll get to that. Why not go for two meetings, Yes, but you said that he got creepy. Why bother going on a date I'm smart enough to navigate this properly Caroline, if you're smart enough, Then you say no online, They don't know your face and that's where you say no. You don't say no on your date. I understand where you're coming from, Caroline, this isn't a big decision. -This is an easy decision. You don't make my decisions, End of story. I am more nervous, Where I think I'm probably I'm worried I'm meeting my friend, Sandy, because I can't figure out how to turn She's got four sugar daddies in allowances and gifts from them. She doesn't waste time I've been talking to this new guy and he's like, -How many dates have you had with him? I just met him on Sunday, but we had been speaking Now I get 500 on Friday -Who are you going out with today? I got that dress -Did he buy you the dress? -I'm not buying that. With Sandy, People pay her just for her attention. That's so cool. How do I get someone My attention is valuable too. Okay, let me see this profile. It doesn't show what you look like. You see more of the cat I don't know, my main profile It's browsing, with hundreds of other girls. That one photo and that 30 seconds How do you get there with regular income with these allowances? It's not even one man per se It's that support network It does happen, I was lucky. The first man that I met, That doesn't happen with everybody. -First man? -Yes. I still talk to him. It takes time and effort. It's building friendships so they don't feel like -Yes. Right, I need my heroes. No, it definitely hasn't put me off. It made me want to try harder. It's giving me hope. I'm getting better at weaning them out. Trying to find people who are open-minded and who seem to be interested instead of the ego-stroking I think we're going out I absolutely do. This one. Oh, my God. He just texted me the same thing too. No, really? No! Well, I'll let you know I'm so happy you're going first. What brings you to the site? I was married No kids. An arranged marriage back in India. Didn't want to go back Plus, in the whole process, Mainly, that's not the way I decided to change I really liked him. I thought he was really nice. I had fun. He paid me. This feels like such a success. I didn't even check if it's... He paid me more He paid me 130 bucks. Five dollars more than he said It didn't feel like work. He pecked me on the lips and it was a friendly peck. There's no pressure -You got groceries. -Oh, my God! Did you like him? -You said he was nice. I know, which is kind of cool too. -Oh, 150. I feel like it's like blood money. I feel really weird taking it. I feel like I'm exploiting somebody, -It's about life. It's odd because we're doing it, What you guys are doing of what has been modeled to you. Like me and your dad We got married really young, but I married him and guess what, I'm right. I think what's changed that this is their idea of dating? That somebody pays them Escort service. Needless to say, I don't like it at all. Because there are enormous rewards There are enormous rewards My mom has a point, but she's a baby boomer uncomfortable If a woman can make money at it I have no problem with it. I really like this job. It's a really good job, The one thing I'm getting exhausted with -The texting and calling. Is that why you never went Yes, I never even considered it. I don't like to beat around the bush. I like to get right to the point. Whereas what you're doing There's a lot of time that you invest You're not obligated to them, You have your own partner. I'm sure your partner's annoyed you need to give other people. How did you keep your relationship going? Well, with escorting, The boundaries are very clear. You have to have your eye It's important for you to see it as a job. Andrea is able to get I need to stop wasting time so I'm going to the heart It means bigger money. In Toronto, the scene is discreet, The men are throwing and everyone's popping champagne. My first stop an event planner who owns one This evening, I'm his date -How do we get in? I know everybody here, It's all good. Oh, look, all the pretty women here, We don't wait in lines. -What's up, G? It's all you. We'll to a private area, This is what New York is all about. Rooftop entrance, baby, let's roll. You're shaking hands Are you guys ready because it's coming up? It's outrageous. Talk to me, New York. What I do with my events, I introduce people and you know something? The real dating world It's empowered men, Men that have power, that have influence, but do like to be that can make them feel good. That's your friend over here? -Yes. She's a nice, juicy licious lady. See, I bring women Empowered, educated girls It's a mutually beneficial relationship. That's the mantra, and that's why I do the parties. The relations parties, Business meeting pleasure, It's about empowerment, Here's the question, do you want to go out -Hell, no. Here's my question for you. If you were going out with a man and he used the money by saying, I'll take care of that for you. Now I have opened the door What do you think of that? It's a lovely idea, Very interesting. How can it be prostitution? He's assisting you from his heart. He's not expecting sex. He's expecting you I feel like it's bullshit. In the end, and he arranged a date for me with David, David called me the next morning He said he likes out-of-towners It was pretty fun. He was cuter than I expected I thought he would be shorter, but he wasn't any of that. I get very peachy vibes. You know, Like you're from Georgia or something? -It's the freckles, I think. Freckles? He's totally flirting with me, I didn't feel like or was trying to get something out of me, but he definitely is a man with goals. He knows what he wants. David is the kind of sugar daddy At the end of our date, He says he wants to do it again. I could get used to this. I show up very late and these hostesses immediately because I got there I was like, Caroline, They bring me over I was like, wow, thanks. He's being super normal. It was fine. I ate a lot of food. I ordered dessert Then all of a sudden I'm like, I'm like, what? I was, I don't know what to do. What did he look like? I don't know, he actually did remind me It was so disconcerting. When he started touching my hand, I need to leave right now. -Oh, my God. Caroline, did you get paid? No. There's one guy I'm talking to. He needs to message me I haven't even gotten any money Isn't that the point? Yes, I'm holding out for cash. How much time have you put into this now? Probably 50 text messages a day That's crazy. Yes. It seems like Sometimes we'll be together and that can be kind of shitty, especially if she is working and then in her off time That can be kind of annoying and I feel like You went on a date last night? That's it, I ended it. -You ended it? -With Sam? I don't know. I don't know, he's nice. He's the nicest guy. I know, but that's like it. I was, no, I don't want to use you. I want you to find I don't want to waste your time, I see how this kind of arrangement I wonder if he'll offer me a gift. I'm going on a date tomorrow. -With him? Are you into it? I'm into him, he's nice. He wants a relationship with you. I just feel like A nice guy who I don't cringe I enjoy hanging out with him. I enjoy spending time with him. I think you guys He was pretty clear so you're kind of leading him on now. He's really nice so why are you going to keep It's literally the point. We're just two really different people. I don't live in your world, I'm settled. I can show you the world Sam is nice, but he's not naive. There's a reason he's on these sites As long as I'm not compromising myself, I went out with a guy, and I was very clear. I said several times but he was just looking There are things but I'm not getting anything worthwhile out of it. I've been back at school for a week now. My computer got stolen. I have to replace it. I can't afford to replace it. I'm not working. I don't have I'm going to go back I got your message. I just got a panic call from Amalia. She's super upset. Our dad got really mad at her. What happened, tell me? That sucks. I mean, it's been the whole time. I feel like I've had and trying to justify it You had dinner, and then? I don't understand, what happened? I felt a bit attacked. They were coming down on me. Why? It's like I'm better than a lot of this. Who we are. That I should be focusing my life I don't know. I feel like I don't want and it's a bad idea. I keep going back on secular versus sacred, Having grown up with religion, and I feel like I do live a very... Secular lifestyle. Aside from the fundamentals of... Catholicism is just so patriarchal, I can't be expected that will never give me power, The fact that I don't have Yes, the way I feel I'm independent, but I also love my family, and I'm not going to drive My New York sugar daddy, David, All expenses paid, of course. The scene here is so intense. Like everybody Everybody's looking for a sugar baby. Meeting David, I feel like I struck gold. I feel like this is everything I've been having a bit of a hard time because I don't think but by taking advantage of someone, and am I being taken advantage of? Yes, that's a very good question. Let me ask you this, Because you said in the documentary No, we don't. You're lucky if you drive. -A bicycle. -I do. I have a bicycle, This is my style. What do you think of this one? I like the color. -Really? The color and size are perfect for me. -It's perfect. What about this, Next time you're here, definitely. -Yes? -Oh, that's sweet. Are you a large or small earring person? I'm a large. -What do you think? -Yes? I do. You should get these for me, -How's it going? Good, can I get these? -Are you guys all set? All right. I'll have to catch my flight soon. -Yes? It was a pleasure seeing you again, -How often would you invite me back? Once a month? As I said, You don't have to tell me now. Think, text, email, or whatever. I'll think about it. All right, so this is it. -You take care of yourself. -Do you know Canadians are the best... I had chemistry with David. I think we liked each other's company. I think that's the only reason and trips to New York. I don't want that connection I already feel broken up about it. I feel like I don't know I'm back in Toronto The language that I speak, I'm also not paying rent, I don't know, right now than have it handed to me over dinner. This might've improved my work ethic. Damn it! I feel like I started this hoping that to where I wanted to get Whereas having a sugar daddy that I wanted Yes, I moved out. We're still in the transitioning phase, I feel really good, Focusing a lot more and the people in my life. I got what I wanted, I was ready for it. David and I have been texting quite a bit, He doesn't require He touches in like every two days or so. He definitely wants me -Hi, Amalia. Making me lunch? Making me lunch? -With the food I don't have, no. Okay. Who are you texting? David. -David. -Sugar Daddy David? Okay, and what's he saying? I think Did you talk to Jocelyn about it? Yes. It's obviously not ideal for her. Jocelyn doesn't want you to go, Yes, she's not outrightly no, I know, but she'll say anything, Caroline and I have been debating, You're bailing on us. All you talk about is this, and if you're pushing Jocelyn away, What do I do, I just stop just because... Is it getting you ahead Is it worth the money you've saved the money you want, Me and Caroline barely hang out with you. This is going to distance you more Jocelyn seems a little edgy, so if I can see that, I don't understand why you're... I don't know, you've been pretty shitty. Just because you're not doing it anymore, You're not in the wrong You're wrong because you're sugar dating That's for me to decide and not you. Okay, well, then don't expect me to be around for it. Excuse me? Don't expect you to be around? Don't expect me to be around It's funny that you're my older sister, but you really haven't lately. -I'm done. Amalia! I don't want to make my family mad at me. I feel like I'm in a weird moral grey area and now I can't. Now everything Now my family's in it, My boundaries are in it. I keep going and I keep playing along It feels like I am playing this game and I want to win Text new message. Hi, Hannah, this is David. I've booked you a ticket I was thinking which we didn't get an opportunity It'd be great to see you again, Let me know what you think, bye. I'm going to go I've been trying to find This guy is perfect. It would mean It would mean I can spend my free time Not working for more money. There's an entire salary. Hey, this is Jocelyn. Leave me a message, and I'll get back. I don't see how the relationship Seventy-two hours and then communicating That does not seem I don't think that that's nearly enough. I think that she's worth more than that. Sometimes I fantasize and doing whatever I want, Whatever you please, whenever you please. -You only live once, right? What would you consider -I'd probably say $2000. Yes. Is that too low or too high for you? -That's not bad. For me That's like... -Does that matter or what is it? -It is? Yes, that 2,000's set? -It's everything you wanted. -Yes, 2,000 can do. -Two thousand American sounds cool. It's a great trade for you. Yes, that's interesting. -She keeps looking over at us. Yes, that's all right, I'm used to it. Okay, it looks like our ride is here. Would you like to come over for a drink? Yes, okay. -Yes? Great, let's do that. Being here, That can be really fun, but it's dangerous This is a legit sugar daddy. This is real, with money and a budget. I just got back from David's house He told me I should stay. I really didn't want to feel but it's hard not to because... He's put so much money into me being here that I feel like I want or I want him to feel at least like it was worth it, but I freaked out, and I left. I realize that if I'm going to do this if I'm going to get the big payoffs, then I have to sleep with these men. I wanted it to work and that's what really scared me. Once I thought the relationship becomes so much bigger, so much more energy, and I think that what I can't give, is me. It's all of me. Not for a little bit of money. Cheers. Thank you too. If I've learned anything it's that nothing comes without a price. My family, my relationships, Without my circle, I'm lost. Sugar relationships can work. I know a lot of women who make it happen, but my priorities are clear now. I've got to hold my people close.