One of Game of Thrones' longest-running bad until the HBO series' eighth and final season: and led the formidable Army of the Dead. We still don't know much about the White Walker fan theories, here's the untold truth of this Slovakian actor Vladimir Furdik might be at this point, but the truth is, he only started season, prior to that, the role was played Batman Begins or Kingsman: The Secret Service. Brake and Furdik actually overlapped: while played the high-ranking White Walker that steel sword. The transition between the two actors was though some fans found Brake's appearance Furdik was an indispensable part of the Thrones King's frozen shoes. He worked on everything from the fight scene and working on everything from high falls When it came time to recast the Night King, knew the show's action set pieces inside and Though the Night King's human name is never firm handle on his personal history, the show a human. He was a member of the group known as the Children of the Forest. The Children of the Forest made a home in settled happily in the Seven Kingdoms until After the First Men crossed from Essos into with the Children. In the end, the Children were responsible one of the First Men hostage and plunged dragonglass In doing so, they inadvertently created ultimate as a means of defending themselves against &quot;It was you. You made the White Walkers.&quot; &quot;We were at war. We were being slaughtered.&quot; The creation of the Night King turned out all, an undead monster who can raise entire issues. He turned against the Children of the Forest, When the First Men and Children of the Forest Walkers, the two warring factions were forced ultimately, the First Men triumphed at the After the war was over, the First Men worked Wall. White Walkers have always been a big part &quot;Correct. A student of history, are you?&quot; After all, the show's pilot opened with White Every now and then, during the show's earlier matter what else was going on in Westeros, ready to attack. You might think the Night King has been around make his first appearance until season four's That's the episode which finally reveals the as sacrifices. During the audience's first-ever glimpse of Walker. Throughout the series, the show has diverged Author George R.R. Martin, for his part, has and especially wants to make sure people don't distinct: the Night's King and the Night King. &quot;I'm a bit confused.&quot; The Night King audiences know and fear isn't explained, the Night's King is a legendary In the books, the Night's King was an early Thanks to an ill-fated love affair, he turned the Wall and the King in the North to band This little distinction might not seem important, similarly named but radically different characters. As the Night King makes his way through the a mystery as to what he wants beyond destruction, In spite of that inscrutability, Furdik has motivations. Throughout the show, hints are dropped about he does. In various interviews, Furdik has said that for being the Night King in the first place. As the result of years of conflict and mistakes, his will and has spent the rest of his existence him. The show also gave viewers one significant final season's second episode, &quot;A Knight of Night King will come for him to accomplish &quot;An endless night. He wants to erase this world. And I am its memory.&quot; &quot;That's what death is, isn't it?&quot; One of the longest-running theories among into the all-knowing Three-Eyed Raven, Bran King himself. Throughout Bran's training with the previous in time and see previous events. During one visit to the Army of the Dead, mark, a twist that left some viewers looking &quot;His mark is on me. He always knows where I am.&quot; One of the most popular theories circulating warged to the past to prevent the Children but in doing so, he became trapped within An intriguing theory, but now that the Night murdered in the process, we know it's one In trying to figure out the Night King's true might have come from a noble family like the As far as ancient houses go, Targaryen is viewers theorized that the Night King might After all, he can ride a dragon, and he likes However, the Targaryen connection is pretty really allow for it; that theory, while interesting, The more appealing theory points to the Night know for sure that the Night King was one It's possible that a Stark ancestor was the which explains why he always seems to hunt they're his family, but they ultimately turned The showrunners for Game of Thrones have clearly to fruition. The fact that it was Arya Stark, and not Jon kill the Night King was something the showrunners As far as the Night King goes, they've been long time. However, that doesn't mean they've shared the Night King. In an interview with The Hollywood Reporter, were as silent as the famous character: &quot;No, they didn't give me [much]. There were a couple of discussions with the he was supposed to do.&quot; Furdik indicated that since he got the sense he didn't necessarily need the same information. No matter what you might think of this approach, or Furdik's beautifully creepy performance. Fire has long been one of the most important created by the White Walkers. A body can be reanimated if it isn't incinerated, Watch involve cremation. Luckily, Daenerys Targaryen and her team have wights and White Walkers: dragons, which can on any enemies below. The Night King obviously has an affinity for of Daenerys' dragons during the show's seventh But during &quot;The Long Night,&quot; it becomes clear weapon against him. Daenerys tries her tried and true burning staring, completely immune to dragonfire. &quot;It's embarrassing, really.&quot; As the Night King and his army advanced on possibly prevail against an army that could night. The battle itself was relentless, pitting army of the undead. As the Night King made his way to the Godswood night and the Army of the Dead would finally Even though the Northern squad knew they could out the Night King, the chances of them doing Thankfully, there was one fearless force running through the episode, specifically Arya, armed steel. Thanks to years of training as an assassin to finally put an end to the Night King and &quot;What do we say to the God of Death?&quot; &quot;Not today.&quot; Even as a professional stuntman, Furdik wasn't &quot;The Long Night.&quot; Filming the episode required a 55-day shoot of the cast and crew bluntly described as When speaking to The Hollywood Reporter, Furdik &quot;This was one of the hardest jobs of my life.&quot; It makes sense. Besides performing as the Night King, he also the fight scenes and choreography. One of the toughest scenes to shoot, understandably, as Arya kills him. &quot;It was a very emotional day and night...It We are very good friends. We know each other. It wasn't easy for me to [pretend to] hurt If you make a bad move, if you don't grab So I was under pressure and she was under It was not an easy day.&quot; Furdik worked with Williams on her fight two have a strong combat history together; Check out one of our newest videos right here! Plus, even more Looper videos about your favorite Subscribe to our YouTube channel and hit the