I've just visited five stunning gardens in and there's lots of ideas for your own gardens. YouTube channel and blog, and I'm often asked for of the first things I say is go to the NGS - the you. There are some, you know, big famous gardens of course private gardens are the ones that of the things they've been doing is building up was five of the gardens in a group Open Gardens Cotswolds in Oxfordshire, and it's absolutely traditional things like the dairy and the forge but the conversion has been very sensitive, might think an English Country Village would gardens are sloping in one way or another. So I'm In the country you generally expect gardens to garden is actually really quite a small garden so perfect. It slopes down away from the house. an arch, and then a central path that slopes of the garden, where there's a fountain, a pond, a concealed - is a greenhouse and a potting shed. colours; there's lots of green and white, but pretty clumps, where they're planting together that I think is really effective. When Elaine trees in the garden. But they removed most create light and space for planting, which is of trees altogether. So from the smallest garden in garden slopes upward away from the house to the center of the village. With a large garden there's because obviously it's very expensive. So apart a terrace halfway up, where they like to sit dive around the pond. There's a stream running pond in halfway up. Liz has used the slope very planting a large garden it can be very expensive, there wasn't much budget left. So she's had to go from seed or propagate, so she's used really large colour around the garden. And I think that's a a big space. This border is essentially a raised of the garden. She's got geranium macrorrhizum and through this border, with just a little bird song Another thing that a large garden needs is seating of the garden. And as well as near the house and bench that looks over the garden to the side. seating area. Although most of the lawns are well long grass area beside two ancient apple trees, look at the trees. These are very very old apple the moss and lichen isn't going to kill them, and out when you're visiting gardens is how they've lifelong ambition to get a greenhouse, and so the leftover greenhouse bricks. And that's not harmonious. And similarly the pavers on the close to the Cotswold stone of the house. Jackie the old days farmhouses always had a big pond and it could be used as a source of water for all garden is taken up with what must have been the a really big part of Jackie's garden. And what you're planning a border quite often you will be much rarer that people remind you to think about weeping willow which is very good for soaking sharp shape of a conifer, of trees that have been and then other trees that are much more relaxed just a beautiful peaceful site, and it's done trees. What is important to remember is of and that can be expensive - although you usually years. Another thing I think we can take from house. It used to be that in the UK most normal - but over the past few decades builders it. It is very difficult for them to work around can cause damage to brickwork - particularly would need to research climbers quite carefully climbers up your house. But most of them are hydrangea and grapevine. Jenny's garden was what they have left is a very formal parterre area rather than up and down, and it's quite a gentle impact on the garden. The parterre is cut into could almost be called raised beds - but it's arches and a path along that. And round the corner patch with piles of logs and an old roller and a lovely contrast here between very formal and wonderful balance between structure, good planting garden visitors should pause to admire the trees. ancient sycamore - it's really quite old - and down and make the lawn more open. But actually a it gives it a sense of age, of distinction, it building and the garden. The older a tree is, the So it's wonderful that Jacqui has left that tree mown lawns, but a certain amount of contrast. and around it is a wild, semi-wild planting. but she's also allowed things like plantains to Over by her log store, things like linaria &quot;canon they're not self-seeded from her garden, but they just add a little something. And she the corner of the garden, she's grown a massive tree - and this is beautifully fragrant. So this off climbers. And then if you go beyond the Paul's really don't think you've probably seen before - and so she's created a little gated area where so happy there that they actually laid six eggs all six survived. You can find which gardens one of the things you'll have noticed is that in creating the atmosphere in a garden. So don't before you call in a tree surgeon or charge up your trees will make a huge difference to their