In today's video we are discussing rear mount / remote mount turbo setups. So, engine in the front and turbo somewhere away from the engine, the very back of the vehicle. We'll learn the we'll see if it's actually a stupid idea and very important lessons about turbocharging and So let's get started. We're going to start with the most remote mount a turbo in the first place? Well, Because it may be very difficult to associated plumbing in the engine bay of a car And even if you do find the space you may end up the turbo if you're working with a platform that you're doing some sort of engine swap. And if you such a one-off exhaust manifold may become a very your parts list. But even with the space found and choose for the turbo, that you are forced to choose of the intake piping or the exhaust down-piping or On top of this, a turbocharger is a major source for it may end up actually negatively impacting of the added heat, causing their lifespan to be path of least resistance towards solving these setup is actually a two birds - one stone affair the back of the car you get access to all of this You're usually going to find a big muffler, one or replace the muffer, they sort of become the muffer, And you might even run two turbos instead of one But you also solved your heat problems because you locate and the components in it are no longer exposed to Which means that it's going to last longer. mount and remote mount turbo setups and who have the temperature of the hot side, of the turbine side, mount turbo setup. This is a very significant a sudden cooling the turbo becomes much less only instead of an oil and water cooled turbo which coolant piping all the way to the average oil cooled only turbos can be a bit cheaper. back that's also a good idea because even better the remote location of the turbo doesn't also positively impacts performance because the heat the intake air as much. Plus we have an almost which the air travels and we have air along the piping, so it cools the air even more before it denser it is. The denser the air the more air we more power. Now this added cooling effect from the of a well-placed large intercooler so ditching the a good idea, because it's better to see this setup simply as an added boost to performance that potentially allow us to run a higher compression don't need a fancy one-off custom exhaust manifold, still add a turbo to your engine. It potentially and it reduces engine bay heat and it saves your So why aren't we all running remote mount setups? Well Well, if you spend a bit of time online into a very common opinion and this opinion is going to have a lot of turbo lag. It's going to and the turbo lag comes from the fact that the has to pressurize an entire car's length of intake we experience this time delay as turbo lag&quot;. This mount and remote mount turbo setups, I believe, operating principle of the turbocharger and of Here I have two turbochargers. This is a very small This is a very big turbocharger and Which one of these makes more power? If you say into fundamentally misunderstanding how a turbo is boost pressure numbers thrown around. &quot;How much making sick power!&quot; No! Boost pressure is not what the amount of air, the air mass or air volume certain period of time. The bigger turbo definitely during the same time and more air mass means we combustion and more power. In fact, if we take a big size running 14 PSI of boost, the big turbo is we pressurize the air the hotter the air becomes, becomes to cool the air back down, make it dense what you want to run is the minimum amount of boost your target power level. But again, you cannot run engine will struggle to produce enough exhaust turbo wheels of the big turbo and you're going you cannot have it all. It's impossible with Instead you must prioritize that which matters most to you Now, let's put all of this into the perspective of our rear smallframe turbocharger easily flows around 400 and that is at 1 bar or 14.5 So even a small turbocharger is more of even the largest car engine many times over this because when running at 5,000 RPM a 2.0 L of air per minute or 83 L per second. Now let's back of the car where the turbo is to the engine. which is 6.35 cm. This gives us a volume that the turbo now has to fill all the Intake piping is not. Once the turbo fills release the throttle, the turbo slows down and back on the throttle the 12.67 L of volume are a drop in the ocean of the turbo's capacity of 188 L of air per second at 1 bar of boost. And the of volume is negligible, because it takes the turbo This is something that a human cannot perceive I think that turbo lag in general is a pretty up with something else called boost threshold. And why many people believe that a remote mount turbo Now, turbo lag it is the delay in the spoolup of the turbine it from a closed throttle while you are in the Turbo lag is perceived by the driver as a time delay little bit of time where the torque doesn't kick there is a time delay that is required to overcome To get them up to speed. Boost threshold which the turbo starts producing significant boost. because a turbocharged car outside of boost, when the engine is outside of boost, below it will feel, the sensation will be very similar just poor throttle response, it's a lack is unresponsive. You floor it but not much happens you get there, let's say 4000 RPM, torque kicks and this feels similar to turbo lag. You boost threshold nothing happens, so the feeling And here's the deal. Modern turbochargers have Because turbo lag has to do with the inertia of turbine and very lightweight billet, titanium you name it compressor wheels and very light turbine wheels together with their ball bearing center housings to spool up, they have very little inertia, so put it in a car, match it correctly to the engine, the any turbo lag at all. But here's the important The length of intake piping that the turbo nothing to do with the inertia of the compressor of the intake piping doesn't really contribute to that's around 0.06 seconds. That doesn't exist. So But does it contribute to an increased the increased boost threshold come from? If the the exhaust piping? Because the exhaust gas must the engine to the turbo it takes some time for leads to an increased boost threshold? No. Exhaust that your car is 4 m long, you have 4 m of exhaust of added time for the exhaust gas to get to the of exhaust piping is that it drains the energy increased boost threshold. Often in my videos, when heat energy of the exhaust gas that drives the &quot;You're wrong. It's the kinetic energy&quot; and yes I'm purpose because you have to ask yourself &quot;Where gas were somehow magically cold, would they have When the exhaust valve opens inside an engine, the without the action, the upward pushing action escapes out the engine even before the piston does When you open the doors of a hot oven, does the hot air Instead it comes rushing out and you get that little heat The problem with a remote mount turbo is that length of piping, loses its kinetic energy. It It's passing it on the onto the surface area of underneath the car cools down the piping. The So in order to make up for the reduced kinetic travels through this piping we have to add more In other words, we need to rev higher because more RPM is quality of the exhaust gas with increased exhaust We have to rev to a higher RPM to spin Now, we can't really get rid of this negative But we can reduce it. And it's all about trying reduce the negative effect is to wrap or otherwise reduce the effect of the exhaust gases passing surrounding air. It prevents the surrounding From passing too much heat onto the surrounding air. So exhaust gas. So wrapping once, twice, some sort of The number two thing you can do is to choose the correct It's better to be conservative and go smaller because pipe has radius squared in it. A 10% increase in more surface area is simply more surface to lose its heat, to lose its kinetic energy. So boost threshold is going to be. The final thing smaller turbine wheel or even better, if you A small turbine wheel takes less reduce your boost threshold, but if you go engine at high RPM and reduce your maximum power a remote mount setup in that the variable geometry but like a bigger turbine wheel at high RPM. So if it's definitely a good idea for a remote mount discuss related to remote mount setups and they If you have run a full factory muffler setup before And that is because your turbos are now your muffers. You have mufflers before the turbos, especially not chambered to waste the energy of the exhaust gas in order negatively impact how your turbos operate and how much power you make, and your boost threshold and everything So mufflers are out of the window. they're not mufflers and the sound likely won't be However, there is a little upside here because the noises will be very audible so for example if you are going to be very audible because the and all the sound ination of the engine bay. fun little benefit. The second issue is oil return. it's very low. It is usually at the level of the a heavy duty scavenging pump, maybe even two, or anywhere else on the engine. Now there's again have to run the pumps now, the length of the oil an external oil cooler because the oil will be to the engine. However, you will need quite a bit capacity which again is a hidden little benefit The third issue is the potential for damage because, remember, towards the ground. The turbos are very low towards going to be very close towards the ground, which damage the turbos or the intake pipings becomes Plus, the increased length of the intake an increased chance for exhaust and boost leaks. these risks can be minimized, but they are there filters, unless you route them somewhere, are if you put them somewhere in a good spot in the benefits, here we have the drawbacks. Is it a stupid laggy as some of the people who tend to lean convince you about this setup. It is definitely a very common problem. And just like anything else, to you to see which of these weigh more for your If you were considering a setup like this. Overall, track oriented, let's say weekened warrior racer, like this you're going to be spending most of So you really don't care about the increased for something that you're going to be driving waste because you'll be spending a lot of the time really be harnessing the benefits most of the If you're considering a setup like this for something It is, as I said, a viable and interesting alternative it can be a lifesaver for certain setups. So a lot for watching and I'll be seeing you soon