Transcriber: thu hang do Hello, everybody. I'm going to start with a question. How many of you know the person Interesting. So, do you remember the first conversation You know conversations are links. Let's imagine every conversation And every time you talk to a stranger, a metal link is formed. And every conversation that you have the link gets stronger and stronger. And every day each one of us the grocery guy, the cab guy maybe the receptionist And with every conversation Until finally at the end, we've created a kind of massive World Wide Web. It's a catchy word. That's it, right? A conversation. A conversation is an adventure. A conversation gives you A conversation opens a door. Conversations can make war And conversations define Think about this. Every single person in your life And you knew nothing about them So I'm here today to tell you to have a conversation. And I'm here to tell you how. Seven ways that you can make I'm a radio presenter and I love talking to people. I do. I love it. And I'm so glad that I do it for a living. Here's what my day is like. Every single morning, I put on a mic, and I have a conversation that I can't see. Yeah. You know what the hardest part is, though? It's time. In a four-hour show, I get 20 minutes. That's all the talk there is. And in 20 minutes I have to convince you How do I do that? How do I establish a connection? I have 20 minutes to inform you, but most importantly, 20 out of the 20 times I have to leave a smile on your face. Except, I can't see you, and I have no way How do you do it? Well, my nine years in radio Strangers, they are everywhere. And we've always been told, But I beg to differ. Every stranger comes with an opportunity, an opportunity to learn something new, an opportunity to have an experience or hear a story that you've And you've had that moment, right? You're in the room and you look across the room, &quot;I want to talk to this person.&quot; And you can almost hear the first word it kind of gets stuck about here, it kind of goes up and down and you don't know - You know what? Here's my advice: just say it. What's the worst that can happen? They want to talk to you. The first word floodgates. I truly believe that the first word You know, once you said the first word So keep it simple. A &quot;Hi,&quot; a &quot;Hey,&quot; a &quot;Hello.&quot; And do what every good bowler does. Just gather the enthusiasm, put on a big smile and say, &quot;Hi!&quot; I know. There's going Turn to someone sitting next to you, Go on. (Laughter) I love the awkward laughter. &quot;Why is she making us do this?&quot; The first word floodgates. You know, here's a challenge Time. We have 90 seconds on radio, and we have to make that conversation So how do you do it? What's the biggest challenge? Honestly, if we get stuck in the rut of: &quot;Hi!&quot; &quot;Hey!&quot; &quot;How are you?&quot; &quot;I'm fine.&quot; &quot;What's going on?&quot; &quot;Nothing much.&quot; &quot;Same old.&quot; &quot;So tell me what's new?&quot; There you go, 45 seconds down, wasted. Right? So, here's my advice: skip the small talk And don't be afraid. Trust me. You will be surprised how much people So ask any kind of personal question. Maybe: Interesting name. How did your parents think of it? Or ... How long have you lived in this city? And do you remember Answers to those questions always something personal. My favorite one to try is: Where do you come from? Unfailingly, every single time I ask that question. Where do you come from? Let me tell you a little story. I was coming home one night ... I get into this taxi, open the door, &quot;Where are you from? And the 60-year-old Pakistani all about his life in Peshawar. We talked about politics, we talked about music, And 20 minutes later he is convinced for his 26-year-old (Laughter) And as I'm getting out of the taxi, he is taking out a passport-sized I have to say, it was a very But the moral of the story, really, is what starts with a &quot;Hello&quot; And that is a warning. (Laughter) Step three. Find the &quot;me too&quot;s. Have you ever met someone who starts a conversation &quot;I am from Delhi.&quot; (Laughter) Yeah? Nothing kills When you meet someone for the first time make an effort to find the one thing that you and that other person When you start at that point you will find that all of a sudden And that's because both of you suddenly And that's a really powerful feeling. Now, what could you possibly have Could be anything, right? You're both in the same place maybe you're from the same country, maybe you both like the winter or you're longing for it to rain. I don't know, you'd find something. When you find a &quot;me too,&quot; you automatically have a kind of Trust me, that's helpful. Pay a unique compliment. I read somewhere and they'll forget what you say, but they will never forget So be generous. And go out and give someone So, I have this belief and it comes from this experience I had when I met this gorgeous supermodel. And I look at her and I say, &quot;Wow! You are beautiful!&quot; And there is no reaction on her face. And I think to myself, &quot;How?&quot; That's when I realized, she is immune to the word &quot;beautiful.&quot; She's probably heard it And if she's on social media, she's heard it a million times today. There are some words that each of us It could be &quot;nice,&quot; it could be &quot;awesome,&quot; Stay away from these. Try and construct a compliment and you don't have to lie. Really. When you look at someone and say, &quot;I love how when you smile, it's like your nose smiles, and your ears smile, and suddenly, the whole person You see, I hope that's a compliment Pay a unique and genuine compliment. Ask for an opinion. All of us have opinions; trust me. And we all want them to be heard and everybody wants validation. So go on and ask for an opinion, and that's when you That is when the real communication begins, and you will be surprised just by asking their opinion Here's a mistake that some people make. They ask your opinion It feels almost intimidating. Somewhere in a room, and someone was to come up to me and say, &quot;So what do you think about the way the oil prices have affected I feel a bit cornered. I feel like I might fail, and that's the lesson. Nobody needs to fail Just ask something simple. How do you like your coffee? When did you watch your last movie? And when somebody gives you their opinion: really listen. Don't listen to reply. Listen to listen. There's a difference. And that brings me to my next point. Be present. I know you've been through this. I know I have. You're pouring your heart out to someone, and they are like this, &quot;Yeah, yeah, go on, keep talking. I can multitask! What's with Wi-Fi?&quot; (Laughter) You know, when someone's trying the least you can do Just be wholeheartedly present, just be there. And - oh! - my favorite part: Trust me, eye contact You can feel the conversation. And trust me, when you nine out of ten times, (Laughter) Now, if only I could look I would not have to worry about you guys That brings me to this, my favorite point Name, place, animal, thing. You remember that game? Remember the little details Remember their name. It's awful when you meet someone &quot;You must be Paul, no Peter. It's terrible. Remember someone's name You have no idea how important and that's not the only detail. Remember all the other details as well. The places they like to go to, the places they want to go to, How their pet's been feeling lately? Remember their children's names, Remember their wife's names, Just don't mix up the last two (Laughter) Remember these little things about people ask be genuinely interested, and automatically you kind of so they'll feel responsible to you There we go. Seven amazing ways that you can and seven reasons that's going to come up to talk I'm going to end with this analogy. A conversation is like reading a book. You can turn to any page you want. You can flip to your favorite chapter. You can read as long as you want, and every person, trust me, And it saddens me so much that entire human lives to 140 characters and catchy headlines. Because that's not what we are. We are not abridged versions. We are entire human stories. We deserve more from each other. So what are you going to do Are you going to walk around, look at the hard bound copies Or are you going to actually open a page and start reading a story? You decide. Thank you. (Applause)