We usually avoid difficulty whenever we can, single day. In this video, I'll explain the three main And by the end, perhaps you will be inspired So let's dive in. This circle right here is where most people This is our comfort zone. Everyone has one, and we like being in it. Usually it looks something like this: Going to school or a job where we do what is but not necessarily more than that. Getting quick dopamine fixes throughout the Spending weekends hanging out with the same Holding on to the same beliefs we've had for Basically it means taking the path of least Life becomes a predictable routine, with no And it's easy to understand why the majority As the name implies, it's comfortable here At the first glance, there seems to be nothing Why would we voluntarily put ourselves in But if we only live our lives in the comfort an injustice. You see, while our comfort zone is indeed People who are stuck here for too long don't just stagnate, When you're doing the same things, the same begins to shrink. The things that you were comfortable with Let me give you an example. Someone who is socially anxious, and is afraid the idea of meeting new people. Experiencing that is outside their comfort So instead they prefer to spend their time people they already know well. And that's fine. But let's say this person starts spending even more time alone. Slowly, their current comfort zone will become Because they don't confront their fear, the And even the idea of calling up their current So you can see how paradoxically, giving in When a muscle isn't used for a longer period there is no reason for it to stay big. The same happens when we don't challenge ourselves. We become less capable of handling the obstacles And that is the first reason why I try to I don't want to stagnate, and I don't want become uncomfortable in the future. However, when we push ourselves and do something for us, we leave the comfort zone. Then we enter the growth zone . This is where we struggle and we might feel where all real progress is made. And you have probably noticed this yourself. When working out at the gym, you don't improve When learning a new language, you're not advancing To improve and see progress, you have to leave That might mean increasing the weights on to recall that information without help. Yes, it will be uncomfortable. Yes, you will struggle. And yes, you will probably feel like an idiot. But doing anything worthwhile requires you have the biggest payoff always feel difficult There's no improvement without challenge. Remember that. Of course the comfort zone isn't just one We have multiple zones. You might be pushing yourself in some of them, in some. For example, you could be regressing backwards with your social skills, stagnating with your work, but pushing yourself to the limit at the gym. It's up to each of us to identify which zone And it's completely fine to stop progressing There's no need to push yourself at everything But if you're not happy with where you are, You probably already have a certain area in There are 3 ways you can go about it. The 1st way is by doing it more consistently. The 2nd way is by doing it more intensely. And lastly, the 3rd way is by doing it for All 3 of them will increase the difficulty I think they are mostly self-explanatory, as an example. Firstly, doing it more consistently simply means that instead of running 3 days a week, you try Since you are doing it more often, it becomes But this also helps consolidate the behavior in the future as well. Secondly, doing it more intensely, means that you do a more potent version of what you usually do. This might mean trying something new, like Basically instead of running at 60% of your This also adds variety and actually helps not doing the same thing every single time. Thirdly, doing it for longer periods simply means spending more time on it, whenever you decide to do it. So if you usually go for a 20 minute run, Basically you push yourself and persevere Simple as that. And all of this can be applied to pretty much Learning a new language? Do it daily, maybe even multiple times a day by 15 minutes, and use active recall along Trying to improve your social skills? Consistently put yourself into environments an extra sentence each time you find yourself All of those 3 methods are a good way to move on the area you're working on, some of them For example, if you're trying to learn an better to play every day for 10 minutes, than Also you shouldn't necessarily use all 3 methods Instead you want to pick 1 and once you're But more on that later. Now as I mentioned, most of the gains in life With that being said, if something is difficult, Breaking your leg might be uncomfortable, might have in the long term. The area you want to be uncomfortable in, Studying something, for example, makes you absorb new concepts you get smarter over time. Eating healthily and resisting sugar might get in, and stay in good physical condition. Saving money instead of splurging on a new properly and given enough time, it will make So these types of areas are where you should The ones with short-term pain, but long-term And that is the second reason why I try to Even though it might feel uncomfortable in off in the future. And only by entering the growth zone and pushing term benefits. Ok then, so why don't more of us leave the Well that's because there's actually a third zone. If someone were to push themselves too far pass the growth zone and go straight into This is why we feel uncomfortable in the first There is such a thing as pushing yourself After all, if you exercise too much, you might If you work too much, you might experience And discomfort is actually a very useful alarm, an injury would likely set you further back. So it makes perfect sense why most people They want to avoid the danger zone at all But unfortunately, a lot of people, when they're go straight into the danger zone. One of my friends is like this. A few years ago he wanted to improve his With newfound motivation, he joined the gym times a week. He also vowed to start a strict diet where and cut out all sugar. But within 1 month, he was back to routinely stuffing himself with cookies. Like most people, he took on too much, too And this is a very common occurrence when However, failing to stick to a plan isn't The bigger issue people now have, is that high expectations, they also feed their belief change and grow. Because of that they don't even bother trying In their mind, they are failures who shouldn't So what's the solution here? How do we make getting out of the comfort but at the same time, avoid the danger zone? Positive change requires moving beyond our However nowhere does it say all has to be A far more effective method is to go about After all, if someone has been completely doesn't make sense to start doing intense Their odds of success are far higher if they capable of doing. Like having a light gym session, 3 times a And only once they're able to maintain that, Remember, if you aren't able to commit to to a big one? Just something to think about. Another benefit that comes from doing it gradually Since you're actually able to do what you that you can indeed improve and change. And this proof of progress, even if it's small, in your abilities. This in turn fuels persistence to push through Basically success starts to feed on itself and Also, when you get a positive feedback loop to other areas. And this is the third reason why I try to Whenever I'm able to do something outside it kickstarts this positive feedback loop. And just like falling dominos, success fuels That being said, you shouldn't push past your When I say I do something difficult every in every single area, on a daily basis. I might be pushing myself in one or two areas, comfort zone in other areas. This allows me to maintain my current zone, Without rest, I would probably burnout. Yes, over time you want to grow. But you also want to give your comfort zone This graph is a rough example of how I believe First you expand your comfort zone, by doing But you don't keep expanding indefinitely. Instead, when it starts feeling too overwhelming, slightly above what your comfort zone was This allows you to get used to the new layer, your new demands, which prevents you from Only once you've adapted to the new demands you push past your new comfort zone. Just like before, once you feel like it's too hard, Essentially you're consistently challenging it gets too difficult. And you can repeat this process until you Another way to look at it, is to think about but not a permanent residence. As you can see, the point of this video isn't Rather, I'm trying to convince you to find yourself at things you care about. Unfortunately, a lot of people give up at and they never see what they're actually capable of. If you never push yourself to the limit, how Only those who consistently push past their are able to reach their true potential. So I encourage you to do something today that Read a few more pages, do a few extra reps Try to do something difficult today, that you'll become better than yesterday. If you enjoyed the video, and want to see Your support means a lot to me and it helps Anyway, thank you for watching till the very end. More videos are coming and I hope to see you