If you believe in religion or a divine power, afterlife. You may have a neat little story purpose. But, what if you don't believe How do you find meaning? One of the biggest human dilemmas is our deep you ask the universe for meaning, it doesn't life writing letters to someone who never there is this desire for meaning, but the Philosophers have tried to come up with a has been nihilism.There is no meaning or purpose. has no meaning? Yet we all do. 99.9% of us course, some thinkers like Dostoevsky returned nihilism. Other philosophers like Nietzsche endeavor, but it only applies to a select of creating values in society that transcend The other 95%? Albert Camus, the French novelist and philosopher, and nihilism that applies to the majority contradictory, and it sucks. However, despite we grow to love life. Why? To answer this, to pre-Christian ancient Greece for an answer. in particular, had corrupted the human mind As a result, we neglect this life, always ancient Greeks, however, valued this life Today, I'll look at Albert Camus's life, tell you ten philosophical ideas and secrets will also answer why later in life Camus's from revolutionary Marxism, an ideology he of offering a solution to the meaning of life by Marxism. So sit back and pour some coffee Albert Camus. Life Algeria to a French family. His father died mother to care for him and his brother. They Algiers with his grandma and his disabled At primary school, he met a teacher who helped school in 1923. Some 30 years later, in his to that same teacher. Despite his working class background, his like a good education, enrolment in a football Arab Algerians. But when it comes to health, 17 contracted TB, which put an abrupt stop moved out of his family home to avoid infecting For Camus, the isolation but most crucially, killed to feed people gave him a sharp existential deeply interested in philosophy, specifically and the atheistic philosophy of Nietzsche Nietzsche, particularly his influential book, Greek philosophers. I should point out that Anton Chekhov, the period of his life, as a result he also had Both, however, turned that pessimism to optimism, through storytelling. Not just that, both involved in theatre. In 1933, Camus entered the University of Algiers and wrote his thesis on Plotinus, the ancient like Plato emphasised ideas over matter, mind philosophy as he traveled to Persia and learned of reincarnation. Plotinus was also the pioneer an eastern flavour by emphasising unity of being. In his university thesis, Camus juxtaposed arguing that the Christian promise of afterlife because you could die at birth and go straight your chance of committing more sins which to live very long, if heaven is guaranteed didn't value this life. Only treated as the Greeks, on the other hand, celebrated power. And no surprise that Camus, just like a true atheistic meaning for life in one his I will discuss later. Outside study, Camus had two passions. Actually football or soccer team in Algeria. As a goalkeeper, pitch, which gives you a better perspective which must have helped him with the power For Camus football also represented a small and togetherness with a common purpose and football career was cut short after he was of football tribalism he retreated to an isolated animal. Life's really absurd. His second passion also involved tribalism, joined the French Communist Party and later a workers' theatre. After he was expelled because it allowed him that sense of togetherness it emphasises group bond. Later in life he and quite ironically staged Dostoevsky's revolution which I have discussed here. By he had grown old enough to see the other side individual freedom in the USSR. His third passion and perhaps the most important man, was sex. He married twice, but also had ultimate purpose in life is to pass on his He was handsome, masculine and had a status to many women. In 1940, many French were fleeing the French however, instead of escaping the fire, moved off, as his writing became more popular, he other existentialist giant, Jean-Paul Sartre. came from two polar opposites: Sartre from relative poverty but both found Marxism very their ideological differences. Sartre was wanted a peaceful reform. His 1942 novel, The Stranger made him a celebrity. lectures. Not just that, he received the Nobel him the second youngest writer ever to receive in 1907. Such is the absurdities of life, when you like the boulder of Sisyphus. At the height back from a holiday, the car he was traveling In his pocket, the police found an unused travel by train with his wife and kids, but by a car, driven by his publisher, Gallimard a 144-page manuscript of his novel in progress, his life growing up in Algeria, perhaps a Time, taking a more artistic approach to fiction Today Albert Camus is considered one of the the 20th century. Now I will discuss 4 of his most famous novels I tell you 10 philosophical lessons we can A Happy Death was written sometime between 1936 and 1938 Basically, in this novella, Camus is trying Schopenhauer argued that on a deeper level We can't help but continue living despite this will to life or survival was too passive power to energise it a bit and give it a bit is not about surviving or conquering but it to happiness is the premise of the novel. First thing, it is a short novella in two is about Patrice Mersault, incidentally the most famous novel, the Stranger. He has a love. It's very much an early version of disabled man, he decides to kill him to take and Punishment, except that Raskolnikov never Part 2 is titled 'Conscious Death' depicts fails to find happiness, despite seeking it seriously ill and on the verge of death, he a man seeking a happy life, who ends up getting Albert Camus reverses natural death with conscious natural death because in nature death comes in part two is a conscious death because we questions like how much we strive for happiness seek happiness but we don't know how to collects endless books yet cannot read. The Stranger most famous novel. It tells the story of Mersault, has three main plot points or three deaths: of an Arab man, and finally his own execution. The awareness of death makes humans unique something in Mersault from his animal state If Sartre said we are condemned to be free, also to be guilty. So at the heart of the novel is this central &quot;In our society any man who does not weep sentenced to death.&quot; In other words, Mersault also because he didn't cry at his mother's unavailable. A term used by women today to Mersault gets the news that his mother has be at her funeral, but contrary to common sadness. He acts as though nothing has happened. He even helps his neighbour, Raymond, to have have betrayed him. Not only that when Raymond helps his friend, parroting his friend's Mersault doesn't ask questions and does He simply does what he feels at the moment. has happened in the past, because he is always is shocked to hear that people negatively in a nursing home. When Mersault's boss asks him if he wants he says: whatever. When his girlfriend Marie is the same: whatever makes you happy. He attitude to life is a real time-bomb, so Camus One day on a beach, Mersault's friend, Raymond he had assaulted with a knife. Raymond gets from him to stop the murder. Incidentally, novel. Whether conscious or subconscious on life between the French and Arabs in Algeria walking on the beach, encounters the same Raymond's pistol so he shoots the Arab man, and put in prison. He promptly confesses to only explanation is that the sun was too hot reflexively. That's it. While in prison, days turn to weeks, then In court, the focus is not so much on the inability to cry at his mother's funeral. life in Algeria. An actual Arab man is murdered, not crying at his European mother's funeral. expose the legal system not from a racial that if someone doesn't know how to cry, men? That's the main question the novel Because he failed to cry, the prosecutor portrays to death. As he waits for his execution, Mersault believe in God and sees no physical way out his novel The Idiot, in nature when you face your enemy in wars, there is always some hope to live, but when the state condemns you to Death is the only certainty. Mersault spends days soul-searching to understand conclusion. Mersault tells the priest that can escape death. It doesn't matter how in us from the day we are born. This simple, accept his fate. Not only that, the mere act at the priest, also liberates Mersault, in confession. He reflects, perhaps for the very to the human condition. He was an animal but Mersault's finally happy. Not only that, hear the hatred of the crowd, so he won't In the Stranger, Albert Camus raises two important guilt. The novel has three deaths, one natural, execution. The first death, the death of his also indifferent to the second death which he finally wakes up and is completely lucid. the only species aware of its own death, which Heidegger said, the awareness of death makes Camus echoes that arguing that death brings to live a fuller life. The second issue in the novel is guilt. Mersault mainly on him not crying at his mother's compatriot Michel Foucault, was pointing out with psychological punishment. Pre-modern physical ordeals, while the modern legal system and instead it introduced psychological punishment due to the modern man being too rational. the murder without going through the Raskolnikov But his confession is not enough, so the prosecution icy interior by making him feel guilty. So free as his fellow writer Sarte said, but Modernity, on a fundamental level, is an attempt also wants to domesticate man and break their and cry. So during the trial, all effort was much for the murder, but for not crying at cry or show vulnerability or emotions, they're Mersault's indifference or care-free attitude so one has to tame him. By depicting Mersault as a complex character, is a process of taming the wild animal, turning the society safer, it can also break the spirit focus is not on him but others, making him less about punishing the criminal on trial through fear of punishment. Mersault is not tamed. Guilt doesn't tame makes you realise you're not a stranger, being understanding and anticipating death. his mother. Knowing that he's connected and finally brings him happiness. He's part The Plague in Algeria, in the town of Oran, where people by rats. It's a Kafkaesque novel about how fate and society and how death is cruel and The novel starts with scores of dead rats first human death, and soon more deaths follow. downplay the seriousness of the situation. closed. Nobody can come in or get out, turning How do people react? When life is good, everyone come out. Some characters like the doctor uses the opportunity to spread his religious plague. Criminals get rich by finding underground You throw a plague at them and humans use a journalist, who is ironically a stranger, city to see his wife. But when he gets the himself to see others suffer while he can He realises that his own happiness would be staying in town, Camus shows a glimpse of kind of hope. As time passes, things get worse. People who physically and psychologically exhausted. improve. But the town has changed forever the same people. In The Plague, Camus looks at the relationship Is society a bunch of individuals or are we happy when we see others suffer? The novel France in the 1940s. Just like the dangers the plague, first they ignore, but by the has occupied France and the plague has taken Individual French people could lead a happy with the Germans. However, Camus says that because of a profoundly deeper connection in nature. Parents sacrifice for their children, peaceful, we forget this, but when we face and find that there's a greater purpose the plague turned saints into sinners and cream rose to the top. Camus shows that we as Nietzsche said. Our circumstance dictates cannot be happy when we see others bleed. in peacetime, we bicker over petty things. But rise up to become greater than themselves. The Fall novel by Albert Camus. The story is a confession but in the cold of Paris and Amsterdam. Clamence is a lawyer in Paris. He's at the power. But one night he witnesses a woman He does nothing to stop or intervene. He goes then months and years. But the incident has being. Despite his best effort to forget it, is a negative incident happening to him, he like a cancer cell, grows inside him that can be attributed to his failure to do the It gets to the point that he questions himself. Every good deed he has done has been for his to inflict terrible things onto others. At others. His shiny surface life hides a sinister a terrible person, just like in Oscar Wilde's Upon realisation, his whole shiny castle of Soon he can no longer keep it. Tolstoy said, joining the French residence against the Germans Paris for London, but takes a bizarre Celinesque of religion and god come into focus. But despite life is truly meaningless, he comes to a deeper is to be... you guessed it. Guilty. Yes, a It has nothing to do with religion or god. ends. On the outside he lived a successful life, against him, just like in Dostoevsky's Crime torment forced him to confess that sealed our hero is forever condemned to feel guilty. cruelty of existence. One mistake will follow shadow at night. I think this novel shows married but also had affairs which must have a bad but extremely horny card, with two sacks want to get out, and once they are out, you that comes after. Here's a quote: "I simply don't really condemn any weakness; they would our strength. This is why woman is the reward, is his harbor, his haven; it is in a woman's not all that remains to us of earthly paradise?" In the Stranger, Camus's protagonist, Mersault not crying at his mother's funeral, but for his action but for his inaction. So to way you're doomed. So not only are we guilty we do not do. Now I will discuss two of his most famous The Myth of Sisyphus is a philosophical essay he introduces his philosophy of absurdism. to push a boulder up a mountain. The boulder down and push it back up the mountain. A process or stop, showing the futility and absurdity seek meaning or purpose in life but the universe to be found outside, ending one's life is meaning, then why live? But being human, the kind of creature we are, to Camus we have three options. One, to find or Franz Kafka's novels. But this manufactured negates future hope. The second option is but unfortunately they don't last very long. them. The third option is passion, to live Camus's ultimate answer is to understand Every time he goes down to get the boulder, he accepts it. He doesn't stop, but pushes is absurd, contradictory and futile. But for to exist, human life is necessary. In other the impetus to continue living. The alternative in heaven, which negates this life as meaningless. heaven, then this life is not worth living. life makes it even more worth living. For Camus, life's happiness is not in its life itself. In other words, we find joy, instead our truest joys come from life being concludes, quote: "The struggle itself ... is Sisyphus happy". Why? Because he accepts The Rebel Albert Camus published in 1951. Here, too, of the world. Despite being an atheist, Camus justice from Marxism. I have said this before, of Christianity as they both emphasise a future So in this essay, Camus tries to bridge the argued that material inequality is the root to correct this by creating a just and equal the material resources. Nietzsche, however, We need a hierarchical society that allows Nietzsche an egalitarian society punishes because nature is highly unjust, it allows Marx wanted to tame nature and society and of nature and individual freedom. Towards Nietzsche as he was disillusioned with a Marxist the same time, he was deeply concerned about "The true rebel is not the person who conforms but a person who could say "no" to injustice." So Camus finally settled on reform as the wants evolution, not revolution. Marxists evolutionary biology so to make a revolution human will with some disastrous consequences, words, a Marxist revolution cannot succeed who disagree. So Camus understood that human not so much for a bloody revolution. Next I will discuss 10 lessons we can learn conveyed through his fiction as well as non-fiction. 10 Lessons life, summarised his 4 novels and 2 essays. from his life as well as his writings. One: We're all strangers on this planet family. You could say he was born in the wrong and his mom had Spanish heritage. He later Germans. In some way, he was a stranger in our family, country, language and culture also gave him the opportunity to question human existence. What it means to be human His unique cultural background gave him a that he titled one of his novels, The Stranger. rock of a planet. We often get bogged down into nationalities, gender or something else, to come to terms with our existence. We are where we have come from. How life started over it. It's what it is. So nobody is at Two: Be part of a team. liberty, equality and fraternity. While freedom of socialism versus liberalism but it's It's more psychological. Albert Camus played meant he had to live in isolation. This solitude when he was part of something bigger than a single aim working together to achieve something a war. Quote: "Everything I know about morality -- Camus. The desire to belong is incredibly more free and solitary life in today's world, We want to be picked by others. To compensate after his illness, he joined the Communist he became a famous writer, he continued to writers like Dostoevsky and Faulkner. So for yourself, with a unified goal, gave him fulfillment. Spoke Zarathustra, is that of a lone wolf is communitarian. Throughout history men physically and the sense of camaraderie brought them as families and communities have fallen apart. become more transactional and less spiritual, an increase in alcoholism, addiction and consumerism. teaches you loyalty, responsibility and respect. Three: Create art. a teacher, but soon found writing to be his allowed him to cope better with the absurdities to create something. He created four major there is debate whether he was a better philosopher through writing fiction he made a dent in Prize in Literature. His novels are not the Dostoevsky, but they make up with philosophical and art are as powerful as food. And I think and socialism. Marxists have a more utilitarian is no value in the work itself but what it in the work, in the creation and in the craft can feed your stomach but the process of art universe doesn't care, it is incumbent upon for ourselves. And art is perhaps the best mean painting but it can be any craft. The so we can find meaning in our work and craft. "It takes time to live. Like any work of Happy Death by Albert Camus. Four: Life's miseries are random. a car accident is the most absurd death. Yet, unique in this case. A lot of famous novelists famous Russian writers, Alexander Pushkin they had fictionalised in their own novels. about in his short story, A Madman's Diary. is that he understood that life is for the and suffering are also pretty random. Nobody ill. As I said before, he had a train ticket to go by car. When we face hardships, illnesses, the unfairness of it. Yet that's what life died at the height of his fame, only three 46 years old. Yet, it could have been worse. was to embrace life with its randomness and not in its happiness but the life itself. cup of coffee? But in the end one needs more Happy Death by Albert Camus. Camus's philosophy life, but also its miseries not by closing Five: Ignorance is not bliss lot in common. Both had to deal with the idea in Europe. However, Dostoevsky returned to and naivety on the other. So fundamentally and religion, instead preferred blissful innocence For him, religion or naivety was not the answer. He didn't believe in god. Unlike Dostoevsky, didn't want Russians to get exposed to bad boat had already sailed. You cannot close there is a god that would protect you. For but we are the wilderness, and we have to of meaning, just as we have to build shelter is always better than no shower. So Camus, than comforting lies or blissful naivety. Six: Fearing death is like fearing life Camus talks about two deaths. The first death a natural death after an illness. In this not by our desire to live long as Schopenhauer but by our desire to be happy. Quote: &quot;The thing in man's heart. In my eyes, that justified even committing a murder, he fails to find he realises something deeper inside him. Death it. Death often means misery, pain and struggle, Epicurus said since we do not and cannot know what it is. The fear of death is like having life itself. In two of Camus's novels, when death, they finally realise they're happy. one must fully and completely accept death. Quote: death he was staring at with animal terror Seven: One lives in here and now change things in life. It makes no difference to Paris or not. He leaves all those things died today. Or maybe yesterday; I can't be the most crucial act in the novel, the murder, too bright. He lives a dull, indifferent life, You could say, Mersault is a typical human of us around the world. A good example is similar fashion, of course he didn't murder or stranger who didn't give an F to anything. and wrote poetry and fiction. He didn't at being a dirty bastard. Albert Camus shows Despite years and centuries of rational thinking system, most of us just live our lives on future and try not to think about the past. use alcohol, drugs or social media to bring pain of the past or the anxiety of the future. now. For the most part. Quote: "Maman used to be happy about. In my prison, when the my cell, I found out that she was right." of a glass as half empty. It could be much facing death penalty, finds joy in the shifting is not out there, it is in here and now. It see the world. Eight: Crises give us the opportunity to become In his novel, the Plague, Camus pits an individual's to continue. In other words, an individual the survival of the species as a whole. When themselves and their loved ones. But as the is a switch--you could call it an evolutionary More people put their own lives on the line people together, wars unite, and plagues sharpen Camus highlights one of the most important becoming more rational, we become less and interest before everyone else's. However, a series of calamities confronted by courageous society faces a disaster, it takes a little the plague virus that sits deep inside the strong enough to bring it out, human courage triggered we rise up to the challenge to become being a despairing novel, is also a hopeful others is closely tied to our survival instinct "To state quite simply what we learn in to admire in men than to despise." The Plague--Albert responding to the highly individualistic philosophy of others can be incredibly meaningful for place in human history but so does a caring to bring joy to others. Quote: "What's of plague as well. It helps men to rise above Nine: Life's meaningless but we are happy. confronts the biggest absurdity or contradiction life, yet the universe provides no answer. irrational. He feels within him his longing born of this confrontation between the human The Myth of Sisyphus--Albert Camus. As I discussed earlier, Sisyphus is condemned We all wake up, go to work, come home, sleep books, synthesise the ideas, turn them into it goes on and on. Parts of the process I but I have to do, partly to earn a living enjoying the struggle itself. If Sisyphus as I see him pushing the boulder. Albert Camus, perhaps understood that our offered neat little stories about life's paths and solid stories explaining human existence. science and rationality, we still crave for But Camus says, we should not seek comforting hardship. We enjoy life not because it is People who stay home all day and do nothing, people are those who accept life's struggles. struggle and get on with it. The more you life becomes. Sisyphus doesn't crave for He finds meaning in the struggle itself. In there. Ten: Life's not meant to be passive acceptance Quote: &quot;I revolt, therefore we exist." The Albert Camus was torn between two divergent Karl Marx and the radical individualist philosophy and the other heavily individual. But what an active rebellion against the modern condition. inequality, while Nietzsche on the other hand, tradition of rationality, religion and nihilism. themselves reconciled in Camus as he brings seeking purpose with a Marxian social rebellion drawn to Marxism but later he rejected revolution in his philosophy. In his novel, the Stranger, societies: men's spirit of rebellion is guilt. To be a human, one must cry. Throughout they often killed all the men. Why? Because rulers. For the same reason most people in or break the law. So modernity needs men to as well as rebellious spirit. For Camus our desire to be creative and find deep desire to fight injustice, inequality fighting for justice and being creative. Both crushed in the modern world. Camus says: &quot;I revolt, my liberty, my passion." For Camus rebellion seeking clarity. Life's not meant who push boundaries. That's what he did Albert Camus dedicated his life to writing non-religious meaning. He finally settled meaning but being content or even happy that that there is no grand purpose we have to in playing football, writing stories and essays, the boundaries of human intellect. It doesn't it is the dedication that matters. The process. job in the world, pushing a boulder up a mountain he takes the job on the chin and keeps pushing. and starts stinking, when it stops moving. Push as hard as you can and that should bring is the biggest gift. Nothing else matters. Thank you for listening.