Hi Everyone, David Bombal back Talking Sasquach, you've got and tell us about your channel. I'll just say this for everyone who's watching. Fantastic channel. If you're into Flipper Zero, I saw but I've said enough, introduce yourself. Tell us what your channel's about. How's it going, yeah, I am the Talking Sasquach. I've got a YouTube channel where we go over mostly Flipper Zero stuff, what we're getting into a hardware hacking and, you know, We do like 3D printing little projects but yeah, a lot of Flipper Zero content, at least that's what I'm mostly known for. So tell us about the demo. It's Wi-Fi hacking, I believe, right? Yeah, so what we're going to do is we're of basically de-authenticating a Wi-Fi hotspot, and then we're going to grab and we're going to, you know, We'll pull those off, the pcaps We're going to check them them in Wireshark, and then we're going to decrypt using Hashchat, so it should be pretty fun. That's great. I mean, so Hashcat's not going to so you're going to put that Yeah, so I'm going to be able to and then run it on PC. Unfortunately, the whole workflow can't but it gives you the idea of Like, there's a lot of things you can do with but it's cool to see what And one of your very first is a TikTok where you were Yeah, so one of the first things I did, once I didn't even have the official Wi-Fi board, I just had a ESP32 room and plug in the four wires and ran a de-auth on my network. And I realized that I had older ring video cameras that were susceptible to de-authentication. They're at a 2.4 gigahertz network. And yeah, I just pulled up hit the de-auth button and camera went off. I was like, that's really interesting. So from there, I kind of started messing around with more and more stuff figuring And yes, actually stealing but figuring out Wi-Fi passwords that way is certainly something that is capable of doing. That's great, okay, so I'm gonna keep quiet now. Take us on this journey because I'm sure everyone wants rather than us talk about it. So first things first, I've got my, this is the official Wi-Fi board. And this is my relatively heavily Things don't really focus but yeah, if you saw my video from, well yesterday, technically here, but whatever timeframe works, I did the clear case mod, which is pretty fun. So what we're gonna do is let me hop down to the desktop real quick. And then I will show you basically So I'm gonna open up QFlipper, so you can see what I'm doing. Here's QFlipper. So the first thing that I'm gonna do, so I have in the background a router setup. And this router is running which software or firmware, sorry, are you running on your Flipper? So currently this is running of XFW or Extreme firmware. Okay, so Xtreme is the software that you like at the moment right? Right now, yeah, it's got all I like the UI updates to it. It's got working RGB control, which is important because I did the RGB mod. So yeah, it kind of checks all the boxes. They have really been pushing, like I know the devs over there, and they really are trying to push the envelope or what can be done. So yeah, they make pretty good software, or pretty good firmware for that matter. So just before you go any further, is this installed as part of the Extreme firmware? Or do you need to do something? So this is all part of it. Yeah, most of the custom firmware has come with applications already picked out. This is Wi-Fi Marauder by JustCallMeKoko, running on the board. So the board has special firmware. And then this, the Wi-Fi companion app is done by OX Chocolate, aka Coco Code, who's actually really, really cool. They're part of the Discord and they've made some really great applications aside from this as well. So sorry, just because I'm slow, can you show your FlipperZero again with you've got a board on it, right? And that's a board that you have to buy separately and flash it, is that correct? So yeah, right up there. Mine's fancy because I've got a nice 3D printer, but that's the official Wi-Fi Devboard. So this isn't from any of the other creators. And honestly, if you don't you're really missing out. It's not very expensive, and especially if you bundle These will allow you to do, you know, I mean, Wi-Fi stuff. It does have some Bluetooth So yeah, definitely get one of these. It makes your Flipper a lot more versatile. And in your, on your channel, how to flash that and how to update it and stuff like that, right? Oh yeah, oh yeah. So we've got a number of different ways to do it, involving either hooking it up to your computer, but what's great now is Coco Code actually came up with a little application that allows you to install the Marauder firmware We also figured out a way of installing Flipper and evil portal at the same time so you can dual boot, switch back and forth with a single file. It's super, super cool. But yeah, that's basically the Marauder firmware onto the So I'll link those videos below. If anyone wants, if any of as always, you know, Nate's got talking about all kinds of things. And that's what I love about So if we are going to quick in this video or you missing some stuff, go check his channel out for those videos and a lot more, you know, information. But I've been speaking enough So shows this demo. So what we're going to do is Wi-Fi Marauder. And we're going to scan our access points. And let's see, do, do, clearing access point zero. Any luck, this will actually scan my access point. Sometimes I have to do this twice. There we go. So now what it's doing is it's going through and it's finding all of the These are mostly my neighbors. But deep down in this list, So that should be long enough. So just for people who you've got the FlipperZero software and you're doing all of this Yeah, this is all directly on my Flipper. I'm using QFlipper is just a way for you to kind of follow along with me. Well, list the access points. And you can see right here That is my access point we're going to go through. So it's going to select it All right, so we have our access point selected. What we're going to do is we're And we're going to do this is targeted active. So what this is going to do, the network and it's going to So what I'm going to do to I'm also going to hop over and grab Squachnet. We're going to actually connect to it with my PC. So basically what we're doing is as possible with the different devices. So I've got my phone. I've got this set to automatically And I've also got my PC, which again, because it needs to It's necessary to decrypt the password. So basically, a little swap back over. Now we've got that on here. So we can close this. So once I've done that, what it actually does is saves those files directly to the SD card. So I can open the SD card. And it's going to be under application data. Or I can double click too And then pcaps. Here's my pcap file right in here. So I can download that and So basically, those are our handshake files. We're going to use those to So the next thing we're going and make sure that those handshake We need the EAPOL handshakes. So let's open up Wireshark. All right, cool. So we're going to hop on down to Wireshark. And then we're going to drag this here. Capture has a, it always says, but not always, but it's almost always cut That's normal. All right, so now we know we So we have all of the files that we need for this. So what we're going to do from here And then we're going to go to Hashcat for something that's usable from So I'm going to go to the converter. I'm going to choose our file, and we're going to convert it. So that worked. And I'm going to save this into the same That has Hashcat in it. So we're going to do that. And we're going to name this squach.hc22000 save. Over your, we can replace that. Cool. So what we're going to do is I'm going to in. We can just type CMD up And now that we're in there. So all we're going to do from here is And we're going to use the list that That's a bunch of passwords, right? Yep. That's my password list for you. So it's going to go through and test through here. And yeah, it's got a lot of CPU power in But if we scroll up here, we can see That's why you want to make sure you Because the most common passwords This is a small password list. This only has about 400,000 passwords. And you can see how long it I mean, I've got a decent graphics card, but yeah, That's what I love about the FlipperZero, right? Because it's some people But I disagree. I mean, it's a great way to learn, right? It absolutely is. So I mean, I'm a bicycle mechanic really into computers and stuff. When I got the FlipperZero, I hadn't done And it just kind of reignited that, And the more I push it and the crazier stuff that actually seems doable. There's so many options with, you know, BadUSB and Like, there's a lot you can actually do. And it's a lot more than most people think. Because they see these fake videos on YouTube and But it's really not. So just hold on. If I understood this correctly, you don't I have never worked full-time in IT. So in other words, you... I've never worked in IT. So you do bicycle stuff as your full-time job. And then you're doing FlipperZero videos, and yet you're learning tremendous And just like playing around with the tool, right? Yep. I think that's a great inspiration Because I think I see a lot of hate I've script-kiddy as these guys, But I mean, how do you learn this stuff That's exactly what it is. Like, if you don't have a reason to learn and yeah, I run scripts and stuff on there, I mean, that's what Kali is for, right? It's not like anybody's out there Like, they're just scripts at the end of the day. And how long ago did you say you got your Flipper? September. And you've learned all of this... Stuff in that amount of time. Yep. Along with hardware modification and stuff But I mean, the one of the first things That is amazing. Yeah, and like, I'm not... I mean, it's anybody who does this professionally but yeah, like... But how do you learn the Exactly. Pick an ambitious thing. Don't tell anybody you're trying to do it. So there's no real pressure if you fail at it. And if it comes out good, share it. That's kind of what I've Nate, really appreciate you sharing that. Again, on your channel, you go through Absolutely. And I do go kind of fast, you So we're a little fast. But yeah, but we can go through everything. I try to go through every single step. I try to do everything live and real. So I don't cheat if I don't have to. I mean, I really don't like doing any It also helps people go through every single step. I make mistakes along with you. So, you know, I try to make So as mentioned, I've linked Nate's channel below. I've linked some of his videos. Go and check them out. Go and show the love and support. Go and subscribe. And I'm really happy to announce that So let us know the kind of demos Nate's going to share a whole bunch of videos. And we've actually recording a whole bunch today. But we'll be recording more in the future. Nate, thanks so much. Glad to be here. Appreciate it.