Hi. I'm Dan Fleisch. When people hear that vectors and tensors, a reasonably high question: What's a tensor? My goal for this video that question, not using a bunch of simple household objects including pieces of cardboard, and a pointed stick. I think the very best route to making sure that you're solid on your If you've taken any college-level you probably think of a vector is representing a quantity that has both where the length of the arrow is quantity and the orientation of the quantity. This could represent the force of direction of the Earth's magnetic field, flowing fluid. But vectors can represent How does a vector represent area? It's you simply make the length of the vector (the number of square meters in the area) arrow perpendicular to the surface. So in that way this can represent an lots of things. But if you want to take representing quantities with magnitude vectors are members of a wider class of make sure you understand vector components and basis vectors. If you're even going to think about the yourself one of these. This represents a coordinate simplest one with the x-axis the y-axis and This represents the Cartesian coordinate coordinate systems is they come along You probably ran into these as &quot;unit these little guys is they have a length that you're going to express the length basis vectors or unit vectors is in the might represent the unit vector in the x little hat over it or sometimes &quot;i-hat&quot;. That's the x-hat unit vector - it points coordinate. Likewise the y-hat (sometimes called the of increasing y, and the z-hat or &quot;k-hat&quot; increasing z. Once you have the coordinate system and a position to find the components of How exactly do you do that? I think it's components if you begin with a vector in vector in the (x,y) plane at some angle to component, I'm going to project this vector onto component, I'm going to project this vector onto those projections? Here's one way: I've darkened the room project the vector onto the x- and y- axes. First I'm gonna shine the light parallel to the y-axis) and look for the axis. That will be the x-component of the vector on the x-axis ends right here. If I make the vector have a greater moves this way - the x-component is lie entirely along the x-axis, then the length - the x-component is the length of the Now I've got my lights shining parallel to the x-axis) and the shadow me the y-component of the vector. Notice x-axis and decrease the angle to the y- bigger. Another way of visualizing vector from the base of the vector to the tip how far do I have to go in the x- the y-direction?&quot; In other words how many x-hat (or i-hat) unit vectors would it take to get from the base to I can show you this if I get rid of basis vectors (these are going to go in the x-direction and some y-hat basis vectors. So in other words this vector is made up That means that instead of drawing an say four of these, plus three of these. there's no z-component of this vector), zero In other words, this is a perfectly valid course if you know the basis vectors, you wouldn't even have to put these on, components as your vector. You could You could even stack them up, and put a nice set of parentheses around This looks just like the way you see Of course these three components pertain table a minute ago. To generalize this to replace these components with A sub x, and A sub y, and A sub z. Of course, A sub x is the component that pertains to the x-hat hat basis vector, and A sub z pertains to the Notice that we need one index for each directional indicator (that is one basis This is what makes vectors &quot;tensors of component. By the same token, scalars can be because scalars have no directional therefore need no indices. Those are I'll see in a minute why it's so combination of components and basis some examples of higher-rank tensors. tensor in three-dimensional space. Notice that instead of having three now have nine components and nine sets Notice also that the components no longer have a single index, they have two indices. Why might you need such a representation? Consider for example the forces inside a imagine surfaces whose area vectors point in And on each of those types of surface, component in the x- or in the y- or in the the possible forces on all the possible with two indices referring to basis vectors. So for example A sub xx might refer to area vector is in the x-direction, A sub on a surface whose area vector is in the y- This combination of nine components and this a rank-two tensor. This is a representation of a space: 27 components each pertaining to one of little bit here so you can see the Notice that now each component has three vectors, A sub xyx pertains to two x and one y basis vector, and so forth. This entire front slab has x as the third index and vectors. The middle slab all has y as nine, and the back slab all has z as the So in three-dimensional space 27 components, 27 sets of three basis component. You may be wondering what is it about vectors that makes tensors so powerful. The answer is this all observers, in all vectors, not on the compliments, but on vectors. The reason for that is that the basis reference frames, and the components keep the combination of components and It was this characteristic of tensors &quot;the facts of the universe&quot;. Thanks very much for your time. (Subtitles bei Majestik Moose)