Imagine living in a place where 60% of the people are The elderly population feel isolated and it negatively affects Most people wouldn't go out of And really, I think We believe that our elders hold Everywhere we travel, befriending an elderly person has become They often hold stories and have so much So why do we send so many Well, funny enough, Staffan has actually always had a Since I was a kid, every there is a show showing a young because he doesn't and his dream is to find When I grew up in Sweden, I didn't So I was like, I'm gonna do that. And now we're doing it. But our mission today is Finding a retirement home that will but also sneak out an elderly on The challenge, however, is And in fact, we've until Staffan found a That's a nonprofit retirement after asking you guys on Instagram and getting a response from But it still did not seem so simple. '' Calling with a Yes fan member '' Hello, hello. What do you think the chances are and having someone You know, that's where I What's your guys' Potentially, like, already next week. Oh! Well, in the end, the CEO and Staffan and to see if an elderly new But they had no idea they would find themselves on with one of the This is my first time - Ah, really? Oh, no way! That's a beautiful bridge. - You guys have a great time here, okay? Hi! So good to see you! Thank you for saying yes to this Yeah, I can't say Okay, first time rolling - We all just do this? - Self, maybe? Wow! There are 320 seniors on campus. Wow, amazing! Yeah, you guys are actually - Perfect. Throw a party with the seniors I don't think any young person has had the experience of No, I'm excited because you Thank you. And we're so happy because I know when we This can be difficult. You think I will be invisible? I think you guys are definitely Let's walk in and we Thank you for trusting us. - Yes. Don't say that. - We trust you. Don't say that when we're... You know, sometimes I throw the backpack over This is one of those moments. The feeling that I have is like, You're probably the youngest who has the most senior friends, and one of your most notable who's an 80-year-old, and I can't wait to see who you befriend I'm going to spend the and seeing what kind of exciting and work out different scenarios. God knows what adventure we're it's going to be freaking epic. - Go get them. Okay, off we go. I'm about to walk into the dining room. Okay, first walking in. Hello, hello. Nice to meet you. '' Nervous laugh counter: 1 '' I'm visiting here. I have this big dream to come meet beautiful people like Well, you've got the best table. Yeah, it is, yeah. What was for lunch today? Pastrami sandwich. - Pastrami sandwich. With sauerkraut. - Damn. I was a bit nervous, like, I'm a single man Well, how do I? - I'm single as well, actually. Exactly, I'm not, I'm not married. Don't be nervous, we don't bite. Okay, that's good. - What's your names, by the way? - Paula And Eleanor. We're not old and crotchety yet. Speak for yourself. - I'm Cindy. And Dorothy here - Hi Dorothy. Talking with residents and saying hi. Are they going to have a seat? -Yeah. What are you? We travel around the world to different cultures, different people. Did you tell them about your Well no, I want to At 102, she walked the Oh my god! It's a novelty for me, And I bet for the seeing the beautiful Dorothy Oh, go on. Is it something that you that you would love to Well, I've been to all the but now I'm on a walker. I'm not sure I could - I don't think I'll go there. It's too far away. Yeah, Dorothy, what Do you have any plans coming up? Yeah, I have a Tai Chi. - Do you know what Tai Chi is? I have a Tai Chi class at Yeah. I'd be surprised how many people I'm just leaving Staffan to do his He's going to let me I feel so grateful that Yes Theory, has become this portal for wisdom and to be making a specific video feels like such a massive blessing. I feel like society in general, I don't feel that so much The older you get, the Eastern culture, there's actually so and learning from them, and I feel like that adds such and to the transfer of information and I'm fascinated by not only you but your shirt. Oh, thank you so much. I want to know where '' Not a paid actor '' - It's fantastic! In case you were wondering, this is the design that this part of our recent drop available now over on I guess good taste knows no age. We are so lucky and grateful to have such a beautiful global community Check out Seekdiscomfort.com for the Guided by Nature collection, and now back to figuring will be sneaking out of Shall I walk with you, Certainly. Oh, they'll get a big thrill - Yeah? Thank you. Likewise, likewise. I have a visitor. Go back to that chair right there. All right, follow me. Thank you, Dorothy. Oh, slowly out. - Back in. - One more time. I see my palms. Are you doing ok? Yes, I'm doing great, thank you love. Three, four, five. Thank you for coming. Staffan, thanks for coming See you next time. Do you feel better after Oh yeah, I could There you go, I'm - I'm coming with you. What kind of parties We don't have parties Would you like some coffee? That would be lovely, - You're not married. Do you have any Bring flowers home once in a while. Yes! Is it true that you have to kiss a Yeah, yeah, I have to kiss a lot of frogs. Yeah. Dorothy, the live music Well, why don't you see what you can Okay, I'll come back and report to you. Yes. - Can I give you a hug, Dorothy? Thank you Dorothy. Yeah, you're a nice What a lady! I'm loving it I hear some live music here. Hi. May I join? Thank you so much, you're Thank you so much. This is so beautiful to see these It makes my heart sing. You sing beautifully. - What was your name? Nice to meet you, I'm Staffan. Nice to meet you. What do you appreciate with I don't have to be able Yeah, yeah. But you did sing, I saw Dorothy has just entered the building. Longest high note in retirement home history, in 3, 2, 1... Do you want to get dinner? - That would be great. Vamanos. I always say that as well. I just want to say thank you, Thank you so much. Wow! Let's go! Would you care to I would love to. So we have a reservation here. We have a friends' date Oh, let me see if I have you. Oh, there you are, Dorothy. Yes, I have a perfect table for you. - Isn't that nice? You like that? Got it? All right, there we go. So where is this article going to be? It's going to be on YouTube. Oh, well, you should have told me sooner. You look beautiful. You look beautiful - Oh, thank you! Oh, my goodness! I'm going to have a 94th - Oh, my goodness! And that is old. Somehow 93 didn't I can't believe it. You're all radiating, same with Dorothy. You are like, it's so much life force, it's so much energy in the ice. So whatever is inside there, When we get older... - Yes. We're not there yet. - Exactly. We interrupt this program And before we reveal what adventure we want to thank the sponsor Viator is a tool you can use to plan and A tool that we've used And that's how we end up here. But how did we actually end up First, on our most recent trip, we downloaded the Viator app and There are millions of real travel so we picked parasailing after and we booked it in I think with parasailing, that that I could possibly Hot air balloons done, small planes done. And you can do all There are over 300,000 including guided tours, meaning that you can plan something that You can't change but 24 hours before you can actually have a free cancellation. And you can earn rewards that So check out Viator to sift through and easily book some amazing experiences ll right, back to the rest of the video. Oh, look who we have here. Oh, hello. My name is Ammar. - Good to see you again, Ammar. Dorothy, we've been - And you are Ammar? - Oh, nice! Never met an Egyptian. Well, nice to meet you. I'm of Italian descent. My grandparents were born in Genoa, Italy. - Oh, I've been to Genoa. - It's beautiful, isn't it? I said, this is a table I'd like - That would be beautiful. 102? Oh yeah, I'm 102. A hundred and a half! - Salute - What we need is a little vino though. I thought about you in the You said you're tired? No, no. - Inspired. - Oh, that's a big difference. Oh, hi. Are you going to I will. Reaching 100 is like a very rare thing. How did it feel when your She had a wonderful party. She had everyone and she danced all night. But I wasn't surprised, you realize this is a lady who's And I think you're right. She's got a lot left. Could be 120, probably. Is there something that you can seeing that she's done... have She doesn't worry, she And she loves to have fun. And she likes men. Young men. How old are you? I'll be 94 in a couple of days. When is your birthday? The 24th of October. - Oh, that's tomorrow! That's tomorrow. One day is the same as another. We feel blessed. I think that's true, I What luck! I grew up in the 30s, when I had measles, mumps, chicken I had measles twice, I was home sick. The doctor came to the house. All that kind of stuff. So here I am in 94. I can't believe it, I'm grateful. The world is blessed to have you in it. Well, thank you. Thank you, I hope so. And we're blessed to be here... Well, I'm delighted you are here. And... You know, I have four So, what can I say? Ammar, we really need to Yeah. Well, it's a delight to meet you, sir. Likewise Patricia, we'll - Well, why not? - That's right, tomorrow's my birthday. - Yeah. - A young 94. And then we're gonna Yeah, we're gonna hang out, we're Well, this is gonna all these nice things you've Let's surprise Patricia tomorrow, Oh, sure. Let's create a birthday party. You wanted a party? Oh, thanks a lot for Good night, Dorothy. Oh, good night. Thank you, it's been We'll see you tomorrow. It's not a goodbye, See you later. See you later, alligator. In a while, crocodile. Yes, yes, we're here tonight. We're sleeping here. - Are you really? The memory section. I can't believe you - This is hysterical. I was like, oh, we're I don't want you guys sneaking No, no, no. We're going to follow the rules. All right, you got to follow the He might not follow the rules. - He's a troublemaker? All right. Good morning from The Staffan and I did some brainstorming and worked on figuring out what One, celebrate Dorothy being and Patricia's 94th birthday. So we got in touch with Citizen M, our partner hotel, and We just emailed them very late last night, asked them if they were down to help us and we woke up to a I'm gonna go tell Staffan, Hi man, we're living at Citizen M responded, big Yes. Can you let them We're kidnapping a - Exactly. The time has come to - Good morning. Hi, good to see you guys. She said we met two She was looking for you and said, we So the question is, I am. Oh, hello, hello, hello, camera. You're very heavy, but you're very nice. Why don't you go get your coffee? Yeah, I'll do that. - I'll do that, yeah. It's not that heavy. You're going to have a good Yeah. It's not so bad. Staffan is going to be I'm headed to the hotel right We got a bunch of people from We are working on getting the the balloons and cake over there. We're a one-stop shop. We're working on it right now. Literally, like, 12-hour notice. I just walked into Hunter, - The CEO. It's wonderful to have you here, and we hope that this will help and what it means to be What did you think, by the two people want to Oh, I don't think it's sneaking. And we have people and we love to share We're really proud of what we do We say you made it to 80s, 90s. What do you want to do for an encore? We think you still have And what I love is that more than are initiated by and And that gives you a sense of We hope other people What's like a big misconception The biggest thing is people think it's It's not. I mean, if you just take the time to ask you can learn so much. There are fascinating All you have to do is ask a Thank you, Hunter. May I give the CEO a hug? Oh, obviously, sure. Thank you, man, for having us. As our goal of making friends here was going better than we Ammar was finalizing and Staffan went back down - Oh, welcome. How has your day been today, Barbara? Actually, today was My son had pancreatic cancer, So he called me this morning, So that was quite a surprise and a Yeah, thank you. So much love for your We have actually a little so we would love If you're down for a I'd be happy to do that. Okay, amazing. I would have had my hair done. You are beautiful. Should we change clothes? Are we doing You look like a star, and no You're perfect in this outfit. That's good to hear. - You are wonderful. Thank you, you too. Some American young men Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday, dear Patricia. Happy birthday to you. - Thank you, thank you. I am so excited. You caught me without It's a small birthday gift, It's a heart stone from me and Ammar, filled with love on your journey. How lovely, thank you. - Thank you, love. - My favorite color, lavender. And we would love so we leave the Redwoods, go Oh my heavens, this sounds I can't remember whether I've It's strange that all this is Yes. Talk about birthday surprises. This is wonderful, wonderful, wonderful. - Birthday girl, ready for adventure? I haven't had an adventure - A beautiful day. Oh he's here. Oh! Oh, hey there! - How are you? I love that we are Yeah! Seek discomfort. You are the true Seek Discomfort. As a matter of fact, my mom, you're going in the Who do we have here? We have a song and dance Yes, please. Faster, faster, faster. There it is, this is fun. You don't get car sick, do you? Yeah, now that you mention it. Does anybody know No, it's only me, actually, At a bar? Yeah, and Ammar. Oh, I don't go to bars... Row, row, row your boat I want you to know that You're older than this bridge. 1935, when this bridge opened. And I was five years old. T minus five minutes. This one should be downstairs. Hello, guys. Okay, so Staffan and the If you guys can go up, so that as they go, that You have many memories Yes, and you didn't go you wore stockings, You had to be dressed up. Wow. I would love to see a Perfect timing. This is that good-looking The birthday girl. Look who is here! - I'll take your arm, sir. All right, big party Let's do it. We're gonna do it. What a surprise! - How exciting! And so our celebration for and Patricia's birthday had begun. We've got Patricia over We wish to have a pardon. You are the first official So give her a warm applause. 102 years old. All my wishes came true. Biggest love to Barbara as well. The queens will move and we'll get to meet everybody, and then we'll have Happy birthday! Oh my God, I've never Even my wedding Oh my God, they're Good to see you all here, guys. Thanks for being here, guys. Thanks for being here, guys. Thanks for being here. As you know, we have the and we've been doing it We've built a beautiful community of So we reached out to them and we told them that we And literally, less than 10-hour notice, these people showed and they wanted to come and join us to They might be strangers, but I can assure you they are just one They look lovely. Hi, I'm Ashley, I'm from Denver, I made these, but I just This is for you. Oh! Happy birthday. Happy birthday. Happy birthday. I have candles. Pine. - What is it? Wrinkle cream? Happy birthday, this is for you. We'll add them to the collection. We're going to have to Perfect. Perfect for Halloween. Maybe for the rest of my life. On behalf of Staffan, this is just a little This is the best birthday Something cozy for the winter. Everything was just lovely. Thank you, everyone, one and all. My name is Celia, and and have been It's great to see you getting from so many beautiful Hi, I'm Vicki. I was born and raised in the Bay but I got you two these cards. Well, thank you. That's lovely. - 94 years. And that is a long time, folks. I gotta tell you, I guess it was yesterday the overall feeling Just to be grateful for so many my four children, my four But just, frankly, the It's learning to appreciate how we can get to know them. Somehow or another, I think I keep realizing how more And to celebrate this today is We love you. Thank you. Now is the real celebration time. Happy birthday to you. We want to give our first her first piece of item So this one is for you Dorothy. P.S. It's the last week of the Very nice, thank you. But here, Dorothy, here's the thing. The hoodie comes with an adventure. It doesn't just come by itself. So now I gotta give you the adventure Yeah. You shared with us that you - Except Australia. We gotta do something about that. So, from... - You bought me a ticket to Australia?! It's a business class ticket so that you and get to cross off Oh, I was just kidding No, no, we're not. Oh, I can't believe it, that's lovely. - Yeah. If you go to Australia, would you Would we all be - No, no. Oh shucks! - Of course you could join. - Thank you, thank you so much. After an absolutely we inaugurated our celebrated Patricia's and let's not forget, of course, This is the best party I've I probably won't even sleep tonight. Our beautiful community came out and they all had an incredible And well, as this trip to Australia was initially set for Dorothy the last few weeks since this And it turns out we'll be crossing sooner than expected. We have a big adventure coming up. We're going to Australia. Oh! Yay! - It's go time, Dorothy. Welcome aboard. Enjoy your flight with us Dorothy! Subscribe for the next episode...